20095799|A 4-yr-old male bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) developed an Aspergillus fumigatus pneumonia. Fungal elements were identified by cytology and microbiology from endoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage and brushings of a raised yellow endobronchial lesion. The results of qualitative immunodiffusion serology, a technique that identifies specific circulating antibodies to Aspergillus fumigatus, were suggestive of an active infection. The dolphin was treated with itraconazole for over 2 yr, which resulted in remission of clinical signs. Pneumonia caused by Aspergillus sp. accounts for the large majority of pulmonary mycoses in marine mammals. Bronchoscopy facilitated an early definitive diagnosis, accurate treatment, and remission.
20096363|A male Swainson's hawk (Buteo swainsoni) at a rehabilitation facility in Colorado was presented with severe crusting of the skin on the medial thighs and caudal ventral body. Male and female Knemidokoptes mites were found on a cellophane tape preparation of the affected area. The hawk's clinical signs resolved with treatment with ivermectin administered at 200 g/kg, i.m., every 10 days for three treatments.
20096709|A 15-year-old female harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) was referred to the Nantes Veterinary School, Nantes, France, with a clinical history of anorexia, seizures, and left hemiplegia. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed large numbers of neoplastic lymphoid cells. After injection of a contrast agent into the cerebrospinal space, radiographs demonstrated an asymmetry of the right lateral ventricle. Necropsy examination revealed a marked edema of the right frontal lobe, extending to the basal nuclei and thalamus in the brain. Histological examination of the brain revealed leptomeningeal lymphoma. Immunohistochemical labeling demonstrated that the neoplasm was of T-cell origin. No significant macroscopic or microscopic lesions were observed in the other organs examined, including lymphoid organs. This is the first report of primary leptomeningeal lymphoma in a harbor seal.
27751731|Three immature Sunda wrinkled hornbills (Aceros corrugatus) were diagnosed postmortem with proventricular spirurid nematodiasis. Concurrent severe disseminated larval granulomatosis in other visceral organs was considered contributory to mortality in each case. Clinical signs of nematodiasis were vague but generally consisted of weight loss, anorexia, and lethargy. Frequent antemortem fecal examinations were negative for spirurid eggs. In these present cases, based on routine histopathology, both prophylactic and empirically based therapeutic anthelmintic treatments had no evident benefit in the elimination of the proventricular nematodes. Spirurid nematodiasis may be an important cause of mortality in young hornbills.
20095551|Progressive loss of vision was noted in three unrelated, captive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus). An ophthalmologic examination of two of the cheetahs and histologic findings from the eyes of the third, which has been euthanized, revealed lesions typical of feline central retinal degeneration. This condition has been associated with dietary taurine deficiency in domestic cats. Dietary supplementation with taurine has been initiated in the two surviving cheetahs.
20095259|Red-eared sliders (Pseudemys scripta elegans) were given ivermectin (0.2 mg/kg), milbemycin (A-A oxime) (0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg), or propylene glycol (0.2 ml/kg) p.o. to determine the sensitivity of these animals to these drugs and from these data to infer the safety of milbemycin. Half of the ivermectin-treated turtles showed paresis or flaccid paralysis. One animal died, and histology of the liver indicated a diffuse fatty change. No clinical evidence of toxicity was noted in the milbemycin-treated animals. A group of red-eared sliders and six Gulf Coast box turtles (Terrapene carolina major) were given 0.5 mg/kg milbemycin s.c. in the front leg. No deleterious effects or site reactions were clinically detected. Five ornate box turtles (Terrapene carolina ornata) with patent helminth infestations were treated s.c. with 0.25 mg/kg milbemycin and ceased to shed eggs in their feces following 1 or 2 doses.
20095372|The etiology of arthritis in Hyaenidae has been a subject of conjecture. While osteoarthritis has been considered, the observation of an erosive arthritis prompted a systematic survey of museum specimens to define its nature and frequency. Spondyloarthropathy was a common erosive arthritis present in all species of Hyaenidae. Present at twice the frequency of osteoarthritis, it is a significant health consideration.
40962316|Although necrobacillosis remains a common condition of captive macropods, there have been limited reports of successful treatment modalities by which it can be treated. Comprehensive endodontic therapy with apicoectomy has been used reliably in human and domestic animal dentistry. This report describes a case of periapical osteomyelitis involving a mandibular incisor in a Parma wallaby (Macropus parma) that was successfully treated using these techniques in conjunction with low-level laser therapy at 810 nm, which was used for decontamination of the pulp cavity, anti-inflammatory, and biostimulatory effects.
27751684|In 2003, tularemia was suspected to be the cause of severe illness in two orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus) and the cause of death in a third orangutan at an urban zoo. The two sick orangutans were treated two times under chemical immobilization with i.v. doxycycline, fluids, and antipyretic drugs, followed by a sustained course of oral doxycycline. The rest of the orangutan group was treated prophylactically with oral doxycycline. Postmortem diagnosis was obtained via immunohistochemistry and bacterial culture that revealed Francisella tularensis type A. Tularemia was also confirmed in the two surviving orangutans via paired serology testing. In addition, F. tularensis was identified in two wild rabbit carcasses submitted during a die-off, several weeks prior to the tularemia outbreak in the apes, indicating that rabbits were possibly a reservoir for tularemia within the zoo premises.
20095743|Eighteen Greek tortoises (Testudo hermanni), divided into three groups, were kept at three different average ambient temperatures. Gastrografin was administered to all individuals by orogastric tube at a dosage of 1 ml/130 g body weight. The partial and total transit times were recorded by means of radiographs taken immediately postadministration and at 20, 40, 60, 90, 120, and 150 min and 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hr postadministration. Mean total transit times were 2.6 hr (range 1.5-4.0 hr) at 30.6C, 6.6 hr (range 3.0-8.0 hr) at 21.5C, and 17.3 hr (range 8.0-24.0 hr) at 15.2C. These transit times allow a radiologic diagnosis within a relatively short period, especially compared with contrast studies performed with barium sulfate. The visualization of the intestinal tract is good with Gastrografin; however, intestinal mucosal detail was not completely satisfactory.
20095518|Black rhinoceroses that are kept in captivity have increased amounts of hemosiderosis as determined microscopically. The objective of the present study was to measure various iron analytes in captive black (Diceros bicornis) and white (Ceratotherium simum) rhinoceroses. Nonheme iron was measured in liver samples, and iron, total iron binding capacity, percentage of transferrin saturation, and haptoglobin were measured in serum samples. Black rhinoceroses (n = 16), but not white rhinoceroses (n = 9), accumulated iron in the liver during captivity. Serum iron concentration and percentage of transferrin saturation were increased in black (n = 40) compared to white rhinoceroses (n = 13). An enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay used to measure ferritin in equine sera was adapted to measure ferritin in rhinoceros sera. Serum ferritin concentration of black rhinoceroses was significantly higher (t = 4.75, P &lt 0.001) than that of white rhinoceroses and increased significantly (r = 0.43, P = 0.0134) with time in captivity. Because haptoglobin levels did not differ significantly between black (n = 20) and white (n = 10) rhinoceroses, the hypothesis that iron accumulates as a result of a hemolytic anemia is less likely. Alternatively, the hypothesis that a dietary change increases iron absorption may explain these results.
20460352|Adrenal gland weights, stomach mucosal lesions, and morning serum cortisol and prolactin levels were measured in 15 juvenile and adult male African green monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops) that were shot by a hunter, euthanized after 24 hr of captivity, or euthanized after 45 days of captivity and intermittent blood sampling. Hormone levels were measured in seven additional males that had been in captivity for 7 mo. Mean serum cortisol concentrations were significantly lower in free-ranging wild monkeys at the time they were shot than in the monkeys after 1 day in captivity. Cortisol concentrations were significantly higher in wild-caught monkeys on the day after capture than they were in the same animals after 18 and 26 days of captivity. Cortisol concentrations were also significantly higher in the wild-caught monkeys 18 days after capture than in the laboratory-habituated monkeys in captivity for 7 mo. Mean prolactin concentration was significantly lower in the wild-caught monkeys on day 2 after capture, and the levels increased gradually to 45 days in captivity and was highest in monkeys that had been captive for 7 mo.
40962327|Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a common neoplasm diagnosed in domestic and wild animals, including several species of reptiles. However, reports of SCC invading vasculature or metastasizing in snakes are lacking. This report documents a case of SCC in an adult male eastern diamondback rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus) with a unique presentation and invasion into several small-to medium-sized vessels, suggestive of a metastatic process. What was initially suspected to be an abscessed tail was ultimately determined to be SCC originating at the base of the rattle.
20095945|The suitabilities of two subcutaneous and two intraabdominal surgical approaches were evaluated for implantation of telemetry transmitters in the European badger (Meles meles). Two transmitters, one for heart rate and the other for body temperature, were needed in each badger. Five wild badgers were trapped, housed in an outdoor pen, anesthetized, and surgically implanted with one or two transmitters per procedure. A total of 16 transmitters were implanted, 10 subcutaneously and six intraabdominally, and each badger had up to three procedures performed. Six subcutaneous transmitters were placed over the chest wall and four on the dorsal aspect of the neck. Three intraabdominal transmitters were placed free in the abdomen and three were fixed to the abdominal wall. Eight of the subcutaneous transmitters were later damaged or dislodged, probably by mechanical friction, injuries from fighting, or wound licking. The intraabdominal implantation procedures were easier and faster to perform compared with subcutaneous procedures. Two of the free intraabdominal transmitters became thinly encapsulated, with some omental adhesions. The fixed intraabdominal approach for transmitter implantation is preferable in badgers.
20096231|A total of 110 sites from five zoological institutions were examined to determine whether fungi associated with sick building syndrome (SBS) were prevalent in the exhibits or night-time holding facilities and to investigate whether the presence of these organisms was associated with declining breeding rates or increases in morbidity and mortality (or both). Each site was sampled with an Andersen two-stage air sampler using Sabourauds dextrose agar media and a Burkard personal volumetric air sampler. Suspect surfaces were also sampled. High levels of airborne Penicillium chrysogenum, a fungal species associated with poor indoor air quality, were recovered from 16 sites out of all five institutions. Five culturable growth sites of Stachybotrys chartarum, a species strongly associated with SBS and commonly known as "black mold," were recovered from surfaces at two institutions. A wide range of other fungal species was recovered in low numbers from all institutions. A Fisher exact test analysis showed a significant nonrandom association between high levels of P. chrysogenum and sites with records of poor animal health. This study indicated that significant numbers of airborne fungi associated with SBS and poor indoor air quality are present in zoological institutions and that they could affect animal health and reproduction rates and zoo staff.
20095501|Stress and behavior research in captive furbearing animals such as the silver fox (Vulpes vulpes) is often based on ethological observations and physiological data. However, blood sampling, handling, and even the mere presence of humans have been shown to be severe stress factors for most farmed silver foxes. In an attempt to collect stress physiological data without disturbing the animals, radio transmitters, signalling heart rate, core temperature, and locomotory activity, were implanted in 18 silver fox vixens. All these parameters can change during stress, and can give valuable information to supplement behavioral observations. The present study describes the development of an implantation technique and potential problems when using the system in captive semidomesticated animals.
20460294|Eighteen Mongolian wild horses (Equus przewalskii przewalskii) were immobilized with carfentanil. Immobilizations were performed with a rifle and plastic projectile darts containing a mean dose of 0.02 mg/kg (SD = 0.003) carfentanil. Dart placement was into the muscles of the neck, shoulder, or thigh. Antagonism was accomplished with naltrexone administered i.v. at 50 times the carfentanil dose. The mean induction time (the time from dart injection until recumbency) was 8.92 min (SD = 3.19). The mean standing time (the time from i.v. injection of naltrexone until the horse stood without assistance) was 1.55 min (SD = 0.48). Renarcotization did not occur.
20095076|Coccidioidomycosis (Coccidioides immitis) is reported in three European ferrets (Mustela putoris furo) that were presented with weight loss, lethargy, anorexia, cough, and lameness; one also had draining tracts of the tarsal bones and right carpus. Radiographs showed increased densities in the thoracic cavity. Clinical signs failed to improve with antibiotic treatment. All animals were euthanized or died during treatment.
41262629|The present study aimed to determine whether Cryptosporidium oocysts were present in stools from captive snakes at Fundao Parque Zoolgico (Zoological Park Foundation) in So Paulo, Brazil. Two collections were performed; the first in July 2008 and the second in February 2009. Fecal samples were collected from 74 enclosures that housed 101 individuals of 23 snake species. The stool specimens collected from 16 out of the 74 enclosures (21.6%) contained Cryptosporidium spp. oocysts; all of them were confirmed as Cryptosporidium serpentis, using molecular techniques. Only in three (18.7%) out of the 16 enclosures with positive samples were there animals with clinical signs compatible with infection by serpentis, such as regurgitation and significant progressive weight loss. From the results, it was concluded that diagnostic examinations need to be performed periodically, even on clinically healthy animals, as a preventive measure.
20095142|A pharmacokinetic and microbiological evaluation of the potential use of piperacillin, an extended spectrum beta-lactam, in blood pythons (Python curtus) was conducted. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of piperacillin and gentamicin were determined for species of gramnegative bacilli isolated from the upper respiratory tract of snakes diagnosed with penumonia. Minimum inhibitory concentrations ranged from 0.25 to 4.0 mcg/ml for piperacillin and from 0.125 to &gt32 mcg/ml for gentamicin. Five blood pythons were given a 200 mg/kg loading dose of piperacillin followed by 100 mg/kg at 24 and 48 hr. Pharmacokinetic indices were determined following the third dose of 100 mg/kg. Peak serum concentrations ranged from 142.6 to 274 mcg/ml and occurred 4 hr after the last dose. Serum half-life was 12.3-17 hr, and total clearance was 0.89-3.21 ml/min. We recommend a piperacillin dose of 100 mg/kg at 48-hr intervals for this species. This dose provides serum concentrations well in excess of the MIC of piperacillin for aerobic gramnegative bacilli isolated from the upper respiratory tract of snakes with pneumonia. There was no observed effect on renal function, as measured by increased uric acid concentrations, associated with this dosage regimen.
20096331|A 15-yr-old female Sumatran tiger (Panthera tigris sumatrae) was presented to the Boren Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital at Oklahoma State University with a 3-wk history of progressive hind limb weakness. Neurologic evaluation was limited to review of videotape that demonstrated weakness and ataxia with conscious proprioceptive deficits of the tiger's pelvic limbs. Spinal radiography demonstrated disc space narrowing, and myelography demonstrated a large extradural compressive lesion at the level of
20096514|Azithromycin is classified as an azalide, a subclass of macrolide antimicrobials with a broad spectrum of activity in vitro against many potential bacterial pathogens including spirochetes, anaerobes, and Chlamydia trachomatis. Because of limited data on the use of azithromycin in avian medicine, this study was designed to determine the pharmacokinetics of azithromycin in blue and gold macaws (Ara ararauna), a species commonly seen in clinical practice. Azithromycin (10 mg/kg) was administered via crop lavage to five birds and intravenously to five birds, and blood samples were obtained at 0, 0.5, 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hr post-azithromycin administration. Following a 4-wk washout period, the study was repeated with a complete crossover study performed. Concentration of azithromycin in plasma samples was quantified using a validated liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry assay. Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined using noncompartmental analysis. Based on the pharmacokinetic data generated from this study, a starting dose of azithromycin at 10 mg/kg p.o. every 48 hr for susceptible bacterial infections in blue and gold macaws is recommended.
20096346|Pancreatic islet fibrosis with varying degrees of islet cell hyperplasia or islet effacement was diagnosed histologically in 19 rock hyraxes (Procavia capensis) from seven zoological parks. Some, but not all, affected hyraxes were from a common lineage. The condition was associated with apparent hyperglycemia in seven and diabetes mellitus in two. Immunohistochemistry revealed hyperplasia of beta, alpha, and delta cells proportional to the degree of the fibrosis. Electron microscopy revealed collagen deposition and fibroplasia within and around the islets. Special stains and electron microscopy were negative for the presence of amyloid. Beta cell depletion was never identified. The condition has morphologic features that resemble islet fibrosis of human infants born to diabetic mothers.
20094967|Six rare Tibetan macaques (Macaca thibetans) arrived from a zoo in Asia for quarantine. One animal had a positive reaction to an intradermal palpebral tuberculin test using mammalian old tuberculin, and a second animal in the group converted 30 days after arrival. Comparative abdominal tuberculin tests showed minimal reactions. Thoracic radiographs were normal. Mycobacterial cultures taken from feces, gastric lavages, and tracheal washes were negative. While awaiting culture results, the two reactors were isolated from the other animals in quarantine. These two animals developed disseminated tuberculosis 5 mo after their arrival. Mycobacterium tuberculosis was isolated from one animal, and M. bovis was isolated from the other. One animal was euthanized because of suspicious masses seen on the thoracic radiographs. This animal did not have tuberculosis. The remaining three animals were isolated for 11 mo and treated with isoniazid for 4 mo. None of the three converted to positive tuberculin status. In these cases, tuberculin testing with mammalian old tuberculin at the palpebral site appeared to be the most sensitive indicator of early infection. In contrast, antemortem diagnostic techniques (i.e., comparative tuberculin testing, thoracic radiographs, and mycobacterial cultures) were ineffective in diagnosing tuberculosis prior to the presence of clinical disease.
20096612|Two neonatal white rhinoceroses (Ceratotherium simum) at two zoological institutions were medically managed for wounds characterized by extensive multifocal necrosis of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, associated with decubitus ulcers throughout the body. Wounds resulted from prolonged recumbency due to inability to stand in one case and causes unconfirmed in the other. Both calves were born in cement stalls during winter. Using either butorphanol (i.v. or i.m.) alone or in combination with detomidine (i.m.), serial chemical restraint was conducted over a 6-wk period to facilitate wound care. Anesthesia was well tolerated in both calves, and lesions responded well to medical treatment.
20096598|Bacterial cultures collected over 12 yr from stranded harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) pups and weanlings located in the North Puget Sound and San Juan Islands region of Washington were analyzed retrospectively to determine the most common pathogenic isolates and to describe their antimicrobial resistance patterns. Culture attempts (n = 58) from wounds, umbilici, ears, conjunctiva, nares, oral lesions, and feces yielded 134 pathogenic isolates that represented 17 genera. The majority of isolates were Gram-negative (n = 87; 65%) and of the tested isolates were most susceptible to amikacin (n = 76; 99%) and gentamicin (n = 76; 97%) and least susceptible to ampicillin (n = 76; 26%). Of the Gram-positive isolates tested (n = 29), all were susceptible to amoxicillin/clavulanic acid. The most frequent isolates were Escherichia coli (17%), -hemolytic Streptococcus spp. (15%), Enterococcus spp. (11%), and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (11%), with all four exhibiting resistance to more than 50% of the antimicrobials tested. The variety of organisms isolated, the variation in either Gram-negative or Gram-positive predominance, and the multiple drug resistance patterns observed suggest that when treating stranded harbor seals, culture and sensitivity testing are warranted and that antibiotic therapy should be based on results.
20095160|Chemical restraint and anesthesia are often necessary when treating reptiles. The anatomy, physiology, and response of reptiles to various chemical immobilization agents often differs significantly from the mammalian response. A review of anatomy and physiology of reptiles as it pertains to anesthesia is presented. Pre- and postanesthetic management of reptiles are discussed. The response of various reptiles to chemical restraint agents, including preanesthetic medications, tranquilizers, injectable anesthetics, muscle relaxants, and inhalant anesthetics, is reviewed.
20460486|A pathogenic Entamoeba histolytica-like variant (JSK2004 strain) with genetic variations and a novel isoenzyme pattern isolated from a De Brazza's guenon in a Tokyo zoo in Japan has previously been documented. In this study, a multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay that could distinguish the JSK2004-type E. histolytica-like variant (JSK04-Eh-V) from E. histolytica and Entamoeba dispar using three newly designed primer sets for amplifying each specific DNA fragment from their small-subunit ribosomal RNA genes was developed and established. Forty-seven primates (11 species) from the zoo were surveyed by multiplex PCR to assess the prevalence of JSK04-Eh-V infection, which was recognized in six individuals of four species, including an Abyssinian colobus monkey, a De Brazza's guenon (including the individual from whom JSK2004 was isolated), a white-faced saki, and a Geoffroy's spider monkey. In addition, the autopsied individuals of an Abyssinian colobus and Geoffroy's spider monkey that died of amoebic liver abscess were also evaluated. DNA samples were also analyzed for specific genotypes based on the nucleotide sequencing of two protein-coding (chitinase and serine-rich E. histolytica protein) genes and the protein-noncoding locus 1-2 that was used for fingerprinting of the E. histolytica strain. These studies indicated that the E. histolytica-like variant infection in this zoo was caused by the same type (i.e., JSK04-Eh-V). An axenic culture medium (yeast extract-iron-maltose-dihydroxyacetone-serum) was developed based on the yeast extract-iron-gluconic acid-dihydroxyacetone-serum medium, which is designed for axenic culture of E. dispar. This new medium could be used for axenically culturing E. histolytica, JSK04-Eh-V, and E. dispar in a single medium.
20460414|A free-ranging California condor (Gymnogyps californianus) presented severely dehydrated, unable to stand, very weak, and with a distended crop. Toxicologic analysis revealed an elevated blood lead level of 291.4 g/ml. There was no evidence of lead exposure on radiographs. The condor was treated with chelating agents and intensive supportive care. Over a period of 10 days, a majority of its clinical signs improved, and lead levels dropped to near normal. However, the condor was left with a severe, persistent crop stasis and malnutrition. An esophagostomy tube, and later an ingluviostomy tube, were placed and maintained for a period of 1 mo. The condor was managed with continuous infusion feeding. After the feeding tube was removed, the condor was managed with small amounts of soft food orally. After 10 wk of treatment, the crop returned to normal function.
20095190|An immature male northern goshawk (Accipiter gentilis atricapillus) with progressive signs of unilateral debilitation and paralysis was euthanized after 7 days of treatment. Necropsy and histopathology revealed a large area of malacia and necrosis of the brain stem. The lesion contained numerous lymphocytes, plasma cells, macrophages, and associated protozoal organisms. Morphologically, these organisms were similar to Sarcocystis schizonts. Immunohistochemical staining of the tissue revealed positive reaction to Sarcocystis but negative uptake with Toxoplasma gondii and Neospora caninum antisera.
20095401|A bilateral, grade 4, medial patellar luxation was diagnosed in a 7-yr-old cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus). The animal had a long standing history of difficulty in rising, bilateral lameness, and reluctance to walk. Radiographs showed severe osteoarthritis and medially displaced patellae. Both knees were operated upon within a 12-wk period. The technique used consisted of desmotomy, exostosis removal, double wedge osteotomy, narrowing of the patella, tibial tuberosity transposition, and fascia lata imbrication. The stability of the patellae was excellent after surgery. The clinical recovery resulted in better ambulation, a lack of lameness, and normal ability to rise 12 wk after the last surgery.
20096199|A juvenile, female North American opossum (Didelphis virginiana) died of verminous pneumonia caused by Didelphostrongylus haysei despite aggressive treatment with oral fenbendazole, corticosteroids, and antibiotics. This prompted a retrospective study of lungworm infection in opossums, during which 19 additional necropsy reports from opossums were reviewed. Including the subject of this report, a total of 11 (55%) of these cases included a diagnosis of lungworm infection. This diagnosis was considered to have contributed to death in eight out of the 11 cases (73%). Histologically, 10 of the 11 (91%) opossums had granulomatous bronchopneumonia with small to moderate numbers of adult nematodes in the airways and parenchyma. Four of the 11 (36%) opossums had free larvae within the parenchyma or terminal airways. Inflammation was usually associated with larvae, degenerating parasites, and nonintact adult nematodes. Superimposed bacterial pneumonia was evident in three animals, and sections of lung examined from all the opossums were characterized by moderate to severe smooth-muscle hyperplasia in airways, including terminal respiratory bronchioles and alveolar ducts. Nine animals had prominent medial smooth-muscle hyperplasia in small- and medium-sized arterioles. Lesions in other organs, particularly in liver, heart, and gastrointestinal tract, were frequently identified. Three animals had concomitant septicemia or bacterial bronchopneumonia (or both), which contributed to the cause of death. Seven animals had gastric nematodosis (Physaloptera sp.), although three of them had been treated with a 14-day course of fenbendazole.
20096524|A 4.0-kg cholelith was found within the abdominal cavity of a dead wild African elephant (Loxodonta africana) in Eritrea. Analysis of this cholelith by histochemistry, electron microscopy, electrospray mass spectroscopy, and energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy revealed it was composed of bile alcohols but no calcium, bilirubin, or cholesterol. Bacteria were also found in the cholelith. Similar, but smaller, bile stones have been identified previously in other wild African elephants and an excavated mammoth (Mammuthus columbi). Choleliths have been reported only once in a captive Asian elephant (Elephas maximus). Elephants, along with hyraxes (Procavia capensis) and manatees (Trichechus manatus), are unique among mammals in producing only bile alcohols and no bile acids, which may predispose them to cholelithiasis, particularly in association with bacterial infection. Dietary factors may also play an important role in cholelith formation.
20096153|An adult male big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus) and an adult female hoary bat (Lasiurus cinereus) were presented with open transverse middiaphyseal left radial fractures. Initial repair was attempted by intramedullary pinning. When the fractures did not heal, intramedullary pins were removed and type I external skeletal fixators were placed. The fractures healed, and the big brown bat regained normal flight but the hoary bat did not.
40665064|Seventeen adult chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) with an average age of 37 yr were immobilized with a combination of tiletamine-zolazepam (TZ) and medetomidine (MED) by one of two modes of delivery. Group A animals received the drug combination intramuscularly at 3 mg/kg and 0.05 mg/kg, respectively. Animals in group B received MED by oral transmucosal administration, meaning oral delivery with presumptive transmucosal absorption. MED at 0.1 mg/kg was mixed with marshmallow creme, and delivery was followed by 3 mg/kg of TZ intramuscularly. Chimpanzees from both groups were recovered after administration of atipamezole at 0.3 mg/kg intramuscularly. All chimpanzees were compliant with oral transmucosal drug administration, although two chimpanzees preferred oral MED mixed with applesauce. All animals exhibited some anxiety and excitatory behavior associated with darting, but this was reduced in group B, which was premedicated with oral transmucosal MED. The mean time from TZ administration to sedation sufficient for human contact was 16.4 and 14.7 min with and without oral transmucosal premedication, respectively. The mean time for recovery for those chimpanzees given oral transmucosal premedication was 13.8 min, which was significantly shorter than the time of recovery for the group not given oral premedication (P = 0.02). Oral transmucosal administration of MED provided light sedation in 16 of 17 chimpanzees to the level of arousable recumbency and a heavier sedation in one chimpanzee with no adverse side effects. TZ combined with MED by either oral transmucosal or injectable administration provided safe, heavy, long sedation with rapid, smooth, uneventful recoveries.
20460454|Muscle injury is common in Florida manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris). Plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) is frequently used to assess muscular damage in capture myopathy and traumatic injury. Therefore, accurate measurement of AST and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) is important in managed, free-ranging animals, as well as in those rehabilitating from injury. Activities of these enzymes, however, are usually not increased in manatees with either acute or chronic muscle damage, despite marked increases in plasma creatine kinase activity. It is hypothesized that this absence of response is due to apoenzymes in the blood not detected by commonly used veterinary assays. Addition of coenzyme pyridoxal-5-phosphate (P5P or vitamin B6) should, therefore, result in higher measured enzyme activities. The objective of this study was to determine the most accurate, precise, and diagnostically useful method for aminotransferase measurement in manatees that can be used in veterinary practices and diagnostic laboratories. Additionally, appropriate collection and storage techniques were assessed. The use of an optimized commercial wet chemical assay with 100 mol P5P resulted in a positive bias of measured enzyme activities in a healthy population of animals. However, AST and ALT were still much lower than that typically observed in domestic animals and should not be used alone in the assessment of capture myopathy and muscular trauma. Additionally, the dry chemistry analyzer, typically used in clinics, reported significantly higher and less precise AST and ALT activities with poor correlation to those measured with wet chemical methods found in diagnostic laboratories. Therefore, these results cannot be clinically compared. Overall, the optimized wet chemical method was the most precise and diagnostically useful measurement of aminotransferase in samples. Additionally, there was a statistically significant difference between paired serum and plasma measurement, indicating that separate reference intervals should be established for serum and plasma. Finally, storage of these enzymes at -70C for 1 mo resulted in up to a 25% decrease in enzymatic activity in manatee plasma.
40665063|Foot lesions can compromise the health and welfare of captive birds. In this study, we estimated the prevalence of foot lesions in captive flamingos (Phoenicopteridae). The study was based on photos of 1,495 pairs of foot soles from 854 flamingos in 18 European and two Texan (USA) zoological collections. Methodology for evaluating flamingo feet lesions was developed for this project because no suitable method had been reported in the literature. Four types of foot lesions were identified: hyperkeratoses, fissures, nodular lesions, and papillomatous growths. Seven areas on each foot received a severity score from 0 to 2 for each type of lesion (0 = no lesion, 1 = mild to moderate lesion, 2 = severe lesion). The prevalence of birds with lesions (scores 1 or 2) were 100%, 87%, 17%, and 46% for hyperkeratosis, fissures, nodular lesions, and papillomatous growths, respectively. Birds with severe lesions (score 2) constituted 67%, 46%, 4%, and 12% for hyperkeratosis, fissures, nodular lesions, and papillomatous growths, respectively. Hyperkeratosis and nodular lesions were most prevalent on the base of the foot and the proximal portion of the digits, likely reflecting those areas bearing the most weight. The second and fourth digits were most affected with fissures and papillomatous lesions; these areas of the foot appear to be where the most flexion occurs during ambulation. The study demonstrates that foot lesions are highly prevalent and widely distributed in the study population, indicating that they are an extensive problem in captive flamingos.
20095989|A safe and effective anesthetic regime for use in arctic fox (Alopex lagopus) cubs was developed. During July 1996, six free-ranging 6-8-wk-old cubs were captured near their den in Vindelfjallen Nature Reserve, Sweden. Medetomidine and ketamine HCl, followed by atipamezole, were selected for the anesthetic trial because of the well-documented safety and efficacy of this drug combination in a broad range of species. The dosage regimen used was 50 g/kg medetomidine combined with 2.5 mg/kg ketamine followed by reversal with 250 g/kg atipamezole. Induction was rapid, with a mean induction time of 1 min and 32 sec (range: 58-150 sec). The cubs were anesthetized for a mean time of 18  5 min (range: 13-25 min). Serially recorded heart rate, respiratory rate, temperature, and pulse oximetry were stable throughout the anesthetic period for all cubs. Anesthetic depth was suitable for safe handling and minor clinical procedures, including venipuncture. Following atipamezole, all cubs were standing within 12  7 min (range: 5-24 min) and fully recovered at 27  5 min (range: 19-36 min). This information will be useful for future captive breeding and management programs involving the endangered arctic fox.
20096397|An elastic tape sling successfully maintained reduction of a craniodorsal right coxofemoral luxation in a woodchuck (Marmota monax). No complications were encountered during the 14 days that the sling was in place. The animal remained normal through the following 8 mo.
20095001|Lesions in the heart and lungs resulting from infection by the filarial nematode Cordophilus sagittus were observed in 31 of 42 free-ranging greater kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros) of the Kruger National Park, Republic of South Africa. Animals less than 1 yr old were free of lesions whereas many of those over 1 yr old, irrespective of sex, were affected. Adult worms were found free in the right ventricle of the heart, in coronary arteries, and in the pulmonary artery and its branches. In the coronary arteries, worms were usually found coiled within aneurysmal lesions, which were often visible on the epicardial surfaces and occasionally on the endocardial surfaces of the right and left ventricles. Within pulmonary arteries, the presence of the parasites provoked a unique intimal proliferative response similar to that seen in canine dirofilariasis.
20096356|Two adult female rock hyraxes (Procavia capensis) at the Dallas Zoo were confirmed with spontaneous diabetes mellitus from 1997-2000, whereas a third animal with a similar clinical presentation never became hyperglycemic. The pancreas in all three animals showed pancreatic islet fibrosis (PIF). Retrospective examination of medical records for rock hyraxes acquired by this collection or born into it from 1991-2002 identified eight more animals affected with PIF. All affected animals, including three males and eight females, were 1-7 yr of age and presented either with vague clinical signs of soft feces and rough hair coat or were acutely moribund or dead. Clinical pathology data was available for seven of the animals before onset of overt clinical signs and revealed inappropriate hyperglycemia in six, as well as elevated serum concentrations of creatine phosphokinase, amylase, and lipase in all seven animals. Pedigree evaluation did not support a familial pattern for PIF. Review of the histopathology findings from nine other zoologic collections with rock hyrax deaths during the study period identified six institutions with 12 additional cases genetically unrelated to the incident collection. Histopathology and viral serology did not support an infectious cause. Analysis of serum anti-islet and anti-insulin antibodies did not suggest autoimmune disease, and none of the animals had known exposure to toxic substances. Limited nutritional analyses did not support a nutritional basis for the condition, and the cause for PIF remains unknown.
20096700|An outbreak of dermatophytosis caused by Microsporum canis occurred in tigers (Panthera tigris) at an exotic felid sanctuary in 2003. In an attempt to find an effective, practical, safe, and affordable method for controlling this epizootic, a clinical treatment trial was conducted. Nonalopecic tigers were studied to address the inapparent carrier state observed at the facility. The efficacy of three topical and environmental treatment combinations of a 2% lime sulfur solution and a peroxide-based cleaner were evaluated in nonalopecic, culture-positive tigers (n = 18) housed in four separate enclosures. Lime sulfur solution was applied topically to all of these animals. As a control, nonalopecic but culture-positive tigers (n = 6) housed in two other enclosures were not treated. Environmental treatments included lime sulfur solution (n = 1), a peroxide-based cleaner (n = 1), and no treatment (n = 2). All solutions were applied at 2-wk intervals for seven treatments. The 2% lime sulfur solution treatments were unsuccessful in resolving infections in most tigers. Lime sulfur was effective in suppressing environmental fungal growth immediately posttreatment, whereas the peroxide-based cleaner was not effective. A follow-up survey of all study tigers and their enclosures was conducted 2 yr later, at which time 22 of 24 tigers (92%) had attained resolution, defined as two sequential negative hair cultures. Review of the culture results during the clinical trial and follow-up study suggests that nonalopecic dermatophytosis in tigers that are housed outdoors may not warrant aggressive individual or environmental treatment, as the infection may clear with time.
20095096|Thirty-three biopsies from skin lesions were taken from immobilized black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) during capture and translocation in Zimbabwe. The lesions were ulcerated, exudative and crusty and were consistently present in the skin of the ventral neck. Histologically, the ulcerative dermatitis was accompanied by epidermal adult filarial nematodes, intraepidermal necrosis, and dermal granulomas and lymphohistiocytic nodules in some cases.
20096569|An environmental microbiologic investigation was conducted in an alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) holding facility in a zoo in the southeastern U.S. The facility had housed five alligators between March 1999 and February 2005. In the exhibit, one alligator died and all experienced poor health. It was hypothesized that environmental microbial contamination was associated with these issues. Samples were collected for fungal identification and quantification, microcystin analysis, and airborne mycotoxins. Analyses of air and water were conducted and an examination of the heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning system (HVAC) for design, maintenance, and operating issues was made. Two control sites, a facility for false gharials (Tomistoma schlegelii) and an off-site alligator breeding facility, were also tested. Morbidity and mortality records were examined for all sites. Results showed that, compared to the control sites, the test alligator facility and its HVAC system were extensively contaminated with a range of fungi. Nearly all sampled surfaces featured fungal growth. There were also significantly higher counts of Penicillium/Aspergillus-like and Chrysosporium-like spores in the air (P &lt 0.004). The design, maintenance, and operation of the HVAC system were all inadequate, resulting in poorly conditioned and mold-contaminated air being introduced to the facility. Morbidity records revealed solitary pulmonary disorders over time in three alligators, with one dying as a result. The other two alligators suffered from general malaise and a range of nonspecific symptoms. The control facilities had no morbidity or mortality issues. In conclusion, although no causal links could be demonstrated because of the nature of the morbidity data, environmental mold contamination appeared to be associated with the history of morbidity and mortality in the alligator exhibit.
20095311|Intraosseous fluid administration has been proposed as a rapid and efficient means of delivery of parenteral fluids and pharmaceuticals in critically ill birds. Distribution of a radiopharmaceutical was used to evaluate this route of administration in wild birds further. Three red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and three great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) were anesthetized and the ulnar marrow cavity was catheterized with a 20-gauge spinal needle. Seventy-four MBq (2 mCi) of technetium-99m sodium pertechnetate (
20460490|Two adult male gerenuk (Litocranius walleri walleri) were confirmed infertile with distinctly varying clinical presentations. One animal had unilateral testicular degeneration/hypoplasia, and within 8 mo experienced atrophy/degeneration of the remaining testicle. The second animal had been previously treated with melengesterol acetate (MGA) milled in feed for 1 yr during puberty as part of an aggression-control study. The testes in this individual appeared normal both visually and on palpation; however, repeated semen collection consistently produced ejaculates containing high numbers of immotile spermatozoa, all of a single abnormal morphology: shortened tails, with normal total sperm counts for this species. Both gerenuk had cortisol concentrations within normal ranges for adult male gerenuk. Analysis of serum mineral concentration revealed zinc levels that would be considered low in domestic cattle. Testosterone levels were low for the animal discussed in case 1, but were within normal range for the animal in case 2 compared with other gerenuk. Investigations into endocrine causes, such as abnormal thyroid hormone concentrations and adrenal function, were unrewarding. Both animals discussed in this report are maternally related; therefore, a genetic cause of infertility cannot be ruled out. Further investigation into MGA, as well as the dietary zinc requirements for gerenuk, and resulting effects on spermatogenesis and testicular development are warranted.
20096285|Serial IgG antibody titers to Toxoplasma gondii from three juvenile great grey kangaroos (Macropus giganteus giganteus) with clinical signs consistent with toxoplasmosis were compared with titers from three clinically normal juveniles of similar age. The modified agglutination test was used to measure antibodies to T. gondii. Results demonstrated declining antibody titers to T. gondii in five of six animals. Antibody titers were similar in animals with and without clinical signs. This was interpreted as an indication that maternal IgG antibodies to T. gondii were transferred to juveniles, presumably in milk, rather than an indication of clinical disease. Therefore, clinicians should interpret Toxoplamsma serology results in juvenile macropods cautiously.
20095899|Ten young partridges (Rhynchotus rufescens) were vaccinated with the lentogenic strain of Newcastle disease virus. Another eight unvaccinated birds were kept in close contact with the treated flock. Antibodies levels were measured over the course of 3 mo in all birds using the hemagglutination inhibition (HI) test and the liquid-phase blocking enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (LPB-ELISA). The LPB-ELISA was standardized, and the results were compared with those obtained with the HI test. Antibodies increased after 23 days postvaccination in 16 birds with no side effects as determined by both the HI test and the LPB-ELISA.
20460553|West Nile virus (WNV) infection and associated disease and mortality have been documented in numerous North American raptor species. Information regarding clinical presentations and long-term outcomes of WNV-infected raptors is important in the clinic for the diagnosis, treatment, and assessment of prognosis, as well as for understanding potential population level effects on raptor species. Raptors of 22 species admitted to a rehabilitation clinic were tested, from 2002 to 2005, for previous and acute WNV infection, while comparing clinical syndromes, trauma, and rehabilitation outcomes. Forty-two percent of admitted raptors (132/314) had been infected with WNV, and these presented with a WNV-attributed clinical disease rate of 67.4% (89/132). West Nile virus-infected raptors were less likely to be released (79/132 [59.8%]) than negative raptors (138/182 [75.8%]) and more likely to die or be euthanized (47/132 [35.6%] for WNV-infected vs. 32/182 [17.6%] for WNV-negative). However, WNV-infected raptors with neurologic disease were no less likely to be released (29/53 [54.7%]) than those without neurologic disease (50/79 [63.3%]). Clinical WNV-associated syndromes varied among species. Great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) were more likely to have neurologic signs, whereas American kestrels (Falco sparverius) and Swainson's hawks (Buteo swainsonii) were less likely to have neurologic signs. These results suggest that free-ranging raptors are frequently infected with WNV and that clinical syndromes differ among species. WNV has potentially devastating effects on raptors; however, rehabilitation of WNV-infected raptors can lead to positive outcomes, even for those having had severe neurologic disease.
20095914|Twelve babirusa (Babyrousa babyrussa) (four females/eight males) were immobilized 30 times during a 4-yr interval. Significantly higher premedication and immobilizing doses were needed for females than for males (P &lt 0.05). An i.m. preanesthetic xylazine dose of 1.88  0.37 mg/kg (range = 1.20-2.12 mg/kg) was used for females and 1.22  0.16 mg/kg (range = 0.82-1.43 mg/kg) for males. After xylazine, the animals were induced with i.m. tiletamine/zolazepam; females received 2.20  0.47 mg/kg (range = 1.78-3.33 mg/kg) and males received 1.71  0.34 mg/kg (range = 1.08-2.05 mg/kg). Anesthesia was reversed with yohimbine (0.14  0.03 mg/kg; range = 0.07-0.20 mg/kg) and flumazenil (1 mg flumazenil/20 mg zolazepam) either i.m. or i.v. This anesthetic combination produced smooth induction, good relaxation, and sufficient immobilization to perform routine diagnostic and therapeutic procedures (venipuncture, hoof and tusk trims, transportation, radiographs, ultrasound examination, weight determinations, and skin biopsies). Supplemental ketamine HCl or isoflurane was administered to two animals to effectively deepen or prolong the anesthetic plane, with no resultant adverse effects.
20096008|Ninety-eight fecal samples were collected from 74 free-living mountain gorillas (Gorilla gorilla beringei) from the Parc National des Volcans, Rwanda, between July 1995 and January 1997 and examined for parasites by Sheather's sugar and zinc sulfate flotation methods, trichrome staining, and larval cultures. All samples contained at least one parasite. Seventeen endoparasites were identified, including eight protozoa, seven nematodes, one cestode, and one trematode. Two species of arthropod mite were also recovered from the fecal samples. Parasites observed on fecal examinations included strongyle/trichostrongyle-type eggs (72/74) (representing Oesphagostomum sp., Trichostrongylus sp., Hyostrongylus spp., and possibly Murshidia sp.), Strongyloides sp. (1/74), Trichuris trichiura (2/74), Probstmayria sp. (7/74), Anoplocephala sp. (63/74), Entamoeba hartmanni cysts and trophozoites (19/70), Endolimax nana cysts (31/70), Iodamoeba buetschlii cysts (11/70), Endolimax nana or Iodamoeba buetschlii trophozoites (63/70), Entamoeba coli cysts and trophozoites (14/70), Entamoeba histolytica trophozoite (1/70), Chilomastix sp. cysts and trophozoites (31/70), and Giardia sp. cysts (2/70). In addition, one ascarid and one trematode egg were seen. There were no significant differences in the prevalence of parasites between males and females and between age groups; however, infants and juveniles appeared to have a lower prevalence of Anoplocephala gorillae, and the silverbacked males appeared to have a higher prevalence of Probstmayria sp. Parasite prevalence was consistent among the five social groups studied except Susa group had a significantly lower prevalence of Anoplocephala gorillae. Trichuris trichiura, Strongyloides sp., Chilomastix sp., and Endolimax nana were identified for the first time in this population, and it is possible that these parasites were of human origin. Although there were no obvious clinical effects due to the presence of these parasites, six parasites identified (Trichuris trichiura, Strongyloides sp., Oesphagostomum sp., Trichostrongylus sp., Entamoeba histolytica, and Giardia sp.) could potentially be pathogenic. Some of the parasite products and cultured larvae could not be speciated.
20095449|A 29-yr-old western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) was noted to have a 43-kg weight loss over a 2-yr period with no obvious cause. Findings on electrocardiogram and echocardiogram were consistent with a prior myocardial infarction. Because of concern that unstable angina could be the cause of the weight loss, coronary angiography was performed. An occluded right coronary artery was found with no significant stenoses in the left coronary artery. This report summarizes the techniques used to diagnose coronary artery disease in vivo in an adult gorilla.
20094917|Four African lions (Panthera leo), four tigers (Panthera tigris), four puma (Felis concolor), and four leopards (Panthera pardus), with two males and two females of each species, were fed a premixed commercial diet. Amounts fed were limited and controlled, and feces were collected over 5 days. Proximate analyses were performed on the diet and feces to determine digestibility of ether extract, crude protein, crude fiber, and nitrogen-free extract. No significant differences (P &gt 0.05) were found among species or between sexes. It was concluded that the lack of significant differences in digestibility supports the assumption that a single diet may meet the needs of different species of Felidae.
20095143|Ratites, particularly the ostrich (Struthio camelus) and emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae), have become popular as livestock enterprises. Veterinarians serving zoos and in private practice need to know the anatomy of these unique flightless birds. This paper provides a single source of information based on the author's dissections of the ostrich, emu, and rhea (Rhea americana), selected data accumulated from museum specimens, and additional information extracted from the literature. The musculoskeletal, digestive, and reproductive systems are emphasized because of their importance in clinical medicine and management of these animals. All raties have heavily muscled legs for running and defense against enemies. Unique characteristics are a noncarinate sternum and lack of breast muscles. Stomach and intestinal morphology is highly variable among the families represented. All male ratites have an intromittent organ (phallus), and ostrich and emu females have a diminutive organ.
20460516|Zoologic medicine practitioners take approved agents (veterinary or human) and extrapolate their use to nonapproved species. The decision on dose, duration, and interval is often made with limited species-specific pharmacokinetic information. Because of the monetary value of these animals or their status as endangered species, this method of "trial and error" for therapeutic dossage selection is inappropriate. In zoologic medicine, various methods have been used in an attempt to extrapolate or predict safe and effective dosage regimens. The simplest and typical method of extrapolating a dosage to a nondomestic species is to use a mg/kg dose established for another domestic species or humans. However, this calculation results in a linear increase in the amount of drug administered as body weight increases. Although common, this method tends to overdose large animals and underdose small animals. The second method is similar, except that it takes the approved dose in a specific species and makes an additional assumption that links the dosage to a physiologic function or anatomic feature. Examples are the use of basal metabolic rate or body-surface area as the basis for dosage extrapolation. Allometric scaling of pharmacokinetic parameters is the final method of dosage extrapolation between species. This is commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry to establish the first dosage in human drug investigations. Adaptation of this method for zoologic medicine may enhance our ability to estimate therapeutic dosages for nondomestic species. This review discusses and compares these three methods for dosage selection and provides examples of extrapolation from the literature.
41262657|Season appears to influence the physiology of bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). From 2000 to 2005, blood parameters of three captive bottlenose dolphins housed in northern Italy were examined to determine if seasonal variation was present. Seasonal variation was observed in the male dolphins, with both males exhibiting aminotransferase levels that were higher in autumn and lower in winter. Mean serum creatinine levels were higher during summer and lower during autumn in the adult male, and mean lactate dehydrogenase higher during summer and lower during spring in the juvenile male. Both males exhibited red blood cell counts and hemoglobin levels that were higher during autumn and lower during summer. This study contributes to the knowledge of baseline hmatologie and biochemical values based on seasonality in bottlenose dolphins.
41262578|Intravenous propofol was used as a general anesthetic with a 2:1 (mg:mg) adjunctive mixture of lidocaine and bupivacaine as local anesthetics infiltrated into the surgical sites for implantation of satellite transmitters into the right abdominal air sac of 39 female and 4 male bar-tailed godwits (Limosa lapponica baueri and Limosa lapponica menzbeiri) and 11 female and 12 male bristle-thighed curlews (Numenius tahitiensis). The birds were captured on nesting grounds in Alaska, USA, and on overwintering areas in New Zealand and Australia from 2005 through 2008. As it was developed, the mass of the transmitter used changed yearly from a low of 22.4  0.2 g to a high of 27.1  0.2 g and weighed 25.1  0.2 g in the final year. The mean load ratios ranged from 5.2% to 7.7% for godwits and from 5.7% to 7.5% for curlews and exceeded 5% for all years, locations, and genders of both species. The maximum load ratio was 8.3% for a female bar-tailed godwit implanted in Australia in 2008. Three godwits and no curlews died during surgery. Most birds were hyperthermic upon induction but improved during surgery. Two godwits (one in New Zealand and one in Australia) could not stand upon release, likely due to capture myopathy. These birds failed to respond to treatment and were euthanized. The implanted transmitters were used to follow godwits through their southern and northern migrations, and curlews were followed on their southern migration.
20096390|Four aardvarks (Orycteropus afer) were anesthetized over a 6-yr period. They were sedated using detomidine (0.13  0.025 mg/kg i.m.; 0.12-0.14 mg/kg) and anesthetized with detomidine (0.12  0.025 mg/kg i.m.; 0.09-0.18 mg/kg) followed by ketamine (6.3  1.68 mg/kg i.m.; 4.3-8.2 mg/kg). Effects of anesthesia were reversed by atipamezole (0.065  0.013 mg/kg i.m.; 0.05-0.09 mg/kg). The detomidine-ketamine combinatino produced smooth anesthesia, excellent muscle relaxation, and was suitable for routine diagnostic and therapeutic interventions (blood collection, radiologic examinations, minor surgery).
20096135|An adult female North American bison (Bison bison) with a chronic otitis externa/media of the right ear was examined because of a 4-mo history of intermittent anorexia, apparent painful behavior, and auricular discharge from the right ear. Computerized tomography (CT) demonstrated osteolysis of the tympanic, petrous, and squamous aspects of the temporal bone with soft tissue replacement and sclerosis of the right bulla. A total ear canal ablation with bulla curettage was performed, and cefazolin-impregnated polymethacrylate beads were left within the right bulla and the remnant temporal bone. Six months after the surgery, the bison had no clinical signs of otitis media.
20095474|A survey for intestinal spirochetes in birds, rats, and pigs was conducted in a zoologic collection and three private rhea farms in Ohio in 1992 to identify a potential source of the strongly -hemolytic spirochete associated with necrotizing typhlocolitis and death in juvenile common rheas (Rhea americana). From the zoologic collection, five weakly -hemolytic spirochetes were isolated from cloacal swabs obtained from 122 birds representing eight orders, 11 families, and 37 species. Ten weakly -hemolytic spirochetes were isolated from ceca of 26 wild Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) trapped on the same premises. Three weakly -hemolytic spirochetes were isolated from cloacal swabs obtained from 21 juvenile rheas (Rhea americana) on three private rhea farms. None of the birds or rats had clinical intestinal disorders. The data indicated that weakly -hemolytic spirochetes were present in intestinal tracts of birds and in ceca of rats and suggested that weakly -hemolytic spirochetes were part of the normal flora. A source of the strongly -hemolytic spirochete was not identified.
20460497|This paper reports two cases of disseminated histoplasmosis in captive snow leopards (Uncia uncia). Histoplasmosis was diagnosed based on histopathology, immunohistochemistry, transmission electron microscopy, and molecular findings.
20096305|A 22-yr-old, 86-kg, morbidly obese female orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus abelii) was immobilized and transported to the Denver Zoological Gardens hospital for a routine physical examination. Immediately after arriving at the hospital, cyanosis and apparent inadequate ventilatory efforts were noted. Clinically significant hypoxia occurred despite attempts to ventilate the orangutan through face mask, and attempts to place an endotracheal tube began. A large volume of pink-tinged frothy fluid flowed from the trachea when the laryngoscope was inserted into the oropharynx. Severe pulmonary edema due to negative-pressure pulmonary edema, precipitating life-threatening hypoxia was suspected. The orangutan was maintained on a mechanical ventilator using the neuromuscular blocking agent cisatracurium besylate and sedation with periodic doses of isoflurane and midazolam for 48 hr. Positive end-expiratory pressure was used while the orangutan was ventilated mechanically to improve respiratory function. The edema and hypoxia improved, but respiratory arrest ensued 30 min after extubation, when the orangutan was removed from mechanical ventilation. Necropsy and histopathology demonstrated that serious lung injury had led to acute respiratory distress syndrome.
20095146|Systemic phaeohyphomycosis occurred in a young adult zebra (Equus grevyi) with a history of a sudden onset of weight loss, lethargy, and hypothermia that was unresponsive to treatment. Lesions consisted of focal pyogranulomatous pneumonia and myocarditis. Pigmented fungal hyphae were observed in the lung, whereas the heart contained only yeast forms. This is the first report of systemic phaeohyphomycosis in an equid.
20094966|Twenty orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus) were evaluated from 1983 to 1987 by physical examination, hematologic and serum biochemical tests, thoracic radiography, tuberculin skin tests, mycobacteriologic examinations of gastric lavage samples, and serum enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Sixty percent (12/20) of orangutans responded to at least one tuberculin: 75% (9/12) to mammalian old tuberculin, 66.7% (10/15) to balanced purified protein derivative of Mycobacterium avium, and 53.3% (8/15) to balanced purified protein derivative of M. bovis. None of the 12 orangutans tested with purified protein derivative of M. tuberculosis responded. Mycobacteriologic examination of 20 gastric lavage samples from 12 orangutans demonstrated evidence of mycobacteria in samples from 11 animals; nine of these responded to at least one tuberculin. Mycobacteria isolated included M. fortuitum, M. nonchromogenicum from three orangutans and M. flavescens from drinking sources in three of six orangutan enclosures. ELISA was performed on sera from 19 of the 20 orangutans. Positive or suspicious reactions to M. avium and/or M. bovis antigens were observed in nine animals; seven of these responded to at least one tuberculin. None of the orangutans had evidence of tuberculosis. In general, there was an association among tuberculin skin test response, ELISA reaction, and evidence of mycobacteria in gastric lavage samples. The immunologic responses may be associated with the nontuberculous mycobacteria isolated.
20096152|Two black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis michaeli) developed clinical leptospirosis without hemolytic crises. The first rhinoceros presented with peracute depression, anorexia, rear leg trembling, dysuria, glucosuria, gastrointestinal discomfort, and decreased fecal output and died within 12 hr. Necropsy and histopathology revealed lesions within multiple organs. Leptospirosis was diagnosed postmortem based on positive fluorescent antibody staining of liver. The second rhinoceros presented 2 mo later with similar signs. It survived with treatment and was diagnosed with leptospirosis based on serology using microscopic agglutination testing and detection of urinary antigen using a fluorescent antibody technique. Leptospira kirschneri serovar grippotyphosa was postulated as the etiologic agent, with transmission probably occurring through wallow contamination by wild raccoons (Procyon lotor).
20096718|The giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) is known to be susceptible to natural infection with canine distemper virus (CDV). Vaccination of giant pandas with conventional modified live CDV vaccines has been avoided due to the numerous carnivore species known to have become infected with CDV after vaccination. Serum-neutralizing antibodies to CDV were measured after s.c. and i.m. annual vaccination with a canarypox-vectored recombinant CDV vaccine in an adult male and female giant panda over the period of 2 yr. The vaccine proved to be safe, and serum-neutralizing antibody titers interpreted as protective against CDV disease were measured in each animal.
20095301|A retrospective review of 102 mortality reports of giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) indicated that the most common organ systems involved in fatal disease were: 1) the gastrointestinal system (GIT) (37% of cases); 2) respiratory system (10%); and 3) genitourinary system (8%). In captive pandas, the most common cause of mortality involving the GIT was intestinal disease (24%). In wild pandas, pancreatic disease (14%) was frequent. Common causes of mortality in captive pandas included infectious disease (12%) and neoplasia (8%) while wild pandas succumbed to trauma (23%) and malnutrition (33%). Seizures of unknown origin were documented in 18 pandas, 16 captive and 2 wild. Parasitism was reported in 77% of wild pandas and 12% of captive pandas. To optimize success in captive management of pandas, etiologies of intestinal disease should be explored. Also, the implications of high parasite loads in wild pandas and their effect on health should be considered prior to reintroduction of this species.
20460402|In captivity, black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) are beset by many disease syndromes not described in black rhinoceroses in the wild. Hemolytic anemia, hepatopathy, and ulcerative dermatopathy that lead to increased morbidity and mortality characterize these syndromes. It is uncertain whether these are separate disease syndromes with different etiologies or the same disease with different manifestations. This article offers a brief review of some of the health issues of concern for the captive black rhinoceros population and proposes some possible avenues of research for consideration.
20095858|Molt was successfully induced with a progestational compound, medroxyprogesterone acetate (Depo-Provera), in six of six previously nonmolting chinstrap penguins (Pygoscelis antarctica). The initial treatment consisted of five sequential weekly injections of 30 mg/kg Depo-Provera beginning in early September. Four weeks after completing the injections, the penguins had gained an average of 23% body weight, but none had molted. Beginning early November, five weekly injections were resumed, which initiated molt in all individuals within 34 days following the last injection. Molt was completed by mid-January, nearly 2 wk later. In the following years, nonmolting chinstrap penguins were given a single series of five weekly injections beginning in early November, 2 mo prior to the normal molting period.
20079489|Thirty American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis), including 24 wild-caught and six control captive farm-raised alligators, were analyzed for whole body mercury contamination. Wild-caught animals were collected from Water Conservation Area 3 in the Everglades ecosystem (n = 12) and from Alachua, Brevard, and Collier counties outside the Everglades (n = 12). Using cold-vapor atomic absorption spectrophotometry, samples of brain, cervical spinal cord, liver, paired kidneys, paired testes, paired ovaries, paired oviducts, heart, lungs, spleen, bile, tail and leg muscle, and tail and leg scales were analyzed on a wet weight basis to determine mercury concentration. Mercury was consistently detected in all specimens except for bile. Farm-raised alligators, fed a commercially prepared diet, contained very low mercury concentrations in all tissues analyzed. In comparison with alligators from outside the Everglades, Everglades alligators had significantly elevated concentrations of mercury in all tissues analyzed except ovaries, oviduct, bile, tail scales, and leg scales (paired two-sample Student's t-test, P &lt 0.05). Muscle concentrations exceeded state (0.50-1.50 ppm) and federal (1.00 ppm) allowances for safe human consumption in alligators collected in the Everglades. No clinical signs of neurologic, hepatic, or renal toxicosis were detected. Because of the alligator's ability to bioaccumulate mercury, this species might be useful as a biomonitor for environmental mercury contamination.
20095209|The objective of this study was to identify an injectable agent or combination that would reliably induce relaxation and allow for extensive physical examination in turtles. Thirty-six apparently healthy common snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) of similar age and ranging in weight from 40 to 100 g were randomly administered one of five different i.m. injections: 1) sterile saline (0.15 ml), 2) midazolam (2 mg/kg), 3) ketamine (40 mg/kg), 4) midazolam (2 mg/kg) with ketamine (20 mg/kg), and 5) midazolam (2 mg/kg) with ketamine (40 mg/kg). A sixth group was exposed to 5% isoflurane in oxygen for 30 min. Assessments of the degree of sedation, coordination, ability to manipulate the animal, and response to a painful stimulus were made at 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150, and 180 min postinjection. All turtles were completely recovered by 210 min. Analysis of variance results indicated that the combinations of midazolam (2 mg/kg) and ketamine (20 or 40 mg/kg) produced significantly better sedation than either agent by itself or exposure to isoflurane and may be used for chemical restraint in snapping turtles.
20096637|Infrared thermography was evaluated as a technique to determine if raccoons (Procyon lotor) experimentally infected with rabies virus could be differentiated from noninfected raccoons. Following a 10-day adjustment period, raccoons (n = 6) were infected with a virulent rabies street strain raccoon variant by injection into the masseter muscle at a dose of 2  10 tissue-culture infectious dose (
20095755|The prevalence of Salmonella and thermophilic Campylobacter species in animals kept at the Emperor Valley Zoo, Trinidad, was determined. Of the 433 animals from a total of 30 species sampled, 28 (6.5%) and 11 (2.5%) were positive for Salmonella and Campylobacter, respectively. The difference was statistically significant (P  0.001; ). Overall, 12 sterotypes of Salmonella were isolated, with S. miami accounting for eight (25.8%) of 31 isolates. All Campylobacter isolates were C. jejuni, with nine (81.8%) of 11 isolates originating from birds. Reptiles had a high prevalence of Salmonella infection with a high probability for salmonellosis, but the risk of campylobacteriosis appears to be very low.
20096148|Electrocardiographic parameters were measured in 28 free-ranging roe deer (Capreolus capreolus). The electrocardiograms (ECGs) were recorded in base-apex lead, standard bipolar limb leads (I, II, III), and augmented unipolar limb leads (aVR, aVL, aVF). Morphology and amplitude of P waves, QRS complexes, and T waves were analyzed in all seven leads. Cardiac rhythm, heart rate, and durations of P, QRS, and T waves, PR interval, QTc interval, and ST segment were calculated in the base-apex lead. The mean electrical axis for each individual was determined from the net amplitude of the QRS complex in leads I and III. All of the animals had a sinus rhythm. Heart rates ranged from 60-180 beats per minute, with a mean  SD of 104.8  44.1. The electrical axis was 100-220, with a mean  SD of 169.5  40.8. The base-apex lead provided the most uniform ECG patterns and higher mean amplitudes than did standard leads.
20095503|To provide intraoperative and postoperative analgesia, morphine (0.1 mg/kg) was administered into the epidural space of a cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) that required a total hip replacement. The epidural administration was performed 45 min before surgery after the cheetah had been anesthetized with a combination of tiletamine and zolazepam (Telazol) at a dosage of 2.5 mg/kg i.m. and isoflurane in oxygen. The cardiopulmonary status of the cheetah was stable throughout the anesthetic period except for a short period of systemic hypertension during surgery and mild to moderate hypercapnia. There was no evidence of increased motor activity or excitement attributable to the epidural morphine. The cheetah appeared quiet and showed normal behavior 3 hr after anesthesia. Preoperative epidural administration of morphine appears to be a suitable and safe technique for providing analgesia in cheetahs that require hind limb surgeries.
20096379|Stingrays are prominent marine animals; however, there are few published reference values for their blood chemistry and hematology. Twenty-eight southern stingrays (Dasyatis americana) were caught using the bottom trawl nets of fishery-independent boats operated by the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources during June and July 2002 from Winyah Bay, South Carolina, to St. Augustine, Florida. Median values of blood and plasma obtained from live animals promptly after capture are as follows: packed cell volume = 0.22 L/L (22%), total solids (TS) = 56.5 g/L (5.65 g/dl), total protein (TP) = 26 g/L (2.6 g/dl), sodium = 315 mmol/L, potassium = 4.95 mmol/L, chloride = 342 mmol/L, calcium = 4.12 mmol/L (16.5 mg/dl), phosphorus = 1.5 mmol/L (4.7 mg/dl), urea nitrogen = 444 mmol/L (1,243 mg/dl), glucose = 1.69 mmol/L (30 mg/dl), aspartate aminotransferase = 14.5 U/L, creatine phosphokinase = 80.5 U/L, osmolality = 1065 mOsm/kg, and lactate = 3.1 mmol/L. Bicarbonate was less than the low end of the instrument range (5 mmol/L) in all but three samples. Anion gap was negative in all samples. Albumin was less than the low end of the instrument range (1 g/dl) in all except one sample. Osmolality was significantly higher in the rays caught in the southern region. TS and TP values were linearly related to each other, and the equation for the fitted line is TS = (11.61  TP) + 25.4 (in g/L) [or TS = (1.161  TP) + 2.54 (in g/dl)]. The reference ranges reported in this study can be used to aid in the management of aquarium stingrays and to create a baseline for health monitoring of the wild Dasyatis spp.
40665061|Thirty-two free-ranging red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) were immobilized with one of three combinations: medetomidine (0.076  0.017 mg/kg) and ketamine (2.1  0.5 mg/kg; MK, n = 16), medetomidine (0.057  0.008 mg/kg) and low-dose midazolam (0.6  0.1 mg/kg; MM-0.5, n = 10), or medetomidine (0.067  0.012 mg/kg) and high-dose midazolam (1.3  0.2 mg/kg; MM-1, n = 6) by i.m. injection. Induction and recovery times were recorded. Pulse, respiratory rate, body temperature, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and oxygen saturation were measured. Anesthesia depth indicators were observed. There was a significant difference between the MM-0.5 and the MM-1 groups regarding induction time, 8.1  2.1 min and 5.0  1.7 min, respectively. The MK induction time was 6.9  2.5 min, which was not significantly different from the other two groups. All combinations provided effective immobilization for at least 20-25 min. During immobilization, there were significant differences regarding rectal temperature, which was higher in the MK group; and blood pressure, which was higher in the MM-1 group. After administration of atipamezole at 5 mg per 1 mg medetomidine given, there was a significant difference between the groups in recovery time; MK foxes were standing within 3.9  1.7 min, MM-0.5 foxes within 10.6  4.5 min, and MM-1 foxes within 10.2  3.4 min. None of the combinations caused rough or prolonged recoveries. Subjectively, the MM groups had smoother and less ataxic recoveries than the MK group. In conclusion, the authors recommend the use of medetomidine at 0.07 mg/kg in combination with midazolam at 0.8 mg/kg or ketamine at 2 mg/kg for the immobilization of free-ranging red foxes. During immobilization, monitoring of body temperature and oxygenation is recommended.
20095765|Spondyloarthropathy was documented for the first time in 14 (3.7%) of 386 large cats, affecting eight species belonging to three genera. The limited distribution of joint erosions, associated with spine and sacroiliac joint pathology, was indistinguishable from that occurring in humans with spondyloarthropathy of the reactive type. This form of inflammatory arthritis is almost twice as common as osteoarthritis (for fields as a whole), and animal wellbeing may be enhanced by its recognition and by initiation of specific treatment.
20096554|A colony of captive Xenopus tropicalis became infected with Mycobacterium szulgai. Clinical signs, when observed, were lethargy, weight loss, and emaciation. Visceral granulomas were common findings at laparoscopy and necropsy. The diagnosis of mycobacteriosis was based on histologic appearance and Ziehl-Neelsen staining of tissues. The identification of M. szulgai organisms was based on comparison of the 16S rRNA gene sequence with several GenBank databases. There have been no reports of this mycobacterial species as the causative agent of naturally occurring disease in amphibians.
20095836|A 6-mo-old male Savannah monitor lizard (Varanus exanthematicus) was presented for lethargy and anorexia of 7 days duration. Physical examination revealed a slightly raised subcutaneous mass (1 cm diameter) in the left scapular area. Fine-needle aspiration cytology of the mass revealed a population of immature, pleomorphic lymphoid cells consistent with lymphosarcoma. A hemogram indicated marked leukocytosis (465,000 cells/l) characterized by extreme lymphocytosis and many circulating lymphoid blast cells. The lizard was euthanized at the owner's request. Necropsy revealed severe hepatomegaly and multiple raised, ulcerated mural masses in the gastrointestinal tract. There were many raised, poorly demarcated tan foci in all the parenchymal organs. Histopathologic examination confirmed infiltration of all parenchymal organs by neoplastic lymphoid cells. Transmission electron microscopic examination failed to identify viruses within the neoplastic cells. A literature review revealed few reports of squamate leukemia and lymphosarcoma and none in Savannah monitor lizards.
20095890|A 5-wk-old female dromedary camel (Camelus dromedarius) was clinically diagnosed with bilateral corneal dermoids, incomplete congenital cataracts, a left persistent hyaloid artery (PHA), and a ventricular septal defect (VSD). The corneal dermoids were removed by lamellar keratectomy, and vision improved in the left eye. Thirteen months after dermoid surgery, the calf was presented for enlargement of the right eye. Glaucoma was confirmed in the right eye, and corneal fibrosis and cataract were noted in the left eye. Persistence of the VSD was confirmed by cardiac ultrasonography. The calf was euthanized, and necropsy findings confirmed VSD. Histopathologic examination revealed bilateral corneal thinning and fibrosis, cataracts with retrolental fibroplasia, and retinal dysplasia. Additional changes in the right globe were anterior segment dysgenesis, ruptured lens capsule, chronic phacoclastic uveitis, and retinal separation. The PHA was confirmed in the left eye.
20460376|White rhinoceroses (Ceratotherium simum) anesthetized with etorphine combinations develop severe pathophysiologic changes, including hypoventilation, hypoxemia and metabolic acidosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the addition of butorphanol to the immobilizing mixture on the cardiopulmonary effects in free-ranging white rhinoceroses darted from the helicopter. In the control group (n = 15), the rhinoceroses were anesthetized with etorphine, azaperone, detomidine, and hyaluronidase administered intramuscularly. In the treatment group (n = 16), 10-20 mg of butorphanol was added to the combination. Within 10 min of becoming immobile, vital parameters (heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature) and blood gas analyses were taken, and measurements were repeated after 10 (treatment group) and 20 min (control group). Both groups showed respiratory and metabolic acidosis, hypoxemia, and hypercapnia. In the control group, the arterial partial pressure of oxygen was significantly higher and the alveolar-to-arterial oxygen pressure gradients were significantly lower in all body positions compared with the butorphanol group. Oxygen hemoglobin saturation in the control group was higher than in the butorphanol group only in the lateral position. Improvements in arterial oxygen levels were observed in all animals when placed in sternal recumbency. There were no significant differences in the mean induction times between groups, but the distance the butorphanol group ran was significantly less after darting than in the control group. By adding butorphanol to the immobilizing mixture, no benefits in ventilation were seen; although, size differences make comparisons difficult. Running for a shorter distance during induction could be beneficial in the prevention of severe acid-base imbalances and capture myopathy.
20095920|Thirteen hematologic parameters were measured in 52 Spanish ibexes (Capra pyrenaica) from Sierra Nevada Natural Park, southern Spain. The animals were captured, maintained in captivity, and physically restrained for blood collection. We compared hematologic values for healthy ibexes with animals infected with sarcoptic mites and animals treated for scabies and recovered. Ibexes with scabies showed a decreased number of erythrocytes, a higher mean corpuscular volume and mean corpuscular hemoglobin, and increased numbers of band neutrophils. The number of lymphocytes was significantly higher in animals that had recovered from scabies as compared with infested ones. The only difference observed between healthy and recovered animals was in the number of monocytes, which remained significantly higher in animals that had recovered from scabies. No hemoparasites were found in this study.
20096684|This report describes the gross, histologic, and immunohistochemical features of ovarian dysgerminomas in two adult female mountain chicken frogs (Leptodactylus fallax) from the same zoological institution. One frog was found dead, and the other frog had been ill for several days with a bloated abdomen and lethargy. On necropsy, large, pale multilobulated masses replaced the left ovary in both frogs, and one frog also had numerous smaller nodules scattered throughout the coelomic viscera. Histologically, these masses were composed of sheets and cords of polyhedral discrete germ cells consistent with the diagnosis of dysgerminoma. Neoplastic cells stained positive with immunohistochemistry for Oct4, which has been reported to detect stem cells including germ cells in a variety of species, including humans. Ovarian tumors are uncommonly encountered in both reptiles and amphibians, and this report is the first report of dysgerminoma in any amphibian species.
20096022|A young adult male white Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris tigris) presented with hindlimb ataxia. Cervical and lumbar myelography revealed a compressive lesion of the cord at
20095827|From June 1994 to June 1996, 18 fledgling American crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos brachyrhynchos) from multiple locations on Long Island, New York, were presented with signs of metabolic bone disease characterized by folding fractures of the proximal tibiotarsus. Plasma alkaline phosphatase levels were elevated, and the calcium/phosphorus ratio and 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (25-(OH)D) levels were decreased. The histopathologic diagnosis was parathyroid hyperplasia and generalized osteodystrophia fibrosa. A diet low in bioavailable calcium and/or vitamin D was the probable cause. Also, exposure to xenobiotics could have contributed to the depression of 25-(OH)D levels.
20095023|Between late May and mid-December 1984, 32 California sea lions (Zalophus californianus) were brought to the California Marine Mammal Center with vesicular lesions of varying severity on the nonhaired regions of the flippers. Later, large, firm raised areas erupted around the mouth and on the chin of five of these animals. San Miguel sea lion virus (SMSV) serotype 13 was isolated from a vesicle on the flipper of one of the sea lions. Lesions on the flippers and lip margins ulcerated and, depending on their initial severity, took up to 9 wk to heal completely. In addition to the skin lesions, all of the sea lions had concomitant severe medical problems, usually leptospirosis. There was no correlation between the severity of vesicular lesions and the severity of other clinical problems.
20460365|A pair of northern goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) breeding in a public park in the city center of Hamburg, Germany, raised 12 healthy and five aberrant offspring between 1996 and 2000. Aberrant nestlings (three males and two females) had pale silver-blue plumage and displayed severe locomotor disorders. Histopathologically, the defects were characterized by adendritic feather melanocytes and mild degeneration of the cerebellar white matter. Epidemiologic results were suggestive of a hereditary autosomal recessive defect, which may have originated from close inbreeding during the foundation of Hamburg's urban population of northern goshawks.
41417161|Anesthetic protocols that allow quick induction, short processing time, and rapid reversal are necessary for researchers performing minimally invasive procedures (including morphometric measurements or attachment of radiocollars). The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of medetomidine and butorphanol as a substitute for xylazine in ketamine-based field immobilization protocols for bobcats (Lynx rufus) to reduce recovery and total field times. During 2008 and 2009, 11 bobcats were immobilized with an intramuscular combination of ketamine (10 mg/kg)-xylazine (0.75 mg/kg) (KX) or ketamine (4 mg/kg)-medetomidine (40 mcg/kg)-butorphanol (0.4 mg/kg) (KMB). Time to initial sedation, recumbency, and full anesthesia were recorded postinjection. Time to head up, sternal, standing, full recovery, and total processing times were recorded post-reversal. Throughout anesthesia, heart rate (HR), respiratory rate (RR), rectal temperature (RT), and noninvasive hemoglobin-oxygen saturation (SpO) were recorded at 5-min intervals. The KX combination had a median time to full anesthesia of 10 min, a median recovery time of 46 min, and a median total processing time of 83 min. Alternatively, the KMB combination had a median time to full anesthesia of 21 min, a median recovery time of 18 min, and a median total processing time of 64 min. The KX protocol produced a median HR of 129 beats/min, RR of 25 breaths/min, RT of 38.3C, and SpO of 93%. The KMB protocol produced a median HR of 97 beats/min, RR of 33 breaths/min, RT of 38.4C, and SpO of 92%. Though both protocols provided safe and reliable sedation, the benefits of using medetomidine and butorphanol to lower ketamine doses and decrease processing time for brief nonsurgical sedation of bobcats in the field are presented.
20095281|Little information is available on the actual costs incurred in identifying and monitoring the infectious disease status of wildlife intended for translocation and reintroduction. Accurate cost estimates of translocation and reintroduction programs are essential to make decisions concerning planning and implementation processes. Postproject analysis of costs and effectiveness will provide the objective data needed by organizations when planning similar projects or determining future funding requirements. A simple, systematic, and comprehensive cost accounting method for projects is presented.
40962313|The objective of this study was to establish a safe and effective endoscopic echnique for the examination of coelomic viscera and for the collection of liver and kidney biopsy specimens from turtles by use of a 2.7-mm rigid endoscopy system that is commonly available in zoologie veterinary practice. Twenty-two adult freshwater turtles (Trachemys scripta) were anesthetized for both left and right coelioscopic examinations. Ease of entry and organ visualization were scored, and liver and kidney biopsy specimens were collected from each turtle by use of 1.7-mm endoscopie biopsy forceps. Biopsy samples were evaluated histologically for quality and crush artifact. Five days after surgery, all turtles were euthanatized and underwent full necropsy examination. For all 22 turtles, left and right mean entry and visualization scores were satisfactory to excellent for all measured parameters except spleen because the spleen was impossible to locate from the left side. No iatrogenic trauma was evident, and biopsy specimens were consistent with tissues collected at necropsy. Liver biopsies suffered from greater crush artifact, compared with kidney biopsies. By use of a 2.7-mm rigid endoscopy system, coelioscopy, liver and kidney biopsy procedures can be performed safely, swiftly, and with ease in turtles. Biopsy specimens obtained by this technique are suitable for histologie examination. Endoscopy is recommended for the examination and biopsy of coelomic viscera in chelonians.
20094911|Insects used in zoo feeding programs are poor sources of calcium (Ca) and have inverse calcium: phosphorus (Ca:P) ratios. An experiment was conducted to determine if feeding diets high in dietary Ca to adult crickets would cause an increase in whole-body Ca content. Experimental diets were formulated to contain 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12% Ca and were provided to the crickets for 12, 24, 48, 72, 96, and 120 hr. Crickets were analyzed for dry matter, Ca, and phosphorus. Dietary treatment and duration of treatment were found to have significant effects on Ca content and Ca:P ratio of crickets, but not on P content. The Ca content and Ca:P ratio of crickets increased during the initial period of feeding, but after 48 hr these mineral levels remained stable. Calcium content and Ca:P ratio of crickets were a function of dietary Ca, reaching maximal values of 1.4% and 1.7:1, respectively, when diets containing 12% Ca were fed. Radiographs revealed radiopaque material in the gastrointestinal tracts (GIT) of most crickets fed diets high in calcium (8, 10, or 12% Ca) but not in the GIT of crickets fed diets low in calcium. It is concluded that in order to obtain crickets with a Ca:P ratio of 1:1 or higher it is necessary to feed diets containing at least 8% Ca. Other factors which might influence the calcium content of crickets are discussed.
41262622|The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of several parenteral anesthetics in blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus). Thirty-one animals were administered one or more of the following drugs by injection into the hemolymph (i.v.) through an arthrodial membrane: etomidate, ketamine, lidocaine, pentobarbital, propofol, tiletamine-zolazepam, xylazine, and ketamine-xylazine. A subset of crabs received intracardiac ketamine. Etomidate had no effect. Lidocaine effects were ultrashort (<3 min). Pentobarbital had prolonged inductions (2 min) and often caused violent excitement and poor anesthesia. Propofol induced light anesthesia accompanied by distress and limb autotomy. Inductions with ketamine, xylazine, tiletaminezolazepam, and ketamine-xylazine were usually fast (60 sec). Their anesthetic effects were generally very short (510 min) but predictable, smooth, and with good muscle relaxation. The latter two protocols induced a deep plane of anesthesia more consistently but also more significant bradycardia. Intracardiac ketamine injection was fatal in four of five crabs. In conclusion, the anesthetic protocols were considered unsuitable for prolonged anesthesia. However, if very short-term anesthesia is desired, then tiletamine-zolazepam or ketamine-xylazine is recommended. Further studies are indicated to identify a safe anesthetic protocol of longer duration in C. sapidus as well as in other crab species.
27751755|Clinical chemistry tests are essential for the diagnosis and monitoring of disease in birds. The small volume of blood that can be obtained from many avian species limits the use of routine in-house chemistry analyzers. The aim of this study was to examine the accuracy and precision of avian plasma chemistry values obtained by use of a benchtop analyzer in samples diluted with sterile water, as compared with undiluted samples. Whole blood samples were collected from 13 clinically healthy thick-billed parrots (Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha). The samples were placed in lithium heparin tubes and centrifuged and the plasma decanted. One aliquot was analyzed immediately using a VetScan benchtop analyzer with an avian-reptilespecific rotor that included 12 analytes. The remainder of the plasma was divided into two aliquots and stored at 80C until analysis. One of these aliquots was diluted 1:1, 1:1.5, 1:2, and 1:2.5 with sterile water to give final dilutions of 1:2, 1:2.5, 1:3, and 1:3.5, respectively. The other aliquot was pooled with the 12 other samples to create a plasma pool. The undiluted plasma pool and two final dilutions (1:2 and 1:3) of the pooled plasma were analyzed in replicate (n = 20) to determine intra- and interassay imprecision. Each dilution was analyzed using the avian-reptile rotor and the results multiplied by the appropriate dilution factor to obtain the final result. Significant differences were observed in clinical chemistry results obtained from diluted plasma samples for all analytes except aspartate aminotransferase, creatine kinase, and glucose. Uric acid concentration was not significantly different at dilutions of up to 1:3. Bile acids, globulins, and sodium concentrations were below the limit of detection in all diluted samples and were not statistically analyzed. Based on these results, dilution with sterile water is not recommended for biochemical analysis of avian plasma using the VetScan benchtop analyzer.
20460353|During the months of April to August in 1999 and 2002, oral swabs were collected from 146 tortoises (Testudo sp.) in private collections in the United Kingdom and tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the presence of Mycoplasma agassizii and Chelonian herpesvirus (ChHV). The presence of M. agassizii was confirmed by restriction digestion of the PCR product. A 307-bp fragment of the ChHV UL5 homologue gene was sequenced and found to show most similarity to equine herpesvirus type 1. A prevalence of 15.8 and 8.2% was found for M. agassizii and ChHV, respectively. Comparison of the carriage of both M. agassizii and ChHV in different species of tortoises correlated the presence of M. agassizii with Testudo horsfieldii and ChHV with Testudo marginata and Testudo graeca iberia. An association of ChHV with stomatitis was also found. Mixed infections with both agents were detected. The findings further demonstrate this pathogen--tortoise association and the cross transmission of these infections if different tortoise species are housed together.
20095191|This paper reports the serologic, bacteriologic, and parasitologic findings from Caribbean flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) sampled during an episode of lead poisoning in Yucatn, Mexico, that occurred March-April 1989. Blood samples and swabs were obtained from nine moribund flamingos. Of the nine sera tested, two were positive for neutralizing antibodies against Venezuelan equine encephalitis--Mena II virus, two were positive for Newcastle disease virus, one was positive for St. Louis encephalitis virus, and one was positive for avian cholera. The following bacteria were isolated from these and 18 additional flamingo carcasses: Escherichia coli, Aeromonas hydrophila, Pasteurella multocida, Salmonella spp., and Staphylococcus spp. Among the endoparasites, Tetrameres americana was found in all nine flamingos examined. Possible disease implications in this flamingo population are discussed.
20096455|An adult, female binturong (Arctictis binturong) was examined due to lethargy, inappetence, and an abdominal mass. Diagnostic investigations, including radiographs, abdominal ultrasound, clinical laboratory findings, and a fine-needle aspirate of the mass, were suggestive of a sarcoma with metastasis. Necropsy and histopathologic findings confirmed a widely disseminated sarcomatoid variant of a renal cell carcinoma, likely originating in the left kidney, with metastasis to the right kidney, spleen, pancreas, liver, mesenteric lymph nodes, and lungs. This is the first report of this neoplasm in a binturong and only the second report in the veterinary literature. Sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma is a rare histologic variant of renal cell carcinoma that is aggressive, commonly metastatic, and associated with a very poor prognosis in humans. Accurate antemortem diagnosis of this tumor may be complicated by its biphasic morphology, which may resemble carcinoma or sarcoma (or both), often necessitating the use of immunohistochemical techniques.
40962300|The agreement of plasma biochemical values between a portable point-of-care analyzer and a veterinary diagnostic laboratory in wild caught loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) was tested. Banked plasma samples from presumptively healthy turtles collected for an on-going project that involves health assessments of sea turtles from the southeast coast of Florida were used for this study. Plasma biochemical analytes evaluated included albumin, aspartate aminotransferase, calcium, creatinine kinase, glucose, potassium, sodium, phosphorus, total protein, bile acids, and uric acid. Paired plasma samples were run in duplicates and compared between a point-ofcare analyzer and a veterinary diagnostic laboratory (VDL). Overall, the precision was greater as measured within the point-of-care analyzer than within the VDL analyzer; however, agreement between the two testing methods was poor. Correlation (r i ) between the two analyzers was high for many of the analytes; however, the small P-value and high relative error led to the conclusion that the two analyzers were not equivalent. In addition, a comparison was made between the biochemical values obtained at the time of collection and after storage in an ultralow freezer for up to 2.5 yr. Plasma samples analyzed at the VDL, performed on different models of the same machine, were significantly lower after storage than those acquired near the time of collection. This difference was most likely because of sample degradation that occurred during storage. Whereas, statistically significant differences were observed within and between the analyzers, many of these differences may not be clinically significant. Even though this study has a few limitations, including a technical malfunction and the use of two different diagnostic laboratories, biochemical values for the given population are reported when using both a portable system and a diagnostic laboratory. Based on the findings of this study, the authors believe that point-of-care analyzers can provide valuable adjunctive diagnostics, especially in field situations.
20096535|A 7-yr-old female dromedary camel (Camelus dromedarius) was evaluated for inappetence, weight loss, polyuria, and polydipsia. The animal did not respond to antibiotic and supportive therapy, became recumbent, and died. Gross examination revealed nodules in the liver, mesenteric and perirenal lymph nodes, and both kidneys, with segmental thickening of the small intestine. Histopathologic examination revealed multifocal lymphoma with moderate mitotic activity. Immunohistochemical staining of neoplastic cells was uniformly CD3-positive, indicating a T-cell lymphoma.
20096023|A 9-mo-old female blue duiker (Cephalophus monticola) weighing 3.9 kg was diagnosed with a cardiac murmur during quarantine examination. Evaluation of the heart by auscultation, electrocardiography, two-dimensional echocardiography, and Doppler color-flow echocardiography revealed a restrictive outlet ventricular septal defect with left atrial and left ventricular dilation. Trivial mitral, tricuspid, and aortic regurgitation was also noted. Though the duiker was clinically asymptomatic at the time of cardiac evaluation, it was found dead 1 wk later. The cause of death was not determined.
20095664|This report describes vaccine-induced canine distemper virus (CDV) infection in four European mink (Mustela lutreola) induced by the administration of a multivalent, avian-origin vaccine. Clinical signs consisting of seizures, ataxia, facial twitching, oculonasal discharge, hyperkeratosis of footpads, and anorexia developed 16-20 days postvaccination. Conjunctival smears from one animal were positive for CDV antigen by direct fluorescent antibody testing, confirming the clinical diagnosis. The four mink died 16-26 days postvaccination. Gross and microscopic lesions that were diagnostic for CDV infection included interstitial pneumonia, lymphoid depletion, nonsuppurative encephalitis, and dermatitis. Vaccine-strain virus was isolated from tissues of three animals. Cases of vaccine-induced distemper in mustelids using avian-origin vaccine have seldom been reported.
20095847|The teeth of 63 skulls of brown bears (Ursus arctos spp.) that had lived in the Bernese bear pit between 1850 and 1995 were examined and radiographed for occlusion, loss of teeth, calcified dental plaque and calculus, attrition, and caries. Dental pathology and periodontal status were evaluated with respect to age and location in the dentition. Further techniques such as computed tomography, microhardness testing, histologic sectioning, and scanning electron microscopy were used in selected cases to verify the macroscopic and radiographic diagnoses. Fourteen skulls originating from free-ranging wild Alaskan brown bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) were examined as a control group. For zoo bears over 10 yr old, severe enamel and dentinal attrition has been observed in canine teeth, with exposed pulp and proximal lesions in molar teeth. Deposits of calcified dental calculus were found in various locations and increased with age. A much lower degree of calculus deposition was found in the Alaskan grizzlies, whose average caries frequency was higher but with large individual variation and different locations in canine teeth and occlusal lesions in molar and premolar teeth. Radiographic evaluation of perialveolar osteolytic processes revealed a greater frequency of apical and combined apical-marginal lesions of the alveoli in zoo bears over 10 yr old. Stereotypical behavior like cage chewing is a suspected cause of canine tooth and secondary alveolar lesions, whereas a nutritionally inappropriate diet and inadequate opportunities for tooth-cleaning activities are responsible for the lack of natural cleaning and the extensive calculus formation that results. The methods used in this study are useful in assessing and comparing the dental health status of free-ranging bears, and those living in zoological gardens, by evaluating anesthetized bears or bear skull collections representing both groups.
20460429|The threat of disease transmission from domestic animals to wildlife has become recognized as an increasing concern within the wildlife community in recent years. Domestic dogs pose a significant risk as reservoirs for infectious diseases, especially for wild canids. As part of a multifaceted ecologic study of maned wolves and other canids in the large, remote Nol Kempff Mercado National Park (NKMNP) in northeastern Bolivia, 40 domestic dogs in two villages and at two smaller settlements bordering the national park were sampled for exposure to canine diseases. High levels of exposure were found to canine distemper virus and canine parvovirus, both of which are known to cause mortality in maned wolves and other carnivores. Moderate to high levels of exposure were found to rabies virus, Ehrlichia canis, and Toxoplasma gondii, as well as significant levels of infection with Dirofilaria immitis. This study reports evidence of exposure to several diseases in the domestic dogs bordering the park. Contact between wild carnivores and dogs has been documented in the sampled villages, therefore dogs likely pose a substantial risk to the carnivores within and near NKMNP. Further measures should be undertaken to decrease the risk of spillover infection from domestic animals into the wild species of this region.
20094962|An epizootic of cutaneous nodules occurred in three species of pinnipeds at the California Marine Mammal Center during the summer of 1986. One harbor seal pup (Phoca vitulina richardsi) developed nodules initially. Nodules then developed on all other harbor seals, one California seal lion (Zalophus californianus), and at least two northern elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris). Excisional biopsies of nodules from two harbor seals and one elephant seal demonstrated epidermal cytoplasmic inclusion bodies compatible with poxvirus infection. Transmission electron microscopy confirmed the presence of poxvirus in a harbor seal nodule. The chronology of the outbreak suggested transmission of the virus as a propagating epizootic among harbor seals and then passage to elephant seals and possibly to the sea lion. This is believed to be the first documentation of poxvirus infection in northern elephant seals and transmission among pinniped species.
20096550|A 14-yr-old male brown capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) was presented to the Veterinary Teaching Hospital of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel, with stranguria. The history included distal urethral obstruction and a previous surgical attempt to create a urinary diversion through the perineum. A perineal urethrostomy was performed. In a 17-mo follow-up period, neither stranguria nor dysuria was observed, and the monkey's social behavior appeared normal. Perineal urethrostomy appears to be a simple and practical procedure in primates with a compromised distal urethra.
20096329|Traumatic elbow luxation was diagnosed in a common squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciurus) and a bonnet macaque (Macaca radiata). In the common squirrel monkey, the luxation was complicated by an ulnar fracture and would not stay reduced when attempts at closed reduction were made. The luxation was surgically reduced and a transarticular type I external skeletal fixator was placed. In the bonnet macaque, closed reduction was performed and the elbow was stabilized using a cast. Both monkeys regained good function of the injured elbows.
20096178|Atropine, an anticholinergic agent commonly used in human and veterinary medicine, is reported to cause toxicity associated with its antimuscarinic action. A juvenile pygmy sperm whale, Kogia breviceps, was treated with atropine in an attempt to relieve symptoms similar to pyloric stenosis, as has been used in humans. Two doses of 0.01 mg/kg were given i.m., 12 hr apart, followed by three doses of 0.005 mg/kg i.m. s.i.d. over the next 3 days. Symptoms associated with atropine toxicity developed gradually and included hyperexcitability, a generalized ascending paralysis of body musculature, shallow, rapid respiration, vomiting, aspiration of seawater, and pulmonary edema. Treatment with physostigmine salicylate (two doses of 2 mg i.m., 1 hr apart) was effective in counteracting the paralysis, as well as other symptoms, beginning in as little as 17 min after the first dose, and the whale was back to swimming on its own after 8 hr. All overt symptoms of atropine toxicity were gone in about 24 hr, but there were other possible sequella that lasted much longer.
20095622|An emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae) and an ostrich (Struthio camelus) developed swelling of the tarsometatarsal bone and lameness after severe blunt trauma. A 2-cm laceration was present at the traumatized site in the ostrich, but there was no cutaneous lesion in the emu. Radiographs of both patients revealed extensive periosteal proliferation surrounding a sequestrum. Sequestrectomy was successful while the patients were immobilized with general anesthesia. Post-operative management included bandaging, systemic antimicrobial therapy, and stall confinement for 3 wk. Both birds regained full function of the affected leg. Management and handling of ratites should incorporate measures to prevent trauma of the legs. If focal swelling occurs in tissue overlying the distal tibiotarsus or tarsometatarsus of ratites, sequestration should be considered. Radiography will confirm the diagnosis and the nonviable bone fragments can be successfully removed.
20096525|Chronic foot lesions and degenerative joint disease are common causes of morbidity in elephants. Lesions may become intractable and progressive despite intensive treatment regimens. The forelimbs of two Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) with chronic nonhealing sole ulcerations were examined using manual dissection and computed tomography. Both elephants had abnormal limb conformation that preceded the development of sole ulcerations. In both cases, sole ulcers were associated with remodeling and degeneration of underlying bones of the digits. Conformational abnormalities and altered weight distribution in these individuals may have induced compensatory bony degeneration and secondary ulcer formation. Sole ulcerations associated with digital abnormalities may have a guarded prognosis for resolution, even with aggressive treatment. Because limb conformational abnormalities could predispose to or result from chronic digital lesions, elephants with conformational abnormalities may have increased likelihood of having chronic sole ulcerations.
20095290|National and international systems for the prevention and control of infectious diseases of humans, domestic animals, and laboratory animals (rodents and primates) are reviewed as a perspective for proposing the development of a national/international system for the management of the infectious diseases of free-ranging and captive wild animals and for the translocation and reintroduction of endangered species. The system would foster cooperation, communication, and coordination of independent far-flung free-ranging and captive wild animal research and management programs throughout the United States and the world. This proposal includes subsystems for informally organizing the professional community, for fostering epidemiologic activities, for developing reference laboratory diagnostics resources, for developing an information/data base system, for developing a communications system, and for fostering other interactions.
20096097|Respiratory disease is common in captive and wild cetaceans. Bronchoscopy may permit early diagnosis of respiratory disease in dolphins and porpoises. Refinement of cetacean bronchoscopy requires development of a nomenclature system to facilitate description of the anatomic site at which lesions occur. A standard bronchoscopic nomenclature also permits serial evaluations of lesions and enhances communication between veterinarians. In this project, we adapted the bronchoscopic nomenclature devised by Amis and McKiernan for the dog and horse to the harbor porpoise (Phocoena phocoena). Silastic and air-dried models of the bronchial tree of the harbor porpoise were made to illustrate the anatomy and devise the nomenclature. Bronchial anatomy was consistent among the four porpoise lungs studied. The Amis and McKiernan nomenclature was readily adaptable to the harbor porpoise lung with minor modifications and may be useful for cetacean bronchoscopy.
20095234|Chronic dermatitis, including contact irritation secondary to fiberglass exposure, is described in four captive green moray eels (Gymnothorax funebris). All eels developed skin lesions within 6 mo when placed in exhibit areas of a public aquarium. Lesions resolved spontaneously when eels were removed from exhibits. Deep scrapings from lesions were treated with 20% potassium hydroxide and examined microscopically, revealing fiberglass particles in tissue. Histologically, lesions were characterized as chronic active with a mononuclear dermal infiltrate. Irritation from fiberglass structures in exhibit areas is believed to have been the inciting cause of lesions; however, the potential role of other environmental factors is considered.
20095529|A male and female silver fox (Vulpes vulpes) were diagnosed with naturally acquired infections of the lungworm Crenosoma vulpis at the Cherry Brook Zoo in St. John, New Brunswick, Canada. The main clinical sign was a chronic cough. Crenosomiasis was diagnosed by fecal examination using the Baermann technique. The foxes were treated with a subcutaneous injection of ivermectin (200 g/kg). Clinical signs resolved, and fecal exams were negative at 3 and 6 wk posttreatment. No adverse reactions to the drug were observed. This is the first reported use of ivermectin against C. vulpis infection in canids. Due to the small number of animals involved and the absence of posttreatment necropsy/worm recovery data, this indication of efficacy must be viewed as circumstantial until further testing.
20460493|A 13-mo-old intact male African lion (Panthera leo) presented with a 3-mo history of lethargy, ventral flexion of the neck, abnormal vocalization, and ataxia. Hemogram and serum biochemistries were within normal limits except for the presence of hypokalemia (2.7 mEq/L) and hypochloridemia (108 mEq/L). When no improvement was noted with oral potassium gluconate supplementation, a computed tomography scan of the brain and skull was performed, and no abnormalities were noted. However, magnetic resonance imaging detected occipital bone thickening, crowding of the caudal cranial fossa with cerebellar compression and herniation, and cervical syringohydromyelia, which was consistent with a Chiari I--like malformation. Foramen magnum decompression was performed to relieve the compression of the cerebellum. The animal recovered well with subsequent resolution of clinical signs. Hypovitaminosis A has been proposed previously as the underlying etiology for this malformation in lions with similar clinical presentations. This lion's serum and liver vitamin A concentrations were low (100 ng/ml and 25.31 g/g, respectively) compared to concentrations reported for domestic carnivores and support hypovitaminosis A as the underlying cause of this animal's Chiari I--like malformation.
20096335|Laser rhinoscopy was used to treat a nasal obstruction in a captive California sea lion (Zalophus californianus). The rehabilitated, adult, female sea lion developed mucopurulent, intermittent, bilateral nasal discharge and functional nasal obstruction 20 mo after acquisition by the Aquarium of the Pacific in Long Beach, California. A 3-mm-thick soft tissue structure spanning the region between the soft and hard palates, a deviated nasal septum, and several nasopharyngeal polyps were identified. Biopsies and cultures of the obstructive web showed ulcerative granulation tissue with suppurative inflammation, bacterial infection, and a partial section of an arthropod larva (not speciated). Laser rhinoscopy was performed to relieve the caudal nasopharyngeal obstruction and ablate the polyps. The sea lion appeared to breathe through the nares with lessened nasal discharge for a period of 6 wk after laser therapy, but within 8 wk the mucopurulent nasal discharge returned, the obstruction had reformed, and the sea lion was euthanized. Postmortem examination confirmed antemortem diagnoses of caudal nasopharyngeal obstruction secondary to inflammatory tissue; however, no additional sections of arthropod parasites were located microscopically.
20096065|Eight capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) were vaccinated against rabies with an inactivated suckling mouse brain vaccine (SMBV). Three 1-ml doses of 2% brain tissue suspension were given by i.m. injection at 0, 30, and 60 days. Blood samples were collected at 0, 30, 60, 90, 150, 210, 240, 300, and 365 days and were tested by simplified fluorescence inhibition to titer-neutralizing antibodies. All of the animals developed neutralizing antibodies with titers &gt0.5 IU/ml after vaccination, but the immune response persisted for only 122.3  32.6 days. The SMBV was able to induce immune response in the capuchin monkeys, but protection was short-lived.
20460403|Captive African black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) are unusually susceptible to several diseases not commonly observed in any of the other three rhinoceros species maintained in captivity. The potential role of corticosteroids (either endogenously produced or exogenously administered) in the development of these sometimes fatal diseases has been questioned. In this study, the suppressive effects of two therapeutic corticosteroids (dexamethasone and hydrocortisone) on in vitro lymphocyte proliferation was examined in four rhinoceros species, including the Sumatran rhinoceros (Dicerorhinus sumatrensis, n = 3), Indian rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis, n = 4), African black rhinoceros (n = 10), and African white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum, n = 5). Three blood samples collected from each rhinoceros 1 mo to 1 yr apart provided replicates for the study. Both dexamethasone and hydrocortisone suppressed (P &lt; 0.05) lymphocyte proliferation stimulated by B-cell mitogens (pokeweed and lipopolysaccharide) and T-cell mitogens (phytohemagglutinin and concanavalin A). Suppressive effects of the glucocorticoids differed (P &lt; 0.05) depending on the mitogen used to stimulate the lymphocytes. Overall, dexamethasone was a more potent suppressor of cell proliferation when compared with hydrocortisone (P &lt; 0.05). However, black rhinoceros cell proliferation in response to any of the four mitogens was never completely suppressed, even in cultures containing the highest steroid concentration tested (10 M). The effect of the two corticosteroids differed slightly among the rhinoceros species and subspecies tested, but there was no evidence that eastern or southern black rhinoceros lymphocytes were more sensitive to the suppressive effects of corticosteroids than the other rhinoceros species.
20096409|Thoracic limb specimens from 12 euthanized free-ranging lions (Panthera leo, 16-170 mo old) underwent radiographic evaluation. The radiographic anatomy was described but excluded any areas of the bones with possible bone pathology. Comparisons between adult and juvenile lions were made and physes described. Differences or similarities (or both) to cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) and domestic cats and dogs were also noted. No dissections were made to corroborate the anatomic observations, but comparisons were made to macerated museum specimens. On the basis of evaluation, the scapula has a prominent acromion, hamate, and suprahamate processes, as well as prominent nutrient foramina. The humerus is similar to that of domestic cats. The humeral and ulnar nutrient foramina originate more medially than that in domestic cats. A supracondylar foramen may sometimes be observed radiologically, although one was present on all the macerated specimens in this study. Its radiologic visibility depends on the angle of incidence of the primary beam. The lateral "anconeal tubercle" of the olecranon (situated between the processus anconeus and tuber olecrani) is usually more prominent than the medial one and tends to be hook shaped, pointing cranially. There are no sesamoids in the region of the elbow. The first digit is large with two palmar metacarpophalangeal sesamoids and a prominent sesamoid in the tendon of the M. abductoris digiti I longus, all indications of a high degree of functionality. All physes close before 66 mo of age.
20095796|Voided urine samples were collected from apparently healthy free-living mountain gorillas (Gorilla gorilla beringei) and analyzed for normal physiologic values. Mountain gorillas were found to have a high urinary pH (x = 8.45) and low specific gravity (x = 1.013). Commercial dipsticks appear to be unreliable for the measurement of specific gravity and leukocytes. The establishment of urinary reference intervals should aid in the noninvasive detection of certain diseases in the mountain gorilla and assist with prompt and effective decisions regarding the immobilization and treatment of individual gorillas.
20096146|Single-dose pharmacokinetics of sulfadimethoxine were determined in six adult camels (Camelus dromedarius) following administration of a mean dosage of 17.5  2.7 mg/kg both i.v. and p.o. Serial blood samples were collected through an indwelling jugular catheter intermittently for 5 days for both routes. Sulfadimethoxine was assayed using high-performance liquid chromatography. Serum drug concentration versus time data for each animal was subjected to linear regression, with the best-fit model selected based on residual analysis. The data fit best into a two-compartment open model, with first-order input for oral administration. For orally administered drug, mean maximum serum concentration of 19.3  1.7 g/ml was reached at 11.41  2.59 hr, with an elimination rate constant of 0.09/hr  0.05/hr and an elimination half-life of 11.7  3 hr. Mean peak serum concentration following i.v. administration was 223  48 g/ml. Mean volume of distribution at steady state was 0.393  0.049 L/kg. Elimination rate constants differed with i.v. and oral administration, suggesting a flip-flop model. Oral bioavailability was 103%  38%. Comparison of maximum serum concentrations to the microbial breakpoint concentration reported for sulfadimethoxine (512 g/ml) suggests that the dose used in this study, 17.5  2.7 mg/kg, is insufficient for achieving therapeutic serum levels.
20095634|Fatal encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) infections in a ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta), a squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus), three mandrills (Mandrillus sphinx), a chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), a pygmy hippopotamus (Choeropsis liberiensis), and two Goodfellows tree kangaroos (Dendrolagus goodfellowi) occurred at Taronga Zoo. This is the first description of EMCV in a zoological collection outside of the United States. Regardless of species, the most common clinical presentation was sudden death. The gross pathologic changes were diffuse or focal pallor of the myocardium with occasional marked pulmonary congestion. Necrotizing nonsuppurative myocarditis was consistently present. EMCV was isolated from only one of 54 feral rodents examined. No antibodies to EMCV were detected with a serum neutralization test in 79 stored sera from a wide variety of zoo mammals. Titers of 1:16, 1:16, and 1:4 were recorded for a spider monkey (Aeteles geoffroyi), a lion (Panthera leo), and an orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus), respectively. Of seven mandrills tested in 1988, six had measurable virus titers. Later testing indicated that these titers did not persist, and one mandrill with a titer &gt 1:128 in 1988 subsequently succumbed to EMCV infection in 1991.
20095732|Heartwater, caused by the rickettsial agent Cowdria ruminantium, is one of the most devastating livestock diseases in sub-Saharan Africa. In addition to domestic cattle, sheep, and goats, a variety of nondomestic species can acquire subclinical and clinical infections. Recent epidemiologic findings that demonstrate a long-term host carrier state in domestic and wild ruminants, intrastadial transmission by the tick vectors (Amblyomma spp.), vertical transmission of the agent from cows to their calves, and the presence of both C. ruminantium and Amblyomma variegatum in the Caribbean suggest that the introduction of this exotic disease to the American mainland is a significant threat. Veterinarians working with wildlife should be familiar with this disease and should follow appropriate preventive measures to minimize the risk of infection in captive and wild populations of ruminants.
27751757|Mycobacterium intracellulare (MIT) was diagnosed postmortem by culture and supporting histopathology in seven birds from a flock of little blue penguins (Eudyptula minor) at the Henry Doorly Zoo (HDZ). These birds represented 20% of the deaths in the population over a 4 yr period. Clinical signs in affected birds included severe respiratory distress characterized by open-mouth breathing with chronic debilitation. On exam, plaques were noted in the larynx, trachea, and soft tissue of the caudal oropharynx. Index cases were identified on necropsy in two birds on loan to another institution in 2003. Following a case confirmed antemortem at the HDZ, a three-drug protocol of rifampin (15 mg/kg p.o. s.i.d.), ethambutol (15 mg/kg p.o. s.i.d.), and clarithromycin (10 mg/kg p.o. s.i.d.) was started on this bird in 2004 and extended to the entire flock in 2005. Gastric wash, fecal samples, and throat plaques were obtained antemortem on five birds within the flock, selected because of the presence of oral plaques, and tested by culture followed by a polymerase chain reaction assay. MIT was detected in gastric washes from four birds and in throat plaques from all five. Three more birds died during treatment. After the seventh bird died, antimicrobial susceptibility testing performed in July 2007 indicated that the MIT was now resistant to most antibiotics tested, including rifampin and ethambutol. The treatment regimen was changed to minocycline (10 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d.) and clarithromycin (10 mg/kg p.o. s.i.d.). Oral plaques were not seen on monthly rechecks of the flock through November 2008. The proposed mechanism of transmission is exposure to wild birds but the source has not been determined. These cases of avian mycobacteriosis caused by MIT are the first known cases reported in little blue penguins.
20096428|A juvenile orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus) died after 8 days of diarrhea and vomiting. Necropsy showed petechial hemorrhages in the skin, the myocardium, and the peritoneal membranes. The lungs were hyperemic and edematous, and the liver and spleen were enlarged. Histologic changes consisted of interstitial pneumonia, hepatitis, and splenic hyperplasia. Numerous eosinophilic intranuclear inclusion bodies were visible in pulmonary epithelial cells, hepatocytes, and splenic endothelial cells. Electron microscopic examination revealed herpesvirus in hepatocyte nuclei. Polymerase chain reaction of liver tissue demonstrated the presence of a herpes simplex virus-1.
20095774|A captive white-winged wood duck (Cairina scutulata) with bilateral epistaxis and anemia (packed cell volume = 16%) was treated with injectable and oral vitamin K and transfused with 40 ml whole blood. Brodifacoum was detected in blood at 0.002 ppm. The bird made an uneventful recovery. This report illustrates the risk of anticoagulant pest control products in a zoological setting.
20095824|A 20-yr retrospective study of disease prevalence was carried out for 51 sloths (34 Bradypus sp. and 17 Choloepus sp.) at the So Paulo Zoo. A total of 81 clinical disorders were detected, including nutritional (45.7%), digestive (12.3%), and respiratory (12.3%) problems and injuries (6.1%). A definitive diagnosis was not possible in 8.6% of the cases. The incidence of disease varied according to seasonal climate (winter, 32.5%; spring, 24%; summer, 22.9%; autumn, 20.5%), time in captivity (96.4% of diseases occurred within the first 6 mo and 3.6% occurred thereafter), and type of enclosure (quarantine cage, 96.4%; exhibition enclosure, 3.6%). Both young animals (86.7%) and adults (3.2%) were affected. Parasites were identified by fecal examination in 45.4% of animals with clinical illness (Ascaris sp., 80%; Coccidia sp., 20%). Bacteria such as Salmonella enteritidis, Escherichia coli, and Citrobacter freundii were isolated from feces and/or organs. The first 6 mo in captivity are critical for these animals. Proper management and early identification of medical conditions in captivity have implications for sloth population in the wild.
41262632|A 4-yr-old male captive hooded seal (Cystophora cristata), previously diagnosed as hypothyroid, died after a 3-wk period of lethargy and inappetance despite treatment that included intramuscular administration of antibiotics and multivitamins. Gross pathologic findings included extensive muscle necrosis over the left flank, an underlying necrotic iliac lymph node, two necrotic pulmonary masses and a necrotic bronchial lymph node. Routine cultures yielded a number of bacterial isolates and a heavy pure fungal growth from the necrotic iliac lymph node; wet preparations of which revealed sporangiophores typical of Mucor sp. Histopathology of necrotic muscle, pulmonary lesions and bronchial and iliac lymph nodes revealed necrosis with a marked pyogranulomatous and eosinophilic inflammatory cell infiltrate and fungal hyphae consistent with a Zygomycete species. This is believed to be the first report of systemic mucormycosis in a pinniped likely to have originated from an injection site reaction.
20095916|Yersinia pseudotuberculosis is an insidious bacterial infectious agent distributed worldwide and endemic to European countries. It has caused several animal deaths and may threaten the effectiveness of breeding projects for endangered species. In this retrospective study, we examine the prevalence of pseudotuberculosis in Jersey Zoo (Channel Islands, U.K.) over a period of 16 yr to obtain information that can be applied to prevent the infection. The efforts made to control the disease through vaccination are also explored. Our results show that pseudotuberculosis has been endemic to Jersey Zoo since 1979 and is responsible for significant animal loss in the Callithrichidae/Callimiconidae group. Mortality due to Y. pseudotuberculosis was seasonal; a high percentage of deaths occurred during wet and cold seasons. No significant difference was found in mortality rates of vaccinated versus nonvaccinated animals. Although the efficacy of vaccination has not been confirmed, we believe that an improved vaccination program could be an important tool in controlling outbreaks of infection in marmosets and tamarins.
20095312|The disposition of ciprofloxacin following a single oral dose (50 mg/kg) was studied in 10 red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis). Blood samples were collected at 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, 360, 480, 600, and 720 min after dose administration. Based on a one-compartment model, the model-dependent pharmacokinetic determinants were 2.49 hr for the apparent elimination half-life, 3.64  0.80 g/ml for the peak concentration, 0.92  0.26 hr for the time to peak, and a 0.18  0.08-hr lag time. Model-independent determinants included an area under the curve of 16.6  5.07 g(hr)/ml, an area under the moment curve of 68.8  27.6 g(hr)/ml, and a mean residence time of 4.06  0.52 hr. Based on these data, a dose of 50 mg/kg given as an oral suspension every 12 hr would give serum concentrations above the published
20096277|This study was undertaken to determine whether Haemobartonella felis (Mycoplasma haemofelis), the causative bacterial agent of feline infectious anemia, infects nondomestic cats. Routine complete blood count and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were performed to detect the gene for 16S ribosomal RNA for the organism. Sixty-four blood samples were collected from 54 nondomestic cats, including tigers (Panthera tigris), cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus), lions (P. leo), mountain lions (Felis concolor), snow leopards (P. unica), and a jaguar (P. onca). Some cats were sampled on two or three different dates. Two tigers were positive for H. felis by PCR analysis. As previously described in domestic cats, the parasitemia appears to be intermittent in nondomestic cats.
20095717|Fatal acute toxoplasmosis was diagnosed in three golden lion tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia), a breeding pair and their male offspring, by histology and immunohistochemistry. The distribution and severity of lesions differed among the animals, but the small intestine and the pancreaticoduodenal lymph nodes were especially affected. Protozoal organisms consistent with Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoites, often clustered, were seen in all lesions and were specifically immunostained with a T. gondii polyclonal antibody. The infection was probably acquired orally. Several breeding groups of golden lion tamarins have succumbed to toxoplasmosis both in North American and European zoos, so this disease should be considered an important problem in this endangered species. Toxoplasma gondii can cause latent infections in New World primates and therefore could potentially induce abortions or congenital infections in wild golden lion tamarins born from latently infected reintroduced females.
20094947|Fourteen of 23 juvenile lesser Malayan mousedeer (Tragulus javanicus) that died in the Artis Zoo in Amsterdam were found to have had cataracts on postmortem examination. Vitamin E deficiency is suggested as a possible cause.
20096299|In a prospective study, eight (four males and four females) healthy, adult captive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) were immobilized with a combination of tiletamine-zolazepam (4 mg/kg, i.m.), administered with a remote drug delivery system, to define normal cardiac morphology and function. Standard lateral and ventrodorsal (VD) radiographs were then taken to measure heart and thorax using a metric and vertebral scale system. Standard six-lead electrocardiograms were obtained with the animals in right lateral recumbency under isoflurane anesthesia. Mean chest depth and width was 18.7  1.3 cm and 13.0  0.6 cm, respectively. The mean lateral cardiac short axis (X) was 9.1  0.6 cm, the mean cardiac long axis (Y) was 13.6  0.7 cm, and the mean lateral heart sum (X + Y) was 22.6  1.2 cm. In the VD projection, mean cardiac short axis (V) was 10.1  0.7 cm, mean cardiac long axis (W) was 14.9  1.2 cm, and the heart sum (V + W) was 24.9  1.8 cm. The vertebral heart size was 8.2  0.9. All cheetahs had sinus rhythm, and no arrhythmias were noted. Mean heart rate was 126  15 beats/min, and the mean electrical axis was 82  5. P waves were always positive on lead II and had a width of 0.04  0.01 sec and a height between 0.1 and 0.3 mV. PR intervals were 0.11  0.01 sec. The height of the QRS complex was 1.25  0.24 mV and the width 0.06  0.01 sec. The ST segment was 0.04 sec, and the T wave (height: 0.25  0.05 mV) was positive in all cheetahs examined. Although these cardiac and thoracic measurements were larger than those of domestic cats (Felis catus), ratios of cardiac parameters were similar in both species. Electrocardiographic findings were similar to those reported from domestic cats.
20095734|A noninvasive corticosteroid hormone monitoring technique was validated for use in African wild dogs (Lycaon pictus). The double-antibody
20096071|With the use of a crossover study design, we investigated the respiratory and cardiovascular effects of naloxone administration in eight healthy Rocky Mountain wapiti (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) anesthetized with carfentanil (10 g/kg i.m.) and xylazine (0.1 mg/kg). Anesthetized animals showed profound hypoxemia with mild hypercapnia, tachycardia, hypertension, and acidosis prior to naloxone administration. After monitoring equipment was placed, animals were administered either naloxone (2 g/g carfentanil i.v.) or an equivalent volume of normal saline. Mean values for
20095052|A captive adult female American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus), 3.6 m in length and at least 20 yr old, from the Summit Botanical Garden in Panama died after a brief illness in 1987. Necropsy revealed a giant polycystic mass that occupied most of the coelomic cavity. Histopathologic examination of the mass identified it as a polycystic ovarian mesothelioma, based on morphology and keratin-positive immunoreactivity.
41262586|Multiple cases of lameness in gerenuk (Litocranius walleri) and bongo antelope (Tragelaphus euryceriis isaaci) associated with high levels of fluoride in a commercial feed are reported. Clinical pathology and histopathology findings are described and the response to treatment is documented. The case highlights the importance of quality control in feed management.
20460562|Five tammar wallabies (Macropus eugenii) were injected intramuscularly with 10 mg/kg amoxicillin trihydrate. Serial blood samples were collected through to 26 hr postinjection. Plasma amoxicillin concentrations were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography. Pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated using noncompartmental analysis. The terminal half-life (1.77  0.40 hr) was comparable to that previously reported in domestic small ruminants. Without intravenous kinetic data, it is unclear whether the terminal phase is elimination- or absorption-dependent; both scenarios have been reported in domestic species. Plasma concentrations of amoxicillin remained above a reported minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) breakpoint for staphylococci and streptococci for at least 8 hr; the MIC breakpoint for enterobacteria and enterococci was never attained.
20095938|Twenty-six anesthetic procedures involving 24 free-living mountain gorillas (Gorilla gorilla beringei) from Rwanda or the Democratic Republic of Congo were performed between February 1987 and October 1997. Sixteen procedures were performed to remove snares or to treat snare-related wounds, and four of the animals died without recovering consciousness because of their severe medical conditions. Ketamine was used for induction 19 times, tiletamine/zolazepam was used five times, and the agent was not recorded for two procedures. The mean ( SD) ketamine dosage for four animals of known weight was 7.1  0.9 mg/kg. All induction agents were delivered i.m. by remote injection, and mean induction times for ketamine and tiletamine/zolazepam were 5.5  2.6 min (n = 12) and 5.4  3.7 min (n = 5), respectively. Mean recovery times were significantly shorter with ketamine compared with tiletamine/zolazepam (42.0  24.9 min, n = 9 vs. 75.25  22.1 min, n = 4). Low hemoglobin oxygen saturation (mean = 86.7%) was recorded in three cases under ketamine anesthesia, and oxygen insufflation is therefore recommended to prevent hypoxemia. Gorillas induced with tiletamine/zolazepam had significantly higher respiratory rates compared with animals given ketamine. Successful anesthesia and recovery, in particular, depended on the assistance of local personnel.
20460268|Following the deaths of chicks of numerous avian species with retained yolk sacs due to infection or unknown causes, surgical removal of the yolk sac was attempted in 10 chicks of five species: four double-wattled cassowaries (Casuarius casuarius), three emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae), one bar-headed goose (Anser indicus), one lesser Magellan goose (Chloephaga picta), and one canvasback duck (Aythya valisineria). Candidates for surgery demonstrated one or more of the following clinical signs: swollen abdomen, dyspnea, exercise intolerance, inability to stand or walk, inappetence, weight loss, or failure to grow. Diagnostic tests included abdominal palpation and radiography. A doughy abdominal mass was usually palpable. Radiographs demonstrated an enlarged mass displacing the abdominal viscera cranially into the thorax. Seven of 10 chicks (70%) survived yolk sac removal and resumed normal development. Earlier recognition of surgical candidates would likely result in higher survival rates.
20095412|Eight wild-caught juvenile American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) were given diazepam (0.4 mg/kg i.m.) and atracurium (4 mg/kg i.m.) in one trial and tiletamine-zolazepam (15 mg/kg i.m.) in another trial to describe the effects and to evaluate the potential of these drugs in the chemical restraint of crocodilians. Atracurium resulted in profound immobilization, with loss of the righting reflex at 38.8  23.4 (mean  SD) min postinjection (PI). Recovery of the righting response occurred at 316.9  36.2 min PI. Five of the eight alligators became apneic. Apnea occurred at 28.0  16.4 min after loss of the righting reflex and persisted for 271.0  159.0 min. Resumption of spontaneous ventilation was variable, ranging from 205 min before to 195 min after recovery of the righting reflex. Temperature and heart rate were not significantly changed from baseline by atracurium. Tiletamine-zolazepam administration did not completely abolish the righting reflex, but righting was slowed in all animals by 15 min PI. Normal righting was recovered at 183.8  33.8 min PI. Peak effect, as measured by slowest righting, occurred at 52.5  31.0 min PI. Temperature, heart rate, and respiratory rate were not significantly altered by tiletamine-zolazepam. The alligators injected with tiletamine-zolazepam were sluggish, nonaggressive, and unable to rise. Chemical restraint of alligators by tiletamine-zolazepam is sufficient for capture, translocation, and minor medical procedures. The prolonged apnea induced by atracurium is undesirable and makes this drug unsuitable for chemical restraint of American alligators.
27751760|From 2002 to 2006, eight captive southern sea otters (Enhydra lutris nereis) at research and display institutions in California at risk of exposure to potentially lethal morbiliviruses were vaccinated with a commercial recombinant poxvirus vectored canine distemper (CD) vaccine. Serum-neutralizing (SN) antibody responses were followed for several years. The goal of this study was to determine whether 1) CD vaccination was a safe preventive medicine procedure for this species; 2) sea otters produce detectable SN antibodies in response to vaccination with this product; and 3) if this type of vaccination might be useful in response to a morbilivirus disease outbreak in free-ranging sea otters. Results indicate that a commercial recombinant vaccine is safe, provokes a measurable SN antibody response, and that vaccination may provide some protection from infection for free-ranging sea otters. It also resulted in the reevaluation of CD serology data that were previously published for free-ranging sea otters.
20096426|Two double-toothed barbets (Lybius bidentatus) were swallowed and regurgitated by a snake within a free-flight aviary. Trematodes were observed histopatholgically within the renal pelvises and proximal ureters with associated mucosal hyperplasia and mild heterohistiocytic inflammation in both birds. Trematodes were identified as Tanaisia (Tamerlania) zarudnyi, which have a life cycle involving terrestrial snails. Trematodes have been reported within kidneys in several orders of birds, including the Columbiformes, Passeriformes, Stercorariidae, Anseriformes, Galliformes, and Piciformes. Snails were not uncommon within the barbets' aviary and may have been the source of exposure. Renal trematodiasis is probably an incidental finding in these birds because there were no clinical signs and the birds lacked pronounced histologic lesions in the kidney that would be associated with ureteral or pelvic obstruction.
20095665|A 4.5-yr-old female blesbok (Damaliscus dorcas phillipsi) was radiographed following the appearance of lameness and swelling of the right front fetlock. Radiographic interpretation at that time was osteoarthritis caused by periosteal proliferation of the right metacarpus with periarticular osteophytes surrounding the fetlock. No treatment was initiated. Gradual abdominal enlargement over several months was interpreted as evidence of pregnancy. Six months after the initial lameness complaint, the blesbok suddenly collapsed and was unable to stand. Physical examination revealed a large firm mass occupying most of the abdomen that was found to be inoperable. Following exploratory laporotomy, the blesbok was euthanized. At necropsy, the mass weighed 17 kg. It had probably caused the animal's collapse. Histologically, the bony lesions of the right metacarpus, seen radiographically at the previous examination, were consistent with hypertrophic osteoarthropathy and may have been a sequela of the intrabdominal mass.
40962259|This is the first brief communication of clinical mastitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus occurring in a white-eared opossum (Didelphis albiventris) captured in a remnant of the Atlantic Forest in northeast Brazil. The bacterium was cultured from a milk sample by using sheep blood and Levine agars. Phenotyping of S. aureus was performed with coagulase biochemical tests, DNase agar, mannitol agar, and anaerobic glucose and mannitol fermentation.
20096601|Over the past 15 yr, Salmonella enterica ssp. arizonae (IIIa) 56:z4,z23:- has repeatedly been isolated from individual Crotalus willardi rattlesnakes with progressively debilitating osteomyelitis at the Knoxville Zoological Gardens. In April 2004, the serotype was linked with a fatal case of septicemia in another Crotalus species in this collection. Although the association of IIIa 56:z4,z23:- with disease in this colony of C. willardi is well established, prior disease or isolation of this serotype outside of the C. willardi colony had not been documented previously, and the serotype's distribution throughout the remainder of the Crotalus collection had yet to be determined. Forty-one fecal samples were obtained from each individual (n = 36) or exhibit group (n = 5) of crotalid snakes, representing nine species, housed at the zoo. Salmonella spp. were isolated from every sample, with 21 different serotypes. the 21 serotypes were distributed among S. enterica ssp. I (24%), IIIa (9%), and IIIb (67%). Although not recovered in the primary study, S. arizonae 56:z4,z23:- was recovered from additional samples taken from two C. willardi willardi. Although the overall recovery rate of this serotype from feces has been low, it seems that its distribution among the Crotalus collection at Knoxville Zoological Gardens remains largely restricted to the C. willardi species.
20095892|A llama (Lama glama) died after 1 wk of obstipation, lethargy, and rolling. Necropsy showed that the stomach and small intestine were distended with gas and fluid. The cecum was impacted with dry contents and the colon was empty. No gross lesions were found in the wall of the gastrointestinal tract or other organs. Histologic changes consisted of chromatolysis of neurons of autonomic ganglia, enteric plexi, and the accessory cuneate nucleus, consistent with lesions associated with dysautonomia in other domestic animals.
20460324|Blastomycosis was diagnosed in six nondomestic felids from eastern Tennessee, including two Asian lions (Panthera leo persicus), one African lion (Panthera leo), one Siberian tiger (Panthera tigris), one cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus), and one snow leopard (Panthera uncia). Clinical signs included lethargy, anorexia, weight loss, dyspnea, sneezing, ataxia, and paresis. Variable nonspecific changes included leukocytosis, monocytosis, moderate left shift of neutrophils, moderate hypercalcemia, hyperproteinemia, and hyperglobulinemia. Thoracic radiographs revealed interstitial and alveolar changes, consolidation or collapse of a lung lobe, bullae formation, and a pulmonary mass. Agar gel immunodiffusion (AGID) serology for Blastomyces dermatitidis was performed in five felids and was positive in three. The tiger had cerebral blastomycosis and was positive for AGID serologic tests of both cerebrospinal fluid and serum. One percutaneous lung aspirate in the snow leopard and one bronchial aspirate in an Asian lion demonstrated B. dermatitidis organisms, whereas tracheal wash samples and a nasal discharge were nondiagnostic in others. Treatment with itraconazole was attempted in four cats. The tiger improved before euthanasia, whereas the others did not survive beyond initial treatments. In four felids, B. dermatitidis was found in the lungs and tracheobronchial lymph nodes, associated with a florid pyogranulomatous reaction; the tiger had a pyogranulomatous encephalomyelitis, and the cheetah had a single pulmonary granuloma. Thoracic radiography, cytologic examination of lung lesion aspirates, and B. dermatitidis AGID serology should be performed on clinically ill zoo felids in endemic areas to rule out blastomycosis.
20460524|Twenty-two free-ranging golden jackals (Canis aureus) were immobilized with a combination of 113  24 g/kg medetomidine and 2.1  0.3 mg/kg ketamine (M-K) or 88  16 g/kg medetomidine and 0.47  0.08 mg/kg midazolam (M-M) by i.m. injection. Induction and recovery times were recorded. Pulse rate, respiratory rate, body temperature, systolic and diastolic blood pressures, and oxygen saturation were measured. Anesthesia depth indicators were observed. There was no significant difference between the M-K and the M-M groups regarding induction time (6:14  1:45 and 7:16  2:09 min, respectively). Both combinations provided safe and effective immobilization for at least 20-30 min. Pulse rate was significantly higher in the M-K group. There was no significant difference in any other objective or subjective parameter. Following administration of atipamezole at five times the dose of medetomidine given, there was a significant difference between the two combinations in recovery time; M-K jackals were standing within 3:42  2:17 min and M-M jackals within 8:47  4:32 min. Neither of the combinations caused rough or prolonged recovery. Subjectively, the M-M group had smoother and less ataxic recovery.
20096465|An adult, female Malayan sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) was diagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma of the rostral mandible. Initial treatment included bilateral mandibulectomy rostral to the lingual frenulum followed by intra- and perilesional cisplatin injections. Recovery after the procedure was uneventful and the Malayan sun bear adapted well to a shortened mandible. Histopathology indicated incomplete surgical excision of the tumor; therefore, radiation therapy was instituted weekly for four treatments at 2 Gy in parallel opposed fields (total 4 Gy each treatment) with one additional cisplatin treatment. Two years after initial presentation, the animal showed no recurrence of neoplasia.
27751721|Electrocardiograms (ECGs) are infrequently performed on Asian elephants (Elephas maximus), and few studies have been reported in the literature. The aim of this study was to determine reference ranges of ECG parameters in Asian elephants and to ascertain if age, body weight, and position of the elephant significantly affected the ECG. Electrocardiograms were obtained from 27 captive, nonsedated apparently healthy Asian elephants while they were standing (ST), in right lateral recumbency (RL), and/or in left lateral recumbency (LL). Six-lead ECGs were obtained using novel clamps and long ECG cables (71 cm). From lead I, standard waveforms and intervals were analyzed, including PR interval, QT interval, ST segment, P, QRS, T, and U waves if they were present. One animal was determined to have a previously undiagnosed conduction abnormality and was not included in the study. Most elephants had a sinus arrhythmia in at least one position. With increasing age, there was a trend toward a slower heart rate and significantly longer P waves. Increasing body weight was significantly correlated with longer QT intervals and T waves with lower amplitude. Compared with measurements in ST, LL resulted in P waves and QRS complexes with shorter amplitude, U waves with greater amplitude, PR intervals with shorter duration, and an increased heart rate. Compared with measurements in LL, RL resulted in larger QRS complexes. U waves were most commonly detected in RL and LL. Mean electrical axis calculated in the frontal plane were as follows: standing range 125 to +141, mean 5; left lateral range 15 to +104, mean 27; right lateral range 16 to +78, mean 9. Position-specific reference ranges should be used when interpreting ECGs, and clinicians must be aware of how age and body weight may affect the ECG.
20095335|Samples from 34 free-ranging healthy pancake tortoises (Malacochersus tornieri) at two localities in Tanzania were evaluated for packed cell volume, hemoparasites, plasma biochemicals, - and -tocopherols, retinol, and fecal parasites. Cholesterol, calcium, -tocopherol, and retinol values were significantly higher in females than in males. Glucose values were higher in males. Gamma-tocopherol was significantly higher in animals from one location than the other, indicating possible dietary differences. There was a strong correlation between cholesterol and -tocopherol for all animals. No blood parasites were observed on stained blood smears. Fecal examinations revealed low levels of strongly-type ova in 11 animals.
20096669|Hematologic characteristics and plasma chemistry values of juvenile loggerhead turtles (Caretta caretta) from the ages of 1 mo to 3 yr were obtained to establish baseline values. Five clinically normal loggerhead turtles were selected from the same clutch and raised in an indoor artificial nesting beach. Blood samples were successively collected and examined for various blood characteristics for a maximum total of 15 times. Hematologic characteristics, including packed cell volume, white blood cell counts, and white blood cell differentials; and plasma chemistry values, including total bilirubin, total protein, albumin, glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, glutamic pyruvic transaminase, -glutamic transpeptidase, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, uric acid, alkaline phosphatase, amylase, triglyceride, total cholesterol, ionized sodium, ionized potassium and ionized chlorine, were measured. These results were used to establish a hematology and blood chemistry baseline for captive juvenile loggerhead turtles and will aid in their medical management.
40665081|A 15-yr-old, male lesser Madagascar hedgehog tenrec (Echinops telfairi) presented with a mass caudal to the right ear. Cytology suggested a sarcoma. Surgical removal was attempted. Histology was consistent with a soft tissue sarcoma. The mass recurred within 331 days post operation. Radiation therapy was initiated. Computed tomography was used for staging in conjunction with three-dimensional computerized treatment planning software to permit accurate lesion localization and to optimize normal tissue sparing. A total dose of 6,480 cGy was administered in 24 fractions over 46 days. Transient hind limb paresis developed during the course of the radiation therapy, but resolved after 7 days with prednisone treatment. Minimal acute radiation toxicity was observed. The mass responded with at least a 90% reduction in volume following radiation treatment. The animal survived 266 days from the initiation of treatment. On necropsy, a small mass and granulation tissue were found at the site of the initial neoplasm, indicating good regional control of the tumor; however, extensive metastases to the spleen and liver were present. Immunohistochemically, the original, recurrent, and metastatic populations were strongly positive for HMB 45 and weakly positive for S-100, and the final diagnosis was metastatic amelanotic melanoma.
20096380|The pharmacokinetics of oxytetracycline in 2-yr-old loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) after single i.v. and i.m. injections were studied for biologic marking and therapeutic applications. Twenty juvenile turtles were divided into two treatment groups. Ten animals received 25 mg/kg of oxytetracycline i.v. and 10 received the same dosage i.m. Plasma oxytetracycline concentrations were analyzed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Data from the i.v. route best fit a three-compartment model, whereas noncompartmental analysis was used to compare data from both the i.v. and i.m. routes. For the i.v. route, means for maximum plasma concentration, terminal phase half-life, systemic clearance, and apparent volume of distribution at steady state were 6.6 g/ml, 66.1 hr, 290.7 ml/hr/kg, and 18.4 L, respectively. For the i.m. route, means for systemic availability, maximum plasma concentration, and elimination half-life were 91.8%, 1.6 g/ml, and 61.9 hr, respectively. The remarkably high apparent volume of distribution may possibly be associated with a deep compartment of drug disposition such as bone deposition associated with the large skeletal mass of turtles and the fact that these were well-nourished, growing juveniles. Although maximum plasma concentration by i.m. administration was lower than for the i.v. route, the long elimination time indicates that an infrequent dosing interval may be effective for sensitive bacteria.
20096214|Fecal samples from 212 selected marine mammals, marine birds, and raptors were cultured for Salmonella spp. on arrival at rehabilitation centers in California from May 1999 through July 2000. Salmonella spp. were cultured from nine (4%) animals, and seven serotypes were isolated: Johannesberg, Montevideo, Newport, Ohio, Saint Paul, Enteritidis Group D, and 4,5,12:1 Monophasic. One western gull (Larus occidentalis) had two serotypes. Antibiotic susceptibilities and chromosomal fingerprints were evaluated for Salmonella isolates. Some isolates were resistant to gentamicin, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, and ampicillin. Chromosomal fingerprints with XbaI and XhoI restriction enzymes differed between serotypes but not between individuals carrying the same serotype of Salmonella.
20095976|Hematologic and serum biochemical parameters were measured in 29 captive Tonkean macaques (Macaca tonkeana) to provide normative reference values for the species. Mean normal values and ranges were close to those reported in other species of macaques. Some significant variations related to age and sex were found.
20095206|Twenty free-ranging black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) were immobilized in 1991 and 14 in 1990 using mixtures of etorphine (mean dose = 3.9  0.18 mg; median = 4 mg), xylazine (100 mg), and hyaluronidase (4,500 IU). Induction times (x  SEM) were 7.0  1.2 min (median = 5 min) and 3.8  0.48 min (median = 3 min), respectively. Mean durations of immobilizations were 180  20 min and 247  35.6 min, respectively. When compared with immobilizations carried out in 1988 using less etorphine (3.0 mg) mixed with 100 mg of xylazine alone, the increase in M99 dose and the addition of hyaluronidase significanlty lowered induction times and reduced stress (P &lt 0.05) as characterized by physiological (temperature and respiratory rate) and biochemical (glucose, creatine phosphokinase, aspartate transaminase, and lactic dehydrogenase) measures. Twentyfour percent of the rhinoceroses were classified as stressed in the M99/xylazine and hyaluronidase group compared with 57% in the M99/xylazine group. In addition, improvements in reversal times in 1991 were significant (P &lt 0.01) using naloxone (50 mg) combined with 6 mg diprenorphine (M50-50) (mean reversal time = 78  7 sec) compared with the 1988 and 1990 use of M50-50 alone (mean reversal time = 161  13 sec). The results indicate the advantage of increasing M99 doses and using hyaluronidase in reducing induction times and capture-related stress, as well as improving reversal times with the addition of naloxone.
40962320|An 11-yr-old Burmese python (Python molurus bivittatus) was presented with a history of respiratory symptoms. Computed tomography and an endoscopie examination of the left lung were performed and revealed severe pneumonia. Microbiologie examination of a trachal wash sample and an endoscopy-guided sample from the lung confirmed infection with Salmonella enterica ssp. IV, Enterobacter cloacae, and Klebsiella pneumoniae. Computed tomographic examination demonstrated a hyperattenuated structure within the heart. Echocardiographic examination revealed a hyperechoic mass at the pulmonic valve as well as a dilated truncus pulmonalis. As therapy for pneumonia was ineffective, the snake was euthanized. Postmortem examination confirmed pneumonia and infective endocarditis of the pulmonic valve caused by septicemia with Salmonella enterica ssp. IV. Focal arteriosclerosis of the pulmonary trunk was also diagnosed. The case presented here demonstrates the possible connection between respiratory and cardiovascular diseases in snakes.
20460443|A 17-year-old Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris) presented with dyspnea and tachypnea. Radiographs revealed severe pleural and pericardial effusion, but no obvious mass. During attempts to remove the fluid under anesthesia, the cat developed cardiac tamponade and died. At necropsy, a nodular mass was found at the heart base and was identified as a pericardial mesothelioma. This is the first report of this tumor in any large cat.
20096693|Dilated cardiomyopathy is a relatively common pathology in captive flying foxes (Pteropus spp.). The goal of this study was to establish quantitative reference range measurements that could be used to support a diagnosis of cardiac disease in these animals. Lateral and ventrodorsal thoracic radiographs from apparently healthy flying foxes (n = 66) of three species (Rodriguez island flying fox, P. rodricensis, n = 18; small island flying fox, P. hypomelanus, n = 16; and Malaysian flying fox, P. vampyrus, n = 32) were evaluated objectively to describe the cardiac appearance. Absolute and relative cardiac dimensions also were measured. The same methods were used to evaluate radiographs from flying foxes (n = 9) with known dilated or acute cardiomyopathy. The following ratios were most appropriate for categorizing normal cardiac silhouette size. In the ventrodorsal projection, heart width to thoracic width and heart width to clavicle length were the preferred measurements. In the lateral projection, heart width compared with thoracic height was the preferred measurement. From radiographs of the bats with known dilated and acute cardiomyopathy, the apicobasilar heart length compared with thoracic height and heart width compared with thoracic height on lateral films were the most sensitive ratios for diagnosing cardiomegaly.
27751692|The aim of this study was to evaluate the risk of transmission of Mycoplasma spp. from quarry to hunting falcons in the Middle East. Groups of 17 houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata) and 29 stone curlews (Burhinus oedicnemus) kept at three different private collections in Dubai were evaluated for the presence of Mycoplasma. Additionally, 10 falcons used for hunting were investigated for comparison. The falcons showed no clinical signs and were examined within the scope of a routine health check. From all birds, conjunctival and choanal swabs were taken and analyzed via polymerase chain reaction and culture. Although mycoplasmas were not recovered from choanal and conjunctival swabs taken from the houbara bustards, Mycoplasma gypis and M. falconis were isolated from the majority (28/29; 97%) of the stone curlews from choanal and conjunctival swabs. Most of the birds had no associated pathologic findings. Mycoplasma falconis was also detected in samples collected from 2 of the 10 falcons, and M. buteonis was isolated from the majority of falcons (6/10 falcons) from choanal (n = 5) and conjunctival (n = 1) swabs. Mycoplasma gypis could also be isolated from tissue samples (liver, oviduct, syrinx) of one dead stone curlew. This study presents the first isolation of mycoplasmas from stone curlews.
20095092|Increasingly potent opioid agonists have been developed for use in zoological medicine during the last 30 yr. Most applications are in mammals, particularly ungulates. Several specific antagonists have also been developed. These drugs have allowed wildlife managers an increased opportunity for detailed study of free-ranging animals and have been of great benefit to zoo veterinarians in the routine examination, medical treatment, and emergency care of captive animals. The clinical effects of opioids vary among taxonomic orders of animals, and for many of them, the use of synergists is indicated to ensure smooth immobilization procedures. All persons using opioids for the capture or treatment of animals should be well versed in their effects upon both humans and other animals and knowledgeable on the emergency treatment of overdosed or accidentally treated individuals.
27751708|An adult, wild-collected, male harp seal (Phoca groenlandica) was transferred from a rehabilitation center to a display facility because of unilateral phthisis bulbi and decreased use of the right forelimb, which precluded its release. In quarantine, the animal demonstrated limited use of the right forelimb, which acutely progressed to complete disuse of the limb accompanied by intermittent lethargy. One month after transfer, the animal was found dead on exhibit. Necropsy showed septic arthritis of the right scapulohumeral joint, valvular endocarditis with systemic bacterial thromboembolism, and infarction of the cerebrum and myocardium. Culture of the blood and affected joint space revealed Staphylococcus aureus. Bacterial polymerase chain reaction of formalin-fixed tissues from the heart and brain were also positive for S. aureus. Staphylococcus aureus infection should be considered as an additional cause of endocarditis and embolic encephalitis in seals.
20460543|Collection of biological samples from pteropid bats requires chemical restraint of the bats to minimize risks to humans and stress to the bat. The effectiveness of an intravenous combination of ketamine and xylazine for short-term restraint of wild-caught variable flying foxes (Pteropus hypomelanus) in a field situation was evaluated. Eight adult male variable flying foxes were injected intravenously with 0.1 ml of ketamine and xylaxine containing 5 mg of ketamine and 1 mg of xylazine. The mean induction time was 80  20 sec, and mean immobilization time was 26  10 min. The ketamine--xylazine combination used in this study produced effective short-term immobilization of wild variable flying foxes for the collection of biological samples.
20095768|The present study compared pregnancy rates of sika deer (Cervus nippon) hinds artificially inseminated with frozen--thawed wapiti (Cervus elephus manitobensis) semen by laparoscopic intrauterine or transvaginal/cervical artificial insemination (AI) techniques. Estrous cycles of 59 sika hinds were synchronized with one-half of a norgestomet ear implant. Fourteen days after implant insertion, norgestomet ear implants were removed and hinds received 50 IU of PG-600 intramuscularly, a combination of 50 IU PMSG and 25 IU hCG. Hinds were then randomly allotted for laparoscopic (n = 25) or transvaginal/cervical (n = 34) AI. AI of the hinds with frozen--thawed wapiti semen (40  10 spermatozoa) was time-fixed to occur at 55 hr for transvaginal/cervical AI and 65 hr for laparoscopic AI post-norgestomet implant removal. Semen deposition for hinds inseminated by transvaginal/cervical AI occurred as follows: vagina, 8.8% (3/34); os cervix, 67.6% (23/34); intracervical, 20.5% (7/34); and uterus, 2.9% (1/34). On day 42 post-AI, transrectal ultrasonography was performed to determine pregnancy rates. Pregnancy rates were not significantly different (P &gt 0.10) between laparoscopic (8/25, 32.0%) and transvaginal/cervical AI (9/34, 26.4%), with an overall conception rate of 28.8% (17/59). These results indicate that transvaginal/cervical AI techniques can be as effective as laparoscopic AI under some circumstances. Further refinement of the transvaginal/cervical AI technique to improve pregnancy rates might lead to more widespread use of this technique when laparoscopic AI is not possible.
20096647|A 12-yr-old intact male red wolf (Canis rufus) diagnosed with bilateral idiopathic dry eye was treated with subconjunctival drug delivery implants designed to release therapeutic levels of cyclosporine from 12-24 mo. Normal tear production and corneal health has been maintained, alleviating the need for daily handling of the animal for topical medication.
40962248|Complete ophthalmic examination of a mob of western gray kangaroos (Macropus fuliginosus) was performed under chemical restraint. Examination included intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement by rebound and applanation tonometry, fluorescein staining, corneal diameter measurement, slit-lamp biomicroscopy and indirect funduscopy. The corneal diameters had a mean of 19.52 mm, SD 2.16 mm, 95% confidence interval (CI) 18.71-20.32 mm. Ocular abnormalities were noted in 4/8 (50%) of examined kangaroos. Intraocular pressure as estimated by rebound tonometry was 9.00 mm Hg with a 25-75% quartile range of 6.5-10.75 mm Hg and a minimum-maximum range of 5.00-23.00 mm Hg. Intraocular pressure as estimated by applanation tonometry was 11.50 mm Hg with a 25-75% quartile range of 10.00-17.00 mm Hg and a minimum-maximum range of 9.00-20.00 mm Hg. This is the first report of ocular examination findings in a mob of captive western gray kangaroos and provides ranges and values for tonometry and corneal diameter.
20096101|Wild equids maintained in large enclosures may suffer from helminth diseases because common hygiene practices have only limited effects on parasite populations. Weekly monitoring of helminth prevalences and pasture infestation was performed for 1 yr in several extensive maintenance systems of two wildlife parks with similar climates to determine when veterinary intervention to control parasites would be useful. We also sought evidence of natural immunogenic reactions among herds of Chapman zebras (Equus quagga antiquorum), Przewalski's horses (Equus przewalskii) and dwarf donkeys (Equus asinus africanus). Fecal and vegetation samples and cultures for third-stage larvae revealed permanent egg shedding in the three species and pasture infestation during the warm, moist periods (July-September) in all enclosures. Stable social structure and low equid population density may be sufficient to make prophylaxis unnecessary in adults, whereas biotic and abiotic environmental factors such as crowding, animal transfers, social integration of subadults, and weaning stress may facilitate temporary severe infections of individuals. Biweekly helminth monitoring is a useful diagnostic tool for extensive management of exotic equids.
40665155|A free-ranging coyote (Canis latrans) pup was found in rural Saskatchewan and was subsequently presented to a veterinary teaching hospital by a wildlife rehabilitator. On physical examination, the pup was found to be blind as a result of bilateral, mature cataracts, which were confirmed on postmortem examination. No other significant intraocular or extraocular disease was detected, resulting in a presumptive diagnosis of congenital cataract. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of congenital cataract in any wild canid species.
20095100|One llama (Lama glama) was used to evaluate the effect of an experimentally induced Fascioloides magna infection. The llama was given 250 viable metacercariae of F. magna orally in a gelatin capsule. Eight months after inoculation, the llama was euthanized, and three nonencapsulated mature F. magna were recovered from the parenchyma of the liver. Trematode eggs were present within the hepatic parenchyma but not in feces. Based on a sample of one animal, response of llamas to F. magna is similar to that of cattle, which are aberrant dead-end hosts for this parasite.
20095848|The concentrations of dry matter, cholesterol, saturated fat, monounsaturated fat, and 29 fatty acids were measured in four size categories of whole mice (Mus domesticus) that are commonly fed to zoo animals. Dry matter increased with age/size of mice, whereas cholesterol decreased with age/size. Significant differences in fatty acid content were found among mice categories with capric, lauric, and myristic acids. Mice categories had similar levels of palmitic, palmitoleic, heptadecenoic, stearic, oleic, linoleic, gamma linolenic, alpha linolenic, eicosenoic, eicosadienoic, arachidonic, docosahexaenoic, and lignoceric acids. Analyzed lipid content of mice exceeded domestic carnivorous animal requirements for linoleic and arachidonic acids. The fatty acid levels in mice were high, falling between published values in beef and fish. Generally, mice contained higher levels of polyunsaturated fatty acids, including the omega-3 fatty acids, and lower levels of saturated fatty acids than beef. Although fatty acid levels met or exceeded some dietary requirements for carnivores and omnivores, a possibility of excessive levels exists that could lead to eye and tissue abnormalities. Furthermore, as the intake of dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids increases, the dietary requirement for vitamin E increases. Thus, it is important that lipid profiles of feeder mice be known and considered when examining captive animal diets.
41262591|Aerococcus viridans, the causative agent of the disease gaffkemia, was a major cause of mortality in lobsters (Homarus americanus) held in tidal impoundments during the 1970s and 1980s. Despite reports of an increase in the mortality of lobsters during impoundment, and the widespread prophylactic use of oxytetracycline against A. viridans, this bacterium has not been detected in active disease surveillance of the Maine postcapture lobster population. However, Photobacterium indicum may be an emerging opportunistic pathogen of stressed lobsters. An acute toxicity trial was conducted as a rapid screening procedure for the potential future use of the antibiotic florfenicol. Based on the results of this experiment, florfenicol appears to be well tolerated in adult H. americanus by intrapericardial injection at the 10-100 mg/kg dose. Oxytetracycline dihydrate is contraindicated by intrapericardial injection at the 10-100 mg/kg dose.
20096674|Amyloidosis is a disease characterized by the tissue deposition of autologous extracellular fibrillar proteins that can result in compression of adjacent tissues. Amyloidosis is well-recognized in a wide variety of animals, including mammals, birds, and reptiles. However, to date, there is only one report of amyloidosis in cetaceans. During 1999 and 2000, among 12 Stejneger's beaked whales (Mesoplodon stejnegeri) that were stranded along the Sea of Japan's coast, amyloidosis was found in two whales (case 1, 498 cm, male; case 2, 520 cm, female). For this study population, the prevalence rate of amyloidosis was approximately 17%. These two animals were considered physically and sexually mature based on body length, external features, gonad characteristics, and skeletal features. Livers were notably swollen, fragile, and pale (brownish yellow) on gross examination. A large deposit of amyloid was found in Disse's spaces along with marked atrophy of the hepatocytes. Numerous granulomas, including many nematodes (Crassicauda sp.), were found along with amyloid deposition in the kidneys. Amyloid was also detected in the heart, spleen, adrenal gland, and pancreas. Amyloid in both cases was identified by typical morphology on H&E and Congo red staining. Electron microscopy displayed a typical network of fine fibrils measuring about 11 nm in diameter. This is the first report of amyloidosis in two Stejneger's beaked whales stranded on the coast of the Sea of Japan.
20095253|The effects of two dietary calcium levels were evaluated in fox geckos (Hemidactylus garnoti) and Cuban tree frogs (Osteopilus septentrionalis). Individually housed geckos (n = 13) and frogs (n = 23) were fed for 7 mo on crickets that were manipulated to be either high (HiCa) or low (LoCa) in calcium concentration. Crickets in the HiCa treatment contained 1.26% calcium (Ca) and 0.89% phosphorus (P) on a dry matter basis (DMB), as compared with 0.23% Ca and 0.82% P (DMB) in LoCa crickets. At the end of the experiment, Ca and P concentratons of the frogs and geckos were analyzed. Geckos maintained on HiCa crickets contained more Ca (4.02% DMB) than did geckos fed LoCa crickets (3.43% DMB), but there were no differences in P concentrations. However, even HiCa geckos contained less Ca and P than did geckos that died before the experiment was begun (5.22% Ca, 2.18% P DMB). The decline in body Ca and P concentration may relate to the large amounts of Ca and P invested in egg production by some animals, as well as a lack of ultraviolet (UV) irradiation needed for vitamin D synthesis. Radiographic evaluation did not reveal any differences between HiCa and LoCa geckos in bone density or endolymphatic Ca stores. Dietary treatment did not produce differences in Ca, P, or radiographic appearance of the tree frogs, but there was a significant difference between males and females in Ca concentration (males, 4.7%; females, 3.5% DMB). No sexual difference in Ca concentration was found among wild-caught tree frogs (five males, 14 females). Although geckos and tree frogs responded differently to dietary Ca, we recommend that crickets or other insects be supplemented with Ca when used as food for reptiles and amphibians. Other factors such as water quality, UV light, photoperiod, transpiration, and reproductive status may also influence Ca homeostasis.
27751767|Umbilical hernias are a common occurrence in domestic animals and humans but have not been well documented in polar bears. Surgical reduction and herniorrhaphies were performed to correct acquired hernias in the region of the umbilicus in four adult captive polar bears (Ursus maritimus) housed in North American zoos. Two of the four bears were clinically unaffected by their hernias prior to surgery. One bear showed signs of severe discomfort following acute enlargement of the hernia. In another bear, re-herniation led to acute abdominal pain due to gastric entrapment and strangulation. The hernias in three bears were surgically repaired by debridement of the hernia ring and direct apposition of the abdominal wall, while the large defect in the most severely affected bear was closed using polypropylene mesh to prevent excessive tension. The cases in this series demonstrate that while small hernias may remain clinically inconsequential for long periods of time, enlargement or recurrence of the defect can lead to incarceration and acute abdominal crisis. Umbilical herniation has not been reported in free-ranging polar bears, and it is suspected that factors such as body condition, limited exercise, or enclosure design potentially contribute to the development of umbilical hernias in captive polar bears.
20096263|Low cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) birth rates were observed for a long time in a captive breeding facility in which Salmonella, which was possibly present in contaminated beef, was isolated from still-born lion (Panthera leo) cubs. Salmonella, including 14 isolates of Salmonella serovar typhimurium and 19 isolates of Salmonella serovar muenchen, was subsequently isolated 47 times from 378 meat samples at the facility during a 13-mo period. Salmonella, including 26 isolates of S. serovar typhimurium, 10 of S. serovar muenchen, and 11 other serovars, also was isolated 54 times from 119 fecal samples. Only three plasmid profiles were identified in 59 S. typhimurium isolates from both meat and fecal samples. Although random-amplified polymorphic DNA fingerprinting using different primers in the polymerase chain reaction was able to distinguish between S. typhimurium and S. muenchen and to demonstrate similar chromosomal DNA fingerprints in some of the isolates from meat and feces, the results were not consistent enough to prove that the Salmonella in the feces originated from contaminated meat. However, the predominance of only two serovars in the meat fed to carnivores and in the feces of these animals suggests that the meat was the source of the Salmonella organisms in the feces.
20095211|A free-ranging bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) infested with mites (Psoroptes sp.) was treated with injectable ivermectin and an ivermectin sustained-release implant. Two months later, serum ivermectin level was 5.1 ng/ml, and clinical lesions had regressed, although mites in various stages of decomposition were found on deep ear swabs. Four months after treatment, the level of ivermectin had decreased to 3.5 ng/ml, and the animal was clinically, parasitologically, and serologically negative for mite infestation. Similar results have been obtained following treatment of additional bighorn sheep, indicating that implants are useful in treating mite-infested free-ranging animals.
20095910|Fecal progestagen analysis in okapis (Okapia johnstoni) was used for diagnosis of pregnancy and reproductive disorders, including a comparison of urinary and fecal progestagen analysis and endocrine data on the postpartum period. Data were generated on reliability of fecal progestagen analysis in early pregnancy diagnosis, and case reports were compiled involving single animals with missing luteal activity, abortion after twin pregnancy, and abortions due to deficient placental progestagen production. There was approximately 100-200-fold higher progestagen concentration in feces than in urine, thus explaining the high reliability of fecal progestagen evaluations in diagnosing luteal function and pregnancy. The postpartum period was characterized by lactational anestrus of several months duration, and a postpartum estrous cycle about 2-3 wk after parturition was observed in two of eight animals. An animal with five abortions due to deficient placental progestagen production was treated with altrenogest in a subsequent pregnancy and carried the fetus to term.
20095712|Samples from the cloaca and the ventral skin surface of 67 Nile crocodiles (Crocodylus niloticus) captured in four uninhabited areas at Lake Kariba, Zimbabwe, were cultured for Salmonella. All the skin samples tested negative for Salmonella, whereas 18 of 67 (26.9%) cloacal samples grew Salmonella. Significantly more males than females yielded Salmonella, but no statistically significant correlation among salmonella carriage, body size, and age was recorded. Ten different serotypes of S. enterica belonging to the subspecies enterica, salamae, and diarizonae were isolated. All isolates belonging to subspecies enterica displayed invasive properties in an experimental mouse model and thus exhibited pathogenic potential, whereas none of the other isolates were invasive. In general, isolates were sensitive to a number of commonly used antimicrobials, except for three isolates that were resistant to streptomycin.
20096358|Renal myxosporidiasis and associated lesions were seen in Asian horned frogs, Megaphrys nasuta, at the Detroit Zoological Institute and the Toledo Zoo. The organism was identified as Chloromyxum sp. on the basis of histopathology, cytology, and electron microscopy. Histologic changes in the kidneys included varying degrees of renal tubular dilation and necrosis, and mild to severe nonsuppurative tubulointerstitial nephritis associated with vegetative stages of the myxosporidian. This is the second known identification of Chloromyxum sp. in amphibian kidneys, and the first report of death attributed primarily to the parasite.
20095497|Modified acid-fast stain (Mod AFS) of a direct wet smear (DWS), unstained DWS (UDWS), and Sheather's sugar coverslip flotation (SSCF) techniques were compared with the commercial monoclonal antibody (MAb) test MERIFLUOR Cryptosporidium/Giardia for direct fluorescence detection of C. serpentis oocysts in feces from 40 snakes without clinical signs of infection. MERIFLUOR test detection sensitivities for purified C. serpentis and C. parvum oocysts were compared. The oocysts of C. serpentis and C. parvum showed the same intensity of fluorescence reaction (majority, 3+ to 4+). Sensitivity of the MERIFLUOR test was 100% for SSCF-derived material and 88% for DWS versus 45% for Mod AFS DWS, 35% for SSCF, and 21% for UDWS. The threshold of MAb detection (4.7  10 oocyst/ml), was the same for C. serpentis and C. parvum oocysts and was 16 times higher than the absolute sensitivity of the listed conventional techniques. Conventional techniques underestimated the number of C. serpentis oocysts by an average factor of 5.3 and produced false-negative results an average of 66% of the time. False negatives were 100% when the concentration of oocysts was &lt7.5  10/ml. The range of concentration of fecal C. serpentis oocysts (0.4  10/ml-1.4  10/ml, x = 5.0  10/ml) was an average of three times lower than those reported for C. parvum from humans and other mammals. The MAb detection was more sensitive for C. serpentis oocysts than were conventional techniques, and it eliminated false-negative outcomes and the subjectivity associated with those methods.
20096322|Serum collected from 68 thick-billed parrots (Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha) from 15 institutions was analyzed for ionized Ca (iCa), total Ca (tCa), P, total protein (TP), albumin (Alb), parathyroid hormone (PTH), and vitamin D. Values were not distributed normally; 95% frequency intervals were as follows: iCa (0.82-1.3 mmol/L), tCa (1.37-2.09 mmol/L,), P (0.35-1.75 mmol/L), TP (21-39 g/L), Alb (9-13 g/L), PTH (0-65.68 pmol/L), and vitamin D (5.2-51 nmol/L). Sixty percent (7.5%) of tCa was ionized. Female thick-billed parrots had significantly higher mean iCa (1.11 mmol/L, n = 22) than male thick-billed parrots (1.05 mmol/L, n = 32). tCa and iCa values in thick-billed parrots were lower than the reported values for other psittacine species. A significant positive linear relationship existed between Alb-TP and iCa-tCa ratios. A significant inverse linear relationship was also identified between the tCa-P ratio and PTH. These findings are consistent with known domestic avian Ca physiology.
20095562|The anatomy of the serous cavities of nonmammalian vertebrates is quite different from that of mammals, and knowledge of this anatomy is essential in performing necropsies and understanding the pathogenesis of disease processes. The serous body cavities of 22 crocodile (Crocodylus niloticus) cadavers, obtained after routine slaughter at local Zimbabwe crocodile farms, were examined. Ten serous cavities were regularly associated with the viscera of the crocodile: right and left pleural cavities, pericardial, and peritoneal cavities; right and left hepatopulmonary bursae (which communicate with the corresponding pleural cavities); an intermediate hepatopulmonary bursa; right and left hepatopericardiac bursae; and a hepatogastric bursa. In addition, a small serous bursa was often present interposed between the left pleural sac and the caudal esophagus. Hepatopulmonary and hepatopericardiac bursae are probably associated with mechanical respiratory function in this reptile, in which movements of the liver change the craniocaudal dimensions of the thoracic cavity. The hepatopulmonary bursae originate from the primitive pleuroperitoneal cavities of the embryo; the hepatopericardiac and intermediate hepatopulmonary bursae are probably derived from the pulmohepatic recesses.
41262581|Telazol <sup></sup> has been commonly used for field anesthesia of wild lemurs, including ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta). Telazol alone provides good induction, but doesn't cause adequate muscle relaxation and sedation for collecting consistent somatic measurements and high-quality dental impressions that are sometimes needed. Variability in induction response has been seen between individuals that have received similar dosages, with young lemurs seeming to need more anesthetic than mature lemurs. This investigation evaluated Telazol induction in young (2.0-4.9 yr) and mature ( 5.0 yr) ring-tailed lemurs and compared postinduction supplementation with medetomidine or medetomidine-butorphanol. Forty-eight lemurs were anesthetized with Telazol administered via blow dart; then, 20 min after darting, they were supplemented via hand injection with either medetomidine (0.04 mg/kg) or medetomidine-butorphanol (0.04 mg/kg and 0.2 mg/kg, respectively). The odds ratio for young lemurs to need more than one dart for induction, relative to mature lemurs, was 3.8, even though the initial dose of Telazol received by young lemurs (19  7 mg/kg) was significantly higher than the initial dose administered to mature lemurs (12  5 mg/kg). The total Telazol dosage was also significantly different between young lemurs (33  15 mg/kg) and mature lemurs (18  9 mg/kg). Both medetomidine and medetomidine-butorphanol provided good muscle relaxation and sedation for all procedures. Physiologic values were similar between the two protocols. Oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry was generally good, although there were a few SaO values < 90%. Recoveries were smooth, but long. Time to head up was correlated with total Telazol dosage in mature lemurs. In young lemurs, time to standing was correlated with Telazol induction dosage and time of last Telazol administration. Lemurs that received hand injections of Telazol took longer to recover than those that did not. Further refinements are needed to increase induction reliability and to decrease recovery time, particularly in young lemurs.
41262631|A large number of vaginal calculi were observed in a juvenile harbor porpoise (Phocoena phocoena) stranded on Whidbey Island, Washington. Vaginal calculi have been reported in other species, but not in harbor porpoises. Histologie examination of the urinary tract revealed mucosal hyperplasia most likely attributable to the calculi. The calculi were numerous (>30), composed completely of struvite (magnesium ammonium phosphate), and on culture yielded Enterococcus spp., a bacterium not usually associated with struvite urolith formation in domestic animals. The only other lesion of note was severe hepatic lipidosis, and its relationship to the development of the vaginal calculi is unknown.
40962307|Infections with gastrointestinal parasites may be a major threat to lemurs kept in captivity, as they are a common cause of diarrhea. In this study, fecal egg count patterns and clinical signs associated with gastrointestinal nematodes were assessed for 12 mo in 40 lemurs kept under different husbandry and climatic conditions at two sites in Madagascar. Involved species were black-and-white ruffed lemurs (Varecia variegata), eastern grey bamboo lemurs (Hapalemur griseus), greater bamboo lemurs (Prolemur simus), red-bellied lemurs (Eulemur rubriventer), common brown lemurs (Eulemur fulvus), crowned lemurs (Eulemur coronatus), and Sclater's black lemurs (Eulemur macaco flavifrons). At site 1 (Tsimbazaza Zoological Park), lemurs were kept in small enclosures with daily cleaning of the cement soiling and without routine anthelmintic program, whereas at site 2 (Ivoloina Zoological Park), lemurs received routine anthelmintic prophylaxis and were housed in small enclosure with daily cleaning of sandy soil enclosures. A total of five genera of nematode eggs from the orders Strongylida, Oxyurida, and Enoplida were recovered and identified from 198 out of 240 samples (83%) at site 1 and 79% (189 out of 240) at site 2 with the use of a modified McMaster technique. Significant differences were found for parasites from the order Strongylida between the two sites. The differences may be due to climate conditions and the presumed life cycle of these parasites. No significant differences were found for parasites from the other orders. No significant differences were noted between sexes or between seasons. No clinical signs of parasitic gastroenteritis were seen in either lemur collection.
27751696|Vitamin D3 is an important vitamin in vertebrates. This fat-soluble vitamin is associated with the regulation of many physiologic processes, most importantly calcium metabolism. The presence or importance of vitamin D3 has been determined in only a handful of invertebrate species. In this study, hemolymph was collected from six wild-caught, subadult goliath birdeater spiders (Theraphosa blondi) and analyzed for the presence of 25(OH)-vitamin D3, the precursor to the active form of vitamin D3. The metabolite 25(OH)-vitamin D3 was detected in all of the spiders (mean: 5.7 nmol/L, SD: 1.5 nmol/L, range: 37 nmol/L). The method by which spiders acquire vitamin D3 is unknown. It is possible, though unlikely, that they synthesize it via exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Many of the invertebrate species upon which theraphosid spiders prey are not known to have high circulating levels of vitamin D3 or its precursors. However, dietary intake is a possible means of vitamin D3 acquisition in this study.
20095571|From 1990 to 1992, 344 blood samples of roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) (n = 116), red deer (Cervus elaphus) (n = 59), fallow deer (Dama dama) (n = 87), and other cervid species (n = 82) from three different habitats (n = 172) and 11 wildlife parks or zoos (n = 172) in Germany were tested for the presence of herpesvirus antibodies. The serologic survey revealed evidence of infection with herpesviruses in deer in Germany, as indicated by the prevalence of serum neutralizing antibodies to the cervid herpesvirus 1 (HVC-1), bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), and caprine herpesvirus 1 (CapHV-1). Forty-six sera (13.3%) with titers from 1:4 to 1:256 were detected. The antibodies were present in free-living and farmed deer. There was no significant difference in antibody prevalence among deer in habitats with high, intermediate, or low density of cattle. Most of the seropositive animals and the highest titers were detected using CapHV-1 rather than HVC-1 antigens. This finding suggests that the herpesvirus strain that infects wild ruminants in Germany is closer to CapHV-1 in its antigenic structure than to BHV-1 or HVC-1.
20460506|Entamoeba invadens is pathogenic in multiple reptile species and has caused severe outbreaks in zoos and other facilities worldwide. Infections can be difficult to diagnose and to differentiate from other reptilian Entamoeba species. The goal of this study was to determine if kits developed to identify the human pathogen Entamoeba histolytica could be used to detect E. invadens in reptile species at the Maryland Zoo. The E. histolytica II antigen enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and the ProSpecT E. histolytica microplate assay did not react with cultured E. invadens controls or with fecal samples from multiple reptiles, demonstrating the need for a sensitive and specific test for E. invadens.
20460274|In a 2.5-yr study of common loon (Gavia immer) mortality in New England, lead toxicosis from ingested fishing sinkers was the most common cause of death in adult breeding birds. Of 75 loons received, 31 adults were examined. Sixteen of these adult birds (52%) died from lead poisoning. The syndrome of lead poisoning in loons is quite similar to that seen in other waterfowl. However, because loons are difficult to maintain in captivity and often are not received until the toxicosis is quite advanced, clinical treatment has thus far been unrewarding. Lead poisoning may be an important factor limiting loon populations in some areas by increasing the mortality of breeding adults.
20096195|In May 1996 the Denver Zoological Gardens obtained two male and two female Pallas' cats (Otocolobus felis manul) that were wild-caught in the Ukraine. These animals were part of a group of 16 wild-caught adults (eight male and eight female) imported to the United States and Canada between 1995 and 1996. The Denver Zoological Gardens cats were quarantined at the zoo hospital for approximately 1 mo. During the quarantine period they were Gardens cats were quarantined at the zoo hospital for approximately 1 mo. During the quarantine period they were immobilized for physical examination, and sera were obtained from them to evaluate for exposure to Toxoplasma gondii. All cats were positive for T. gondii antibodies by latex agglutination (titers from 1:512 to 1:1024). After being paired for breeding, one pair produced two litters, and another pair produced four litters, a total of 17 kittens between 1997 and 2001. Four kittens and two young adults died from a disseminated granulomatous and necrotizing inflammation consistent with toxoplasmosis. Toxoplasma gondii infection was confirmed in all six deceased cats by polymerase chain reaction performed on formalin-fixed tissues. An additional five kittens disappeared and were not available for necropsy. The fatality rate from toxoplasmosis was 35.3% (6/17) for cats that were available for necropsy and could have been as high as 64.7% (11/17) if it were assumed that the disappeared kittens were also affected. The Pallas' kitten survival rate at the Denver Zoological Gardens was 35.3%. This article describes the clinical and pathologic features of toxoplasmosis in a group of Pallas' cats at the Denver Zoological Gardens.
20460558|The municipality of Ilha Solteira, So Paulo, Brazil is an endemic area of leishmaniasis. At the Companhia Energtica de So Paulo (CESP) Wild Animal Center of Ilha Solteira, two bush dogs (Speothos venaticus) showed clinical signs of this disease. The amastigote form of Leishmania was detected in lymph-node smears taken by fine-needle biopsy. In addition, serum samples from both animals, screened with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), were positive for anti-Leishmania antibodies. Moreover, tissue samples from one of the bush dogs were evaluated for the presence of Leishmania DNA by means of a polymerase chain reaction (PCR). DNA of the parasite was indeed detected in the tissue samples of the liver and the lymph nodes; however, no DNA from the parasite was detected in samples of the skin and spleen. These findings confirm a Leishmania infection in bush dogs (S. venaticus).
20096351|We compared the effects of dipotassium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and lithium heparin on hematologic values of green iguanas (Iguana iguana). Thirty-two privately owned sibling iguanas had blood drawn, and the sample was divided into three components: an EDTA tube, a heparin tube, and a nonanticoagulated blood smear. A full reptilian complete blood count was performed on each anticoagulated sample, and white blood cell (WBC) and leukocyte differential counts were performed on the whole-blood smears. Heparin and EDTA samples differed significantly in absolute values of thrombocytes, WBC, heterophils, and monocytes. The EDTA had no significant effect on the packed cell volume or plasma protein values, and the white blood count and differential counts produced with EDTA were more similar to those of the nonanticoagulated blood smear than were the counts produced with heparin.
20096631|Eighteen of 38 captive okapi housed in the United States were found glucosuric by dipstick analysis. To confirm these findings, urine glucose concentrations of captive okapi from one collection (n = 10) were analyzed by two methods: urine dipstick analysis and quantitative analysis. Seven of these urine samples were positive for glucose by dipstick, with comparable glucose measurements by quantitative analysis. For a presumed normal control, okapi (n = 10) held in captivity within their native home range were tested for glucosuria by urine dipsticks; all were negative. Serum fructosamine (221-362 mol/L) and insulin (9-45 pmol/L, 1.17-5.85 U/ml) concentrations were determined from okapi (n = 6) with and without glucosuria with the use of results considered within normal limits for other ruminants. We conclude that glucosuria is a true finding in many apparently healthy captive okapi in the United States.
40962306|This study tested various combinations of ketamine and xylazine with the objective to improve on the efficiency of the preliminary electroejaculation technique developed for semen collection from the agouti (Dasyprocta leporina). There were two experiments, which were each replicated. Experiment 1 had six treatments: treatment 1 (30 mg/kg ketamine and 10 mg/kg xylazine), treatment 2 (20 mg/kg ketamine and 10 mg/kg xylazine), treatment 3 (30 mg/kg ketamine and 5 mg/kg xylazine), treatment 4 (20 mg/kg xylazine), treatment 5 (30 mg/kg xylazine), and treatment 6 (40 mg/kg xylazine). Experiment 2 included five treatments: treatment 7 (40 mg/kg xylazine), treatment 8 (20 mg/kg ketamine and 40 mg/kg xylazine), treatment 9 (15 mg/kg ketamine and 40 mg/kg xylazine), treatment 10(10 mg/kg ketamine and 40 mg/kg xylazine), and treatment 11 (5 mg/kg ketamine and 40 mg/kg xylazine). Mean induction times were 3: 27  0: 31 and 4: 59  0.49; mean immobilization times were 1: 55  0.11 and 1: 19: 06  0: 11.7 hr, respectively, for experiments 1 and 2. Treatment 4 produced the best ejaculation time and semen volume, 4.53  0.52 min and 0.41  0.07 ml, respectively. Spermatozoa were observed in 75% of ejaculate samples collected when treatments 6 and 7 were applied. The best treatments were 6 and 7 (P < 0.05); spermatozoa concentration (431  180 X 10/ml), motile cell % (47.17  8.78%) and forward progressive motility % (47.1  10.5%). Success rates for samples containing spermatozoa increased from 30% in previous experiments to 41.33%. It was concluded that weaker dosages of xylazine may require being administered in combination with ketamine to completely anaesthetize the male agouti for electroejaculation.
20460314|In September 1991, an abnormal number of brown pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) and Brandt's cormorants (Phalacrocorax penicillatus) died in Santa Cruz, California, from acute poisoning attributed to the marine neurotoxin domoic acid (DA). Repeated attempts to isolate viruses or bacteria were unsuccessful, and levels of pesticides (organochlorines and organophosphates) and heavy metals in the seabirds were within normal limits. The only consistent gross and histopathologic lesions observed were hemorrhages and necrosis of the skeletal muscle. Serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinine phosphokinase were elevated in affected birds relative to normal captive birds. The case fatality rate for DA-poisoned pelicans was 69% with more males affected than females. Domoic acid was detected in stomach contents of sick and dead pelicans and cormorants, as well as in the flesh and viscera of northern anchovies (Engraulis mordax) and in plankton samples dominated by Pseudonitzschia australis. Large numbers of P. australis cells were found in the stomachs of both pelicans and anchovies. It appears that the anchovies obtained the toxin through grazing of P. australis, whereupon seabirds became poisoned through the consumption of the anchovies. This is the first documentation of DA poisoning outside of Atlantic Canada, of its presence in herbivorous finfish, and of the diatom P. australis as a suspected producer of DA.
20095288|Vaccines are used to control the main infectious diseases of animals confined in zoos or wildlife sanctuaries. Most of these vaccines are not approved for wild animal species and therefore their use is extra-label. There is a need to collect more data on the use of vaccines in various species and to develop new guidelines to ensure the safe and effective use of these vaccines. Also, there is a need to develop methods to improve the administration of vaccines, especially in free-ranging wildlife.
20460498|Neurologic dysfunction accompanied by malformation of both the skull and the cervical vertebrae has been previously described in lions kept in captivity worldwide, and this dysfunction and malformation were most often related to vitamin A deficiency. Diagnosis of the bone malformation and its effects on the neural tissue was until recently limited to postmortem examination, with characteristic thickening of the bones of the cranial vault, cerebellar herniation, compression of the foramen magnum, and enlargement of the lateral ventricles. For some mildly affected lion cubs with neurologic signs, improvement was reported with excessive vitamin A supplementation. However, definitive diagnosis was only available for those that eventually died or were euthanized. This case documents the antemortem diagnosis of the disease using computed tomographic imaging and liver biopsy. While conservative treatment failed, suboccipital craniectomy removed the thickened occipital bone and was demonstrated to be a successful surgical intervention that can be used to treat more severely affected lions.
20096219|Three adult red pandas (Ailurus fulgens) developed multiple periarticular exostoses in their elbow joints. Two of these animals also had extensive periosteal new bone formation and osteosclerosis of the ulnae and radii and mild periosteal new bone deposition on the femurs. One animal also showed extensive hyperostosis of the cranium and mandibles. Dietary concentrations of calcium and phosphorus were estimated to be adequate, but dietary vitamin A and D appeared excessive when compared with recommended levels for this species. Serum vitamin A concentrations were not elevated in the two most severely affected animals, but their liver vitamin A content was higher than what is considered normal for most domestic animal species. Serum 25-hydroxy vitamin D concentrations were within normal ranges for domestic species. A definitive diagnosis for the cause of the lesions was not established, but hypervitaminosis A was suspected.
20460457|Concentrations and activities of selected biochemicals of loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) were determined for plasma that was separated from whole blood samples that were kept up to 96 hr post collection (PC) in a refrigerator. Blood samples collected from seven juvenile captive loggerhead sea turtles were added to tubes containing lithium heparin and were placed on ice. Equal amounts of anticoagulated whole blood from the lithium heparin tubes were then aliquoted into plastic tubes and sotred as whole blood under refrigeration until they were centrifuged at 0, 4, 24, 48, and 96 hr PC. Plasma was removed and the analytes that were measured were alkaline phosphatase (ALP), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), creatine kinase (CK), sodium, chloride, potassium, magnesium, calcium, phosphorus, cholesterol, glucose, urea nitrogen, uric acid, total protein, albumin, and globulin. Compared with values at 0 time, the only analyte to be significantly different at 24 hr PC was GGT (activity decreased by 25%). Compared with values at 0 time, significant differences at 96 hr PC were only seen in AST (2% increase), GGT (25% decrease), glucose (7% decrease), and uric acid (25% increase). Although a statistically significant difference was found in concentrations of phosphorus and cholesterol over time by repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA), the follow-up multiple comparison procedure could not define the specific time points at which significant differences occurred. For all other analytes, significant differences over the time course of the study were not found. In these instances, the power of the ANOVA was sufficient (0.80) to detect any arithmetic differences of a clinically relevant magnitude. Although plasma should be separated from the cellular component of blood as soon as possible PC, in a field situation in which a centrifuge is unavailable, samples can be stored in a portable cooler up to 24 hr without appreciable change in select biochemical analytes.
20095952|An 11-yr-old female Eurasian otter (Lutra lutra) presented with multiple cutaneous nodules identified histologically as malignant melanomas of spindle cell and epithelioid cell type. Metastases were detected in lymph nodes and liver, and the tumor, which was derived from melanocytes, showed aggressive biological behavior. Only occasional reports exist of neoplastic disease in otters.
20095740|Between 1973 and 1994, blood samples were collected at Whipsnade Wild Animal Park (UK) from three ungulate species kept in enclosures, including 28 European bison (Bison bonasus), 37 scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx dammah), and 49 Pre David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus), and also from 144 semi-free-living Chinese water deer (Hydropotes inermis). These samples were tested for the presence of antibodies against three bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-like strains, three alpha-herpesvirus strains, enzootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV) of deer, bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine adenovirus 3 (BAV-3), and enzootic bovine leucosis virus (EBLV). Thirty-three individuals (13.1%) had antibodies to one or more of the three BVDV-like viruses, with titers ranging from 1:5 to 1:16, and 17 individuals (6.6%) were positive for antibodies to one or more of the three alpha-herpesviruses, with titers between 1:4 and 1:80. The highest titers and greatest proportion of seropositivity were against SH9/11, a recently isolated cytopathogenic pestivirus from wild roe deer (Capreolus capreolus). There were no positive reactors to BRSV and EHDV, and there was only one BAV-3 positive reactor, a scimitar-horned oryx, and one EBLV reactor, a European bison. There is no serologic evidence that semi-free-ranging Chinese water deer are important reservoirs or transmitters of the viral diseases investigated.
20096150|Renal tubular atrophy with cortical and medullary interstitial fibrosis with severe thickening of the basement membranes of atrophic tubules was found in six okapis (Okapia johnstoni). Focal glomerular atrophy, probably secondary to ischemic collapse of the glomerular capillary tuft, was also observed. Although the etiologies and pathogeneses of these nephropathies are unclear, primary damage of the tubular epithelium appears to be the most likely cause, and toxicity from ingested plant material, possibly willow (Salix sp.), is a possibility.
20096359|An outbreak of herpesvirus caused the death of four of five common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in a private colony. Gross lesions included acute ulcerative gingivitis, glossitis, and enlarged mandibular lymph nodes. Histologically, all fatal cases showed meningoencephalitis and eosinophilia with intranuclear inclusion bodies in neurons and glial cells. A herpes simplex-like virus was cultured from the brain and was identified as herpes simplex type 1 virus or a closely related virus by immunofluorescence. Serologic testing (complement fixation test) indicated that the surviving adult female was serologically positive for more than 4 yr and that the offspring she produced was seronegative. The most likely source of the outbreak was the owner who mouth fed hand-raised offspring.
20460551|Serum concentrations of amino acids, fatty acids, lipoproteins, vitamins A and E, and minerals in zoo giraffes (Giraffa camelopardalis) were compared to values obtained from free-ranging giraffes in an effort to identify potential nutritional differences in the zoo population. Zoo giraffes have a specific set of maladies that may be nutritionally related, including peracute mortality, energy malnutrition, pancreatic disease, urolithiasis, hoof disease, and severe intestinal parasitism. Dietary requirements for giraffes are not known; invasive studies used with domestic animals cannot be performed on zoo animals. Though domestic animal standards are often used to evaluate nutritional health of exotic animals, they may not be the most appropriate standards to use. Serum samples from 20 zoo giraffes at 10 zoological institutions in the United States were compared to previously collected samples from 24 free-ranging giraffes in South Africa. Thirteen of the zoo animal samples were collected from animals trained for blood collection, and seven were banked samples obtained from a previous serum collection. Dietary information was also collected on each zoo giraffe; most zoo giraffe diets consisted of alfalfa-based pellets (acid detergent fiber-16), alfalfa hay, and browse in varying quantities. Differences between zoo and free-ranging giraffes, males and females, and adults and subadults were analyzed with the use of a 2  2  2 factorial and Fisher's Least Significant Difference (LSD) for mean separation. Of the 84 parameters measured, 54 (60%) were significantly different (P  0.05) between zoo and free-ranging giraffes. Nine (11%) items were significantly different (P  0.05) between adult and subadult animals. Only one parameter, sodium concentration, was found to be significantly different (P  0.05) between genders. Further investigation in zoo giraffe diets is needed to address the differences seen in this study and the potentially related health problems.
20096666|Poor calf production and ill thrift in 3-4 mo olds are common limiting problems in raising and maintaining captive muskoxen (Ovibos moschatus). Acute onset of a rapidly progressing enteritis and septicemia in neonatal calves (2-7 days of age) caused by Escherichia coli not normally considered pathogenic in domestic animals is a serious problem in many captive muskoxen facilities. Serum immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels, total protein, albumin, and globulin levels in captive periparturient muskox females and their neonatal calves were compared with levels found in other species in which these parameters have been well described. Results showed that all females in the study had IgG present in their serum (mean = 1,232.14 mg/dl, SD = 178.34 mg/dl, as measured via radial immunodiffusion). Calves were probably born agammaglobulinemic or hypogammaglobulinemic. IgG levels quickly rose in calves after initial colostrum intake to levels similar to those seen in other domestic ruminants. Our results suggest that passive transfer of immunity in muskoxen is similar to what is reported in domestic livestock and that reference ranges from domestic cattle may be used to assist interpretation of serum IgG levels in muskoxen. In addition, the positive relationship between serum protein and globulin levels with serum IgG levels is similar to that reported for Holstein cattle and thus provides a useful indicator of passive transfer in muskoxen.
20096111|A 3-mo-old male white Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris) presented with the chief complaint of regurgitation of solid food since weaning at 2 mo of age. Compared with its littermates, the tiger was in poor body condition and weighed only 10.3 kg when its littermates were estimated at 20-25 kg. Thoracic radiographs showed a megaesophagus cranial to the heart base. A contrast esophagram more clearly outlined the megaesophagus, and fluoroscopy demonstrated normal motility of the caudal esophagus. Endoscopic examination revealed a structure coursing dorsally from right to left over the esophagus and a constrictive band on the left of the esophagus at the heart base. Nonselective angiography confirmed the presence of a persistent right aortic arch, as well as an aberrant left subclavian artery. A left fourth intercostal thoracotomy was performed, and the ligamentum arteriosum was double ligated and divided. The left subclavian artery did not cause significant compromise of the esophagus and was not manipulated at surgery. The tiger recovered well from anesthesia and surgery. Solid food was slowly introduced over a 2-mo period without any regurgitation. The cub gained weight rapidly after surgery.
20460569|An adult male Aldabra tortoise (Geochelone gigantea) presented with a deep flaking area of the carapace, and histologic examination of biopsies from this area revealed phaeohyphomycosis of the superficial keratinized layers. The disease progressed rapidly and spread to numerous sites on the carapace. After several weeks of regular debridement, deep bone involvement was evident and was confirmed through histologic examination. Fungal culture was attempted but was unsuccessful at isolating the infectious agent. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of extracted DNA from the fixed tissue block identified the fungus as Exophiala oligosperma. Initial treatment included weekly debridement and oral and topical antifungal agents. A nuclear scintigraphy bone scan was performed to determine the extent and status of the infection. Multiple foci of uptake of the radiopharmaceutical marker were present within the carapace, indicating active lesions. The tortoise was maintained on oral antifungal treatment, and lesions resolved over several months. A repeat bone scan performed 1 yr after initial presentation showed reduction in marker uptake, indicating a response to treatment in the deeper lesions. Phaeohyphomycosis should be considered as a differential diagnosis for cases of shell lesions in chelonians.
41417172|The primary purpose of this study was to establish plasma biochemistry parameters for healthy recently wild-caught purple mouth moray eels (Gymnothorax vicinus) to provide a baseline of data for improved medical care in an aquarium or zoologie setting and for wild health assessments. Thirty-one clinically healthy purple mouth moray eels of unknown age and sex were caught from the wild, and were anesthetized 50 days following capture for blood collection from the ventral coccygeal vein. The median plasma biochemistry values were as follows: hematocrit = 21%, creatinine kinase = 2,100 U/L, lactate dehydrogenase = 97 U/L, aspartate aminotransferase = 88 U/L, alanine aminotransferase = 51 U/L, alkaline phosphatase 3,939 U/L, gammaglutamyl transpeptidase = 1 U/L, amylase = 40 U/L, blood urea nitrogen = < 11 mg/dl, glucose = 21 mg/dl, calcium = 12.5 mg/dl, triglycride = 206 mg/dl, creatinine = 0.1 mg/dl, cholesterol = 334 mg/dl, total bilirubin = < 0.1 mg/dl, phosphorus = 6.5 mg/dl, total protein = 4.2 g/dl, albumin = 1.5 g/dl, globulin = 2.7 g/dl, albumin/globulin ratio = 0.6, sodium = 185 mmol/L, potassium = 3.7 mmol/L, and chloride = 175 mmol/L. Alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme results indicate that the majority of the plasma alkaline phosphatase is the liver isoenzyme. The data acquired in this study also provide baseline values for cholesterol and triglycrides in recently wild-caught moray eels to aid in monitoring elevations to these values in an aquarium setting over time so adjustments to the dietary regime may be utilized to prevent or improve conditions such as lipid keratopathy.
20096526|Three hand-raised American flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) chicks and one hand-raised Chilean flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber chilensis) developed valgus angular limb deformities of the proximal tarsometatarsal bone. All flamingos underwent surgical correction to unequally retard the growth plate using transphyseal bridging. Positive profile pins were placed in the proximal epiphysis and distal to the growth plate in the metaphysis on the convex side of the affected tarsometatarsus. Various banding techniques were used in each flamingo to create tension. Three of the four flamingos responded in 7-14 days with correction or slight overcorrection of the valgus limb deformity. The fourth flamingo's leg deformity did not improve for reasons thought to be related to improper implant placement. Growth plate retardation by transphyseal bridging proved successful in correcting valgus limb deformity of the proximal tarsometatarsus. This technique may be considered as an option for correction of angular limb deformities of the proximal tarsometatarsus in flamingos less than 90-120 days of age.
20095230|An exogenous gonadotropin regimen and a laparoscopic intrauterine artificial insemination (AI) technique, previously developed in the domestic cat, were adapted and assessed for effectiveness in the cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus). Seven female cheetahs were given an injection of either 200 or 400 IU pregnant mares' serum gonadotropin (PMSG) and either 125 or 250 IU human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) 80 hr later. At 42.5-47.0 hr after hCG, all females were evaluated laparoscopically for fresh ovarian corpora lutea (CL). Ovulation was induced successfully in all cheetahs (range: 3-13 CL among females). However, two morphologically distinct CL types were observed: 1) large-sized CL that appeared more related to the low gonadotropin dose; and 2) small-sized CL that were detected more often in the high gonadotropin dose group. Six of the females were laparoscopically inseminated by depositing electroejaculated/processed sperm transabdominally into the proximal aspect of each uterine horn. The AI procedure was simple and rapid, generally requiring only 30 min after laparoscope insertion. One female, induced to ovulate with 200 IU PMSG and 125 IU hCG and inseminated in utero with 10  10 motile sperm at 42.5 hr post-hCG, produced a pregnancy and a single live cub after a 95-day gestation. Laparoscopic AI appears to have considerable potential as a tool for assisting captive propagation of the cheetah.
20095676|As part of ongoing ecological studies of black-faced impala (Aepyceros melampus petersi) in northern Namibia, blood samples were collected and analyzed from 26 animals captured for translocation in 1992. All animals appeared to be in good condition and no abnormality was noted during physical examination. Serum chemistry and mineral levels were measured and correlated with the results of bacterial and viral serology and were within the normal ranges for domestic ruminants. Antibody titers for infectious bovine rhinotracheitis and bovine viral diarrhea were detected. Serological tests for bluetongue, foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest, parainfluenza 3, brucellosis, leptospirosis, and anaplasmosis were negative. Significant differences in disease prevalence were not found between sexes.
20095118|Serum samples were collected one to three times weekly from four unanesthetized Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) for 6-18 consecutive months. Based on circulating progesterone profiles, 14 complete ovarian cycles were observed. The estrous cycle averaged 13.2  0.7 wk in length, with an active luteal phase of 9.8  0.7 wk. Increases in serum luteinizing hormone (LH) were observed immediately before or during the progesterone rise in 11 of 14 cycles. In eight cycles, a second LH surge was detected 11-19 days later. Radioimmunoassays for follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and inhibin were validated for elephant serum. Fluctuations in FSH and inhibin secretion also were observed at 12-14-wk intervals, although their temporal profiles differed from each other and from that of progesterone. Follicle-stimulating hormone concentrations were lowest during the late follicular and early luteal phases and then increased to peak levels during the latter part of the luteal phase. In contrast, serum inhibin concentrations were inversely related to FSH levels throughout the estrous cycle (r = -0.78; P &lt 0.01). In summary, progesterone analyses confirm that the luteal phase in the Asian elephant is approximately 10 wk long. Furthermore, the 12-14-wk oscillations in serum FSH and inhibin secretion provide additional evidence that the ovarian cycle of this species is several months in duration. The inverse relationship between serum FSH and inhibin suggests that inhibin may regulate FSH secretion, as is described for other species. Elevated FSH secretion throughout the mid- and late luteal phase may stimulate waves of follicular growth that are responsible for the short "follicular cycles" described in earlier reports.
20095942|Hematologic, serum biochemistry, and serum cortisol reference ranges were established and tonsil/rectal bacterial and fecal parasite examinations were performed on 21 wild arctic fox (Alopex lagopus) cubs during July 1996. Several of the hematologic and serum biochemistry values fell within normal ranges for other wild canids or domestic dogs of the same age class. Serum alanine transaminase and creatine phosphokinase values were significantly higher in the youngest cubs. Proteus vulgaris and Escherichia coli were isolated from both tonsilar and rectal swabs of several cubs in all dens. The most common gastrointestinal parasite ova were Toxascaris leonina (59%), Isospora spp. (52%), Uncinaria stenocephala (33%), and Capillaria spp. (26%). Prevalence of T. leonina differed significantly between dens and between age groups. Hematologic and serum biochemistry values and degree of parasitism may be indicators of health, stress, and nutritional status of arctic foxes.
27751763|Due to the spread of the H5N1 highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza virus across Europe, a preventive vaccination occurred in early 2006 among 135 French zoologic institutions. Approximately 25,000 birds were vaccinated with a H5N2 inactivated vaccine. Among them, 4,369 birds were monitored by members of Association Francophone des Vtrinaires de Parc Zoologique regarding safety issues of the vaccination protocol. A total of 1,686 blood samples were collected before the first injection (n = 255), at the time of booster (n = 463), 60 day after the booster (n = 514), and 180 day (n = 229) and 330 day (n = 217) after the initial injection. Thus, sera of 126 species representing 15 different avian orders were tested using the hemagglutinin inhibition assay to evaluate seroconversion and the long-term serologic profile of selected anti-H5 antibody. Safety was considered satisfactory in all orders, and there were no deleterious effects on large-volume injection/body weight ratio. After the second injection, 71% of the birds developed a titer 32, with a mean titer of 558. Titers then decreased in all birds, with 42% of the remaining birds having a titer 32 at day 180 and only 26% at day 330. Results demonstrated that a booster 42 days after initial vaccination was mandatory to raise the titer above 32, considered to be the protective level in poultry, and to increase the number of seroconverted birds. Differences in the serologic responses among the orders and species of birds were detected and could be linked with the variation of vaccine dose injected per body weight or with species-specific immune response. The protocol for additional campaigns will be adjusted for some bird orders through the increase of injected dose or a half yearly booster to sustain better titers over the year. Vaccination is a useful tool, together with biosecurity, that should always be used as a primary method of preventing and controlling avian influenza outbreaks.
20096287|A mature male and a mature female Dirofilaria immitis were found in the right ventricle of the heart of a naturally infected 2-yr-old male Eurasian otter (Lutra lutra) that had died of severe lung congestion at a zoo in South Korea. Both developing embryos and microfilariae were present in the uterus of the female D. immitis. Although circulating microfilariae were not detected in blood or tissue, the Eurasian otter may serve as a definitive host for D. immitis.
20095561|Hyperostosis of the thoracolumbar and coccygeal spine was seen in five captive tamanduas (Tamandua tetradactyla and Tamandua mexicana). Radiologic signs of the condition, evident within the first year of captivity, progressed from a small subvertebral linear density to massive vertebral hyperostosis and fusion. Clinical signs only developed in one tamandua with advanced hyperostosis. Soft tissue mineralization, observed during postmortem examination, is common in tamanduas in other zoos. Plasma calcium levels were not significantly higher in captive tamanduas than in nine wild animals sampled. Plasma phosphorus, vitamin A, and vitamin D levels were considered normal, but liver vitamin A levels were higher than levels in most normal domestic animals. Vitamin levels in the diet were progressively reduced over 5 yr from a high of 57,000 IU/kg vitamin A and 6,700 IU/kg vitamin D (dry matter basis) to 22,000 IU/kg and 1,900 IU/kg, respectively. Hyperostosis developed more slowly in animals fed diets containing the lower levels of vitamins A and D, concentrations still considered excessive for this genus. The condition is most likely caused by chronic hypervitaminoses A and/or D.
20095101|Two aged captive brown bears (Ursus arctos) held at Taronga Zoo died with pancreatic masses. The female bear died suddenly and had acute pancreatic necrosis with evidence of long-standing inflammation and fibrosis in association with excessive hyperplasia. The male bear had episodes of anorexia and vomiting over an 18-mo period. Hematologic and biochemical analyses revealed a neutrophilia with left shift, eosinopenia, lymphocytopenia, and elevated levels of enzymes (lactate dehydrogenase, alanine transaminase, gamma glutamyl transferase, and amylase). At necropsy, the male had a pancreatic adenoma with extensive unexplained fibrosis. The mass involved the pancreatic and bile ducts. In addition, pancreatic necrosis, inflammation, and fibrosis were detected retrospectively (from Taronga Zoo records) in a grizzly bear (U. a. horribilis), an American black bear (U. americanus), and a Malayan sun bear (Helarctos malayanus). A second sun bear had pancreatic metastases of extrahepatic biliary adenocarcinoma, and a third sun bear had metastatic extrahepatic biliary adenocarcinoma. The apparent commonness of pancreatic lesions and hepatobiliary neoplasia in aging bears at Taronga Zoo may be a result of environmental factors, especially dietary factors. However, aging as a factor cannot be assessed until information on wild bears becomes available.
20095895|Xylazine combined with ketamine successfully immobilized free-ranging and captive goitred gazelles (Gazella subgutterosa) and Arabian mountain gazelles (Gazella gazella). One hundred thirty immobilizations were performed on 58 individuals. When administered i.m. via dart to free-ranging gazelles, xylazine (125 mg/ml) combined with ketamine (100 mg/ml) produced smooth induction and recovery. Mountain gazelles required higher dosages (11.7-15.2 mg/kg xylazine and 9.3-12.2 mg/kg ketamine) than goitred gazelles (6.8-7.4 mg/kg xylazine and 5.4-5.9 mg/kg ketamine). For manually restrained captive gazelles of both species, i.v. xylazine (11 mg/ml) combined with i.v. ketamine (44 mg/ml) immobilized the gazelles at considerably lower doses (0.4-1.0 mg/kg xylazine and 1.4-3.9 mg/kg ketamine). These anesthetic combinations are useful alternatives to ultrapotent narcotics in these gazelle species.
20096410|Pelvic limb specimens from 14 euthanized free-ranging lions (Panthera leo), ranging in age from 16 to 170 mo, underwent radiographic evaluation in the manner described for thoracic limbs in part I of this study. On the basis of these specimens, the femur of the lion is similar to that of domestic cats, but the cranial and caudal middiaphyseal cortices are markedly thickened. The patella has a long narrow apex and flat broad base. There is a prominent lateral Os sesamoideum m. gastrocnemii. A small medial sesamoid is occasionally present, and meniscal ossicles are usually present. The head and distal extremity of the fibula are very prominent. The tarsal joint is similar to that of domestic cats. Metatarsals II-V are up to 25 mm longer than the corresponding metacarpals. All physes close by 54 mo of age.
20095552|A 6-yr-old, female American black bear (Ursus americanus) was presented with a 3-wk history of anorexia, cellulitis, abscess formation, and skin necrosis secondary to a darting injury. Because of the animal's anorexia and intractable nature, previous antibiotic administration was sporadic, and infection was not controlled. Cultures from abscessed tissues produced Escherichia coli, Proteus sp., nonhemolytic Streptococcus and an anaerobic bacteria. Skin loss extended over the right scapula, medial brachium and axilla, and right ventrolateral hemithorax from the sternum to an area 5 cm dorsal to the point of the elbow (50  20 cm). The open wounds were cultured, surgically debrided, and flushed. Antibiotic-impregnated polymethylmethacrylate (AIPMMA) implants containing cefazolin were placed subcutaneously and the skin was closed. The wounds healed despite uremia, dehiscence, self-trauma, and onset of hibernation. The use of AIPMMA in this bear represents a new application of this treatment method. Reported use of AIPMMA in animals has been limited primarily to prophylaxis in arthroplasties, limb-sparing procedures, and, in one report, septic arthritis in a dog.
20095863|A 2-mo-old, 90-kg, intact male camel (Camelus dromedarius) was admitted for surgical removal of a supernumerary digit associated with the medial aspect of the right carpus and metacarpus. Radiographic views of the carpus and metacarpus revealed the supernumerary digit articulating with the middle carpal joint via an extra carpal bone. The supernumerary digit consisted of three bones. Surgical removal of the supernumerary digit was recommended to restore normal limb conformation, limit the possibility of future lameness, and improve the cosmetic appearance of the limb. Complete surgical removal of the digit was performed by disarticulating the extra carpal bone from its attachments to the second and radial carpal bones. One year after surgery, the leg appeared grossly normal and the camel showed no sign of lameness.
41417169|The primary goal of quarantine is to reduce the risk of introducing infectious diseases into established collections. Fish quarantine is inherently complex because of the variety of species, environmental requirements, and facilities. To examine current practices, questionnaires were submitted to 60 public zoos and aquaria, predominantly in North America. Questions reviewed system type (closed, flow-through), quarantine length, diagnostics, treatments, and cleaning and disinfection. Forty-two of the 60 institutions responded. Most institutions had separate quarantine protocols for freshwater teleosts, marine teleosts, and elasmobranchs. Ninety-five percent of institutions had a minimum quarantine period of 30 days or more. Sixty-four percent of institutions used isolated areas for some or all of their fish quarantine. Twenty-five percent had designated fish quarantine staff. All institutions used regular visual examinations to assess animal health. Fifty-four percent of the institutions carried out routine hands-on diagnostics on some fish; this was more common for elasmobranchs than teleosts. All institutions carried out necropsies on mortalities. Fifteen percent of institutions performed histopathology on almost all fresh mortalities; 54% percent performed histopathology on less than 10% of mortalities. Prophylactic treatments were common in closed systems, in particular, formalin immersion for teleosts, freshwater dips and copper sulfate immersion for marine teleosts, and praziquantel immersion for marine teleosts and elasmobranchs. Institutions using dips generally did so at the start or end of quarantine. Fenbendazole-and praziquantel-medicated foods were used commonly in teleosts, but dosages varied greatly. Cleaning and disinfection of systems and equipment increased in response to known pathogens. These results can be used to compare and discuss fish quarantine practices at display facilities in order to improve quarantine success.
20096661|In urban environments, raccoons (Procyon lotor) may act as reservoirs for an array of pathogenic organisms, presenting spillover risks for human, domestic animal, and captive (zoo) animal populations. Over 5 yr, 159 raccoons from a high-density raccoon population in St. Louis, Missouri (USA), were surveyed for exposure to canine distemper virus (CDV), canine adenovirus 1 (CAV-1); feline parvovirus (FPV; = feline panleukopenia), and several serovars of Leptospira interrogans. Exposure to each of the viruses and two Leptospira serovars (grippotyphosa and icterohemorrhagiae) was detected (prevalence of CDV = 54.1%; FPV = 49.7%; CAV-1 = 6.9%; L. interrogans icterohemorrhagiae = 8.9%; L. interrogans grippotyphosa = 6.3%). Eighty percent of raccoons showed evidence of exposure to at least one of the five primary pathogens, and 39% were positive for multiple species. Among the viruses, there was a significant co-occurrence of CDV and CAV-1. Longitudinal data on a subset of animals revealed that among individuals who were diagnosed as seropositive on first capture, 33-100% became seronegative for the pathogen of interest when reexamined at a later date. Thus, free-ranging urban raccoons have been exposed to multiple infectious agents, some of which may pose risks to humans and to nonvaccinated domestic and captive animal populations.
40665085|A 37-yr-old male chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) was evaluated for intermittent diarrhea, scrotal swelling, and lethargy of 2 days duration. Physical examination revealed marked swelling of the scrotum and perineal tissues with mild pitting edema and crepitus. Computed tomography revealed a mixed gas and soft-tissue density extending from the caudal ventral subcutaneous tissues caudally to the scrotum and perineal tissues. Surgical exploration and castration were performed to establish drainage, and culture revealed a polymicrobial infection. A diagnosis of scrotal and fascial plane abscessation consistent with Fournier's gangrene was made. Although castration with open drainage was performed, the animal died 36 hr after surgery. Postmortem examination and histopathology revealed necrotizing fasciitis of the penis, vaginal tunic, and subcutaneous perineal and perianal tissues.
41262630|A 6-yr-old male Vancouver Island marmot (Marmota vancouverensis) presented for poor hibernation, weight loss, and symmetric trunk alopecia. An abdominal interstitial cell tumor was identified and surgically removed. Serum levels of estrogen were markedly elevated before surgery and decreased after tumor removal, indicating that the tumor had been functionally secretory. Nine months later, the marmot presented with respiratory stridor. A large boney nasal mass was identified radiographically and evaluated by computed tomography (CT) prior to surgical debulking. The marmot did not recover from anesthesia. Pathologic findings included a nasal osteosarcoma with lysis of the cribriform plate, and endocardial fibrosis with degenerative changes within the adjoining myocardium. This is the first known report of nasal osteosarcoma and interstitial tumor in a Vancouver Island marmot.
20095766|Epidural analgesia was used 22 times in three female addax (Addax nasomaculatus). The addax were physically restrained in a drop-floor chute and sedated with acepromazine (0.14-0.34 mg/kg). Epidural analgesia was induced with 2% lidocaine (0.17-0.38 mg/kg) via a 20-ga 1-inch needle placed at the sacrococcygeal intervertebral space or the first intercoccygeal intervertebral space. Adequate analgesia was attained to allow manipulation of the reproductive tract and transvaginal ultrasound-guided oocyte collection.
20095666|Clinical and pathologic findings of avian paramyxovirus type 1 (PMV-1) in 19 houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata macqueenii) imported from Pakistan into the United Arab Emirates and one captive-bred bird are reported. Clinical signs included circling, walking backward, ataxia, opisthotonos, torticollis, recumbency, head tilt, head shaking, head tremor, tucking of head under keel, nasal discharge, conjunctivitis, and diarrhea. The length of time imported birds exhibited clinical signs varied from 4 days to 18 mo after importation. Hemagglutinating antibodies against PMV-1 were detected in the sera of all 17 birds from which blood samples were collected, and PMV-1 was isolated from pooled brain, spleen, and lung tissues from two birds with acute clinical signs. There were no distinctive gross lesions at necropsy, and histologic findings were consistent with but not pathognomonic for PMV-1. All houbara bustards managed in a captive breeding and restoration program established by the National Avian Research Center have been vaccinated against PMV-1 since October 1992, and no case of PMV-1 has been reported in this collection since that time.
20095679|The premise that drugs not be injected into the caudal body of reptiles because they will be carried by the renal portal system to the kidneys, where they may be nephrotoxic or rapidly excreted, was tested by comparing the pharmacokinetics of gentamicin (excreted via glomerular filtration in mammals) and carbenicillin (excreted partly via renal tubular secretion in mammals) following injection into the forelimb or hindlimb of red-eared sliders (Trachemys scripta elegans). Ten sliders received intramuscular gentamicin (10 mg/kg) in a forelimb (n = 5) or a hindlimb (n = 5), and plasma levels of the drug were assayed over time. Following drug clearance, the experiment was repeated with the site of injection reversed so that each animal acted as its own control. Another 10 sliders were similarly treated, using intramuscular carbenicillin (200 mg/kg). Injection site of gentamicin had no effect on any pharmacokinetic parameter (time to maximum plasma concentration, maximum plasma concentration, half-life, area under the curve, clearance, and volume of distribution). However, the area under the curve of plasma carbenicillin concentration vs. time was significantly lower following hindlimb injection, in comparison with forelimb injection, at 1, 4, and 8 hr, which may reflect reduced bioavailability of the drug, as would be expected with renal portal perfusion and tubular excretion on first pass through the kidney. This effect on carbenicillin likely is not clinically important because plasma levels remained above recommended minimum inhibitory concentrations. Because blood draining the caudal body of reptiles passes through the kidneys or the liver before reaching the central circulation, the effect on the pharmacokinetics of a drug injected in that region will vary with its renal or hepatic extraction rate. Generally, this effect is unlikely to be significant.
20095369|To determine the susceptibility of raccoons (Procyon lotor) to infection with encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV), 1-yr-old raccoons were exposed intramuscularly (n = 1) or orally (n = 6). Serum samples were collected at 3-7-day intervals beginning 14 days prior to exposure and continuing to postexposure day (PED) 107. EMCV-specific antibody titers were measured by a serum virus neutralization (SN) test. In the intramuscularly (i.m.) exposed animal, elevated and stable SN antibody titers (1:64 to 1:128) were present from PED 11 through 107. Among orally exposed raccoons, antibody titers were detected in one of six animals. In contrast to the i.m.-exposed animal, antibodies in this individual were low (1:16) and transient, falling to undetectable levels by PED 64. Fecal samples for virus isolation were collected four times before exposure, for 10 days after EMCV exposure, and at biweekly or weekly intervals for an additional 82 days. Whole blood for virus isolation was collected in sodium citrate on PED 3, 6, 8, and 11. No virus was detected in fecal samples or whole blood by mouse inoculation assay from any of the raccoons. No overt signs of disease were observed in raccoons over the course of the experiment following exposure by either route. No gross lesions or histopathologic changes attributed to EMCV infection were detected. Serum samples (n = 380) from a free-ranging population of raccoons trapped in Guthrie County, Iowa over a 5-yr period (1984-1988) were tested for neutralizing antibodies against EMCV. The population cross section included adults and juveniles of both sexes. Antibody titers were 1:4 in all samples by the SN test. The absence of elevated neutralizing antibody titers suggested that EMCV was not circulating in the wild population. Although raccoons were shown to be susceptible to infection with EMCV, the cumulative results of the experimental and field studies suggest that raccoons are a dead-end host for EMCV and do not participate in the epidemiology of the disease.
20460384|Although bats of the genus Pteropus are important ecologically as pollinators and natural hosts for zoonotic pathogens, little is known about their basic physiology. Hematology and plasma biochemistries were determined from wild-caught flying foxes (Pteropus giganteus) in northern India (n = 41). Mean lymphocyte differential count was higher for juveniles than adults. Mean platelet count was lower than previously reported. No hemoparasites were observed. No differences were observed between plasma biochemistry values of male and female bats, juveniles and adults, or lactating and nonlactating females. Variation in aspartate aminotransferase (AST) was seen based on body condition score. Blood urea nitrogen and cholesterol concentrations were lower in P. giganteus than other mammalian groups, but were consistent with those reported from other Pteropus species. Alanine aminotransferase and AST concentrations were higher than those reported for Pteropus vampyrus, a closely related species. This study provides basic physiologic information that can be used in future health and disease studies of Indian flying foxes.
20095070|Bacterial pneumonia is a persistent problem in captive snake collections. A prospective bacteriologic survey and clinical pneumonia study was conducted on eight boids housed at the Pittsburgh Zoo. The bacterial flora of the upper airway was monitored bimonthly for 1 yr by culture of the glottis. Providencia rettgeri was the most frequently isolated aerobic gram-negative rod (62.4%, 5 of 8 snakes). Staphylococcus sp. (coagulase negative) was isolated from 100% of the snakes. No anaerobic bacteria were isolated. Two snakes developed pneumonia during the course of the study; organisms isolated from the glottis matched the organisms recovered from the lung at necropsy. The quantity of bacterial flora isolated from the diseased snakes was significantly greater (P &lt 0.0001) than that recovered from healthy snakes. During the course of the study, 10-55% of the cultures taken from the eight snakes showed no bacteria. In one snake, a Salmonella sp. was recovered during episodes of pneumonia and at necropsy but not during the 7 mo of routine baseline cultures or during the interval between episodes of pneumonia. Thus, we found evidence for both commensal upper airway bacterial flora and sporadic external pathogens causing pneumonia in captive snakes. Culture of the glottis may yield information useful in selection of antibiotic therapy for treatment of pneumonia in snakes.
20095128|Reproductive evaluation, including semen collection and testicular biopsy, of a 6-yr-old male cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) revealed complete azoospermia and extensive testicular changes. Basal luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone concentrations were within normal ranges for the cheetah, but resting follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) levels were low compared with other non-domestic felid species. Administration of gonadotropin releasing hormone caused an acute rise in serum LH but no significant change in FSH or testosterone. A testicular biopsy demonstrated a severe fatty infiltration of the testicular parenchyma with a marked reduction in seminiferous tubule numbers. The cause of the infertility was testicular degeneration with adequate pituitary function.
20095621|A 3-mo-old female emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae) died of cerebellar nematodiasis caused by Baylisascaris sp. infection. Another emu exhibited cerebellar signs identical to those of the bird that died, but no parasite was observed. Two additional emus are clinically normal as of this report. The three emus were first treated prophylactically once weekly with ivermectin and then given daily pyrantel tartrate pellets.
20095482|This on-farm handling system for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) consists of a series of small pens that connect to an alleyway and thence to a circulating door, a dark room with controlled lighting, a rotunda, and finally a hydraulic crush. Animals can be drafted through the system, and a variety of examinations and treatments can be carried out in the crush.
20079492|Mycotic infections in reptiles present as primary diseases and as secondary problems in healing wounds and immunocompromised animals. A triazole antimycotic drug, itraconazole is orally active and well distributed and is effective against many common fungal pathogens in humans. To assess plasma and tissue concentrations after oral dosing in reptiles, a 23.5-mg/kg (mean) itraconazole dose was administered orally with a standard food bolus once daily for 3 days to 10 groups of three or four spiny lizards (Sceloporus sp.). On days 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 12, and 18, group samples of blood, liver, and muscle were collected. Microbiologic assay of itraconazole concentrations was performed on these pooled samples. Values from an elimination graph of the concentrations of area under the curve (377.21 ghr/ml) and terminal elimination half-life (48.3 hr) were obtained for itraconazole in spiny lizard plasma. Peak itraconazole concentration of 2.48 g/ml was obtained in two half-lives and would be expected to achieve steady state at approximately 3.1 g/ml plasma concentration in 10 days. Peak liver concentration of 4.27 g/ml was attained in 89.95 hr. Muscle concentration did not exceed 0.63 g/ml and declined by 97.3 hr. With this dosing regimen, itraconazole plasma and liver concentrations would persist within reported minimum inhibitory concentrations for many fungal pathogens for 6 days beyond the peak concentration.
20096439|Maned wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus) are neotropic mammals, listed as a CITES Appendix II species, with a distribution south of the Amazon forest from Bolivia, through northern Argentina and Paraguay and into eastern Brazil and northern Uruguay. Primary threats to the survival of free-ranging maned wolves include habitat loss, road kills, and shooting by farmers. An additional threat to the conservation of maned wolves is the risk of morbidity and mortality due to infectious and parasitic diseases. Captive maned wolves are susceptible to, and die from, common infectious diseases of domestic dogs (Canis familiaris) including canine distemper virus (CDV), canine parvovirus (CPV), rabies virus, and canine adenovirus (CAV). Results from this study show that free-ranging maned wolves in a remote area of Bolivia have been exposed to multiple infectious and parasitic agents of domestic carnivores, including CAV, CDV, CPV, canine coronavirus, rabies virus, Leptospira interrogans spp., Toxoplasma gondii, and Dirofilaria immitis, and may be at increased risk for disease due to these agents.
41262653|Pekin robins (Leiothrix lutea) were once the most widely kept softbills in captivity. As a result of the Convention on the International Trade of Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora (CITES-1997), the worldwide trade of wild-caught pekin robins has been prohibited due to the depletion of native populations of this species. In Brazil, as in other countries, pekin robins imported prior to the enactment of the CITES have disappeared from aviaries because the end of the birds' natural life span has passed, and only very few captive-bred pekin robins now exist. While captive propagation fails to address the primary causes of wild bird population decline, it might help the recovery of populations of this species. This article presents records made over a 10-yr period of a captive colony of pekin robins. Emphasis is placed on the management of the flock, the ailments affecting the birds, and the findings associated with bird losses. The main causes of bird losses included rearing management failures and age-related disorders.
20095912|Male polar bears (Ursus maritimus) have not been successfully instrumented with satellite transmitters because they readily shed collar-mounted transmitters. Seven male polar bears were captured on the pack ice off the northern coast of Alaska and surgically implanted with satellite transmitters with percutaneous antennae into the subcutaneous space of the dorsal cervical region. Transmitters failed prematurely with lifetimes of 30-161 days (x = 97 days). Efforts to relocate implanted bears after transmitters failed were not successful. The mean number of location solutions per transmitter was 204 (range 118-369). An average of 10% and 19% of the locations were accurate to &lt150 m and to 150-350 m, respectively. Our successful tracking of male polar bears, the high quality of locations obtained from transmitters with percutaneous antennae implanted in the subcutaneous space, and the low visibility of such units make further technical development worthwhile if the reason for premature failure of the transmitters can be determined.
20460265|Fracture repair in birds often presents a significant challenge to the veterinary surgeon. Bird bones have been described as brittle with thin cortices that do not hold implants well. The joints of birds appear to be particularly susceptible to ankylosis as a result of implant associated trauma. Avian fractures are often open and frequently comminuted, especially in wild birds and zoo specimens. In many cases, nearly perfect return to function is required for the patient to be released or displayed. Many times the bones are small and the patient is fractious and prone to self-trauma. External coaptation (slings, bandages, and splints) has long been a part of avian fracture management. Intramedullary pins are commonly used in avian orthopedics. Newer intramedullary techniques include the use of polypropylene rods and polymethylmethacrylate with or without reinforcement with a polymer rod. Bone plating techniques with or without intramedullary polymethylmethacrylate have recently been used in avian patients. Many modifications of the traditional external skeletal fixation splints (such as Kirschner-Ehmer splints) have been developed, making their application practical even in very small patients.
27751722|This report evaluates the carotid artery exteriorization technique to allow repeated percutaneous artery catheterization in six brown brocket deer (Mazama gouazoubira). Repeated percutaneous catheterization of the carotid artery was possible for periods of 3 mo to obtain arterial blood and monitor arterial blood pressure of deer without risk of arterial rupture. The artery pulse was easily palpable for periods up to 15 mo. Postoperative complication and/or arterial damage was not observed.
20095763|A syndrome of alopecia and weight loss in a colony of 10 western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) in Gabon during a 3-yr period was apparently due to a dietary protein deficiency, with nine individuals affected to some extent. The most severely afflicted was a 4-yr-old female who eventually died as a result of acute gastroenteritis caused by Shigella flexneri. Clinical signs included chronic alopecia, hair discoloration, failure to thrive, and weight loss, and their severity was directly correlated with the degree of hypoalbuminemia (12 g/L in the most extreme case) and normocytic normochromic anemia. Preliminary clinical tests and autopsy results suggested a dietary protein or amino acid deficiency as the cause of the hypoalbuminemia, and further analyses of serum amino acid and protein levels were consistent with a diagnosis of dietary protein deficiency. Supplementation of the colony diet with a protein preparation for humans produced a rapid amelioration of signs and improvement in body and coat condition, a normalization of serum albumin and total protein levels, and disappearance of the anemia in all affected animals except a 12-yr-old male, who responded well to treatment with anabolic steroids. The natural diet of western lowland gorillas is surprisingly high in protein, and the dietary protein requirement of captive gorillas may be increased as a result of the absence of commensal gastrointestinal ciliates.
20460351|Six captive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) with severe gastritis diagnosed by gastric endoscopy and mucosal histopathology were treated with omeprazole, metronidazole, and amoxicillin for 3 wk. Endoscopic biopsies were performed before therapy, immediately after treatment, and 3, 7, and 19 mo after treatment. Macroscopic appearance of the stomach, histologic scoring of gastric inflammation, and the presence or absence of spiral bacteria were recorded. Spiral bacteria were absent histologically immediately after treatment but reappeared in endoscopic biopsies by 3 mo after treatment. Gastritis scores fluctuated widely during the trial but improved in five of six cheetahs by 3 mo after treatment. By 19 mo after treatment, scores were close to the pretreatment scores. Therapy with omeprazole, amoxicillin, and metronidazole was associated with temporary improvement in the degree and distribution of gastritis in some cheetahs with gastritis, suggesting that treatment may be warranted once severe gastric inflammation has been diagnosed.
20095680|Median values and confidence intervals for hematology and serum and plasma chemistry parameters were established for 29 male and female healthy New Guinea snapping turtles (Elseya novaeguineae) held at 24.5C and 30.0C. Creatine kinase, albumin, potassium, and phosphorus values were significantly higher at 24.5C than at 30.0C. Glucose, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate transaminase, alanine aminotransferase, total carbon dioxide, and chloride values were significantly higher at 30.0C than at 24.5C. Cholesterol and calcium values were significantly higher in females than in males. Hemoglobin, packed cell volume, and bilirubin were significantly higher in males than in females, and bile acid values were significantly higher in serum than in plasma.
20095470|The objective of this study was to collect pituitary glands from Indian blackbuck antelope (Antilope cervicapra) in the field, transport the tissue to a laboratory, and establish a primary cell culture to determine the viability and responsiveness of the cells to two hypothalamic neuropeptides, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and vasopressin (VP). Blood samples were collected and pituitary glands (n = 3) were weighed and placed in a transport medium cooled to 4C. Anterior pituitaries were enzymatically dissociated by collagenase treatment. As determined by trypan blue exclusion, 76.6% of the isolated cells were viable. Cells (2.0  10 viable cells/well) were plated and randomly assigned (six wells/treatment) to one of four treatments on day 6: control (medium alone), 0.1 M bovine CRF, 1 M VP, or a combination of 0.1 M CRF and 1.0 M VP, or to one of two treatments on day 7: control or 0.1 M bovine CRF (three wells/treatment). Following a 4-hr incubation period, medium was collected and stored at -20C until concentration of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) was determined by radioimmunoassay. On day 6 of culture, medium concentration of ACTH increased 5.6- and 6.3-fold (P &lt 0.0001) following a 4-hr incubation with 0.1 M CRF and 1 M VP, respectively, relative to control (23.5  1.2 pg/ml). CRF- and VP-treated wells did not differ (P &gt 0.10) in medium concentration of ACTH on day 6. Treatment with CRF + VP increased (P &lt 0.03) medium concentration of ACTH 10.2-, 1.7-, and 1.5-fold relative to control, CRF, or VP groups, respectively. Medium concentration of ACTH from control wells did not differ (P &gt 0.10) between days 6 and 7 of culture. CRF treatment increased (P &lt 0.01) medium concentration of ACTH by 6.8-fold relative to the control on day 7. This study outlines a method for the successful in vitro culture of anterior pituitary cells from Indian blackbuck antelope and demonstrates the viability and responsiveness of the cells following field harvest, collection, cooling, and transportation of tissue.
40962240|A combination of low serum calcium (Ca), high serum phosphorus (P), and low serum magnesium (Mg) has been observed in individual captive ruminants, primarily affecting kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros), eland (Taurotragus oryx), nyala (Tragelaphus angasii), bongo (Tragelaphus eurycerus), and giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis). These mineral abnormalities have been associated with chronic laminitis, acute tetany, seizures, and death. Underlying rumen disease secondary to feeding highly fermentable carbohydrates was suspected to be contributing to the mineral deficiencies, and diet changes that decreased the amount of starch fed were implemented in 2003. Serum chemistry values from before and after the diet change were compared. The most notable improvement after the diet change was a decrease in mean serum P. Statistically significant decreases in mean serum P were observed for the kudu (102.1-66.4 ppm), eland (73.3-58.4 ppm), and bongo (92.1-64.2 ppm; P < 0.05). Although not statistically significant, mean serum P levels also decreased for nyala (99.3-86.8 ppm) and giraffe (82.6-68.7 ppm). Significant increases in mean serum Mg were also observed for kudu (15.9-17.9 ppm) and eland (17.1-19.7 ppm). A trend toward increased serum Mg was also observed in nyala, bongo, and giraffe after the diet change. No significant changes in mean serum Ca were observed in any of the five species evaluated, and Ca was within normal ranges for domestic ruminants. The mean Ca: P ratio increased to greater than one in every species after the diet change, with kudu, eland, and bongo showing a statistically significant change. The results of this study indicate that the diet change had a generally positive effect on serum P and Mg levels.
20095283|Nutritional status, host defense, and susceptibility to infection are closely interconnected. General malnutrition or deficiencies of individual nutrients can compromise the immune system and have specific effects. For example, zinc deficiency produces involution of the thymus and decreased production of T lymphocytes. In addition, the ability of macrophages to ingest and kill microorganisms is diminished. Vitamin A deficiency results in metaplastic changes in epithelial tissues, reducing their effectiveness as barriers to microbial penetration. Humoral and cell-mediated specific immunity may be impaired by faulty T-cell differentiation or function and depressed splenocyte blast transformation to T-cell mitogens. Deficiencies of other nutrients have comparably serious effects. As a consequence, animals that are marginally to acutely deficient in nutrient intake may be unprepared to deal with the extraordinary circumstances of relocation and are unusually susceptible to infection. The stresses associated with translocation, removal from the wild, or reintroduction of animals from captivity into the wild are sufficiently serious that first consideration must be given to the acceptability, safety, quality, and quantity of the food supply. Otherwise, animals are exposed to unacceptable risks of infectious disease, and the success of efforts intended to be life preserving rather than life threatening is jeopardized.
20096682|An adult female African forest buffalo (Syncerus caffer nanus) of unknown age was presented with signs of recurrent hoof overgrowth, persistent anestrous, obesity, dull hair coat, and decreased activity level. Complete blood counts and serum biochemistry values were unremarkable. Decreased concentrations of total triiodothyronine and total thyroxine were noted compared with values for normal domestic cattle and a healthy African forest buffalo. Treatment with oral levothyroxine increased blood concentrations of total triiodothyronine and total thyroxine, and subsequent improvement in clinical signs included weight loss, hair regrowth, and reproductive cycling.
20096445|Rapid assessment of immune status in neonatal ruminants of endangered species facilitates early intervention in cases of inadequate passive transfer of maternal immunoglobulins. Serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) was used to evaluate suspected passive transfer status in 25 North Indian muntjac (Muntiacus muntjak vaginalis), 45 Cretan goats (Capra algagrus cretica), 20 white-lipped deer (Cervus albirostris), 25 Mhorr gazelles (Gazella dama mhorr), and 31 Soemmerring's gazelles (Gazella soemmerringi soemmerringi). Serum GGT, measured within 48 hr of birth, was compared with clinical condition at 5 days of age. Neonatal Soemmerring's and Mhorr gazelles with GGT &gt600 U/L were likely to survive without medical intervention, whereas GGT &lt400 U/L was a good indicator that the gazelle neonate would need medical intervention. Neonatal muntjac with GGT &gt200 U/L were also likely to survive without medical intervention. Because there is no gold standard for evaluating passive transfer status in neonatal nondomestic ruminants, it is recommended to evaluate the results of more than one diagnostic test, as well as clinical condition, in considering health status and disposition of neonatal ruminants of endangered species.
20095130|A 13-yr-old female bengal tiger (Panthera tigris bengalensis) had been implanted subcutaneously three times at 2-yr intervals with melengestrol acetate, a progestin compound used as a contraceptive in exotic felids. The tiger subsequently developed a moderately well-differentiated endometrial adenocarcinoma with direct extension to the broad ligament, left ovary, left kidney, and sublumbar lymph nodes. This is the second incidence of this tumor type in a bengal tiger implanted with melengestrol, suggesting a possible link between the exogenous progestin and uterine cancer in exotic felids.
20096191|Hemograms and plasma chemistry values are presented for six male and six female, adult, clinically normal, captive Spanish imperial eagles (Aquila adalberti). No value was substantially different from that which might be predicted on the basis of work in other related species. This data should prove useful for the interpretation of laboratory findings in future clinical cases of this endangered species of eagle.
20096103|Flunixin (FLX) and ketoprofen (KET) are potent nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) used to alleviate pain and decrease inflammation. These drugs block access of arachidonic acid to its binding site on the cyclooxygenase enzyme, thus preventing conversion to thromboxane A and subsequent degradation to thromboxane B (TBX). Consequently, plasma TBX may be used to estimate duration of NSAID action. Sixteen adult mallard ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) were randomly assigned to three treatment groups: control (n = 4), FLX 5 mg/kg (n = 6), or KET 5 mg/kg (n = 6). Blood samples were taken 1 hr prior to and just before (0 hr) injection and 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 12, 24, 36, and 48 hr after injection. Plasma samples were analyzed for corticosterone and TBX. The feces were tested for the presence of hemoglobin and the ducks were euthanized for complete necropsy at the end of the study. Samples of muscle, kidney, liver, proventriculus, and intestine were taken for histologic analysis. Thromboxane was suppressed significantly in all birds following administration of either FLX or KET for 4 hr and decreased for approximately 12 hr compared with baseline samples (-1 and 0 hr). In the control group, TBX gradually declined over time. None of the ducks showed evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding, but the FLX group had muscle necrosis present at injection sites. FLX and KET likely exert pharmacological effects for at least 12 h. Although degree of TBX inhibition cannot be correlated absolutely with degree of analgesia or anti-inflammatory effects, it is possible that these effects are present during this time. This work suggests that FLX and KET can potentially be used as anti-inflammatory and analgesic agents in waterfowl. However, because of muscle necrosis at the injection site, we do not recommend parenteral use of FLX in ducks.
40962322|A female nurse shark, Ginglymostoma cirratum, estimated at 27 yr of age had a 5.5-yr history of a 6-cm black, raised nodular skin lesion located on the right side of the proximal tail. The lesion was diagnosed on biopsy as a slow-growing melanoma of the skin with no vascular invasion. The nurse shark was euthanized for systemic illness approximately 4.5 mo after diagnosis of the dermal melanoma. No evidence of metastasis was found on histopathologic evaluation of the skin and viscera.
20096450|The Przewalski's horse (Equus caballus przewalskii) was extinct in the wild by the mid 1960s. The species has survived because of captive breeding only. The Takhin Tal reintroduction project is run by the International Takhi Group; it is one of two projects reintroducing horses to the wild in Mongolia. In 1997 the first harem group was released. The first foals were successfully raised in the wild in 1999. Currently, 63 Przewalski's horses live in Takhin Tal. Little information exists on causes of mortality before the implementation of a disease-monitoring program in 1998. Since 1999, all dead horses recovered (n = 28) have been examined and samples collected and submitted for further investigation. Equine piroplasmosis, a tick-transmitted disease caused by Babesia caballi or Theileria equi, is endemic in Takhin Tal and was identified as the cause of death of four stallions and one stillborn foal. In December 2000, wolf predation was implicated in the loss of several Przewalski's horses. However, thorough clinical, pathologic, and bacteriologic investigations performed on dead and surviving horses of this group revealed lesions compatible with strangles. The extreme Mongolian winter of 2000-2001 is thought to have most probably weakened the horses, making them more susceptible to opportunistic infection and subsequent wolf predation. Other occasional causes of death since 1999 were trauma, exhaustion, wasting, urolithiasis, pneumonia, abortion, and stillbirth. The pathologic examination of the Przewalski's horses did not result in a definitive diagnosis in each case. Several disease factors were found to be important in the initial phase of the reintroduction, which could potentially jeopardize the establishment of a self-sustaining population.
20095819|Clarithromycin is a new, safe orally administered macrolide antibiotic active against Mycoplasma sp. in humans. Single-dose and multidose pharmacokinetic parameters were determined for clarithromycin in wild-caught desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) seropositive for M. agassizii. Clarithromycin blood levels were measured in three tortoises for up to 72 hr after a single oral dose of 7.5 mg/kg. In a second group of six tortoises, levels were measured after a dose of 15 mg/kg. Noncompartmental iterative two-stage Bayesian and nonparametric expectation maximization pharmacokinetic parameters were determined for each animal assuming first order rate constants. At 15 mg/kg, the maximum concentration was 1.37 g/ml, the time to maximum concentration was 8.0 hr, and a plasma half-life of 11.69 hr was derived from the latter method. The absorption constant was 0.08/hr, the absorption half-life was 8.47 hr, and the weight-normalized volume of distribution was 5.30 L/kg. Predictions derived by the latter method suggested a dosage of 15 mg/kg p.o. every 24 hr to achieve maximal blood levels of 1 g/ml for multiple dosing. However, results from a preliminary multidose study with three tortoises indicate that the drug is accumulated; therefore, the predicted dose may be closer to 15 mg/kg p.o. every 2-3 days to maintain blood levels of 2-7.5 g/ml. (For n = 3, 2-point linear regression median estimates for the apparent elimination rate constant (K) and half-life are 0.0227/hr and 30.52 hr, respectively.) This multidose accumulation reflects a slower apparent elimination than that predicted in the eight single-dose tortoises (i.e., K = 0.0593/hr,
20096630|Leatherback sea turtles (Dermochelys coriacea) are the most endangered of the seven species of sea turtles. The health status of leatherbacks is largely unknown, although the number of nesting females recorded throughout the world has decreased precipitously in the last few decades. Central African beaches may provide one of the last strongholds for nesting leatherback females. In the region, oil extraction and incidental capture pose significant threats to the health of the population. Physical examinations, hematology, plasma biochemistry, plasma corticosterone concentration, plasma protein electrophoresis, plasma vitamin concentrations, and toxicological parameters were evaluated in nesting female leatherbacks in the Republic of Gabon. The general clinical condition of the 35 turtles examined in this study was rated as good. The blood value results for a subset of these turtles are presented and compared to published results from other sea turtles. To the authors' knowledge, these are the first published baseline hematology, plasma biochemistry, and plasma protein electrophoresis values from clinically healthy nesting leatherback turtles.
20095790|Most reported laboratory reference values for harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) are derived from captive seals, or stranded seals that have recovered from disease in marine mammal centers. This study established hematology and serum chemistry reference values for free-ranging harbor seals, using methods and that are current and readily available, and determined the effects of hemolysis on serum chemistry values of captive harbor seals. Blood samples were collected for hematologic and serum chemistry measurements from 14 clinically normal, adult male and female harbor seals and two juvenile harbor seals (approximate age 6 mo) captured in saltwater sloughs and estuaries near Moss Landing, California, USA. Values for amylase, globulin, and differential leukocyte count, not previously reported, were determined. In general, hematology and chemistry values in adults were similar to those reported for free-ranging and captive harbor seals, except for glucose, urea nitrogen, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) values, which were higher than those reported previously. Red blood cell counts in the two juveniles were higher than in adults and in young harbor seals studied previously. To determine the effects of hemolysis on serum chemistry values, two intensities of hemolysis were generated experimentally in blood collected from 11 harbor seals recovering from injuries or stranding at the Marine Mammal Center (Sausalito, California 94965, USA). Moderate hemolysis (++, 1 g/L hemoglobin, redtinged) significantly increased LDH activity, whereas severe hemolysis (+++, 2 g/L hemoglobin, cherry red) significantly increased total protein, albumin, calculated globulin, LDH, and total bilirubin and significantly decreased creatinine. The effects of hemolysis must be considered when chemistry results of harbor seals are interpreted.
20095713|In winter 1990, an adult male sea otter (Enhydra lutris) was found dead along the eastern shore of Prince William Sound, Alaska. Necropsy findings included an enlarged retained left testicle with a twisted spermatic cord, enlarged left sublumbar lymph node, emaciation, dental attrition, oral papules and ulcers, and luminal intestinal hemorrhage associated with numerous acanthocephalids. A malignant seminoma was present in the left testicle and left sublumber lymph node. Additionally, herpesvirus like intranuclear inclusion bodies were found in oral, esophageal, and corneal epithelial cells. Virions consistent with a herpesvirus were found in esophageal epithelium. Dental attrition, severe intestinal acanthocephaliasis, the malignant seminoma, and emaciation were considered contributing factors in causing death. The herpesviral disease was probably secondary to the debilitation and stress. This is the first report of malignant seminoma with metastasis in a sea otter.
41262570|Physiologie variables during anesthesia with medetomidine-zolazepam-tiletamine were evaluated in 52 free-ranging brown bears (Ursus arctos) darted from a helicopter and in six captive brown bears darted at a zoo. During anesthesia, rectal temperature, respiratory rate, heart rate, and pulse oximetry derived hemoglobin oxygen saturation were recorded. Arterial blood samples were collected and immediately analyzed for evaluation of pulmonary gas exchange, acid-base status, and selected hematologie and plasma variables. At the end of anesthesia, atipamezole was administered intramuscularly at five times the medetomidine dose. Capture-induced hyperthermia and lactic acidemia were documented in free-ranging bears. Hypoxemia during anesthesia was documented in both free-ranging and captive bears. In free-ranging bears, rectal temperature, heart rate, lactate, hematocrit, and hemoglobin decreased significantly during anesthesia, whereas partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide, pH, potassium, and glucose increased. Yearlings had a significantly higher heart rate, pH, base excess, bicarbonate, and glucose, and had a significantly lower rectal temperature, sodium, hematocrit, and hemoglobin when compared with subadult and adult brown bears. In conclusion, alterations in pulmonary gas exchange and acid-base status in brown bears during anesthesia with medetomidine-zolazepam-tiletamine with the doses and capture methods used in this study were identified. Oxygen supplementation is recommended to counteract hypoxemia during anesthesia.
20096014|Vitamin D deficiency rickets was diagnosed in three juvenile chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) raised indoors under skylights and consuming only breast milk. Two cases detected early had mild but characteristic radiographic changes. More advanced disease presented with florid x-ray features of rickets and pathologic fractures, as well as hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels. Treatment by a single injection of vitamin D in sesame oil (slow release) followed by daily oral supplementation with vitamin D corrected the condition. On the basis of experience with these cases and comparison with rickets in humans, a prevention protocol for mother-reared, inside-housed, chimpanzee juveniles was developed. Injection with slow release vitamin D (5,000 IU i.m. once) at 4 mo of age, followed by oral supplementation of 400 IU vitamin D daily until weaning, prevents rickets in juvenile chimpanzees raised indoors.
20096602|Open-ended vasectomies were performed on four male bush dogs (Speothos venaticus), with three having microscopic reversal surgery (vasovasostomy) between 10 and 20 mo post-vasectomy. The key to ease of reversal is leaving the distal (testicular) end open to allow leakage, resulting in a pressure-relieving granuloma. The proximal (abdominal) end is cauterized, providing an effective seal. This technique prevents the buildup of pressure in the epididymis, therefore limiting damage to the male's reproductive capacity. Described here are detailed procedures for both surgeries. One of the three males that underwent vasovasostomy has successfully impregnated his female partner. This study demonstrates that these techniques can be successfully applied to animals. With the two remaining pairs, none of the four individuals were proven breeders prior to the study, so it is not possible to eliminate the possibility of previously existing infertility. This technique may have limited application for carnivores, because vasectomy does not prevent potential adverse effects to females from prolonged, cyclic exposure to endogenous progesterone. In other taxonomic groups (e.g., primates, ungulates, marsupials, and rodents) in which multimale groupings are common, this reversible male sterilization technique could provide managers with the ability to control which males reproduce without eliminating their future reproductive capacity or social interaction.
20094964|Serum samples from wild deer herds in California were tested by ELISA for IgG antibodies against nine disease agents. The following overall antibody prevalences were found: Anaplasma marginale, 34%; Chlamydia spp., 6%; Coxiella burnetii, 6%; Haemophilus somnus, 5%; Leptospira spp., 3%; Mycobacterium paratuberculosis, 17%; Mycoplasma spp., 30%; Pasteurella multocida, 20%; and Toxoplasma gondii, 12%. Patterns of antibody prevalence for these disease agents are presented for 22 deer herds. It is suggested that an antibody profile for a deer herd at a given time is unique and can be used to make herd health and management decisions.
20096551|Medical records of three male and three female callitrichids of four species (Leontopithecus chrysopygus, Leontopithecus rosalia, Callithrix argentata argentata, Callithrix kuhlii) diagnosed with cholelithiasis were reviewed. Ages of affected animals at the time of diagnosis ranged from 2-14 yr. Definitive antemortem diagnosis of cholelithiasis was made in four of the six cases. Chronic weight loss, lethargy, and weakness were seen in all cases. Chronic intermittent diarrhea was seen in three cases. Icterus and abnormal gait were each present in two of the animals. Hematologic and serum biochemical abnormalities included leukocytosis in five cases, elevated bilirubin (direct and indirect) in four cases, and anemia in four cases. Radiographic evidence of choleliths was observed in three cases. Surgical removal of choleliths was successfully performed on two animals. Full necropsies were performed on all cases, and choleliths were believed to contribute to morbidity in all cases. However, inflammatory bowel disease was determined to be the primary cause of weight loss and mortality in at least three animals. All choleliths analyzed were pigment stones, two being primarily composed of cystine.
20094976|An epornitic of Salmonella typhimurium occurred in a collection of lories and lorikeets after the introduction of a pair of newly imported birds. Seven animals, representing six different species, died. Salmonella typhimurium was isolated from cultures taken from all animals that died. Antemortem cultures of affected birds did not yield Salmonella species but gram-negative rods were seen on fecal Gram stains. Prophylactic treatment with medicated food did not prevent deaths during this outbreak. Individual treatment with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole seemed to be effective in preventing deaths. The temporal and spatial relationship of the new birds to the deaths and the finding of gram-negative rods on fecal smears implicate the newly acquired lorikeets as the "point source" for this epornitic.
41417188|Three sexually mature female common vampire bats (Desmodus rotundus) housed at the North Carolina Zoological Park, Asheboro, North Carolina, were selected for surgical ovariohysterectomy. All animals were induced and maintained with isoflurane anesthetic gas. Magnification loop glasses were worn by the surgeon for the procedure. A ventral midline incision was made into the abdominal cavity. Simple micro-ophthalmic surgical packs along with hemoclips were used to perform the ovariohysterectomies. The linea alba and muscular layers were closed using a simple continuous suture pattern with 4-0 polydioxanone suture. The skin was apposed using a horizontal mattress suture pattern with 4-0 polydioxanone suture. Animals recovered with minimal deleterious side effects. Animals were housed together in a recovery chamber and administered meloxicam at 0.2 mg/kg placed in their blood meal once daily for 7 days postoperatively, after which they were returned to their normal enclosures.
20095275|The impact of some diseases on the translocation of African wildlife has been widespread. Rinderpest has remained in Africa since its introduction in 1888. The rigid control measures adopted to prevent the spread of rinderpest, foot-and-mouth disease, and theileriosis to domestic animals in Africa restrict the possible translocation of even endangered species. In some cases, the translocation of wild animals has resulted in the transmission of the disease. African horse sickness was carried to Spain in 1987 when zebras were translocated there from Namibia. When springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis) were moved to the Bontebok National Park, Republic of South Africa (RSA), they introduced lungworm (Bronchonema magna), which then infested the bontebok (Damaliscus dorcas dorcas). Translocated wild animals also succumb to endemic disease: heartwater in the Transvaal bushveld prevents the translocation of springbok into this area because this species is susceptible to this disease, and babesiosis has been reported in naive sable antelope (Hippotragus niger) imported into the RSA from Europe. Animals translocated into unsuitable habitats, e.g., roan antelope (Hippotragus equinus) translocated to the Percy Fyfe Nature Reserve, RSA, and gemsbok (Oryx gazella) translocated to the Orange Free State, RSA, do not thrive. Salmonellosis, apparently acquired while being held in enclosures, has been reported in African elephants (Loxodonta africana) and a black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis). Feline infectious peritonitis has been described in captive wild-caught cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus).
20095587|Hematologic and serum chemistry reference values for captive Hoffmann's two-toed sloths (Choloepus hoffmanni) were determined. Blood samples were collected from 29 clinically normal Hoffmann's sloths (15 female, 14 male) between the ages of 1 and 16+ yr during 1990, 1991, and 1994. The minimum, median, and maximum blood values were obtained for males, females, juveniles (3 yr old), and adults (&gt3 yr old). The data were explored for patterns of differences between males and females and between juveniles and adults. Alkaline phosphatase was significantly higher (P &lt 0.05) in juvenile females than in adult females.
20460550|Bird health can significantly affect spring reproductive fitness. A better understanding of how female sage grouse health varies with seasonal nutrition changes provides insight for determining if specific nutritional habitats are limiting bird productivity. In 2004, greater sage grouse adult and yearling hens were captured, and blood samples collected, during breeding (MARCH: March 15 to April 11; n = 22), early brood rearing (MAY: May 20 to June 22; n = 21), and on summer range (JULY: July 7 to August 17; n = 19) in two distinct but similar northern Nevada population management units (Tuscarora [TU] and Lone Willow [LW]). In TU, yearlings weighed less (P &lt; 0.043) than adults at all sampling periods. No age-related differences were observed for LW birds. Serum blood chemistry values were influenced by site, bird age, and season. Adults had more plasma protein and albumin than yearlings during MARCH (P &lt; 0.005) followed by a decrease by MAY (P  0.0001). Lone Willow females had higher albumin levels (P = 0.0005). Higher serum phosphorus levels were detected for LW females during MARCH (P &lt; 0.0001), and no site differences were detected for MAY or JULY. Tuscarora yearlings had lower serum calcium levels than adults during MARCH (P &lt; 0.0001); LW yearlings had lower levels than adults during MAY (P = 0.030). Both TU yearlings (MARCH P &lt; 0.0001) and adults (MARCH P &lt; 0.0001; MAY P = 0.040) had lower values than LW counterparts. Tuscarora adults and LW yearlings and adults showed decreases between MARCH and MAY (P &lt; 0.0001). The combination of lower yearling weight, plasma protein, and serum calcium and phosphorus in the TU birds indicates a lower nesting and re-nesting potential. Leading to the conclusion that TU yearlings contributed less to the population production than LW yearlings for that particular year.
41417168|A capture operation to ascertain health status in free-ranging buffaloes from six different areas in the Caprivi Strip in the northeast corner of Namibia was conducted in October 2009. Basic information on the ticks and tick-borne pathogens normally found in wildlife from this area are scarce. The objective of this study was to assess the host status of African buffaloes, Syncerus coffer, for ixodid ticks and two selected tick-borne pathogens in the Caprivi Strip, a key area bordering Angola, Zambia, Botswana, and Zimbabwe. Four different tick species have been identified among the 233 collected specimens, and, of 95 tested buffaloes, 54 (57%) were positive for Theileria parva, whereas only 3 (3%) showed evidence of being infected with Ehrlichia ruminantium.
41262598|Wildlife may be an important reservoir of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and resistance genes. In this pilot study, the prevalence and patterns of antimicrobial resistance in Escherichia coli cultured from wild herring gull (Larus argentatus) feces and human wastewater at Cape Cod, Massachusetts, USA, was compared. Antimicrobial susceptibility was tested using Kirby-Bauer disk diffusion with seven antimicrobial agents. A high proportion of antimicrobial agent-resistant E. coli isolates (59.2%) were detected in wastewater samples compared with a lower prevalence of 17.5% in gull feces. In addition, there was a large proportion of isolates with intermediate susceptibility (93.0%) in gull feces. Although similar resistance patterns and shared resistance genes suggest possible wastewater contamination of the local environment, the relatively low frequency of resistance and high prevalence of intermediate susceptibility detected in E. coli cultured from gull feces depict a complex model of antimicrobial resistance among E. coli strains of wildlife origin.
41262661|This study aimed to determine the minimum anesthetic concentration (MAC) and dose-related cardiovascular effects of isoflurane during controlled ventilation in cinereous vultures (Aegypius monachus). The MAC was determined for 10 cinereous vultures as the midpoint between the end-tidal isoflurane concentration that allows gross purposeful movement and that which prevents the movement in response to clamping a pedal digit. Immediately after the MAC was determined, the cardiovascular effects of isoflurane at 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 times the MAC were investigated in seven of the 10 birds. The MAC of isoflurane for 10 cinereous vultures during controlled ventilation was 1.06  0.07% (mean  SD). When the isoflurane concentration was increased to 1.5 and 2.0 times the MAC, there was significant dose-dependent decrease in the arterial blood pressure. However, the heart rate did not change over a range of 1.0 to 2.0 times the MAC.
20096382|The efficacies and ease of administration of four oral preanesthetic sedation protocols were compared in 18 adult, male rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) to achieve heavy sedation and alleviate anxiety, agitation, and potential trauma associated with remote anesthesia induction. The macaques, with average age and weight of 10 yr and 12.5 kg, respectively, were randomly assigned to one of four groups. Group 1 was given 10 mg/kg tiletamine-zolazepam and 0.05 mg/kg medetomidine p.o., group 2 was given 1 mg/kg midazolam and 20 mg/kg ketamine p.o., group 3 was given 20 mg/kg ketamine and 0.05 mg/kg medetomidine p.o., and group 4 was given 3 mg/kg midazolam p.o. All protocols produced effects ranging from mild sedation to no response to noxious stimuli, depending on the success of administration. The mean interval to peak effect was 27-43 min in all groups. Ketamine and medetomidine provided significantly better sedation than midazolam alone; there were no other statistically significant differences among the four protocols. Oral tiletamine-zolazepam and medetomidine provided smooth, mild to moderate sedation with few side effects. The midazolam and ketamine combination resulted in severe ataxia. Orally administered ketamine and medetomidine provided smooth, easily reversible, heavy sedation leading to no response to noxious stimuli. Midazolam alone provided only mild sedation. No statistically significant differences in palatability of the four protocols were identified. Orally administered ketamine and medetomidine (group 3) provided the most consistently heavy sedation. A compounding pharmacy may be able to increase the palatability and level of acceptance of these combinations. Alternatively, oral midazolam syrup is well accepted by some animals and provides a mild sedative and calming effect, which may decrease stress associated with the induction of anesthesia via darting, pole syringes, etc.
20095881|The prevention of calculus accumulation in exotic animals is a relatively unexplored topic. A 6-mo study in ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta) and collared lemurs (Eulemur fulvus collaris) and two studies in baboons (Papio cynocephalus) (7.5 wks and 6.5 mo) tested the benefits of a primate diet coated with 0.6% sodium hexametaphosphate (HMP) in controlling calculus in these species using a sequential crossover design. The control regimen was an identical, but non-HMP-coated, dry primate chow. At study initiation, the primates were given a thorough dental prophylaxis and provided with the control diet or experimental diet. At the conclusion of the test period, the animals were anesthetized and examined for clinical calculus independently by two examiners. The animals were then given another dental prophylaxis, provided the alternate ration, and the foregoing procedures were repeated. When the animals were provided the HMP-coated diet, significant reductions in calculus formation of 48-62% were observed in the lemurs and the baboons. No clinically significant changes were observed in body weights or in blood chemistry values as a result of ingestion of the HMP-coated regimen.
20095053|Ventral herniorrhaphy in a female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) under xylazine hydrochloride sedation was attempted. A dose of 0.16 mg/kg body weight was adequate to produce sedation, analgesia, and muscle relaxation for the surgical procedure. The postoperative management of the surgical wound was difficult and resulted in the failure of the surgery.
40665062|In humans, fetal echocardiography represents the most important tool for the assessment of the cardiovascular well-being of the fetus. However, because of logistic, anatomic, and behavioral challenges, detailed fetal echocardiographic evaluation of marine mammals has not been previously described. Because the application of fetal echocardiography to cetaceans could have both clinical and academic importance, an approach to evaluating the fetal dolphin's cardiovascular status was developed with conventional, fetal echocardiographic techniques developed in humans. Eight singleton fetal bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) were evaluated, each between 6 and 11 mo gestation; six fetuses underwent two fetal echocardiographic evaluations each, four at 3-mo intervals, and two at 0.5-mo intervals. Evaluations were performed without sedation, using conventional, portable ultrasound systems. Multiple transducers, probes, and maternal dolphin positions were used to optimize image quality. Fetal echocardiography included two-dimensional imaging and color flow mapping of the heart and great arteries, as well as pulsed Doppler evaluation of the umbilical artery and vein. Thorough evaluations of the fetal dolphins' cardiovascular status were performed, with the greatest resolution between 8 and 9 mo gestation. With the use of published human fetal echocardiographic findings for comparison, fetal echocardiography demonstrated normal structure and function of the heart and great arteries, including the pulmonary veins, inferior vena cava, right and left atria, foramen ovale, tricuspid and mitral valves, right and left ventricles, ventricular septum, pulmonary and aortic valves, main pulmonary artery and ascending aorta, and ductus arteriosus. Pulsed Doppler techniques demonstrated normal umbilical arterial and venous waveforms, and color flow mapping demonstrated absence of significant valvar regurgitation. Fetal echocardiography, particularly between 8 and 9 mo gestation, can provide a safe and detailed assessment of the cardiovascular status of the fetal bottlenose dolphin.
20094944|A debilitated and anorectic adult male Galapagos tortoise (Geochelone elephantopus) was clinically evaluated and had
20095709|Serum samples from 34 free-living nestling prairie falcons (Falco mexicanus) in southwestern Idaho were negative for antibodies to avian influenza virus, Newcastle disease virus, and three Aspergillus species. Serum from a single bird had hemagglutinating inhibition activity in response to Mycoplasma synoviae, and another bird's serum had slight activity in response to M. gallisepticum.
20096527|A captive Nile crocodile (Crocodylus niloticus) developed recurrent episodes of paraphimosis over a 2-yr period, which eventually led to hemorrhage and obvious inflammation. Two months postsurgery, the crocodile remained clinically normal.
20095830|A 2-yr-old female red wolf (Canis rufus gregoryi) presented with weight loss and diarrhea. Abnormal clinical pathology included low serum calcium, sodium, chloride, globulin, and albumin levels. Differential diagnosis included infectious enteritis, intestinal parasitism, inflammatory bowel disease, hepatic or renal disease, and malnutrition. The wolf was treated empirically, but did not improve. A second examination revealed persistent poor musculature and stool quality. Abdominal palpation revealed a firm mass; contrast radiography confirmed an intussusception. Exploratory laparotomy revealed a colocolic intussusception involving the cecum. Following reduction of the colocolic intussusception, cecal inversion (cecocolic intussusception) was identified. Because the cecal inversion could not be reduced, typhlectomy was performed through a colotomy incision. Bacterial culture of peritoneal fluid yielded two strains of Escherichia coli. Postoperatively, the wolf was placed on antibiotics and a soft diet. The diet was gradually returned to its normal formulation and the wolf progressively gained weight. Physical examination 7.5 mo following initial presentation revealed normal body weight and condition. To our knowledge, this is the first recorded incidence of cecal inversion with concurrent colocolic intussusception.
20096699|Theraphosid spiders have become increasingly popular for private and public uses in the United States. However, little is known about their physiology from a medical standpoint. This study represents the first attempt to establish reference hemolymph values for two common species of theraphosids, the goliath birdeater spider (Theraphosa blondi) and the Chilean rose spider (Grammostola rosea). Eleven T. blondi and twelve G. rosea, all wild-caught subadults, were obtained after importation and hemolymph was collected for biochemical analysis. After 8 wk of captivity, hemolymph was again collected from the spiders and analyzed. The biochemical analytes measured in the study included aspartate transferase, creatine kinase, glucose, total protein, albumin, uric acid, blood urea nitrogen, phosphorous, calcium, potassium, and sodium. The osmolality of the hemolymph was estimated for each spider using two different formulae. There were significant differences in body weight, sodium, potassium, and osmolality between the sampling times for both species. There were also significant differences in creatine kinase, calcium, total protein, and blood urea nitrogen between sampling periods for T. blondi. The results of this study suggest that serial hemolymph samples may be used to assess the hydration status of theraphosid spiders. In addition, the differences in hemolymph analytes between spiders suggest that there may be differences between species that should be addressed in future studies.
27751688|This study was conducted to evaluate whether the administration of naloxone (NAL) had an impact on the speed or quality of recovery in servals anesthetized with ketamine, butorphanol, and medetomidine. Twenty-two clinically healthy, captive servals (Leptailurus serval) were anesthetized for routine physical examinations using ketamine (3 mg/kg), medetomidine (0.03 mg/kg), and butorphanol (0.3 mg/kg). Eleven animals were administered atipamezole (5 mg/mg medetomidine) and NAL (0.1 mg/mg butorphanol), while the other 11 were administered atipamezole (5 mg/mg medetomidine) and sterile saline (SAL). There was no statistically significant difference in recovery time between the NAL and the SAL group; similarly, there were no significant differences between groups at any time point for the measures of quality of recovery used in this study. This investigation was unable to detect a clinically significant difference in anesthetic recovery for servals that received NAL relative to those that did not. These results suggest that butorphanol does not routinely need to be antagonized in captive servals that are anesthetized with these dosages of ketamine, medetomidine, and butorphanol. It may be more important to administer opioid antagonists in free-ranging animals, where residual sedation would be more detrimental. In these cases, a long-acting antagonist, such as naltrexone, may be indicated. An opioid antagonist, such as NAL or naltrexone, should always be available for emergency administration whenever opioids are used. Additionally, this study provided physiologic data for servals anesthetized with a ketamine-medetomidine-butorphanol combination.
20095463|From November 1990 to August 1991, a canine distemper (CD) epizootic occurred among domestic dogs sympatric with spotted hyenas (Crocuta crocuta) in the Masai Mara National Reserve (MMNR), Kenya. A retrospective survey of antibodies to canine distemper virus (CDV) was conducted among hyenas from a single clan in the MMNR. Hyenas sampled from 1979 to 1982 and from 1990 to 1992 had a mean prevalence of CDV antibodies of 25% (n = 44) and 30% (n = 63), respectively. No CDV antibodies were evident in 1979 (n = 12), but a substantial increase in CDV antibody prevalence was noted in 1980-1982 (34%, n = 32). No significant differences in seroprevalence levels among hyenas were found when examined by age or sex (P &gt 0.10). Among samples collected from 1990 to 1992, no significant differences in CDV antibody prevalence were found when compared by year, age, or sex (P &gt 0.10). However, low-ranking hyenas were 2.85 times more likely (odds ratio = 2.85, P = 0.09) to be positive for CDV antibodies than were high-ranking individuals. Although significant mortality was reported among domestic dogs during the CD epizootic, no clinically ill hyenas were observed and no increase in mortality was noted.
20460503|A 9-yr-old female Bornean orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus) presented with a 48-hr history of depression, lethargy, anorexia, and mucoid discharge from the rectum. Clinical, radiographic, and ultrasonographic examination demonstrated the presence of multiple distended loops of intestine, intestinal adhesions, and free gas within the abdomen. During exploratory laparotomy, fibrinopurulent diffuse peritonitis as a result of a ruptured intrapelvic abscess with associated large bowel adhesions was evident. The abdomen was thoroughly lavaged, necrotic debris and abscess wall removed, and fibrinous adhesions disrupted. The orangutan was kept sedated for 48 hr to allow for intensive care. Six months later, when the orangutan presented with similar clinical signs, ultrasonographic examination demonstrated the presence of a pelvic abscess. The previous procedure was repeated with the addition of a hysterectomy. This report is the first documentation of long-term management following surgical intervention for internal abdominal abscessation and septic peritonitis in a great ape.
20095600|Two half-sibling black and white colobus monkeys (Colobus guereza kikuyuensis) were diagnosed with forelimb tremor of varying severity. A high-frequency tremor developed first in one and then progressed to both front limbs, although severity was lateralized in both individuals. Diagnostic evaluations revealed a possible familial tremor.
27751735|A polar bear (Ursus maritimus) housed at the Toronto Zoo presented with acute-onset, nonambulatory paraparesis. Physical examination 24 hr after onset was otherwise unremarkable, spinal radiographs looked normal, and blood tests indicated mild dehydration. With continued deterioration in its general condition, euthanasia was elected a day later. Necropsy did not reveal a cause for the major presenting clinical signs. Serum collected at the time of initial examination was positive for West Nile virus (WNV) antibodies in a serum neutralization assay and at the time of euthanasia was positive in both a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and in a plaque reduction neutralization assay. The major microscopic finding was a mild-to-moderate nonsuppurative meningoencephalomyelitis. WNV was not detected by immunohistochemistry in brain or spinal cord or by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and cell culture of brain and kidney, but it was isolated and identified by RT-PCR in second passage cell culture of spleen. Retrospective immunohistochemistry on spleen revealed rare antigen-positive cells, probably macrophages. Prevention of exposure to potentially WNV-infected mosquitoes or vaccination of captive bears against WNV should be considered.
20095789|Manual massage of the penis and rectal electroejaculation methods have been minimally effective for collecting semen from the rhinoceros. These two methods for stimulating ejaculation were evaluated by rectal ultrasonography. One individual each of three rhinoceros species (Ceratotherium simum simum, Rhinoceros unicornis and Diceros bicornis) was stimulated by manual massage of the penis and two black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) were electroejaculated. On ultrasonography, neither manual massage nor rectal electroejaculation affected the acessory glands. The pelvic urethra remained empty during manual massage of unconditioned animals; however, this area was filled before commencement of massage of conditioned animals. The pelvic urethra also filled during electroejaculation. Semen accumulated in the pelvic urethra during pauses between electrical stimulations and was moved distally into the penile urethra by rectal and penile massage. The volumes of seminal fluid recovered from electroejaculation in this study exceeded previously reported attempts. This study demonstrated the potential of transrectal imaging for improving the recovery of semen by these methods.
20095349|Liposarcoma of the tail was diagnosed in an adult male shingleback skink (Trachydosaurus rugosus). The diagnosis was based on cytomorphology of the neoplastic cells and the presence of neutral fat within cytoplasmic vacuoles of numerous neoplastic cells in oil-red-0-stained frozen sections of the tumor. This is the first confirmed report of a liposarcoma in a reptile.
20095188|Two cryopreservatives were evaluated for effective long-term storage of spermatozoa of the American kestrel (Falco sparverius). Pooled semen samples from unpaired male kestrels were mixed in a ratio of either one part semen to three parts diluent (1:3) containing 13.6% glycerol or 1:1 with a diluent containing 12.3% dimethylacetamide (DMA). Sperm motility was compared after dilution, after freezing at a rate of 6C/min from +5C to -196C in liquid nitrogen, and after rapid thawing. The percentage of motile spermatozoa in fresh semen, 63.2%, decreased to 57.4% (P &lt 0.05) and 49.5% (P &lt 0.05) following dilution with glycerol and DMA, respectively. Further reductions in sperm motility occurred after freezing and thawing; however, a significantly greater percentage of sperm (P &lt 0.05) remained motile in diluent containing glycerol (40.7%) than in diluent containing DMA (13.0%). Following insemination of females, fresh semen and semen containing DMA yielded the highest fertility rates (56.5% and 52.2%, respectively). An intermediate fertility rate of 30.4% was achieved with semen frozen with DMA, whereas freshly diluted or frozen semen containing glycerol produced the poorest fertility (13.6% and 11.8%, respectively). Because DMA does not require removal from frozen--thawed semen before artificial insemination (unlike glycerol), it may be useful as an alternative cryoprotectant for spermatozoa of birds such as the American kestrel, which produce low concentrations of spermatozoa in small ejaculates.
20096210|After clinical illness, treatment, and death of a captive male bongo antelope (Tragelaphus eurycerus isaaci) caused by tuberculosis involving Mycobacterium bovis, four tuberculin test reactive captive bongos were treated for 6 mo with isoniazid (INH) and rifampin (RIF) and intermittent single doses of other medications before being euthanized. In all cases, postmortem examination indicated no evidence of active disease and cultures of multiple organs were negative. We present detailed pharmacokinetic (PK) data for amikacin (AMK), ethambutol (EMB), INH, pyrazinamide (PZA), RIF, and levofloxacin in four female bongos. Adequate absorption and serum levels were obtained after parenteral administration of AMK, EMB, and INH and after oral administration of INH and PZA. Parenterally administered drugs were well described by a one-compartment PK model with first-order absorption and elimination processes. Treatment with INH and RIF over a 6-mo period did not result in demonstrable adverse effects. Starting doses of 10-15 mg/kg, i.m., or 30 mg/kg, p.o., of INH, 50 mg/kg, p.o., of EMB, and 25 mg/kg, i.m., s.i.d., of AMK are recommended. The treatment is continued with at least two drugs to which the organism is susceptible for a total treatment length of 6-12 mo. Treatment may be an option to eradicate M. bovis from suspect animals, with carefully administered and monitored drug treatment.
20096486|Infections with helminths are a major health issue in captive and wild deer. In this study, fecal egg count patterns and clinical signs associated with gastrointestinal nematodes were assessed for 12 mo in nine cervid herds kept under different husbandry conditions at two sites. At site 1, an urban zoo, fecal egg counts remained low and no clinical signs of parasitic gastroenteritis were seen in the herds of fallow deer (Dama dama), Dybowski's deer (Cervus nippon dybowski), pudu (Pudu pudu), and reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus). Helminth infection at this site may have been successfully prevented by daily dung removal of the small sandy-soil enclosures, and applying routine anthelmintic treatment was not justified. At site 2, a wild animal park, involved species were red deer (Cervus elaphus hippelaphus), Nelson's elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni), Pre David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus), European elk (Alces alces alces), and reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus). Nematode eggs were frequently encountered in herds of red deer, Nelson's elk, and European elk, which were kept on larger, grassy enclosures that were irregularly cleaned. The trimodal pattern of fecal egg counts in herds from the wild animal park, consisting of a small spring rise in June, a peak in October, and a small rise in February, indicates that infective larvae on pastures are the main source of infection. In addition, routine anthelmintic treatment with fenbendazole in April and July limited egg shedding, but reinfection rapidly occurred. In two European elk and one reindeer, increasing fecal egg counts were associated with loss of fecal consistency and reduced appetite. Three genera and three species of nematodes were recovered at necropsy of one red deer and three Nelson's elk: Spiculopteragia spiculoptera, Trichostrongylus spp., Nematodirus filicollis, Capillaria spp., Oesophagostomum radiatum, and Trichuris spp., with total worm counts between 950 and 8,700.
41262643|Serum lipid levels were measured in 66 healthy sloth bears {Melursus ursinus ursinus) living under semicaptive conditions with access to natural food resources in the Bannerghatta Biological Park (Karnataka, India), a portion of their native habitat range in the Indian peninsula. Total cholesterol, triglycrides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were analyzed. The effects of age, body weight, and season on these lipid parameters were statistically evaluated. There were no correlations between age and any of the serum lipid parameters analyzed. Positive correlations of body weight to both triglycride and HDL cholesterol levels in these bears were identified. In addition, seasonal trends in physiological serum lipid values, potentially due to variations in the sloth bear diet, were identified. Serum triglycride levels were higher during postmonsoon season and cholesterol levels were higher during winter compared to other seasons. Serum lipid values obtained from sloth bears in this study were also compared to previously published data on other members of the family Ursidae. This is the first report of serum lipid values as a reference for sloth bears. These values can be used as sensitive predictors of overall health and nutritional status to aid in the captive management and feeding of these bears.
20095365|Sixteen gray wolves (Canis lupus) were immobilized with a combination of medetomidine and ketamine. A mean (SD) dose rate of 55.3  10.7 g/kg medetomidine and 2.76  0.53 mg/kg ketamine induced complete immobilization in 9.3  3.4 min. Eight of the 16 wolves were given 49.4  8.4 g/kg atropine in addition to the medetomidine/ketamine combination. All non-atropinized wolves exhibited bradycardia and cardiac arrhythmias, and most showed excessive salivation (62.5%). Atropinized animals exhibited tachycardia, but no arrhythmias or excessive salivation were recorded. No differences in respiratory rates or rectal temperatures were seen between the two groups. Blood samples for hematologic, plasma biochemical, and blood gas analysis during the course of the immobilizations revealed only a mild acidosis. Following administration of 260  30 g/kg atipamezole (half intramuscularly, half intravenously), the wolves regained their feet in 10.7  12.7 min, losing any residual ataxia within 45.4  23.8 min. Vomiting occurred in 56.3% of wolves on recovery.
20096559|A 7-mo-old male alpaca (Lama pacos) presented with an abnormal lowered posture of the head and neck and reluctance to walk. Cervical radiographs demonstrated atlantooccipital luxation. Successful manual closed reduction was achieved while the animal was anesthetized, resulting in complete return to normal gait and posture.
40962261|Three pediatrie chimpanzees and one pediatrie gibbon were anesthetized for routine physical examination. Anesthesia was maintained with inhalant delivered via a laryngeal mask airway (LMA). The LMA was easy to insert, provided adequate control of the airway for ventilation, and caused no trachal stimulation. No complications were observed. As compared with a face mask, the LMA has the advantage of a more secure airway; the ability to effectively ventilate the patient; less dead space, which leads to lower rebreathing of carbon dioxide; and less exposure of personnel to waste gases. As compared with an endotracheal tube, the LMA causes less airway trauma, is easier to place, and is less stimulating to the patient. The LMA should be considered for use in fasted non-human primates presented for procedures lasting less than 60 min where high peak inspiratory pressures are not needed.
20096040|The purpose of these studies was to determine the husbandry variables that optimize the Ca content of mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) and to determine the bioavailability of this Ca for bone mineralization in chicks that consume the mealworms. To determine the optimal level of Ca in the substrates used in short-term (&lt14 days) holding of mealworms and to determine the length of time that mealworms should be exposed to high-Ca substrates, mealworms were placed in either a wheat bran or a chicken starter substrate supplemented with 0, 4, 8, or 12% Ca from CaCO. The mealworms were harvested after 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, or 14 days. The Ca content of the mealworms was greatest with the use of chicken starter and increased linearly with the Ca content of the substrate. In general, the Ca content of the mealworms increased during the first 24 hr and decreased after 1 wk, especially at the higher levels of Ca supplementation. The chicken starter also resulted in higher levels of vitamin D in mealworms. Mealworms held in wheat bran with 8% Ca were fed to growing chicks. Ca bioavailability was calculated from the chicks' bone ash. The Ca in these mealworms was 76% as bioavailable as the Ca in oyster shell.
20095028|Bilateral corneal lipidosis caused progressive corneal opacity and blindness in a group of eight adult Cuban tree frogs (Osteopilus septentrionalis). In addition, several animals also had disseminated xanthomatous lesions and extreme hypercholesterolemia.
20094991|Four hundred eighty-six nondomestic ungulates of 19 species were immobilized with carfentanil. Following immobilization, antagonism of carfentanil was accomplished by one of three regimens: (A) naltrexone i.v. at 100 times the carfentanil dose; (B) nalmefene i.v. and i.m., each injection at 10 times the carfentanil dose; or (C) diprenorphine i.v. and i.m., each injection at five times the carfentanil dose. No renarcotization occurred in 166 animals given naltrexone. Renarcotization was noted in 10 of 94 (10.6%) animals given nalmefene and 12 of 226 (5.3%) animals given diprenorphine.
20095347|An adult female ocellated lacerta (Lacerta lepida) (no. 1) presented with postprandial regurgitation and passage of undigested food in its feces. Numerous cryptosporidial oocysts were present in gastric lavage contents and feces. Although the lizard maintained a good appetite, it continued to lose weight and died 3 wk after initial presentation. At necropsy, the animal was in poor nutritional condition and had clear mucinous material throughout the intestinal tract. Histologically, there was diffuse atrophic gastritis characterized by atrophy of granular cells, mild chronic inflammation, and small numbers of intraluminal and epithelium-associated cryptosporidia. Fecal examinations and gastric lavages were conducted on the lacerta's five asymptomatic cagemates. One other lacerta, an adult female (no. 2), was identified as also being infected with cryptosporidia. Fullthickness gastric biopsies revealed that lacerta no. 2 had histologic changes that were similar to those seen in lacerta no. 1, but of a milder severity. Therapy was initiated on lacerta no. 2 with an experimental antiprotozoal drug in an attempt to clear the infection; the animal died of renal failure 9 days later. Although gastric cryptosporidiosis in snakes is characterized by proliferation of the mucosa, lesions in these two lacertas consisted of atrophic gastritis.
20096160|Numerous nematode cysts were observed throughout the mesentery and on the surface of gastrointestinal organs in a whooping crane (Grus americana) that was found dead in a central Florida marsh. Morphology of the excysted nematodes most closely resembled third-stage larvae in the order Spirurida but were not similar to any species previously reported in whooping cranes. Evidence presented suggests that the larvae may be Physocephalus sexalatus, a swine spirurid in the subfamily Ascaropsinae that is commonly found encapsulated in birds, amphibians, and reptiles. We suspect that the whooping crane may potentially serve as a transport host for this parasite.
40665133|Two White's tree frogs (Litoria caerulea) housed at a zoological park died after a short period of lethargy, weight loss, and edema. Detailed postmortem examinations were performed on both frogs, including bacterial cultures and complete histologie examinations. Intracytoplasmatic as well as free protozoan parasites were identified in multiple organs from both frogs. The parasites were identified within erythrocytes, leukocytes, endothelial cells, and hepatocytes. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated a cross-reaction with Toxoplasma gondii antisera. Parasite ultrastructural analysis was performed by transmission electron microscopy. The parasites demonstrated an apical complex containing a conoid, rhoptries, and micronemes, demonstrating it was a member of the phylum Apicomplexa. In addition, the parasites had bipolar paranuclear bodies, organelles that are typical of coccidian sporozoites. The organisms were tentatively identified as members of the genus Lankesterella on the basis of histologie and ultrastructural morphology. A portion of the 18s ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene was amplified via a polymerase chain reaction, sequenced, and used in a Basic Local Alignment Search Tool search of the GenBank database. The 18s rRNA gene sequence was found to be most similar to gene sequences isolated from Lankesterella organisms (88%). In aggregate, these data support the classification of these protozoa as a novel species of Lankesterella. A causal relationship between frog morbidity and protozoal parasitism was not determined. This is the first report of Lankesterella sp. in White's tree frogs.
20095922|Fourteen cases of dermatophytosis were identified from medical records of red pandas (Ailurus fulgens fulgens) housed at the Knoxville Zoo between 1980 and 1996. The median age of affected animals on initial presentation was 8.5 wk (3 wk-11 mo). Clinical signs included crusting, purulent exudate, alopecia, thickening of affected skin, ulceration, and necrosis. Seven animals had mild lesions with signs restricted to crusting and/or alopecia, and six animals had more severe infections, with ulceration, skin necrosis, and purulent exudate. Five of the severely affected pandas had tail involvement. The severity of disease affecting one individual was not recorded. Dermatophytosis was confirmed by culture, cytology, histopathology, or culture followed by histopathology. Microsporum gypseum was the only fungal organism cultured. Six animals were treated for mild disease, and all clinical signs resolved. Partial tail amputation was required as part of the treatment regimen for two of the six severely affected animals, and two others had ulcerated tail lesions that left circumferential scarring after resolution of infection. Itraconazole (5 mg/kg p.o. q 12-24 hr) was the most frequently used systemic antifungal agent in animals with severe lesions. All fungal infections resolved, although one panda died from unrelated causes early in the treatment period.
20460500|A 4-yr-old, 300-kg male Bongo antelope presented a fluctuant swelling on the ventral abdomen surrounding the penis, which was confirmed later as compatible with urethral rupture. Initial treatment included broad-spectrum antibiotic and radical surgical debridement. Total prepuce and partial penile amputation with orchidectomy was performed and normal micturition was restored. At a later stage, when the extent of the lesion was controlled, a permanent scrotal urethrostomy was performed. Complete healing by second intention was achieved 2 mo after the last surgery. Although the outcome was very good, considering the extent and severity of the tissue damage, prompt permanent urethrostomy when urethral rupture was first suspected would have prevented deterioration of the condition and prevented the need for extensive surgery.
41262634|A 4-mo-old, 185-kg male giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis reticulata) was presented due to stifle effusion and lameness of 3-wk duration. Radiographs revealed a fracture of the extensor fossa of the lateral trochlear ridge of the femur at the origin of the peroneus tertius. Under anesthesia, dysfunction of the reciprocal apparatus was documented by flexing the stifle while the tarsus remained extended. An avulsion fracture of the origin of the peroneus tertius and extensor digitorum longus muscle was diagnosed. An exploratory arthroscopy of the femorotibial joint was followed by arthrotomy to excise the large bone fragment from its soft tissue attachments. Because of the fractious temperament of the animal, postoperative care was restricted to stall rest for 3 mo, and no postoperative complications arose. Only a mild residual lameness remained by 6 mo after surgery.
20095925|Fibrous osteodystrophy of the facial and long bones was diagnosed in four dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius). None of the animals responded to treatment with antiinflammatory medications or calcium supplements. The lesions were probably caused by multiple factors, including inappropriate diet and gastrointestinal parasitism. A critical factor in lesion formation may have been vitamin D deficiency secondary to gastrointestinal malabsorption and inadequate winter exposure to ultraviolet light.
40665079|Plasma clearance of iohexol was evaluated in eight anesthetized California sea lions (Zalophus californianus), without evidence of renal dysfunction, to determine if the one-compartment model and the sample protocol used in dogs and cats could be applied to this species. Nonlinearity between samples in 75% (6/8) of sea lions voided those results. An additional two anesthetized sea lions were sampled at 5, 30,45, 60, 120, 180, 240, and 360 min post iohexol injection and semi-logarithmic curves calculated. Plasma iohexol clearance values calculated by one-, two-, and noncompartment models were in poor agreement, suggesting that the standardized protocol described for dogs and cats cannot simply be applied to California sea lions, probably due to the effects of the dive reflex induced during anesthesia.
20095452|An 11-yr-old male captive slow loris, Nycticebus coucang, was examined for an upper respiratory tract infection. Physical examination revealed bilateral mucopurulent oculonasal discharge, severe dental disease, mandibular lymphadenopathy, and increased pulmonary sounds. A complete blood count revealed severe lymphocytosis and neoplastic-appearing lymphocytes in the peripheral blood. A necropsy revealed marked hepatosplenomegaly, mediastinal and submandibular lymphadenopathy, and pale, firm lungs. Based on histopathology the diagnosis was lymphoma with involvement of the spleen, lymph nodes, lung, bone marrow, and conjunctiva. A herpesvirus was identified by electron microscopy in cultured mononuclear cells collected from whole blood samples.
20095943|Serum oxytetracycline pharmacokinetics were studied in 18 African elephant (Loxodonta africana) calves. Each elephant received separate injections of oxytetracycline at approximately 18 mg/kg i.m. and 8 mg/kg i.v. in a cross-over study. Blood samples were drawn at 0, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hr postinjection. An additional sample was drawn 110 hr before the animals were reinjected in the cross-over study and a final blood sample was drawn 48 hr after the second dose. No lameness or stiffness was observed following i.m. injections. Serum oxytetracycline concentrations &gt0.5 g/ml were present 48 hr after initial dosing for all elephants (i.m., i.v., high or low dosage). Only elephants given the high i.m. dosage (18 mg/kg) maintained levels &gt0.5 g/ml 72 hr postinjection. No significant difference in serum oxytetracycline concentration with time was observed between the groups given different i.v. dosages. These studies demonstrated that quantifiable serum oxytetracycline concentrations can be maintained in young African elephants with a low-dosage multidose i.m. regimen.
20096442|This study evaluated the relationship between blood iron parameters and hepatic iron concentrations, and correlation of histologic findings with hepatic iron concentrations in a captive population of Egyptian fruit bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus) and island flying foxes (Pteropus hypomelanus). Blood samples were collected for complete blood counts, plasma biochemical profiles, serum iron concentrations, total iron-binding capacity, whole-blood lead concentrations, and plasma ferritin assays. Liver samples obtained by laparotomy were divided, with one half processed for histologic examination and the other half frozen and submitted for tissue mineral analysis. The histologic sections were scored by two blinded observers for iron deposition, necrosis, and fibrosis. The Egyptian fruit bats had significantly higher liver iron (mean = 3,669  1,823 ppm) and lead (mean = 8.9  5.8 ppm) concentrations than the island flying foxes (mean [Fe] = 174  173 ppm, mean [Pb] = 1.9  0.5 ppm). Hepatic iron concentrations significantly correlated with tissue lead concentrations, histologic grading for iron and necrosis, serum iron, transferrin saturation, and plasma ferritin (P &lt 0.001). Blood lead concentrations negatively correlated with tissue lead concentrations (P &lt 0.001). When the product of transferrin saturation and serum iron was greater than 51, an individual animal had a high probability of having iron overload. When the product of these two variables was greater than 90, there was a high probability that the animal had hemochromatosis. On the basis of this study, it appears that evaluation of serum iron, transferrin saturation, and plasma ferritin are useful and noninvasive methods for diagnosis of hemochromatosis in Egyptian fruit bats.
20095333|Two captive adult male indigo snakes (Drymarchon corais) housed at the Sacramento Zoo had hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia, which persisted over a 6-mo period in one of the snakes. Mild metastatic calcification was noted on whole body radiographs of one snake. Both snakes had chronic, ulcerative dermatitis. Serum collected from 15 captive indigo snakes from six different sources demonstrated hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia (x = 158.9 mg/dl and 35.3 mg/dl, respectively) in nearly all individuals. Elevated serum calcium and phosphorus levels may be a normal clinical finding in indigo snakes in captivity.
20096618|A 4-yr-old, intact male red-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas) was evaluated because of a 6-mo history of an enlarging axillary mass. Diagnostic findings included a positive intradermal tuberculin test, persistent severe leukocytosis, and hyperglobulinemia. A nontuberculous mycobacterium species isolated from the mass was identified as Mycobacterium asiaticum using 16s ribosomal DNA sequencing and high-performance liquid chromatography.
20460501|A 13-yr-old Amur tiger (Panthera tigris altaica) was presented for an acute onset of paraplegia. Spinal imaging that included plain radiographs, myelography, and computed tomography performed under general anesthesia revealed lateralized spinal cord compression at the intervertebral disc space L4-5 caused by intervertebral disc extrusion. This extrusion was accompanied by an extensive epidural hemorrhage from L3 to L6. Therefore, a continuous hemilaminectomy from L3 to L6 was performed, resulting in complete decompression of the spinal cord. The tiger was ambulatory again 10 days after the surgery. This case suggests that the potential benefit of complete spinal cord decompression may outweigh the risk of causing clinically significant spinal instability after extensive decompression.
20095645|A fishing cat (Felis viverrina) died overnight, within 12 hr of peracute onset of depression, slight tremors, pallor, and icterus. Necropsy showed widespread hemorrhage and hematomata in the heart, stomach, and kidneys. The lungs were hyperemic and edematous. The liver was swollen and yellowish green. The spleen was very large and hyperemic. Histologic changes consisted of pneumonia, hepatic necrosis, and renal hemorrhage with glomerular fibrin clots. Chlamydia antigen was detected in liver and kidney using a direct immunofluorescence assay, and Chlamydia were cultured.
20095921|Feline asthma syndrome, previously recognized only in domestic cats, was diagnosed in three captive African lions (Panthera leo), one of which died as a result of the condition. Two of the lions displayed progressive signs for 7 yr, including severe bouts of coughing, wheezing, dyspnea, rhonchi, and tachypnea that were most severe during the spring and summer, and the third lion displayed acute signs only once. Scattered to diffuse increased interstitial markings, peribronchial cuffing, and focal atelectasis were visible in radiographs. At necropsy, multiple subpleural bullae, 2-3 cm in diameter, were scattered throughout the lung tissue. There were thick-walled bronchi and bronchioles filled with thick grayish mucus, and alveolar spaces were enlarged with severe, diffuse, banded multifocal areas of alveolar wall fibrosis. The lions had significantly elevated IgE type I immediate hypersensitivity responses to recognized aeroallergens. The captive management of lions should address the design and maintenance of allergen-free air supplies. Ventilation systems should be examined routinely and thoroughly cleaned of any residue. The frequency of examination should increase during the summer. Lions and other large cats should be routinely screened for IgE aeroallergen-specific titers, asthma cases should be treated promptly with prednisolone, and investigations of etiology should be initiated.
20095330|In this paper, we review current literature on ocular abnormalities in amphibians and report on our clinical experience in this field. The paper emphasizes the numerous areas in which further work is required to understand the etiology and pathogenesis of ocular disorders and to better treat and prevent these diseases. The normal anatomy and methods of examination of the amphibian eye are discussed. Diseases reported in the literature are detailed, as are conditions we have seen for which further investigative work is required. Corneal lesions are frequently encountered in these animals when kept in captivity. Lipid keratopathy is reported, and histopathologic and ultrastructural studies are reviewed. However, a larger number of amphibians are affected with other stromal corneal opacities for which no cause has been found. Ocular disorders associated with infectious organisms include uveitis and panophthalmitis, but no study of the prevalence of infectious ocular surface disorders has been reported. This review highlights the need for further clinical and pathologic research on amphibian ocular diseases.
20096692|River dolphins are especially susceptible to negative human impacts. For their conservation, attempts of relocation or procreation ex situ may become important in the future to avoid their extinctionn. Additional knowledge and medical experiences of river dolphin management in captivity may aid such conservation efforts. The medical records and necropsy and histopathology reports on 123 captive Amazon River dolphins (Inia geoffrensis) were reviewed. Of these 123 animals, 105 were necropsied and 70 necropsies were supported with histopathology. Eighteen animals were not necropsied. Among wild-born animals, mortality was highest in the first 2 mo immediately postcapture and transport, accounting for 32 of 123 deaths. Pneumonia and skin lesions (cutaneous and subcutaneous ulcerations and abscesses) were the most common findings, found in 44 of 105 (42%) and 38 of 105 (36%) of gross diagnoses, respectively. At least 10 of 44 cases of pneumonia diagnosed grossly included a verminous component. Cachexia, from a variety of causes, was a major gross finding in 21 animals. Fifteen animals had histologic evidence of significant renal pathology, and this was the primary cause of death in 13 cases. Hepatic pathology was found in 18 cases, and bacterial sepsis was confirmed via histology in 16 cases. Based on these findings, it may be concluded that keys to successful maintenance of this species include 1) prophylactic anthelminthic and antibiotic therapy immediately post-capture; 2) maintenance of animals in larger enclosures than in past attempts, in compatible groups, and in facilities capable of separating aggressive animals; 3) maintenance in microbiologically hygienic water quality at all times; and 4) a proactive program of preventive medicine during the immediate postcapture, quarantine, and maintenance period of captivity.
20096106|Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis was cultured from a single fecal sample collected from a 10-yr-old, captive-bred male addax (Addax nasomaculatus). Attempts to confirm infection with additional fecal cultures, serology, semen culture, and tissue biopsy were unsuccessful. There were no gross lesions on necropsy. On histopathology there were neither acid-fast organisms nor microscopic changes suggestive of active or clinical Johne's disease. Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis was isolated from four organ tissues: ileum, jejunum, colon, and mesenteric lymph node.
20095753|Acral lick dermatitis was diagnosed in a 6-mo-old female jackal (Canis aureus) that was born and housed in a zoological garden in Hafez-Haim, Israel. Other dermatologic diseases were ruled out. Although the lesions were presumed to be psychogenic in origin, they resolved with topical therapy using an ointment containing benzocaine, neomycin sulfate, and hydrocortisone acetate. No recurrence has been observed.
20460460|A captive harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) presented with partial anorexia, ataxia, and head bobbing, which progressed to complete anorexia, lethargy, and persistent whole-body intention tremors within several days. Response to treatment with ponazuril, serology, and cerebrospinal fluid analysis supported a diagnosis of Sarcocystis neurona. Analysis of serum levels for ponazuril indicated that therapeutic levels could be achieved at a dosage of 5 mg/kg p.o.s.i.d., whereas clinical response was improved at a dosage of 10 mg/kg. Several months after initiation of antiprotozoal therapy, the neurologic signs resolved, although rare intermittent tremors were seen with significant exertion.
20460332|Venipuncture was performed on 50 adult, free-ranging waved albatrosses (Phoebastria irrorata) on Espaola, Galapagos Islands, Ecuador, to establish hematologic and plasma biochemistry reference ranges and to determine the prevalence of exposure to important domestic avian pathogens. Weights and plasma creatine phosphokinase activities differed significantly between males and females. Serum was tested for evidence of exposure to avian influenza, avian paramyxoviruses 1, 2, and 3, avian cholera, adenovirus groups 1 and 2, avian encephalomyelitis, Marek's disease, infectious bursal disease, and infectious bronchitis virus (Connecticut and Massachusetts strains). Of 44 birds, 29 (66%) seroreacted to adenovirus group 1, and four seroreacted to avian encephalomyelitis. Cloacal swabs were negative for Chlamydophila psittaci DNA.
20094997|Regional anatomy of the femur was compared among selected avian species to assess viable surgical approaches for long bone fracture repair. Dissections of 27 specimens of various species of hawks, owls, vultures, psittacines, and gallinaceous birds revealed two major variations that warranted differing surgical approaches to the femur. Especially significant was the variation in size of the iliotibialis lateralis muscle. Whereas this muscle is well developed in vultures and gallinaceous birds, it is much smaller in hawks, owls, and psittacines. In addition, the birds other than vultures and gallinaceous birds lacked a flexor cruris lateralis muscle. Two surgical approaches were tailored to accommodate the variations in anatomy; one approach for vultures and gallinaceous birds and the other for hawks, owls, and psittacines.
27751701|A 5-yr-old female black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) was euthanized 11 mo after arrival at the Milwaukee County Zoo (Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA) from Glen Rose, Texas (USA) for a severe progressive rear leg lameness of 6-mo duration. Gross necropsy revealed complete rupture of the capital ligament of the left femur with synovitis and osteomyelitis. Multifocal lymphadenopathy with chronic suppurative lymphadenitis of the tracheobronchial, left supramammary, and iliac lymph nodes was present. Granulomatous pneumonia with a focal abscess was also noted. Histologically, fungal elements were seen in the lung, lymph nodes, and synovium, and Coccidioides immitis was isolated on fungal culture. Coccidioides immitis is not endemic to Wisconsin; therefore, the animal had to have been infected, although asymptomatic, at the time of arrival at the Milwaukee County Zoo. Whether the disease was active at the time of arrival or whether it was quiescent and then became active with the stress of shipment or injury is unknown.
20096303|An 11-yr-old female cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) was diagnosed clinically with hepatic and renal disease and euthanatized after an extended illness. Postmortem examination revealed 8-10 L of milky white fluid in the abdominal cavity and markedly dilated lymphatic vessels within the intestinal mesentery. The abdominal fluid was a chylous effusion based on the cytologic predominance of lymphocytes and macrophages and comparison of cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the fluid and in serum. Gross and histopathologic lesions in the liver were consistent with a diagnosis of venoocclusive liver disease. Chylous ascites is uncommon with human chronic liver disease and is rarely identified in animals.
20095947|Eleven adult fallow deer (Cervus dama) were anesthetized using a mixture of xylazine/tiletamine/zolazepam, and 10 were anesthetized with a mixture of medetomidine/tiletamine/zolazepam. Anesthesia was adequate for capture in all instances, and minor surgical procedures were possible in seven of the animals treated with xylazine/tiletamine/zolazepam and in all of the animals treated with medetomidine/tiletamine/zolazepam. Blood gas, hematologic, serum biochemical, and cardiorespiratory parameters were measured during all immobilizations. The deer immobilized with xylazine/tiletamine/zolazepam had significantly higher lactate and cortisol values than the deer immobilized with the medetomidine combination. Although both methods were adequate for fallow deer, the medetomidine/tiletamine/zolazepam combination produced superior results.
20096157|A juvenile female mountain gorilla (Gorilla beringei beringei) of the Mubare tourist group in Bwindi Impenetrable National Park, Uganda, developed a severe, complete rectal prolapse that did not spontaneously resolve. Eight months prior, a juvenile female mountain gorilla of the Mubare group developed a mild, complete rectal prolapse that resolved spontaneously within 24 hr. Field guides reported that spontaneously resolving prolapses had been seen previously in two other juveniles, one of which was from the Mubare group. The tissue became increasingly necrotic and maggot infested over the course of 1 wk. Surgical intervention involved amputation of the affected rectal tissues and suturing the viable portion to the anal sphincter muscle with simple interrupted absorbable sutures. The surgery was performed in the field in accordance with Uganda Wildlife Authority policies. Antibiotics and anthelmintics were administered systemically, and the gorilla returned to the group. The gorilla appeared to recover fully after 3 wk. Histology of the resected rectal tissue confirmed intense inflammation and necrosis with myiasis but did not reveal an underlying etiology.
41262645|The aim of this study was to determine diameters of blood cells, differential counts of peripheral blood leukocytes, alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase (ANAE), acid phosphatase (ACP-ase) activity of some leukocyte types, and enzymatic positivity percentages of peripheral blood lymphocytes in two hedgehogs species, Hemiechinus auritus, the long-eared hedgehog, and Erinaceus concolor, the southern white-breasted hedgehog. Airdried peripheral blood smears were stained with May-Grnwald-Giemsa stain. ANAE and ACP-ase were stained in glutaraldehyde-acetone-fixed smears. ANAE-positive lymphocytes displayed a dot-like positivity pattern characterized with 1-5 reddish brown cytoplasmic granules, whereas ACP-ase positive lymphocytes displayed a dot-like positivity pattern characterized with 1-3 pinkish cytoplasmic granules. Monocytes gave a diffuse and strong reaction while neutrophils displayed a weak positive reaction for ANAE and ACP-ase. No difference was observed in mean diameters of peripheral blood cells of these species. It was found that lymphocytes made up the majority (64.3% and 65.5%) of leukocytes, followed by neutrophils (23.9% and 23.3%), eosinophils (9.0% and 7.6%), monocytes (1.8% and 2.3%), and basophils (1.0% and 1.3%) in H. auritus and E. concolor, respectively. Mean ANAE positivity of lymphocytes was 36.6% and 51.3% and ACP-ase positivity was 32.1% and 37.5% for H. auritus and E. concolor, respectively. The ANAE positivity of lymphocytes in E. concolor was significantly (P < 0.05) higher than that of H. auritus.
20096149|Documentation of the psittacine paranasal sinuses has been limited. To provide more published detail, spiral computed tomography (CT) was used to scan the cephalic and cervical region from cadavers of 10 psittacine birds (Ara ararauna, Ara chloroptera, Ara macao, and Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus). Skeletal studies, histologic examinations, and evaluation of deep-frozen sections and anatomic preparations confirmed the results of the CT scans. New morphologic details of the paranasal sinus and some compartments were discovered. The paranasal sinuses of these macaws consist of two unpaired rostral compartments, followed caudally by eight paired compartments. Histologic examinations revealed that the walls of the paranasal sinuses consist of flat or cubic monolayer epithelium with underlying connective tissue. The described method of CT examination of these macaws, especially the positioning, scan orientation and parameters, and documentation of the normal paranasal sinus, provides a basis for future clinical use of CT.
20095442|An adult female stumptail macaque (Macaca arctoides) developed intestinal pseudoobstruction, characterized by recurrent postprandial abdominal distension and weight loss. Cisapride, a new prokinetic agent, decreased the severity of the clinical signs and reversed the weight loss associated with the disease. The monkey also suffered from inflammatory bowel disease of unknown etiology, which is not uncommon in nonhuman primates.
20460484|At present, the hemagglutination inhibition (HI) assay is the sole commercially available serologic method available to detect exposure to ophidian paramyxovirus (OPMV) in snakes. During 2006, 26 eastern massasaugas (Sistrurus catenatus catenatus) were collected, and blood was sampled to determine their OPMV status. Samples from each snake were divided into 3 aliquots and tested by using commercially available HI assays against the 4 OPMV isolates used in the 3 laboratories that offer the service. All snakes were tested for antibodies by using HI assays against the green tree python (GTP), San Lucan rattlesnake (SLR), and Aruba Island rattlesnake (AIR) isolates. Twenty-five snakes were tested for antibodies against the western diamondback rattlesnake (WDR) isolate. All samples tested against the GTP and SLR were positive (26/26), whereas 56% (14/25) of the WDR assays were positive, and none (0/26) of the AIR assays yielded a positive result. There was 100% agreement between the GTP and SLR assays, and complete disagreement between the SLR and AIR, as well as the GTP and AIR assays. Kappa statistics for the GTP-WDR, SLR-WDR, GTP-AIR, SLR-AIR, and WDR-AIR indicated that the assays had less than chance agreement. The results demonstrate that current HI assays are not reliable as a sole diagnostic assay in the eastern massasauga. Furthermore, HI assays need to be evaluated by using other parameters to determine OPMV exposure in eastern massasaugas.
20095953|Two wild-caught Bosc's monitor lizards (Varanus exanthematicus) developed clinical signs of pentasomiasis approximately 3 yr after arrival in the United Kingdom. One died of chronic parasitic pneumonia associated with adult pentastomids of an undescribed Sambonia species. Eggs and immature pentastomids were also seen in histologic sections of the lungs and liver. The other animal was treated for pneumonia and for nodular inflammation of the larynx that restricted the diameter of the glottis. Fragments of pentastomid larvae were seen in a laryngeal biopsy, and the animal recovered after treatment with ivermectin and supportive therapy.
20095978|Figure-of-eight wing bandaging is widely used to treat wing injuries, to immobilize wings before and after fracture repair, and during transient wing paralysis. However, prolonged bandaging can lead to bone loss and to contractures and reduced range of joint motion. Studies evaluating the efficacy of therapeutic ultrasound to reverse and prevent bandaging-associated contractures in pigeons (Columba livia) showed a significant increase in elbow and carpal extension after 10 twice weekly ultrasound treatments when started either 4 or 11 days after bandage placement. In addition, after 42 days of wing bandaging, three ultrasound treatments stimulated a faster reversal of carpal wing rotation loss than removal of the bandage over the 10-day treatment period. Finally, bone loss in response to 28 days of bandaging was significant, progressed at 2.8% per week, and was not affected by ultrasound treatment twice weekly during this period. Therefore, therapeutic ultrasound prevented and reversed loss of wing extension associated with figure-of-eight bandaging but did not lessen the disuse osteoporosis created by bandaging in these birds.
40665148|The transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block is an innovative regional anesthetic technique using local anesthetic that is gaining popularity in the analgesic management of human patients undergoing abdominal surgery. Needle placement in the TAP block is within the facial plane between the internal oblique and transversus abdominis muscles and involves the abdominal and thoracic nerves. Successful blockade generally involves spinal nerves T10-L1 and may induce sensory blockade as far cranially as T7, thus producing analgesia for abdominal surgery. Human studies suggest that this regional anesthetic technique may provide postoperative analgesia of the abdominal wall for up to 48 hr. Because of the extent and duration of sensory blockade, this novel technique with bupivacaine was used on a Canadian lynx (Lynx canadensis), possibly providing 8-10 hr of intra- and postoperative analgesia concurrent to exploratory laparotomy for removal of a gastric foreign body.
20460271|Serum -tocopherol (-TOC) concentrations averaged (SEM) 27.2  4.0 g/ml in 14 raptors representing six species fed a vitamin-E supplemented diet. By contrast, serum -TOC in eight free-ranging birds in good condition representing five species averaged 10.0  2.0 g/ml. In a separate study, vitamin E (as -tocophryl acetate) was supplemented p.o. to four great horned owls (GHO) (Bubo virginianus) and four Swainson's hawks (SWH) (Buteo swainsoni) at 370 or 740 IU/kg of diet (dry basis; two birds per treatment). Two unsupplemented birds of each species served as controls. Supplementation increased serum -TOC concentrations in both species (from 46.6 to 62.8 or 93.5 g/ml [GHO]; from 59.1 to 96.2 or 170.5 g/ml [SWH]), and treatment effects appeared species specific. Two to 3 wks after discontinuing supplementation, serum -TOC concentrations returned to control levels, averaging approximately 50 g/ml. These data provide comparative information for assessing vitamin E status of raptors and may be useful for determining the need for dietary supplementation during captivity. Physiologic response to added vitamin E, as measured by serum concentrations of -TOC, was rapid and transitory. More detailed quantification of vitamin E activity in both supplemented and unsupplemented food items for raptors is needed.
20095983|Three juvenile sable antelope (Hippotragus niger) were diagnosed with bilateral aural hyalohyphomycosis based on histopathology. All three animals were suspected to be immunodeficient based on low IgG levels determined using the zinc sulfate turbidity test. The serum and hepatic copper levels of one animal were below the bovine reference range. Clinical signs in the three animals included bilateral ventral deviation of the pinnae with multifocal subcutaneous aural tumefaction and poor body condition. Numerous septate, nonpigmented fungal hyphae were found within the auricular cartilage, dermis, and subcutaneous granulomas. No significant fungal agents were isolated by culture, and no signs of systemic fungal dissemination were identified except for a concurrent fungal rhinitis in one animal.
20095686|Twelve free-ranging mouflon (Ovis ammon), eight adults and four lambs, were captured in northeast Spain. The animals were transported for 9 hr from the capture site to the Wildlife Rescue Center at Vallcalent (Lleida), 300 km SW. Blood samples were taken at capture and after transport to study the effects on hematologic and biochemical parameters. The RBC, PCV, Hb, and alkaline phosphatase values were significantly higher in lambs than in adults, and total protein levels were significantly lower in lambs. Comparisons of blood parameters of adult animals at capture and after transport revealed significantly lower RBC, PCV, Hb, PLT, lymphocyte counts, glucose, cholesterol, creatinine, and alkaline phosphatase values and significantly higher neutrophil count, AST, ALT, CK, LDH, and total bilirubin levels after transport. The differences observed in the blood parameters of lambs before and after transport were not statistically significant.
20460293|Disorders of keratinization were detected in a group of related koalas held captive at the Taronga Zoo, Sydney, Australia. One female koala had volar hyperkeratosis and diffuse seborrhea characterized by cutaneous horns. Both its female sibling and a female parent had diffuse seborrhea. The female grandparent had a diffuse seborrhea characterized by papules and nodules. Records of unrelated koalas held captive at the Taronga Zoo revealed a female with facial and limb alopecia and scaliness of unknown cause and two koalas with dermatophytosis. Examination of records kept in the Non-Domestic Animal Registry at the Taronga Zoo revealed three further cases of idiopathic disorders of keratinization (volar hyperkeratosis, "nodular dermatosis," and diffuse seborrhea) in unrelated free-living and captive koalas. Therefore, the significance of the familial nature of the disorders of keratinization in the koalas held at the Taronga Zoo was questionable. The skin changes present in the koalas with idiopathic disorders of keratinization were distinct from skin changes present in koalas with sarcoptic mange and dermatophyte infection.
20460519|Sedation in sea lions exhibiting abnormal neurologic signs may require modification of established sedation protocols because of the likely interaction between effects of the sedative and physiologic changes in diseased animals. The effects of two sedative combinations, 0.07 mg/kg medetomidine and 0.07 mg/kg medetomidine plus 0.2 mg/kg butorphanol, were compared between California sea lions (Zalophus californianus) with signs of neurologic dysfunction (n = 33) and without neurologic signs (n = 8). Sedation depth was scored on a scale of 0 (no effect) to 4 (profound sedation) assessed by response to auditory, tactile, and visual stimuli at the time of perceived maximal sedative effect. In the medetomidine-alone group, sea lions with neurologic signs attained a median sedation score of 4 compared to a median sedation score of 1 in the clinically normal sea lions. Sea lions with and without neurologic signs given medetomidine-butorphanol attained a median sedation score of 4. No statistically significant difference in time to induction and respiratory rate was found between the two sedation protocols in all sea lions. In the sea lions with neurologic signs, the recovery time from medetomidine-butorphanol sedation was prolonged (P &lt; 0.01) and minimum recorded heart rates, although remaining within normal physiologic limits, were lower (P = 0.02) when compared to the sea lions administered medetomidine alone. Muscle jerks were observed in many animals given medetomidine-butorphanol and were detrimental to the diagnostic quality of the electroencephalogram (EEG) recording. Medetomidine alone at a dose rate of 0.07 mg/kg thus provides adequate and safe sedation in sea lions with neurologic signs undergoing EEG evaluation.
20096515|Fifteen captive wild mares (Equus caballus) were treated with porcine zona pellucida contraceptive vaccine and either Freund's Complete Adjuvant (n = 7) or Freund's Modified Adjuvant (n = 8). All mares received a booster inoculation of porcine zona pellucida plus Freund's Incomplete Adjuvant a month later. Anti-porcine zona pellucida antibodies were measured over 10 mo following the initial inoculation. There were no significant differences in antibody titers at any point during the 10 mo, and seven of the eight mares in the Freund's Modified Adjuvant group were above the 60% level at the end of the study, which is considered to be the contraceptive threshold for horses. There were no significant differences in titers between pregnant and nonpregnant horses, nor was there a significant correlation between age and titers. One local injection site reaction occurred after booster treatment with Freund's Incomplete Adjuvant, and 11 healthy foals were born during the course of the study. These data suggest that Freund's Modified Adjuvant is an acceptable substitute for Freund's Complete Adjuvant in certain free-ranging and captive wildlife species.
20095706|Melengestrol acetate (MGA) is the most widely used contraceptive in zoo felids, but the mechanism of contraception and the pathologic effects have not been investigated. For this study, the effects of MGA on folliculogenesis were assessed, and the association of MGA with ovarian lesions was evaluated. Comparisons were made among the histopathologic findings in the ovaries from 88 captive wild felids (representing 15 species) divided into three groups: 37 currently contracepted with MGA, eight previously exposed to MGA, and 43 never contracepted. Ninety-one percent of the felids evaluated had tertiary follicles, and no differences were noted between contracepted and uncontracepted cats. Some MGA-contracepted cats also had corpora lutea indicating recent ovulation. These results indicate that folliculogenesis is not suppressed by current doses of MGA and ovulation occurred in some cats. Therefore, the contraceptive actions of MGA do not occur by suppressing folliculogenesis, and MGA-contracepted felids likely have endogenous estrogens that may confound progestin effects on the uterus. Cystic rete ovarii was the most common pathologic finding, but they were not more prevalent in MGA-contracepted cats. These findings indicate that MGA is not associated with ovarian disease, including ovarian cancer, in contrast to the uterine lesions noted in MGA-treated cats.
27751771|A 7-yr-old African wild dog (Lycaon pictus) multiparous bitch experienced severe dystocia and death one day after the onset of parturition. Necropsy revealed three placental attachments in the right uterine horn and one in the left. A full-thickness rupture of the right horn at the middle placental attachment and an autolysed fetus free in the abdomen were present. Death was attributed to hypovolemic and endotoxemic shock after uterine rupture. Myometrium adjacent to the rupture and in the left uterine horn was subdivided into irregular pseudolobules by fibrous connective tissue tracts containing small endometrial glandular acini suggestive of adenomyosis, which may have facilitated uterine rupture. This is the first reported case of dystocia-induced uterine rupture and of adenomyosis in a wild dog.
20095576|A southern white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum) exhibited at the Antwerp Zoo suffered from exfoliative dermatitis. Treatment with topical antibiotics was ineffective. Large numbers of Malassezia pachydermatis and Candida parapsilosis yeast cells were found in the lesions by light microscopy and culture. Application of natamycin solution b.i.d. for 1 mo and s.i.d. for another month resulted in complete recovery. In contrast to earlier reports that characterized microorganisms isolated from rhinoceros skin lesions as secondary invaders, the positive response to natamycin treatment reported here suggests the pathogenicity of both M. pachydermatis and C. parapsilosis.
40665141|Intestinal lymphoma of granular lymphocytes was diagnosed in a 6-year-old fisher (Martes pennanti) and a geriatric Eurasian otter (Lutra lutra). Clinical signs included lethargy and inappetance in both animals and vomiting and occasional diarrhea in the fisher. The diagnosis in both cases was made using cytology of fresh tissue, histology of fixed tissues, and immunohistochemistry. Granules were seen most clearly on cytologic examination of direct impressions from fresh tissue. Because granules were absent in most histologie sections, cytology of fresh tissue was essential for the diagnosis. Immunohistochemistry determined that the neoplastic cells had positive membranous immunoreactivity to CD3 and were negative for CD79a, which was consistent with alimentary T-cell lymphoma. The disease course in both animals was presumed to be aggressive, with rapid progression of clinical signs, high mitotic index and effacement of local intestinal architecture in both cases, and metastatic disease in the fisher. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of lymphoma of granular lymphocytes in a fisher and a Eurasian otter.
20094914|Two 5-day feeding trials were conducted on two juvenile female giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) at the Calgary Zoo. Calculations were made to determine the digestibility of a bamboo, sugar cane, and gruel diet in juvenile giant pandas. Bamboo and sugar cane constituted 55-62% and 8-12%, respectively, of the dry matter of the daily diet. Dry matter digestibility of the bamboo-sugar cane was 19.0 and 15.2% for the 2.5-yr-old and the 4.5-yr-old pandas, respectively. Hemicellulose digestion was calculated at 23.4 and 10.2%, whereas cellulose digestion was 41.8 and 28.2% for the two animals, respectively. These figures for dry matter digestibility and hemicellulose digestion are comparable to data previously reported for bamboo utilization in adult pandas. In a similar study conducted in the Wolong Reserve, China, the younger pandas had increased efficiency, which coincides with the results of this study. Ingesta passage time was 6-9.5 hr for the younger panda and 6-11.5 hr for the older panda. A longer passage time (13 hr) was observed in the older animal within 24 hr prior to passage of a mucous stool.
20096387|Three juvenile male Micronesian kingfishers (Halcyon cinnamomina cinnamomina) housed in the same enclosure presented with rapid weight gain and coelomic distension. Physical examination and radiography revealed marked enlargement of the ventriculus and a single, large foreign body within the ventriculus in each individual. Surgical removal by ventriculotomy was attempted in one individual, which died during the procedure. A second individual was treated with natural peanut butter 0.5 ml p.o. b.i.d. for 14 days and recovered, casting the foreign material. The third bird was similarly treated without success and subsequently died during attempts at endoscopic removal of the foreign body. In all three birds, the foreign bodies proved to be phytobezoars. The birds had been observed stripping leaf fragments from live corn plants (Dracaena fragrans) used in the enclosure. Plant fibers from the phytobezoars were compared with D. fragrans leaves and were considered identical. Medical treatment of phytobezoars with peanut butter or similar oil-containing substances in birds should be considered as an alternative to surgical extraction.
20095764|Plasma concentrations of -tocopherol (vitamin E) and other analytes in Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) in Nepal were determined during typical work camp management of the elephants. Elephants foraged for food for 4-6 hr each day under the control of mahouts and were also provided daily with cut forage and supplements of unhusked rice, cane molasses, and salt. Blood samples were taken monthly for 1 yr without chemical restraint from 26 female elephants in four camps. Elephants were 6-60+ yr of age. Mean (SEM) -tocopherol concentration was 0.77  0.047 g/ml, with a range of 0.23-1.57 g/ml. Subadults had lower concentrations than did older elephants, and there were significant differences in mean concentrations from different camps and in mean monthly concentrations. Plasma -tocopherol concentration appears to vary widely between individuals, and a single value of &lt0.3 g/ml is not sufficient to diagnose incipient vitamin E deficiency. Mean (SEM) plasma retinol (vitamin A) concentration was 0.063  0.003 g/ml with a range of 0.01-0.12 g/ml. Subadults had higher concentrations than did older elephants, and mean retinal values differed significantly among camps. Beta-carotene was not found in plasma. Twenty-five other analytes determined or derived were generally similar to those reported in other Asian and African (Loxodonta africana) elephants. Estimates of nutrient intake, based upon diet composition, suggested that dietary concentrations of zinc and sodium may have been marginal, but the absence of signs of any nutrient deficiencies indicates that dietary husbandry in these elephant camps was generally satisfactory.
20095141|Multiple dosing pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole were determined after oral administration of the drug at two dosage levels (15 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg) to captive gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus). Using a crossover experimental design, eight tortoises were dosed at each level every 24 hr for 72 hr. Prior to drug dosage, the health status of each tortoise was assessed by physical examination and measurements of body weight to carapace length ratio, serum chemistries, hematocrit, and total plasma protein concentration. Overt toxic effects of ketoconazole were evaluated by repetition of these measurements during sample collection and 72 hr after initial drug administration. Plasma concentrations of ketoconazole were measured using high performance liquid chromatography on blood samples collected via venous catheterization before and &gt78 hr after drug administration. At the 15 mg/kg dosage level, the rising plasma concentration phase (RPCP) half-life was 1.5  1.4 hr and the falling plasma concentration phase (FPCP) half-life was 13.2  1.7 hr. At the 30 mg/kg dosage level, the RPCP half-life was 0.3  0.1 hr and the FPCP half-life was 14.4  2.5 hr. Both doses resulted in therapeutic concentrations of drug in plasma at steady state. No hematologic or serum chemistry alterations attributable to drug toxicity were detected.
20460270|Hematologic and plasma chemistry values were determined for five species of adult clinically normal endangered pigeons. Variables studied in Nicobar (Caloenas nicobarica), pheasant (Otidiphaps nobilis), common crowned (Goura cristata), Victoria crowned (G. victoria), and Scheepmaker's crowned (G. scheepmakeri) pigeons included hematocrit, hemoglobin concentration, erythrocyte and leucocyte counts, mean corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, erythrocyte dimensions, glucose, urea, uric acid, cholesterol, creatinine, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, creatine phosphokinase, lactic dehydrogenase, gamma glutamyl transpeptidase, total phosphorus, chloride, total plasma protein, albumin, globulin, albumin: globulin ratio, calcium, magnesium, and osmolality. Most values were similar to those reported for domestic or racing pigeons. An important difference noted was a lower hemoglobin concentration in the Goura spp. compared with domestic pigeons.
41262654|Elevated serum iron parameters were lowered through dietary manipulation in captive Raggiana bird of paradise (Paradisaea raggiana). Study birds were part of a captive breeding program consisting of two males and one female, captive born, 3.5-9 yr of age. Serum iron, total iron binding capacity (TIBC), percentage saturation, body weight, albumin, aspartate aminotransferase, and hematocrit were monitored at regular intervals for 2.5 yr. Routine diet consisted of a variety of fruits, vegetables, a multivitamin supplement, and a commercial low iron avian pellet, with a dietary iron content of 55 mg/kg (dry matter basis) or 1.12 mg iron/bird/day. Dietary treatment involved removal of the commercial avian pellet for 30 days at 6-to 12-mo intervals, resulting in an iron content of 42 mg/kg (dry matter basis) or 0.64 mg iron/bird/day. Average serum iron and TIBC were decreased by 75% (TIBC) to 80% (serum iron) of pretreatment values after one 30-day treatment. Average iron saturation levels were lowered by 10% of pretreatment values after one 30-day treatment. Average hematocrit, albumin, aspartate aminotransferase, and body weight remained unchanged. No adverse effects were noted through the 2.5-yr evaluation period, and breeding behavior was undisturbed. Periodic removal of low iron commercial pellets in the diet of captive bird of paradise is a safe and effective method for lowering serum iron values without need for handling. Periodic application of this technique may be useful as a preventive tool to maintain appropriate serum iron values in avian species susceptible to iron storage disease.
20460299|A case of suspected griseofulvin toxicity in an adult lactating cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) and her three cubs is described. The adult dam received 23 mg/kg griseofulvin p.o. b.i.d., whereas the cubs received 48-73 mg/kg griseofulvin p.o. b.i.d., for a skin infection with Microsporum canis. The adult female died 11 days after griseofulvin treatment was started. After 4 days of treatment, all three cubs showed signs of severe bone marrow suppression. The three cubs recovered after prolonged nursing care. Subsequently, the M. canis infection was successfully treated with ketoconazole (7.5-11.0 mg/kg p.o. s.i.d.) for 60 days and weekly lime-sulfur immersion dips for 6 wk.
20096039|The apparent digestibilities of macronutrients by babirusa (Babyrousa babyrussa) were measured. Three group-housed captive babirusa were fed a diet of pelleted feed, boiled potatoes, grains, vegetables, and fruits. To determine reproducibility of the results, two digestibility trials were conducted 5 wk apart. The apparent digestibilities for crude protein, crude fat, and nonstructural carbohydrates (nitrogen-free extract) were 71, 76, and 78% of intake, respectively. Average apparent digestibilities of neutral detergent fiber and acid detergent fiber were 62 and 19% of intake, respectively. Hemicellulose (neutral detergent fiber minus acid detergent fiber) digestibility was 75%. Cellulose digestibility on average was 19% of intake, i.e., identical to acid detergent fiber digestibility because the diet did not contain a detectable amount of acid detergent lignin.
20095794|Seventeen juvenile red-eared slider turtles (Trachemys scripta elegans) were separated into two groups: one group received a diet that included vitamin C supplementation, the other group received a similar diet devoid of supplemental vitamin C. Overall body mass and carapace length were measured monthly for a period of 1 yr. No significant differences were observed between the growth rates of the two experimental groups, suggesting that dietary vitamin C is not essential for normal growth and development in juvenile red-eared slider turtles.
20096159|Five African elephants (Loxodonta africana) were immobilized with etorphine in Waza National Park, Cameroon, for the purpose of deploying radio/satellite tracking collars. A portable ventilator constructed from two high-flow demand valves and the Y-piece of a large animal anesthesia circuit was used to provide intermittent positive-pressure ventilation with 100% oxygen. Oxygenation status improved dramatically in all five elephants. In one hypoxemic elephant, arterial
20096255|Complete health assessments were performed on 20 adult ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta), 10 males and 10 females, free ranging within the Tsimanampetsotsa Strict Nature Reserve in southwest Madagascar. Each animal was anesthetized using tiletamine and zolazepam, weighed, and given a thorough physical examination. Blood was collected for hematology, determination of plasma total protein concentration, serum chemistry, determination of fat-soluble vitamin and trace mineral concentrations, assessment of iron metabolism, toxoplasmosis and viral serologies, and examination for parasites. Feces were collected for bacterial culture and parasite examination, and representative numbers of ectoparasites were collected. Blood values differed significantly in a number of ways from values in captive lemurs, possibly associated with recent food consumption, hydration, and diet. There was no evidence of serious infectious disease and no hemoparasites. The enteric flora appeared unremarkable, although results may have been skewed toward cold-tolerant bacteria. The fecal parasite burden was low, but there were large numbers of ectoparasites (mites) present. Our study demonstrated that a substantial amount of data can be collected from free-ranging populations, information that is invaluable in the management of captive populations, particularly with regard to disease, and in assessing risks associated with reintroduction programs.
20096457|A 7-yr-old, adult, female greater rhea (Rhea americana) from the National Zoological Park presented with a 24-hr history of severe left leg lameness that progressed to an inability to stand. Blood work revealed creatine phosphokinase (CPK) above 50,000 U/L and elevated lactate dehydrogenase. The bird's condition deteriorated over the next week. The bird's CPK increased to over 208,400 U/L. Aggressive intravenous fluids and physical therapy along with oral anxiolytic and muscle-relaxant drugs were instituted. After 2 wk of aggressive therapy, initial signs of improvement were noted. By day 28, the bird was able to walk unassisted with no noticeable lameness. This is one of the few reported cases of successful treatment of suspected ratite exertional myopathy. It is believed that success in this case can be attributed to persistent, aggressive physical therapy, muscle relaxants, and anxiolytics aimed to counteract the hyperexcitable nature of these birds.
41262613|To evaluate the potential to conduct population-based epidemiologic studies using multiinstitutional data, the quality of data extracted from the MedARKS* system was evaluated with regard to atoxoplasmosis in Bali mynahs (Leucopsar rothschildi). Data extracted for 338 Bali mynahs from 34 institutions were analyzed for completeness, correctness, and consistency and subjectively analyzed for accessibility. Data completeness was ascertained by analysis of missing records, tests, and blank fields. Two hundred and sixty four records had animal enclosure information missing, nine records were missing from the parasitology module, and 85 records did not include tests or results. Data correctness was assessed by evaluation of unclear and inaccurate results. From 2,432 parasitology records, 81 tests (3.3%) were not definitive because of uninterpretable entries. Data consistency was assessed by comparing the problem list to positive tests in the parasitology module and listing of buffy coat smears in the clinical pathology module. Overall, six different terms with 28 values were used to denote "positive for Atoxoplasma sp.," and a substantial number of discrepancies were found between problem lists, parasitology modules, and test findings among these data records. In general, this study showed that the data contained in a computer patient record (CPR) system for zoos has great promise for population-level studies if specific areas are addressed, including 1) reduced reliance on free-text data entry, 2) universal use of a standardized vocabulary, 3) use of methods to identify and track individual animals accurately and easily, 4) integration of data checks and maintenance methods, and 5) concerted use of "centralized" animal medical record information.
20096381|Using a crossover study design, the pharmacokinetics of carfentanil and naltrexone after i.v., i.m., and s.c. administration were determined in eight domestic goats (Capra hircus). Serial blood samples were taken up to 120 hr after carfentanil administration, and the plasma drug concentrations were determined using liquid chromatography and mass spectroscopy. All goats were immobilized with 40 g/kg carfentanil i.m., although the resulting neurologic effects varied considerably. Plasma profiles showed rapid carfentanil absorption and a simple biphasic decline for 12-48 hr. Naltrexone given at 100 mg naltrexone/mg carfentanil 30 min after carfentanil administration produced rapid reversal of immobilization after all routes of administration. Variable fluctuations in the naltrexone plasma concentrations during the first 2.5-3.5 hr were observed, followed by a more consistent biphasic decline. The time to standing was significantly shorter after i.v. compared with s.c. naltrexone, although the time difference (1 min) had little clinical relevance. No statistically significant differences between the naltrexone pharmacokinetic parameters measured for the three routes of naltrexone administration were identified, although the recoveries after i.m. administration were, subjectively, the smoothest. The carfentanil half-life did not differ significantly in the goats given naltrexone by different routes. Although it is currently recommended that the naltrexone dose be divided into s.c. and i.v. portions, this practice does not appear to offer any benefit.
20095655|A noninvasive repeatable method to harvest oocytes for in vitro fertilization (IVF) could potentially be used to assist reproduction in endangered equid species. The objectives of this study were to evaluate a specific transvaginal ultrasound-guided oocyte recovery procedure for use in zebra mares and the general applicability of IVF procedures in zebra. Ovaries were collected from Burchell's zebra (Equus burchelli) and Hartmann's zebra (Equus zebra hartmannae) mares at routine culling for Expt. I. Of the 144 oocytes recovered from these ovaries, 70% were of excellent quality. No significant difference in oocyte quality was found between the two zebra species. Zona drilling was performed on in vitro-matured oocytes prior to IVF. Epididymal sperm from culled Burchell's zebra stallions were used for IVF. The sperm either were exposed to calcium ionophore or were not treated and served as a control. In vitro fertilized oocytes were then co-cultured with zebra granulosa cells (ZGC) or with bovine oviduct cells (BOC) for up to 8 days. Overall, a 38% cleavage rate was obtained with 16% of sperm-exposed oocytes developing to the morula or blastocyst stage. All of the embryos that developed to at least the morula stage were cultured on BOC; whereas, none of those cultured on ZGC reached the morula stage during the same interval. Cleavage rates of oocytes inseminated with ionophore-treated or with control sperm were not significantly different, suggesting that ionophore treatment of epididymal sperm for IVF in these zebra species may be redundant. In Expt. II, 10 transvaginal ultrasound-guided oocyte aspiration procedures on five captive Burchell's zebra mares recovered a total of 33 oocytes (6.6 oocytes/female) of which 94% were considered viable. This approach may be an attractive means of producing gametes for assisted reproduction in endangered species. Furthermore, results from this study indicate that IVF may become a means of producing offspring from zebra and other equid species in the future.
20096096|Between 1987 and 1997, we chemically immobilized 597 wild sea otters (Enhydra lutris) in Alaska for the collection of biological samples or for surgical instrumentation. One drug-related sea otter fatality occurred during this time. Fentanyl in combination with diazepam produced consistent, smooth inductions with minimal need for supplemental anesthetics during procedures lasting 30-40 min. Antagonism with naltrexone or naloxone was rapid and complete, although we observed narcotic recycling in sea otters treated with naloxone. For surgical procedures, we recommend a fentanyl target dose of 0.33 mg/kg of body mass and diazepam at 0.11 mg/kg. For nonsurgical biological sample collection procedures, we recommend fentanyl at 0.22 mg/kg and diazepam at 0.07 mg/kg. We advise the use of the opioid antagonist naltrexone at a ratio of 2:1 to the total fentanyl administered during processing.
20096062|Feline coronavirus genetic elements were detected by polymerase chain reaction from blood, fecal samples, and effusive fluid collected from 33 cheetahs in the U.S.A. Feline coronavirus-specific serum antibodies were also measured by indirect immunofluorescence. Ten cheetahs were positive for viral shedding by polymerase chain reaction, whereas 13 were seropositive by immunofluorescence. Results of serology did not consistently correlate with shedding of virus, and the capture antigen used for detection of feline coronavirus-specific antibodies had a significant impact on results. Testing of samples from one population over a 1-yr period indicated chronic infection in some animals. These relatively healthy carrier animals were a source of virus for contact animals. Screening programs in cheetah populations for feline coronavirus infection may be most reliable if a combination of serologic analysis and viral detection by polymerase chain reaction is used.
20460366|Bats in captivity reproduce well and contraceptive techniques are needed. In initial attempts at vasectomy using a prescrotal approach, it was difficult to identify the mesoductus deferens. The technique described here uses a scrotal approach with exteriorization of the testis, followed by identification and ligation of the mesoductus deferens. Nine Egyptian fruit bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus) underwent vasectomy for this study. No postoperative complications were seen (n = 18 testes), but some of the testes (5/18, 27%), which previously moved freely from the scrotum to the abdominal cavity, were still adhered to the scrotal sac 14 mo postoperatively. This technique appears safe, is fast, and is relatively easy to perform.
20095021|Sixteen serum samples from bottle-nosed dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) with progesterone concentrations ranging from 0.2 to 45.2 ng/ml as determined by radioimmunoassay (RIA) were also assayed using a semiquantitative enzyme immunoassay (EIA) test kit. Equivalent results were obtained, suggesting that this EIA kit may provide a simple, cost-effective alternative to RIA for estimating progesterone status in the Atlantic bottle-nosed dolphin.
20095263|To determine the onset of breeding season and to monitor endocrine events during successive ovarian cycles, blood samples were drawn from three adult female Rocky Mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) three times weekly for 2 mo in the autumn of 1989 and 1990. Serum estradiol and progesterone concentrations measured by radioimmunoassay indicated that ovarian activity began in November. The first progesterone increase of the season was attenuated and transient, suggesting insufficient corpus luteum development. Luteal phases of subsequent cycles were typical in both amplitude and length of those in other ruminant species. Cycle length ranged from 21 to 33 days, whereas luteal phases ranged from 13 to 17 days (two females, two cycles each). Progesterone remained elevated for at least 6 mo in the third female, perhaps associated with pseudopregnancy.
20096664|The future of the endangered red panda (Ailurus fulgens) depends in part on the development of protective measures against infectious diseases. The present study is a first step toward improved understanding of infectious diseases in the species' home regions. Serum samples obtained from 73 red pandas in 10 captive facilities in southwest, east, and northeast China from October to December 2004 were tested for antibodies against nine common infectious pathogens of carnivores. Antibody titers against canine distemper virus (CDV), canine parvovirus (CPV), and canine adenovirus (CAV) in the three facilities in which red pandas were vaccinated were highly variable. The CAV titer in one vaccinated red panda was high enough to suggest infection with the field virus following vaccination. Together with anecdotal reports of vaccine-associated morbidity and mortality, our results suggest that the Chinese vaccine is not suitable for this species. In the seven unvaccinated groups, CDV titers were low and occurred in 20-100% of the animals; antibody titers against CPV were found in seven of eight areas. Only one of 61 and two of 61 unvaccinated red pandas had CAV and canine coronavirus titers, respectively, and these titers were all low. Positive titers to Toxoplasma gondii were found in four locations (33-94% seropositive); the titers in 52% of seropositive individuals were of a magnitude consistent with active disease in other species (1:1,024 to 1:4,096). One red panda in each of three locations was seropositive for Neospora caninum. Antibodies against canine herpesvirus and Brucella canis were not detected in any of the samples. Only one of the 73 red pandas had a weak positive influenza A titer. The results of this study emphasize the need for research on and protection against infectious diseases of red pandas and other endangered species in China.
20095104|A caudal coiling syndrome (CCS) of newborn boa constrictors (Constrictor constrictor) occurred in a private serpentarium during 1988 and 1989. Snakes with CCS were anorectic, which contributed to the progression of the condition. The caudal half of snakes affected with CCS were tightly coiled. When these snakes were anesthetized with methoxyflurane, the coils could be manually straightened; however, in their place were multiple dorsoventrally flattened areas. Radiographically, the vertebrae were normal but the ribs were directed caudodorsally in the flattened areas. Microscopically, the only alteration was multifocal leukocytic infiltration surrounding nerve fibers and blood vessels within the perimysium of the dorsal epaxial muscles. The infiltrate was predominantly lymphocytic with a few heterophils. No etiologic agent was detected by microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, or virus isolation attempts using a reptilian cell culture and embryonated chicken eggs.
20095024|Two adult harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) died without signs of disease, and a third seal exhibited marked leukocytosis, dehydration, hypernatremia, and hyperchloremia. Significant pathologic findings were indicative of acute necrotizing enteritis and pulmonary edema. Fluorescent antibody staining of small intestinal tissue from two of the affected seals was positive with antisera to porcine transmissible gastroenteritis virus, feline infectious peritonitis virus, and canine enteric coronavirus, but negative for bovine coronavirus and canine parvovirus. The gross, microscopic, and immunofluorescent findings in this case were similar to enteritis associated with coronavirus infections in other mammalian species.
41262636|Fascioliasis, the zoonotic disease caused by the trematode Fasciola hepatica, is expanding worldwide, with a 17 million people at risk. Rodents, often recognized as a major source of zoonotic diseases, are affected by F. hepatica, with some species playing important roles in the disease epidemiology. The case reported here in a nutria or kiy (Myocastor coypus) is the first documented case of F. hepatica in this species in Uruguay. Parasitic burden and total egg production detected are markedly higher than reported previously for this species, confirming its potential role as an effective reservoir and disseminator of liver flukes. Although further research is needed, nutria should be considered when designing effective control programs for fascioliasis.
20095350|As an incidental finding during gross and microscopic examination, a male tomato frog (Dyscophus antongilii) was discovered to have both spermatogenically active testicular tissue and normal appearing, heavily pigmented yolked ovarian and oviductal eggs. The presence and significance of these tissues are compared with those of Bidder's organ, an ovarian tissue remnant normally found in some male bufonid toads.
20096068|Approximately 350 Amazon parrots were destined for relocation in Peten province, northeastern Guatemala. In random sampling of the parrots, 95 blood and 75 fecal samples were examined individually for parasites. Coccidia were present in 6.0% (3/50) of Amazona autumnalis autumnalis, and they were the only parasites detected. There were no blood parasites observed in 64 A. a autumnalis, four Amazona pionus senilis, 16 Amazona ferinosa guatemala, 10 Amazona albifronsus albifronsus, and one Amazona xantholora. No fecal parasites were observed in four A. p. senilis, 12 A. f. guatemala, eight A. a. albifronsus, and one A. xantholora.
20095491|Single-dose pharmacokinetics of amikacin in seven adult scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx dammah) was determined. The intravenous dose of 5.8 mg/kg (mean) was based on metabolic energy scaling. Blood samples were collected through an indwelling jugular catheter at 0, 5, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90, 120, 240, 300, 360, 480, 600, 720, and 1,440 min after amikacin administration. Drug-concentration-versus-time curves were best fit to a two-compartment open model with a maximum serum concentration after distribution of 30.5  4.7 g/ml and a mean elimination half-life of 97.0  31.8 min. Model-independent parameters were: area under the curve, 5,478  2,828 g/min/ml; volume of distribution (steady state), 0.152  0.02 L/kg; clearance, 1.2  0.4 ml/min/kg; and mean residence time, 136.5  49.0 min. Mean serum amikacin concentrations reached the recommended peak concentration (25 g/ml) then fell below the recommended trough concentration (2 g/ml) by 8 hr after administration. The serum amikacin concentrations were above the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) levels of selected bacteria for up to 6 hr. Based on this study, amikacin administered parenterally to scimitar-horned oryx at 5.8 mg/kg at 12-hr intervals should produce therapeutic serum concentrations for susceptible bacteria.
20096610|The risk of accidental envenomation to the handler of venomous snakes during drug administration limits the ability to treat these animals. One commercially available osmotic pump is a miniature self-contained cylindrical implant that operates on the basis of an osmotic pressure difference between the extracellular fluid and the osmotic agent in the pump. Osmotic pumps loaded with amikacin were surgically placed into the coelomic cavity of five adult corn snakes (Elaphe guttata guttata) (group A). Four snakes (group B) received an intramuscular injection of amikacin at 5 mg/kg followed by 2.5 mg/kg q 72 hr for a total of four injections. Plasma concentrations of amikacin were measured in both groups. Renal function was evaluated pre- and posttreatment via scintigraphy with 99mTc-mercaptoacetyltriglycine (99mTc-MAG3) and measurement of plasma uric acid concentrations. Mean (SD) steady state amikacin concentration for group A was 6.9  1.7 g/ml (predicted = 8.0 g/ml), and the measured pump rate was 0.134  0.017 l/hr (predicted = 0.130 l/hr). Mean ( SD) peak and trough plasma amikacin concentrations for group B were 22.7  8.5 g/ml and 14.3  7.0 g/ml, respectively. While neither scintigraphy nor plasma uric acid concentrations indicated toxicity in either group, continuous administration of aminoglycosides may cause nephrotoxicity, and it is unknown whether this delivery method of amikacin would be efficacious in treating bacterial infections in snakes. In addition, due to migration of one pump into the trachea causing asphyxiation and death, these pumps may not be appropriate for intracoelomic placement in corn snakes. Nonetheless, the pumps delivered the drug at a predictable rate and were efficacious in achieving a constant plasma concentration of amikacin at the predicted level. Osmotic pumps may offer a safer alternative to periodic intramuscular injections for drug delivery in venomous or aggressive snakes.
20096151|An adult female green iguana (Iguana iguana) presented with polyphagia, loss of the dorsal spines, hyperactivity, increased aggression, tachycardia, and a bilobate mass palpable anterior to the thoracic inlet. Diagnosis of hyperthyroidism was based on a total T (30.0 nmol/L) elevated above that of clinically healthy iguanas (3.81  0.84 nmol/L), and histopathology confirmed a functional thyroid adenoma. Surgical thyroidectomy safely returned the lizard to a euthyroid state.
20095739|A retrospective study was conducted on 390 raptors admitted to the University of Florida Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital (VMTH) during 1988-1994. Representatives of 20 species were admitted; the five most common species were the barred owl (Strix varia, 72), eastern sreech owl (Otus asio, 63), red-shouldered hawk (Buteo lineatus, 49), bald eagle (Haleaeetus leucocephalus, 43), and red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis, 38). A primary clinical diagnosis was determined in 340 (87%) of the 390 raptors admitted to the VMTH; a diagnosis was not made for the remaining 50 birds. Eighty-two percent (279) had traumatic injuries, and 87% (243) of those were directly related to human activity. The primary clinical diagnoses in the remaining 61 raptors included toxicosis (21), poor nutrition (15), infectious disease (11), orphaned young (11), and electrocution (3). The disposition of the 390 raptors was as follows: 61% (237) died or euthanized, 21% (80) released to the wild, 15% (57) outcome unknown, and 4% (16) permanent captives. Necropsies were performed on 32 of the 237 raptors that died.
20095490|Hyperemic nodules and plaques in the distal urogenital canal of African (Loxodonta africana) and Asian (Elephas maximus) elephants were investigated to determine if they represented a potentially transmissible venereal disease. The distal urogenital canals of 29 captive Asian, 19 captive African, and 30 free-ranging African elephants were examined. Biopsies were obtained from 10 captive Asian, four captive African, and 28 free-ranging African elephants. Biopsies from four elephants (three Asian, one African) were examined ultrastructurally. Bacteriologic cultures of the distal urogenital canal were performed on 15 captive elephants (nine African, six Asian), nine with lesions and six without lesions. Hyperemic nodules and plaques were identified in the distal urogenital canals of 62% of captive Asian, 89% of captive African, and 90% of free-ranging African elephants examined, including 10 of 11 pregnant free-ranging elephants. These lesions were characterized histopathologically by aggregates of coalescing reactive lymphoid follicles. No viral agents were identified, and no specific bacteria were consistently associated with lesions. These highly prevalent lesions appear to be reactions of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissues to nonspecific antigenic challenges in the distal urogenital canal and appear to have no clinical significance.
20095370|From 26 June 1991 to 25 September 1991, three Hanuman langurs (Semnopithecus entellus) and two purple-faced langurs (Trachypithecus vetulus) housed at the Greater Baton Rouge Zoo exhibited clinical signs of ataxia, weakness, and anorexia. Two Hanuman langurs were euthanized; one Hanuman langur and one purple-faced langur died; and one purple-faced langur that was treated with metronidazole i.v. survived. Gastric ulceration was present in one case and duodenal ulceration was present in another. Liver lesions were similar in all cases and consisted of multifocal coagulative to caseous necrosis in the liver with infiltrates of lymphocytes and plasma cells in the necrotic lesions. Entamoeba histolytica trophozoites were confirmed in the liver lesions of one purple-faced and two of the Hanuman langurs.
20096490|A 2-yr-old Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) was presented for evaluation of abnormal genitalia and infantile behavior. The oryx had a penis and a scrotum, but testes were not palpable within the scrotum or inguinal canal. The total serum testosterone for the individual was lower than in age-matched males of the same species. Surgical exploration showed markedly hypoplastic intra-abdominal gonads, which demonstrated both testicular and uterine tissue on histologic examination. After karyotype analysis, the individual was classified as an XY male pseudohermaphrodite. This condition resembles two human intersex syndromes: embryonic testicular regression syndrome and partial gonadal dysgenesis syndrome, which occur in familial lines.
27751699|Two cases of fatal infection caused by parvovirus in a white tiger (Panthera tigris) and an African lion (Panthera leo) at the Lisbon Zoo (Portugal) are described. Gross findings at necropsy were catharral enteritis in the tiger and severe hemorrhagic enteritis in the lion. Histopathologic examination revealed, in both animals, intestinal crypt necrosis and lymphocyte depletion in the germinal centers of the mesenteric lymph nodes. Bacteriologic examination was negative for common bacterial pathogens, including Salmonella. Amplification of the parvovirus VP2 complete gene was achieved in both cases and sequencing analysis identified these isolates as feline panleukopenia virus (FPLV). The nucleotide sequences obtained from these two viruses were genetically indistinguishable. The phylogenetic analysis of FPLV strains from domestic cats obtained in the Lisbon area revealed the circulation of FPLV strains highly similar to those isolated from the tiger and lion, which strongly suggests that stray cats may have been the source of infection.
20079483|Toxicants, such as insecticides, rodenticides, caging material, and cleaning agents, are used on a daily basis in zoos to provide a healthy environment. These products must be used carefully so that the zoo inhabitants are not inadvertently poisoned. Product labels should be read, directions followed, and warnings heeded. An understanding of the mechanisms of action of the products as well as their effects on different species will assist zoo personnel in diagnosis and treatment decisions should toxicosis occur. Information regarding the effects of toxicants in exotic species is limited and so much information must be extrapolated from information on domestic species.
20096235|Twelve captive wild-caught adult arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus) were anesthetized a total of 24 times for an equal number of surgical procedures involving implantation of heart rate (HR) and core body temperature transmitters (
20460409|Two cases of fatal cryptococcosis are described, one of Cryptococcus neoformans infection in a Gilbert's potoroo (Potorous gilbertii) and one of Cryptococcus gattii infection in a long-nosed potoroo (Potorous tridactylus). The diagnoses were confirmed by culture and specific immunohistochemistry, respectively. The long-nosed potoroo tested positive using the latex cryptococcal antigen test (LCAT), whereas the Gilbert's potoroo had a negative LCAT result despite having advanced disease of some duration. In both cases, the clinical presentation was a progressive neurologic disease associated with a central nervous system infection. Pulmonary infection was also observed in the long-nosed potoroo. Specific treatment with antifungal agents was unsuccessful in the long-nosed potoroo.
41262584|Eighteen mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and six Columbia black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus columbianus) were held in pens and repeatedly anesthetized from April 2004 through June 2005 as part of an external parasite study. Deer were anesthetized using a combination of Telazol and xylazine hydrochloride (HCL) administered intramuscularly. Tolazoline HCL was slowly administered at 4 mg/kg intravenously to reverse the effects of xylazine with good results. For 17 of the 19 mule deer anesthesias in the fall of 2004, a mean dose of 7.3 mg/kg of intravenous tolazoline (range 6.1-8.4 mg/kg) was given by mistake. This paper describes clinical signs of apnea, muscle tensing, and fasciculations immediately following intravenous administration of tolazoline HCL in mule deer (O. hemionus) at 1.5-3 times the recommended dose. Mean dose for black-tailed deer during this time was 8.1 mg/kg (range 5.5-12.4 mg/kg) with no clinical signs as seen in the mule deer. Based on these findings, intravenous tolazoline use in mule deer is recommended at 4 mg/kg.
20096019|A 13-yr-old ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta) was evaluated for depression, anorexia, polyuria, and polydipsia. The lemur was in poor body condition and was anemic, hypoalbuminemic, and hyponatremic. Cytologic examination of aspirates of the spleen, liver, and bone marrow and histopathologic examination of liver and bone marrow biopsies revealed a disseminated round cell tumor. After euthanasia, necropsy revealed hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, and mesenteric lymphadenomegaly. Neoplastic cells were present within the spleen, liver, kidneys, multiple lymph nodes, bone marrow, lung, small intestine, pancreas, and testicle and were composed of large anaplastic round cells in a background of small well-differentiated lymphocytes. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the small well-differentiated lymphocytes labeled for the anti-human T-cell marker, CD3, and the large anaplastic round cells labeled with the anti-human B-cell marker, CD79a. On the basis of the immunohistochemical staining results and morphologic appearance, a diagnosis of a T-cell-rich B-cell lymphoma was made.
41262595|Amyloidosis has been described in a wide range of domestic and wild species and man. A 10-yr-old male Eastern (Mountain) Bongo (Tragelaphus eurycerus isaaci) was submitted for postmortem examination after a period of 24-hr malaise. Gross examination found evidence of biventricular cardiac hypertrophy, congestive heart failure, and focal pulmonary abscessation. Histologie changes in the heart were consistent with hypertrophic change. Amyloid deposits were found within the liver, kidney medulla, heart, adrenal cortex, and pituitary gland and were confirmed as reactive systemic amyloid (AA) by immunohistochemistry. The pulmonary abscessation was thought to be the stimulus for excessive serum amyloid associated protein production leading to the reactive systemic amyloidosis. Colloidal goiter was also identified as an incidental finding.
20096127|An adult female Greek tortoise (Testudo graeca) presented with dyspnea, lethargy, and anorexia. Severe unilateral pulmonary candidiasis was diagnosed and confirmed by histologic and microbiologic evaluations. Initial treatment with ketoconazole resulted in plasma elevations of aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, and bile acids consistent with imidazole-induced hepatotoxicity. Plasma chemistry abnormalities resolved upon withdrawal of the drug. Temporary osteotomy permitted access to the diseased lung and facilitated intrapulmonary catheterization. Intrapulmonary amphotericin B therapy at 0.1 mg/kg s.i.d. for 34 days proved to be both safe and effective in this case.
20095439|This report documents a case of spontaneous gestational diabetes mellitus in a New World primate, the white-faced saki (Pithecia pithecia). Diabetes mellitus was suspected in a pregnant white-faced saki with glycosuria. Diagnosis of spontaneous insulin-resistant gestational diabetes mellitus was confirmed by an oral glucose tolerance test including serum insulin determination. To prevent adverse theriogenologic sequelae such as fetal macrosomia and to control glycosuria, dietary manipulation was initiated to meet nutritional requirements with protein, fats, complex carbohydrates, and minimal simple sugars. Parturition was uneventful and spontaneous recovery occurred postpartum. Throughout this and a subsequent pregnancy, the animal was free of glycosuria, it was normoglycemic and no overt signs of diabetes were observed. Spontaneous gestational diabetes mellitus has been extensively documented in humans and treated with similar dietary modifications. By comparison to the human analog and other forms of diabetes mellitus in various primate species, potential fetopathy and obstetrical complications can be anticipated in affected animals. Routine glucosuria screening of breeding females is being continued in this colony.
20095450|Aggressive medical and surgical therapy were employed in a 9-mo-old, parent-raised, male, hybrid orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus) that developed bilateral proptosis and pronounced periorbital swellings. Culture of aspirates from the swollen areas initially yielded pure growth of Escherichia coli. Streptococcus group D was recovered following 11 days of antibiotic therapy and worsening of clinical signs. Diagnoses of bilateral ethmoiditis, left maxillary sinusitis, and bilateral extraconal intraorbital infection with intracranial extension into the anterior fossa were suggested by computerized tomography (CT) scan. Bifrontal craniotomy, ethmoidectomy, and maxillary sinus drainage were performed. A chronic proliferative inflammatory process was present in histologic samples taken from the surgical sites and four different species of aerobic bacteria were isolated. Postsurgical improvement in all areas following 6 wk of vigorous antibiotic therapy was confirmed by followup CT scan. The infant was successfully returned to its parents after 4 mo of separation. The recovery of numerous enteric bacterial species at culture suggests that inoculation of respiratory passages by fecal flora was the inciting factor of this infection.
20095754|Twelve young houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata) were vaccinated with a lentogenic strain of Newcastle disease virus. Another seven birds were kept in close contact with the treated flock but were not vaccinated. Antibody levels were measured in all birds with hemagglutination inhibition test over the course of 1 yr. Antibody formation with no side effects was observed in 18 birds. The duration and amplitude of the antibody response differed between the groups.
20095003|Six of 21 emydine turtles in the genera Graptemys and Trachemys, collected in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida and maintained in a private collection, died over a 23-day period. In the same collection, four long-term captive Graptemys spp. also died. Besides lethargy, the only clinical sign of illness preceding death was cutaneous edema. Light microscopic examination of tissues from a dead Sabine map turtle (G. pseudogeographica subinensis) and a Barbour's map turtle (G. barbouri), stained with hematoxylin and eosin, revealed numerous intracytoplasmic basophilic bodies within Kupffer cells in the liver and macrophages in the spleen, lung, thymus, heart, and duodenal submucosa. Bodies within Kupffer cells were identified, using electron microscopy, as clusters of bacteria. A pure growth of Flavobacterium meningosepticum was cultured from the liver of the Barbour's map turtle.
20096528|The corneal endothelium is essential for the maintenance of the corneal transparency. The aim of this study was to examine the morphology of the endothelial surface and perform morphometric analysis of the normal corneal endothelial cells of the Magellanic penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus) using scanning electron microscopy. The present work demonstrates that the corneal endothelium of the Magellanic penguin is similar to those described in other vertebrates.
20096459|A 6-mo-old, male African hedgehog (Atelerix albiventris) presented with a history of pink urine and demonstrating pink-colored teeth and mild hepatomegaly on examination. Urinalysis revealed no physical, chemical, or cellular abnormalities other than a pink color and fluorescence under ultraviolet light (UV). Also under UV, intense fluorescence of teeth, feet, and spines was noted. Porphyria was suspected. Spectrophotometric evaluation of urine showed extremely elevated levels of copro- and uroporphyrins. Analysis of the urine by thin-layer chromatography showed an abnormal pattern of excreted porphyrin intermediates. Urine high-performance thin-layer chromatography showed that excreted porphyrins were 90-95% of the type-I isomeric form, suggestive of congenital erythropoietic porphyria.
40962238|Ten common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and 10 black-tufted marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) were immobilized to compare the anesthetic effects of racemic ketamine and (S+) ketamine in combination with midazolam. The animals were distributed into four groups: five common marmosets (group CJR) and five blacktufted marmosets (group CPR) received 9.8  1.4 mg/kg of racemic ketamine, and five common marmosets (group CJS) and five black-tufted marmosets (group CPS) received 10.4  1.6 mg/kg of (S+) ketamine. All groups received similar dosages of midazolam (1.0  0.15 mg/kg). During immobilization, heart rates, respiratory rates, rectal temperatures, and muscle relaxation scores were recorded at 5, 10, and 20 min after initial injection. Quality of induction and quality of recovery were evaluated in each marmoset by recording physical reactions including withdrawal reflexes, involuntary movements, salivation, compulsive licking, catalepsy, and ataxia. There were no significant differences in the induction, immobilization, and recovery times between the four groups. Similarly, there were no significant differences between groups in heart rates, respiratory rates, or body temperatures, although there was a significant decrease in respiratory rates over time in group CPR. In addition, the CJR and CPS groups showed significant decreases over time in rectal temperature. Muscle relaxation was more profound in the CPR group than in the other groups. Compulsive licking, involuntary movements, salivation, and withdrawal reflexes were observed more frequently in animals given S(+) ketamine; but in general, racemic ketamine and S(+) ketamine had similar effects in all callitrichines. Further studies are required to confirm that S(+) ketamine has different potency in these species.
20096676|An immature Baird's tapir (Tapirus bairdii) with a history of seizure-like episodes developed signs of respiratory disease. The initial clinical diagnosis was pneumonia, and antibiotic therapy was started. The animal failed to improve after 14 days of therapy and developed unilateral, bloody nasal discharge. Endoscopic examination and radiography revealed a soft tissue mass in the nasopharynx depressing the soft palate. The tapir died 32 days after initial presentation. Histologic examination of the mass demonstrated a mesenchymal tumor composed of spindle cells with elongate nuclei forming densely packed fascicles. The neoplastic spindle cells showed prominent cross-striations. Immunohistochemistry revealed the cells to be positive for desmin and myoglobin, but negative for smooth muscle actin, confirming diagnosis of rhabdomyosarcoma. Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma is the most common nasopharyngeal soft tissue tumor of humans, and it has been reported infrequently in dogs, horses, and pigs. Neoplasia should be a differential diagnosis in cases of unilateral nasal discharge and inspiratory stridor, even in young animals.
20460560|Sixteen nutria (Myocastor coypus) from a protected area in Curitiba, Brazil, were sampled to determine the prevalence of Fasciola hepatica eggs and intestinal parasites and the presence of snails in the habitat used by nutria. The overall prevalence rates were 56.25% (9) for F. hepatica eggs, 87.50% (14) for cestode eggs, 56.25% (9) for ascarid eggs, 50% (8) for coccidian (Eimeriidae) oocysts, and 56.25% (9) for Strongyloidea eggs. Fasciola hepatica eggs had an average size of 138 m  72 m. The following mollusks were found: Physa cubensis, Physa marmorata, and Biomphalaria tenagophyla. These results suggest that the infected nutria could serve as a source of contamination for other animals, humans, and surface water. This is the first report about parasites in nutria in the state of Paran, Brazil.
20096034|Published anatomic studies of North American river otters (Lontra canadensis) include only comparative reviews of single anatomic systems, but this paper includes multiple clinically relevant anatomic features. Both captive and free-ranging North American river otters were studied by gross dissection of nine specimens, radiography of 18 live otters, and physical examination of 170 otters. Body fat in North American river otters is stored primarily subcutaneously at the base of the tail and in the axillae, so lack of visceral detail on abdominal radiographs is due to a lack of coelomic fat. The heart and great vessels are oriented as in the dog. The cardiac radiographic silhouette measures three intercostal spaces laterally between the fourth and sixth ribs and 4-4.5 intercostal spaces between the seventh through 11th ribs on the ventrodorsal projection. Subjective estimation of age by evaluation of tooth wear is confirmed by histologic examination of cementum annuli. Structures of the feet were imaged by high-resolution mammographic technique. The adult thymus was prominent, but the gland was small in the one juvenile animal studied. The spleen was unexpectedly large but consistent with findings in European otters (Lutra lutra). As in other otters and mammals, kidneys are reniculated.
20460428|Blood samples from 16 adult, wild Mexican beaded lizards were obtained for complete blood count and serum biochemical analysis. In addition, both oral and cloacal swab samples were collected and submitted for bacteriologic culture. This is the first report of hematologic and bacterial data from free-living beaded lizards. This information will serve as baseline reference values for future health assessment studies in conservation, captive breeding, and research programs.
20460308|Forty-four impala (Aepyceros melampus) were immobilized with the potent opioid narcotic A-3080 in Kruger National Park, Republic of South Africa, to determine the effective dosage range and to evaluate the physiologic effects of the drug in this species. Nine impala were immobilized with carfentanil citrate for comparison. Heart rate, respiratory rate, indirect blood pressure, and relative oxygen saturation were measured at 5-min intervals for 25 min after induction. Venous blood samples were collected at 10 and 25 min after induction for analysis of total CO. The effective A-3080 dosage required to immobilize 90% of the population of impala within 3 min (ED) was 80.7 g/kg, which was not statistically different from the ED for carfentanil of 68.8 g/kg. The effects of A-3080 or carfentanil on physiologic values were similar. Both A-3080 and carfentanil produced apparent hypoventilation early after immobilization based on measurements of respiratory rates, relative oxygen saturation, and total serum CO. Carfentanil produced tachypnea later in the monitoring period. Hypertension and initial, mild tachycardia were consistent findings with A-3080. Little difference was seen in the physiologic effects produced by dosages of 30, 50, and 80 g/kg of A-3080. Narcotic antagonists were successful in providing rapid and complete reversal of A-3080 immobilization (diprenorphine, 47  25 sec; naltrexone, 29  10.1 sec). No renarcotization was observed within 24 hr of reversal.
40962246|Mycobacterium spp. infection is an important health concern for Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) populations worldwide. The disease is of particular concern considering its potential to affect not only the individual animal but also herd and public health. Although elephant tuberculosis susceptibility is poorly understood, immune function alterations are central to disease pathogenesis in other species and probably affect outcome of mycobacterial infections in elephants. Measurement of immune mediator (cytokine) levels within blood samples can provide information regarding immune function that may elucidate disease susceptibility. For this study, mRNA levels of interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-10, and IL-12; interferon (IFN)-; tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-; and transforming growth factor (TGF)- were measured using elephant-specific, real-time reverse transcriptionpolymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays in RNA-preserved whole blood samples from 106 Asian elephants, 15% of which were Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex seropositive. The Elephant TB STAT-PAK <sup></sup> (Chembio Diagnostics, Inc., Medford, New York 11763, USA), a novel lateral flow antibody detection assay developed for specific use in elephants, was used to determine serologie status for the study. Seropositive animals had higher levels of TNF- and lower levels of TGF- than seronegative animals; these differences between groups were statistically significant when levels were analyzed as categorical variables. Trends toward higher levels of IFN- and IL-4 and slightly lower levels of IL-10 and IL-12 were noted in the seropositive group, although differences between groups were not statistically significant. Presence of other inflammatory conditions was found to be a significant confounding variable in the analysis of the relationship between tuberculosis status and TNF- levels, necessitating its inclusion in statistical models. Age and sex were not found to significantly affect the relationship between tuberculosis status and any of the cytokines measured. Interleukin-2 levels were below the sensitivity of the realtime RT-PCR assay irrespective of tuberculosis status. These findings provide a foundation for future research into the immunopathogenesis of elephant tuberculosis.
20095435|A 10-yr retrospective study was performed at the International Wildlife Conservation Park/Bronx Zoo (IWCP) to evaluate the incidence and assess the implications of shigellosis in western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla). Nine animals had confirmed Shigella flexneri group B isolated from fecal or rectal culture. Bacterial isolates from two individuals were further categorized as subtype 2. Two additional animals that were exposed to S. flexneri-infected gorillas developed diarrhea, but the organism was not isolated from them. Ten of these 11 cases (91%) were infants between 7 and 40 mo of age; one was an 18-yr-old male. Ten of the 11 infants (91%) introduced to the main gorilla colony developed shigellosis. One of the 26 (4%) adult gorillas living at the Great Ape House during the 10-yr period was noted to have shigellosis. The most common clinical presentation was mild to severe diarrhea, lethargy, and anorexia. In all cases, onset of illness in an individual was temporally associated with its introduction to a different gorilla group. Treatment of individual cases varied greatly depending upon the severity of disease, response to therapy, shigella antimicrobial susceptibility pattern, age, and size of the gorilla. All gorillas responded to treatment and recovered. In 1990 S. flexneri isolates from IWCP gorillas demonstrated increased antimicrobial resistance patterns. In 1992, multiple-drug-resistant S. flexneri isolates were also noted in five gorillas at two additional zoological parks that developed shigellosis after arrival of asymptomatic gorillas from the IWCP. DNA fingerprint analysis of the S. flexneri isolates from the IWCP and the other two zoological parks was performed. Plasmid and chromosomal analysis of the S. flexneri isolates suggested that the organism had only been transmitted to one of the zoological parks by an asymptomatic IWCP gorilla. These tests also identified three distinct multidrug-resistant S. flexneri strains from the gorillas; one had originated at the IWCP and the other two were unique to another zoological park.
20095186|Thirty-seven Old World psittacines at the San Diego Zoo died because of infection by a sporozoan parasite during a 15-mo period (1985-1986). One-half of the deaths were preceded by an acute illness. Light and electron microscopic studies identified the parasite as a species of Sarcocystis. Transmission of the disease to two budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) and one cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) was accomplished by gavage with purified gut scrapings from opossums (Didelphis virginiana), proving the opossum to be the definitive host. These findings suggested that the parasite is Sarcocystis falcatula (=debonei), a parasite of opossums and birds. Control measures, including trapping and relocation of opossums, have reduced mortality from this disease on zoo grounds.
20095613|Anesthesia records from 1,189 nondomestic ungulates representing 35 species immobilized with i.m. carfentanil were reviewed. In each case, antagonism of carfentanil was accomplished by i.v. naltrexone or nalmefene at 100 times the carfentanil dose. Clinical observations interpreted to indicate renarcotization were recorded and compiled taxonomically. No morbidity or mortality was associated with renarcotization. Species sample size were evaluated by chi-square analysis (P &lt 0.05). Of the 35 species studied, seven renarcotized with nalmefene alone, two with naltrexone alone, and three with both antagonists. In the remaining 23 species, no renarcotization was observed. When differences in sample size are considered, the scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx gazella dammah), Arabian oryx (O. leucoryx), addra gazelle (Gazella dama ruficollis), and Armenian mouflon (Ovis orientalis gmelini) are more likely to renarcotize with nalmefene than naltrexone (P &lt 0.05). Overall, 2.7% (19 of 697) of all animals given naltrexone renarcotized, and 7.9% (39 of 492) of all animals given nalmefene renarcotized.
20096477|Heparinized whole-blood samples from 22 adult African lions (Panthera leo) fed diets considered nutritionally adequate in 10 American Zoo and Aquarium Association member zoos in North America were provided for this study. Blood thiamine values were estimated using a standard microbiological assay method. The mean  standard deviation for blood thiamine values was 249.3  43.5 nmol/L with a range in values from 160 to 350 nmol/L after exclusion of one outlier. There were no differences (P &gt 0.05) in the mean blood thiamine values of male and female lions, or of lions that were over and under 10 yr of age. This range (160 to 350 nmol/L) is proposed as a reasonable estimate of the expected range in blood thiamine values for captive adult African lions as currently fed in North American zoos.
20095192|Eleven colobus monkeys (Colobus polykomos) were exhibited as a group in a Louisiana zoo. During one summer, three were either found dead or died after a fulminating illness with lesions of a bacteremia/septicemia. Chromobacterium violaceum was isolated from the liver of one monkey and from multiple organs and blood of another. Lesions observed in all three monkeys were similar and included severe multifocal acute necrotizing hepatitis, myelitis, splenitis, moderate multifocal acute interstitial pneumonia with severe pulmonary edema, and many intralesional bacteria.
41417174|In this report, two cases of systemic mycosis in captive sharks are characterized. These cases were progressive and ultimately culminated in terminal disease. Paecilomyces lilacinus, an uncommon pathogen in human and veterinary medicine, was associated with areas of necrosis in the liver, heart, and gill in a great hammerhead shark (Sphyrna mokarran). Fungal growth was observed from samples of kidney, spleen, spinal fluid, and coelomic cavity swabs. Dual fungal infection by Exophiala pisciphila and Mucor circinelloides was diagnosed in a juvenile zebra shark (Stegostoma fasciatum). Both fungi were present in the liver, with more severe tissue destruction associated with E. pisciphila. E. pisciphila also produced significant necrosis in the spleen and gill, while M. circinelloides was associated with only minimal tissue changes in the heart. Fungal cultures from liver, kidney, and spleen were positive for both E. pisciphila and M. circinelloides. Identification of P. lilacinus and M. circinelloides was based on colonial and hyphal morphology. E. pisciphila was identified by sequence analysis of the 28S rRNA D1/D2 region and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region between the 18S and 28S rRNA subunit. These cases, and a lack of information in the literature, highlight the need for further research and diagnostic sampling to further characterize the host-pathogen interaction between elasmobranchs and fungi.
20096036|European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were used as a passerine bird model to examine the effect of dietary iron on the level of hepatic iron in birds. Nestling and fledgling starlings (n = 56) were raised on a controlled-iron diet. When birds maintained constant body weight, they were assigned in pairs to cages, and baseline sampling was performed. Pairs were then assigned to one of two diets: the controlled-iron diet (168 ppm, dry basis) or a high-iron diet (3,035 ppm, dry basis). Dry-matter intake and iron consumption were recorded. Dry-matter intake did not differ between the dietary treatment groups and was stable during treatment periods. Iron intake was higher in the high-iron group (P &lt 0.05). Birds were euthanized at baseline, 8 wk, and 16 wk. Body, liver, and spleen weights were measured. Hepatic iron and copper concentrations were determined. Body weight did not differ between the two treatment groups or among individuals for the study duration. Liver iron concentration differed over time and between treatment groups. Birds receiving both treatments had similar liver iron content at week 8 (3,107  228.6 ppm and 3,122  306.2 ppm high and controlled iron, respectively; P &gt 0.05), but by week 16, birds consuming the high-iron diet had greater hepatic iron levels than those consuming the controlled-iron diet (5,929  937.2 ppm and 3,683  229.5 ppm high and controlled iron, respectively; P &lt 0.05). Birds on the controlled-iron diet also had higher hepatic iron at 16 wk than at 8 wk. Liver copper decreased over time in all birds regardless of treatment. Results show that both dietary iron level and duration of time influenced hepatic iron storage. The controlled-iron diets still allowed accumulation of hepatic iron in an 8-wk period.
20460272|Five eclectus parrots (Eclectus roratus vosmaeri) and four Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) acquired sarcocystosis at the Jacksonville Zoological Park during the first 6 mo of 1991. Four of the eclectus parrots and two of the Amazon parrots died as a result of the disease. Sarcocystosis was suspected based on light microscopic findings on tissues taken at necropsy. The organism was further characterized using electron microscopy and was structurally compatible with a Sarcocystis sp. Comparison of serum chemistry values from the surviving birds to values from conspecifics that died supported a strong, presumptive antemortem diagnosis of sarcocystosis. Moderate to severe elevations in creatine phosphokinase, aspartate amino transferase, and lactate dehydrogenase were noted in all affected birds tested. Additionally, muscle biopsies from birds during and after treatment were examined histologically for sarcocysts. One eclectus and two Amazon parrots were successfully treated with 0.5 mg/kg pyrimethamine p.o. and 30 mg/kg trimethoprim-sulfadiazine i.m. administered b.i.d. for 30 days. Husbandry practices at the zoo were modified to minimize exposure of psittacine birds to feces of the definitive host, the Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana), and to potential transport hosts, such as cockroaches.
20096077|Both male and female Foleyella furcata were found in the subcutaneous tissue and abdominal cavity of an adult male wild-caught Senegalese chameleon (Chamaeleo senegalensis) This nematode species is endemic to Madagascar but has never been recorded from the continent of Africa. Prior to the chameleon's death, a migrating worm was seen under the skin in the abdominal and thoracic region. Huge numbers of small, sheathed microfilariae were detected in the blood smears. The chameleon was treated with a single dose (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) of ivermectin. Serious adverse reactions (complete inertia) developed within 24 hr after injection and lasted for 7 days, indicating either ivermectin toxicity or a systemic reaction involving the release of endotoxins from the microfilariae dying in the bloodstream as a result of parasiticide therapy. Therefore, ivermectin treatment of chameleons infected with Foleyella should be avoided.
20095546|One adult female and three male roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) fawns found dead in the wild were necropsied. All animals had numerous erosive, ulcerative, and necrotizing lesions of the digestive mucosa. Catarrhal to hemorrhagic enteritis was present in two cases. Microscopic lesions of the mucous membranes of the oral cavity, esophagus, and rumen were edematous, and there was swelling and eosinophilia of cells in the stratum basale and spinosum. In addition, basophilic and eosinophilic intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies appeared in cells of the stratum basale and spinosum. These lesions affected both sexes and all age classes of animals and are suggested to have been caused by an unidentified and/or undescribed virus.
20460547|The normal radiographic anatomy of the healthy hedgehog can help to identify anatomic features unique to the hedgehog while comparing it with other small mammals, such as the dog and cat. Radiographic examination is a method that can play an important role in the diagnosis of a wide variety of skeletal diseases. Seven (2 males, 5 females) free-living hedgehogs (Erinaceus concolor) from the Urmia region of Iran were selected for this study. Lateral and craniocaudal radiographs from the front and hind limbs were obtained. The radiographs from these hedgehogs were compared with the normal canine and feline skeletal radiographic anatomy. On the forelimb radiographs, the clavicle was observed as a complete bone connected to the scapula and manubrium. There are three and five carpal bones in the proximal and distal rows, respectively, as in the dog and cat. The pelvis has a larger obturator foramen when compared with the dog and cat. In the lateral view, the pubis and ischium are relatively larger than in the dog and cat and have a more ventral position. The tarsal bones are similar to those of the dog and cat. The number of phalanges and sesamoid bones in the forelimb and hindlimb are likewise similar to those found in the dog and cat.
20096194|This report describes stifle luxation resultant from multiple ligamentous injuries in a spur-thighed tortoise (Testudo graeca). Despite an absence of obvious trauma in the case history, the tortoise presented with acute, unilateral hind limb lameness. Diagnosis of stifle luxation was based on cranial drawer motion, increased rotational joint instability, and radiographic findings. Joint stabilization was accomplished by a combination of cranial cruciate reconstruction using an autograft of lateral vastus muscle in an over-the-top procedure and lateral imbrication of the joint capsule. Postoperative management included restriction of limb movement for 6 wk and parenteral chondroprotective regime. Treatment was effective in restoring clinically normal function to the limb.
20094995|The anatomy of the ventral thoracic girdle and its variations affecting surgical approach to the coracoid, clavicle, and keel were determined in 24 specimens of various species of hawks, owls, vultures, and psittacines by dissection of one side and by performing a surgical approach on the other side. The greatest variations were found in the osteology of the clavicle and in the presence of a deep pectoral muscle in the turkey vulture (Cathartes aura). The presence of this muscle required a modification of the surgical approach to the thoracic girdle in vultures. The surgical anatomy and its variations are described and illustrated for these selected avian species.
20096585|Transvaginal laparoscopy to allow assessment of ovarian pathology and to attempt retrieval of oocytes was facilitated in a captive, female black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis minor) through the use of a sling on two separate occasions. Following induction of anesthesia with an opioid-based combination, the rhinoceros was intubated and maintained on isoflurane in oxygen. The use of the sling and volume controlled inhalation anesthesia allowed for maintenance of appropriate anatomic positioning, analgesia, and insufflation of the abdominal cavity for laparoscopy during both procedures.
41262659|An 18-yr-old male bobcat (Lynx rufus) presented with chronic moderate weight loss and acute onset of anorexia and lethargy. Hypercalcemia and azotemia were present on the serum chemistry panel. Abdominal ultrasound revealed hyperechoic renal cortices, but no evidence of neoplasia. Ionized calcium and 25-hydroxyvitamin D were mildly elevated, intact parathyroid hormone was severely elevated, and parathormonerelated protein was undetected, suggesting primary hyperparathyroidism with possible renal dysfunction. Azotemia lessened in severity following diuresis, but hypercalcemia persisted; thus primary hyperparathyroidism was considered the most probable differential diagnosis. A second ultrasound including the cervical region revealed a solitary intraparenchymal left thyroid nodule. The nodule was surgically excised; histopathology confirmed a parathyroid adenoma. Although primary hyperparathyroidism was suspected, diagnosis was not achieved from serum chemistry values alone. This case emphasizes the importance of diagnostic imaging and histopathology in the investigation of persistently abnormal laboratory values.
20096673|Mycobacterium szulgai was associated with mortality in two captive African elephants (Loxodonta africana) housed at Lincoln Park Zoo. The first elephant presented with severe, acute lameness of the left rear limb. Despite extensive treatments, the animal collapsed and died 13 mo after initial presentation. Necropsy revealed osteomyelitis with loss of the femoral head and acetabulum and pulmonary granulomas with intralesional M. szulgai. The second elephant collapsed during transport to another institution with no premonitory clinical signs. This animal was euthanized because of prolonged recumbency. Granulomatous pneumonia with intralesional M. szulgai was found at necropsy. Two novel immunoassays performed on banked serum samples detected antibody responses to mycobacterial antigens in both infected elephants. It was not possible to determine when the infection was established or how the elephants were infected. When reviewing the epidemiology of this organism in humans, however, transmission between elephants seemed unlikely because human-to-human transmission of this organism has never been reported and a third elephant in the herd was not affected. In addition to Mycobacterium bovis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis, atypical mycobacterial organisms need to be considered potentially pathogenic in elephants.
20095838|A blacktip reef shark (Carcharhinus melanopterus) with a history of recurrent eversion or prolapse of the valvular intestine, arrived at the Steinhart Aquarium in June 1996 and was placed in a mixed species shark display. The eversion soon reappeared, and the animal became thin and anorexic. The everted portion of the intestine was bitten by another shark and became infected. Treatment included force-feeding, manual reduction of the eversion, hydrocortisone suppositories held in place with purse-string sutures, and injections of enrofloxacin. All treatments ultimately failed, and the animal died in March 1997. Necropsy revealed that the intestine had separated into two segments at the distal portion of the pyloric stomach (duodenum); both ends were scarred and sealed off. It is suggested that a torsion (twisting along the long axis) of the intestine was responsible for the condition.
27751759|The disposition kinetics of enrofloxacin at a single dose of 5 mg/kg body weight were determined in clinically healthy captive-reared estuarine crocodiles (Crocodylus porosus) after intravenous (i.v.), intramuscular (i.m.), and oral (p.o.) administration. Enrofloxacin plasma concentrations were determined by diode array detectionhigh-performance liquid chromatography (limit of detection/limit of quantitation: 0.05 g/ml). Data were subjected to noncompartmental analysis. The integrated pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) variables showed that optimal area under the curve from the time of dosing to 24 hr:minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) (&gt;125) and peak plasma concentrations:MIC (&gt;8) ratios, as reported for concentration-dependent bactericidal antimicrobials like fluoroquinolones, were achievable with both a single i.v. or i.m. dose for susceptible microorganisms with MIC values of 0.5 g/ml, while the relatively slow onset of peak time allowed an effective plasma drug level only on day 3. The persistence of useful plasma concentrations indicated the possibility of redosing every 3 day for parenteral routes of administration, while further studies are needed for the oral route. Nevertheless, the absence of adverse reactions in the animals following i.v., i.m., or p.o. administration of enrofloxacin after a single dose of 5 mg/kg indicates the possibility of its safe and effective clinical use in captive estuarine crocodiles.
20095494|Thirty-four free-ranging golden crowned sifaka (Propithecus tattersalli) inhabiting three forest sites in northeastern Madagascar were immobilized for a collaborative ecologic, physiologic, and behavioral study. Physiologic reference values have not been determined for this recently described species. Blood samples taken opportunistically were evaluated for hematologic and serum chemistry values and for hemoparasites. Other than elevated aspartate aminotransferase and creatine phosphokinase levels, blood values were within reference ranges published for other prosimian primates. Evidence of circulating microfilariae was found in 59% of individuals sampled using the Knott's centrifugation technique. Adults had a significantly higher prevalence of microfilariasis than did juveniles (P &lt 0.001). No significant differences (P &gt 0.05) in total white blood cell count, percentage of eosinophils, or levels of alanine aminotransferase or alkaline phosphatase were found between individuals positive and negative for circulating microfilariae. No malarial parasites were observed on examination of thin blood smears. No enteric parasites were identified on fecal zinc sulfate flotation or on examination of direct fecal smears. External ear mites were observed in 48% of the sifaka examined. There was no evidence of external ear pathology.
20095610|This retrospective study was initiated because of the perceived high incidence of mammary gland cancer in zoo felids in which progestin contraception has been used. Our purpose was to describe the clinical behavior of these tumors and identify risk factors for their development. Clinical and historic records were reviewed from 31 captive wild felids with palpable and histologically confirmed mammary gland neoplasia. All mammary masses were classified histopathologically as carcinomas, with cribiform, solid, cyst-papillary, and adenocarcinoma patterns. Thoracic radiography was a sensitive antemortem procedure to detect metastases. Although other abnormalities (anorexia/lethargy, ventral mass or ulcer visible, anemia, neutrophilia, hypercalcemia, or azotemia) were noted, concurrent geriatric diseases often confounded clinical interpretation. Therefore, these findings were not specific for a diagnosis of cancer. Metastases were most common in lymph node, lung, and liver. Mammary cancer was most common in animals that had been implanted with melengestrol acetate (MGA)-impregnated silastic devices (n = 29, 94%). This association was statistically significant (P &lt 0.002). There was no significant difference in age at diagnosis of mammary cancer in MGA-treated felids (x  SD = 13.87 = 2.60 yr) versus nontreated felids (16.33  0.94 yr). Mammary cancer behaves as aggressively in wild felids as in domestic cats, and long-term exogenous progestin exposure is a risk factor in its development. Zoos using MGA in felids should be cognizant of the strong association between progestin exposure and mammary cancer development and should employ alternative contraceptive methods whenever possible.
20095139|Feline herpesvirus 1 (FHV1) infects domestic and exotic felid species. Using an ELISA test, sera from 19 free-ranging bobcats (Lynx rufus) were screened for antibody to FHV1. All serum samples were uniformly negative, indicating that FHV1 (or an antigenically closely related virus) is uncommon, if present at all, in this species. Thus, the ability of FHV1 to infect and cause disease in bobcats was examined. Intranasal inoculation of bobcats with doses of FHV1 up to 1,000 the dosage that produced severe disease in domestic cats did not produce any clinical signs of infection. However, infectious virus was recovered from infected bobcats for up to 14 days postinfection. Restriction enzyme cleavage patterns of recovered viral isolates were identical to that of the inoculum virus. Serum testing by ELISA and virus neutralization demonstrated that all bobcats inoculated with FHV1 developed a stable IgG response with kinetics typical of a primary infection. However, no FHV1-reactive antibodies were detected in these sera using an immunoblot assay. Challenge of FHV1-immune bobcats did elicit an anamnestic antibody response as measured by ELISA, and anti-FHV1 antibodies reactive by immunoblot analysis appeared soon after challenge. Differences in the antigen specificity of bobcat and domestic cat anti-FHV1 antibodies were not apparent. These experiments demonstrate that bobcats are susceptible to FHV1 infection; but unlike both domestic cats and other exotic felid species, FHV1 infections in bobcats are not accompanied by any clinical signs of disease.
20096683|A male giant anteater (Myrmecophage tridactyla) was treated twice for tongue tip constrictions. Clinical signs were partial anorexia, soft stool, bleeding from the mouth, and intermittent lingual discomfort. In the first presentation, wood fibers constricting the distal part of the tongue were detected by endoscopy and were removed. In the second presentation, bands of collagenous fibers were identified and resected. Dietary elements were responsible for both cases: elongated wood fibers were present in peat, which was included as a supplement to improve stool consistency, and collagenous fibers originated from fascias of lean meat, which served as a protein source in this diet. Preventive measures included sieving of the peat to eliminate long fibers and grinding of the meat, respectively, prior to diet presentation. A homogenous diet, utilizing cellulose rather than peat and dry cat food rather than meat, will avoid tongue tip constriction as described in these cases.
20460568|Two captive reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus) at a New York zoological institution were diagnosed with Babesia odocoilei. Clinical signs consistent with acute babesiosis included fever, hemoglobinuria, and hemolytic anemia. Both episodes were precipitated by stressful events that may have compromised their immunocompetence. The diagnosis was confirmed by visualization of intraerythrocytic parasites on stained blood smears, polymerase chain reaction, and speciation of the Babesia by sequencing a hypervariable region of the 18S rRNA gene. One reindeer died with gross and histopathologic lesions, including pigmentary nephrosis with severe acute tubular degeneration and necrosis secondary to intravascular hemolysis. A second reindeer was successfully treated with supportive care and an antiprotozoal, imidocarb diproprionate (Imizol, 12%, Schering-Plough Animal Health, Union, New Jersey 07083, USA) at 3 mg/kg s.c. or i.m. s.i.d. on days 1, 2, 6, 9, and 21. Two other reindeer in the exhibit tested negative for Babesia by polymerase chain reaction but were treated with imidocarb dipropionate as prophylaxis while final testing results were pending. Additionally, B. odocoilei was identified in three novel asymptomatic host species within the collection: yak (Bos grunniens), muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi), and markhor goat (Capra falconeri). Due to the high morbidity and mortality associated with acute babesiosis, captive reindeer should receive tick prevention, be tested for subclinical infections in endemic areas, and receive aggressive treatment for acute infections when clinical babesiosis is suspected.
40962314|This report documents the successful use of a hybrid linear-circular flxator for the stabilization of a closed, oblique, comminuted fracture of the proximal right radial diaphysis in a 3-mo-old female deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Under fluoroscopic guidance, a hybrid fixator was applied for fracture stabilization, with consideration given to the risk of inducing further fissuring of the proximal segment, attaining adequate fixation in the short juxta-physeal segment, and possibly disrupting physeal growth. Three divergent wires were used as ring fixation elements to secure the proximal fracture segment. Mild fissure propagation occurred during fixation pin placement. All subsequent fixation pins chosen were of a smaller diameter and were placed without further deterioration of the existing fissures. Although willing to ambulate upon recovery, the deer placed the dor sum of the hoof on the ground initially after surgery, which resolved by the sixth day. The hybrid fixator was well-tolerated and was removed 4 wk postoperatively. In addition, proximal radial physeal growth was not disrupted and both radii had similar lengths after fixator removal. Hybrid linear-circular external skeletal fixation was advantageous for stabilization of the juxta-physeal fracture in this deer; with appropriate application techniques and configuration, we believe that hybrid fixators can be used successfully in several wildlife species with maximum acceptance and minimal complications.
20095545|Four Asian lions (Panthera leo persica), two wild and two captive, were diagnosed with focal oral hyperplasia affecting the ventral surface of their tongues. Focal, flat, sessile lesions consisted of hyperplastic, stratified squamous epithelium. Koilocytotic atypia was evident in the upper layers of cells, some of which contained characteristic intranuclear papillomavirus particles visible by electron microscopy. In addition, large amphophilic cytoplasmic inclusions were evident in the koilocytes and were considered to be a product of the viral E4 gene. Papillomavirus group-specific antigens were detected by immunohistochemistry in the atypical cell nuclei. Conserved papillomavirus antigenic epitopes differed from epitopes found in cutaneous papillomavirus-induced lesions from domestic cats. An 8,000-base pair DNA fragment, linearized by Bam HI digestion, was detected by Southern blot hybridization probed with a mixed human papillomavirus genomic probe. Limited restriction endonuclease studies of DNA prepared using an oral hyperplastic lesion from an Asian lion indicate that this is a novel feline papillomavirus different from the domestic cat cutaneous papillomavirus. This new virus has been designated "PlPV".
41417159|Two adult bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) were individually housed in aboveground pools over a 10-day period and exposed to decreasing water temperatures to determine whether cold stress activated the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. To serve as controls, two additional adult dolphins were similarly housed for the same duration but at ambient water temperatures (16.8-19.6C). Across all subjects, water temperatures ranged from 4.2 to 19.6C. Voluntary blood draws were made from each dolphin every 2-3 days, and serum was analyzed via radioimmunoassay for cortisol and aldosterone. Dolphins exposed to cold water showed an increase in serum cortisol and aldosterone as temperature declined; at the coldest water exposure, cortisol was more than three times and aldosterone more than two times the levels measured at ambient temperature. Elevations occurred before the water temperature declined below the individual animal's lower critical temperature, the point at which the metabolic rate increases to compensate for the loss of body heat. Variations in corticosteroids were unrelated to the 10-day isolation period, suggesting that the response was related to the cold stress and not impacted by the isolation. Elevations in cortisol and aldosterone were lower than those observed in force captured and stranded dolphins. Although potentially related to the general adaptive stress response, elevations in cortisol and aldosterone may have other adaptive functions related to mitigating impacts resulting from cold environmental temperatures.
20096597|Toxoplasma gondii infection is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in New World primate species. Clinical abnormalities associated with toxoplasmosis can be nonspecific, making it difficult to make a definitive antemortem diagnosis and initiate appropriate treatment. Toxoplasmosis in New World primates can have a rapid clinical course, which may lessen the diagnostic utility of antemortem tests. However, while there are a variety of T. gondii serum antibody tests and T. gondii polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays available that are not species specific, these assays have not been comparatively applied to New World primate cases. Woolly monkeys (Lagothrix lagotricha), a species of New World primate, are highly susceptible to fatal toxoplasmosis. Archived serum samples from 15 living and deceased woolly monkeys housed at the Louisville Zoological Garden (Louisville, Kentucky) were tested for T. gondii antibodies by a commercially available latex agglutination kit, a commercially available indirect hemagglutination kit, and the modified agglutination test. In addition, aliquots of the sera were assayed for T. gondii DNA using a PCR assay. Both woolly monkeys that died of disseminated toxoplasmosis were positive in all four assays, indicating that each could be used to aid in the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis in this species. We suspect that these assays have applications to other species of New World primates.
20095745|A Baird's tapir (Tapirus bairdii) was satisfactorily immobilized on two occasions with i.m. detomidine (0.065-0.13 mg/kg) and butorphanol (0.13-0.2 mg/kg). On the second occasion, anesthesia was induced by i.v. administration of ketamine (2.2 mg/kg). Twenty minutes later, endotracheal intubation was performed after an additional i.v. injection of ketamine (1.5 mg/kg). Anesthesia was maintained with isoflurane, which provided excellent conditions for radiology and surgery. Anesthesia was associated with hypoxemia when the tapir was allowed to breathe air and with hypoventilation. Mean arterial pressure remained satisfactory. No antagonist drugs were administered, and recovery from anesthesia was rapid and smooth.
20094910|The formulation of diets that are both easily handled and nutritionally well balanced poses a problem in the feeding of performing exotic cats. This study was conducted to develop a diet suitable for this purpose. A literature search was conducted, and skeletal muscles from horses, dairy cattle, and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were analyzed for macro- and micro-nutrients. Results from these analyses, together with information from the literature and data on various nutrient supplements, were entered into two computer-based animal diet evaluation programs. The most limiting nutrients in muscle were calcium and vitamins A, D, and E, but phosphorus, copper, manganese, and folacin also were deficient compared to estimates of nutrient requirements. Requirements for exotic cats were estimated from the National Research Council recommendations for growing domestic cats. The simplest diet created to meet these nutrient requirements was composed of horse meat, steamed bone meal, and the multi-vitamin--mineral supplements Centrum or Sentral-Vite.
20460542|Infestation with Sarcoptes scabiei was diagnosed from four wild raccoon dogs (Nyctereutes procyonoides) accidentally captured and presented to the Animal Health Center in Seoul Grand Park Zoo, Korea. Diagnosis was done by microscopic and histologic examination from skin lesions. Sarcoptes scabiei was the only species detected from the lesions and characterized by dorsoventrally flattened and round bodies, sucker-like pulvilli borne on long nonjointed pretarsi, triangular scales and spinelike setae on the dorsum, and three epimeres that are chitinous extensions of the coxae of the legs. In addition, infiltration of mast cells in the dermis was associated with infestation of the burrowing mite. This is the first report of sarcoptic mange in raccoon dogs in Korea. Because heavy infestation with S. scabiei was found in all of the captured wild raccoon dogs, further work is necessary to develop prophylactic interventions to prevent the spread of sarcoptic mange in free-living raccoon dogs in Korea.
20096632|A population of eastern grey kangaroos (Macropus giganteus) inhabiting heathland and farmland surrounding an aluminum smelter at Portland, Victoria, Australia, exhibited clinical signs of lameness. An investigation was undertaken to determine the cause of this lameness. Hematology, necropsy, histopathology, fecal egg count, total worm count, reproductive status, and the population age range were examined and failed to reveal any additional underlying disease state. The specific problem of lameness was addressed with bone histopathology, radiography, quantitative ultrasonography, microradiography, and multielement analysis of bone ash samples. The significant lesions observed were: osteophytosis of the distal tibia and fibula, tarsal bones, metatarsus IV, and proximal coccygeal vertebrae; osteopenia of the femur, tibia, and metatarsus IV; incisor enamel hypoplasia; stained, uneven, and abnormal teeth wear; abnormal bone matrix mineralization and mottling; increased bone density; and elevated bone fluoride levels. Microradiography of affected kangaroos exhibited "black osteons," which are a known manifestation of fluorosis. Collectively, these lesions were consistent with a diagnosis of fluorosis.
20095598|A herpesvirus antigenically related to equine herpesvirus type 1 (EHV-1) was cultured from the brain of a 2-yr-old camel (Camelus bactrianus) that exhibited clinical signs of severe neurologic disease prior to death. Microscopic lesions in the brain included a nonsuppurative meningoencephalitis with vasculitis and locally extensive necrosis and edema. Intranuclear inclusion bodies typical of herpesvirus were observed in neurons and glial cells. Immunohistochemical staining detected EHV-1 antigen in neurons, lymphocytes, and endothelial cells in the brain. The pathologic features in this case are similar to those in EHV-1-induced neurologic disease in llamas and horses.
40665074|Two adult, spayed, female raccoons were diagnosed with thyroid neoplasia. One raccoon had a palpable, left-sided, nonfunctional thyroid adenocarcinoma which was treated with a thyroidectomy twice with local recurrence both times. After the second recurrence, pulmonary metastases were identified. A third thyroidectomy was performed, and a vascular access port was placed for administration of intravenous doxorubicin. The raccoon developed pancytopenia and became anorexic after chemotherapy, and the owner elected humane euthanasia. The second raccoon had nonpalpable, bilateral, functional follicular thyroid adenomatous hyperplasia and was treated with a right thyroidectomy and a partial left thyroidectomy, leaving behind the grossly normal portion of the left thyroid. However, the animal was still hyperthyroid after surgery and was then successfully managed with topical methimazole gel. Thyroid pathology has been documented in raccoons in Europe, but is not reported in the United States. Thyroid neoplasia in raccoons can occur as a nonfunctional adenocarcinoma, as is commonly reported in dogs, or as a functional adenoma, as is commonly reported in cats. Raccoons with adenocarcinomas should be evaluated for pulmonary metastasis. Methimazole gel may be a viable treatment option for raccoons with hyperthyroidism.
20460362|A 178-kg, 14-yr-old captive female American black bear (Ursus americanus) was examined because of lethargy, inappetance, obesity, and alopecia. Serum chemistry and complete blood count values were within normal limits. Based on serum levels for total thyroxine (T), free T by equilibrium dialysis (fTED), and canine thyroid-stimulating hormone concentrations, using assays validated for domestic dogs, hypothyroidism was diagnosed presumptively, and therapy with levothyroxine sodium (0.022 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d.) was initiated. Haircoat, body weight, appetite, and activity level improved within 30 days. The levothyroxine dose was decreased twice (to 0.018 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d. and then to 0.011 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d.) during the course of treatment based on monitoring of serum T and fTED concentrations. After euthanasia for severe refractory lameness, postmortem examination revealed bilateral thyroid lobe enlargement and a fluid-filled cyst within the right lobe. Histologically, colloid goiter was present in both lobes, and a follicular cystadenoma had replaced one third of the cranial pole of the right lobe. The goiter and cystadenoma likely contributed to the hypothyroid condition in this bear, and fTED was a more sensitive indicator of hypothyroidism than was T. The recommended canine dosage of levothyroxine may be too high for the treatment of hypothyroidism in American black bears; 0.011 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d. may be a more appropriate dosage.
20096595|Fresh fecal samples were collected from seven adult female reticulated giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis reticulata). Samples were collected for several weeks before, during, and for a few weeks after gestation. Fecal samples were analyzed for progesterone levels by radioimmunoassay. There were significant differences in progesterone levels between pregestational and gestational samples and between gestational and postgestational samples. These results demonstrate that fecal progesterone levels are useful in determining pregnant versus nonpregnant reticulated giraffe.
20095979|Anesthesia in the white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum) has routinely involved potent narcotic anesthetic agents such as etorphine or carfentanil with their associated adverse side effects. In captive rhinoceroses conditioned to routine handling, a combination of butorphanol and azaperone at mean ( SD) doses of 69.3  18.0 mg and 103.1  20.9 mg, respectively, was used to produce levels of neuroleptanalgesia ranging from light "standing" sedation to deeper planes of anesthesia producing sternal and lateral recumbency. This combination was used for repeated (minimum repeat frequency of 3 days between events) anesthetic episodes (n = 26) in two animals, with the remaining episode performed in a white rhinoceros with chronic renal disease. The action of butorphanol was satisfactorily reversed with naltrexone (125 mg i.v. and 125 mg i.m.). Results (mean  SD) include sternal recumbency achieved in 14.1  8.1 min after i.m. dosing, standing and ambulation occurred in 1.7  0.6 min after reversal, heart rate was 62.0  10.1 beats/min, respiratory rate was 14.7  5.6 breaths/min, and percentage of oxygen saturation of hemoglobin (Spo) was 89.2  3.0%. Without supplementation, the total elapsed time ranged from 44.9 min to 103.0 min, whereas elapsed times up to 214.3 min were achieved with supplementation (mean time to supplementation was 28.0  13.9 min after initial dosing). Butorphanol and azaperone produced adequate muscle relaxation and apparently adequate analgesia for minor surgical interferences, including abdominal laparoscopy. Respiratory rates and Spo measurements were improved compared with reports of using more potent opioids in this species.
40962252|Itraconazole is used to treat and prevent aspergillosis in captive penguin colonies. Although commercial formulations of itraconazole are available, compounding is sometimes performed to decrease cost or to provide a different concentration of the drug. Using a two-way crossover design, the pharmacokinetics of both a commercially available oral itraconazole solution and a compounded oral itraconazole solution were compared in six black-footed penguins (Spheniscus demersus). Each itraconazole formulation was administered orally in frozenthawed capelin at 7 mg/kg. Plasma itraconazole concentrations at time 0 (pretreatment), 20 and 40 min post-drug administration, and 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 12 hr post-drug administration were determined using reverse-phase highperformance liquid chromatography. Drug concentrations were analyzed using standard pharmacokinetic methods. Plasma clearance of the commercial itraconazole solution was more rapid than the clearance published for other species, possibly warranting more frequent dosing in black-footed penguins. Absorption of itraconazole, as determined by peak concentration and area under the curve, was significantly higher for the commercial formulation when compared to the compounded formulation, likely as a result of the presence of cyclodextrin, a carrier compound shown to improve oral absorption, in the commercial formulation. Extrapolating dosing regimens for compounded itraconazole formulations from regimens determined for commercial formulations warrants caution as a result of the significant differences in pharmacokinetics.
20095207|A 1-mo-old reticulated giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) received repeated immobilizations for treatment of a fractured left metatarsus. Etorphine and xylazine or etorphine and isoflurane adjunct anesthesia were used for immobilization. During immobilizations, pulse oximetry and end tidal CO measurements were made and correlated with arterial blood gas values. Results of observations made during sequential immobilizations suggest that young giraffes tend to hypoventilate during anesthesia, resulting in significant respiratory acidosis. By monitoring pulse oximetry and end tidal CO, periods of hypoventilation and subsequent respiratory acidosis in this case were detected and overcome. Pulse oximetry and end tidal CO measurements are recommended as adjunct monitoring techniques for routine chemical restraint in the giraffe. In addition, reversing or avoiding hypoventilation and respiratory acidosis in young giraffes can be best accomplished through routine tracheal intubation and assisted ventilation.
20096350|Two
41262635|A public aquarium with a 4-mo history of occasional fish mortalities submitted for necropsy an adult female largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) that died unexpectedly. Gross necropsy revealed that the pericardial cavity was markedly distended with partially coagulated blood. Examination of the heart revealed multiple nodular masses in the area of the atrium and two small perforations on the surface of one of the nodular masses. Histopathologic exam of the atrium revealed severe fibrinonecrotic endocarditis and transmural myocarditis with intralesional bacteria. A pure culture of Edwardsiella tarda was obtained from culture of posterior kidney and spleen. An area of stagnant water that may serve as the source of E. tarda was identified, and steps to rectify this problem were taken. Low-level supersaturation was also a significant Stressor; the source of the supersaturation was not identified. To our knowledge, this is the first report of cardiac tamponade in a largemouth bass.
27751691|An epizootic of nontuberculous mycobacteriosis occurred in a captive herd of aoudad (Ammotragus lervia) over a period of 18 mo. Each of the affected animals was subject to a thorough postmortem examination that included histopathology, tissue concentration and acid-fast staining, aerobic and anaerobic bacterial culture, mycobacterial culture, and real-time polymerase chain reaction specific for Mycobacterium tuberculosis DNA. Histopathologic lesions consistent with pulmonary mycobacteriosis, including the presence of acid-fast bacteria, were identified in two captive adult male aoudad. M. avium was isolated in culture from the pulmonary parenchyma, and M. parafortuitum was isolated from a mesenteric lymph node of a third animal, an adult female, euthanized subsequent to an illness characterized by progressive dyspnea and tachypnea. M. intracellulare was isolated within the bronchial lymph node of a fourth aoudad, an adult female that was euthanized due to chronic weight loss. Diagnostic testing of the 34 individuals in the herd included collection of blood for an interferon- assay, intradermal tuberculin testing, and radiometric fecal culture for M. avium subsp. paratuberculosis. On the basis of this investigation, mycobacteriosis associated with M. bovis, M. tuberculosis, and/or M. avium subsp. paratuberculosis was ruled out and nontuberculous mycobacteriosis was confirmed in this herd.
20095440|A captive aged male dusky titi monkey (Callicebus moloch) was diagnosed with Type II, non-insulin-dependent, diabetes mellitus based on persistent hyperglycemia and elevated glycosylated hemoglobin levels. The animal did not show clinical signs of disease, although it did have a persistent hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia. The oral hypoglycemic agent glipizide (Glucotrol, Pfizer Pratt Pharmaceuticals, Division of Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York 10017, USA) administered at a dose of 1.25 mg/kg once daily resulted in an immediate reduction of the animal's blood glucose to within the normal range, and maintained the animal in normoglycemia throughout the course of treatment. Glipizide should be considered as a potential therapy for Type II diabetes in New World primates.
20096033|The aquatic North American river otter (Lontra canadensis), a charismatic nonendangered mustelid, presently occupies a greatly reduced range. The species is common in zoos and has economic value as a furbearer. At least 17 states and one Canadian province have undertaken recent reintroduction programs. Nevertheless, little has been published on nonparasitic diseases of river otters, and little is known of the clinical significance of most of their parasitic infections. Records of environmental contaminant-related diseases and traumatic injuries in free-ranging North American river otters are also rare. This paper reviews present knowledge of North American river otter diseases, especially those with the greatest potential for impacting reintroduction programs.
20096302|Blood samples collected from 31 free-roaming peafowl from three zoos in Michigan were tested serologically. Antibody titers were present against avian adenovirus and Bordetella avium in 19.3% and 61.3% of the samples, respectively. Serum plate agglutination tests were positive for Mycoplasma meleagridis and Mycoplasma synoviae in 3.2% and 38.7% of the samples, respectively. All birds were seronegative for avian influenza, Newcastle disease virus, West Nile virus, Mycoplasma gallisepticum, Salmonella pullorum, Salmonella typhimurium, and Giardia sp. No parasites were seen in blood smears. Cloacal swabs were cultured for anaerobic, aerobic, and microaerophilic bacteria. Clostridium perfringens type A and Escherichia coli were cultured most frequently from 64.5% and 29% of the samples, respectively, whereas Salmonella sp. and Campylobacter sp. were not isolated. Fecal samples contained moderate numbers of ascarid and Capillaria sp. ova and coccidian oocysts. Female biting lice (Goniodes gigas) were Identified on three birds.
20095593|Thirteen adult free-living male African elephants (Loxodonta africana) were anesthetized and given 20-100 g of a long-acting oxytetracycline (OTC) preparation either i.m. or i.v. Five dosages were established based on body measurements (the sum of the body length and the girth in centimeters). Serum concentrations of OTC were measured 48 hr after injection. Serum concentrations 0.5 g/ml were measured in 11 of 12 elephants receiving OTC dosages of 52-133 mg/cm either i.v. or i.m. The i.m. administration route produced serum concentrations from 0.75-1.6 g/ml in four of four elephants. A dosage of 60-80 mg/cm i.m. or i.v. should provide a therapeutic serum concentration of OTC for at least 48 hr. The use of an i.v. catheter avoids multiple i.m. injections of large drug volumes.
20460297|Biopsies of dermal nodules taken from two ornate-horned frogs (Ceratophrys ornata) in March and November 1986 revealed cutaneous chromoblastomycosis. Between March and December 1987, eight other ornate-horned frogs with cutaneous nodules were found dead. At necropsy, raised nodules 2-4 mm in diameter were found on the skin, liver, spleen, kidneys, and lungs. Microscopic examination showed these nodules to be granulomatous foci containing spheroid, pigmented, thick-walled sclerotic cells. Although amphibians with chromoblastomycosis typically have hyphae within granulomas, hyphae were observed in only one frog in this study.
40665071|In April 2007, two newborn springboks (Antidorcas marsupialis) from a zoo of southern France were found dead. Necropsy was performed on the two animals and revealed arthrogryposis, mild facial structural abnormalities, and bilateral enlargement of the kidneys with concurrent hydronephrosis in both newborns. Histopathologically, extensive cytoplasmic vacuolation of neurons in the central nervous system, thyroid follicular epithelium, renal tubular epithelium, enterocytes, hepatocytes, and ruminal epithelial cells was the most remarkable lesion in both animals. By electron microscopy, the vacuoles were membrane bound and contained scattered membranous and granular material within a primarily electron-lucent background. Hence, a diagnosis of lysosomal storage disease was established, with gross, histological, and ultrastructural features suggestive of an inherited form of mannosidosis. This report documents the first case of lysosomal storage disease in springboks.
40665152|A wild-caught Bowsprit tortoise (Chersina angulata) was received into quarantine and appeared clinically normal. Oral swabs for consensus herpesvirus polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequencing were obtained during routine quarantine, and a novel herpesvirus was identified. Comparative sequence analysis shows that this virus is a member of the subfamily Alphaherpesvirinae in the proposed genus Chelonivirus. Host/virus coevolution appears to be common amongst herpesviruses and their hosts, and the most significant disease is typically seen when herpesviruses jump to related host species. Previous studies have found some diversity of herpesviruses in tortoises. This report expands the number of known herpesviruses of tortoises. It is reasonable to expect that there will be significantly different clinical consequences of different tortoise herpesviruses in different species, and that identification of host/virus relationships will aid in clinical management of tortoise collections. Further work is needed to determine the clinical implications of this and other tortoise herpesviruses in different tortoise species.
20095798|Adult houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata) and juvenile kori bustards (Ardeotis kori) were given four regimens of commercially available inactivated and live poultry paramyxovirus type 1 (PMV-1) vaccines. Immunologic response to vaccination was assessed by hemagglutination inhibition assay of serum. Kori bustards, to which a dose of 0.5 ml of a commercially available inactivated vaccine for poultry had been administered intramuscularly (0.15 ml/kg body weight), failed to develop hemagglutinating antibodies, but antibody titers of low intensity and duration were detected following administration of a second and third subcutaneous dose of 2.0 ml vaccine per bird (0.40-0.45 ml/kg). In subsequent trials, when inactivated vaccine was administered subcutaneously at 1.0 ml/kg body weight following two or four live vaccinations administered by the ocular route, juvenile kori bustards developed higher, more persistent titers of antibodies. Kori bustards given four live vaccinations followed by inactivated vaccine developed higher titers of longer duration compared with kori bustards given two live vaccines followed by inactivated vaccine. Antibody titers of kori bustards given inactivated vaccine were higher and more persistent than the antibody response to live vaccination. Houbara bustards, previously vaccinated with inactivated vaccine, that were given a booster dose of inactivated vaccine maintained high mean antibody titers (log 5) for 52 wk. The authors recommend that inactivated PMV-1 vaccine should be administered by subcutaneous injection of 1.0 ml/kg vaccine to bustards. Adult bustards, previously vaccinated with inactivated vaccine, should be vaccinated annually with inactivated vaccine. Juvenile bustards should receive a second dose of inactivated vaccine 4-6 mo after the first dose of inactivated vaccine. Even though inactivated PMV-1 vaccines induced hemagglutination inhibition antibodies and produced no adverse reactions, further studies will be required to determine the protective efficacy of the antibody.
20096710|A 14-yr-old male Nile lechwe (Kobus megaceros) from the Jackson Zoo (Mississippi, USA) had chronic weight loss that was associated with elevated serum alkaline phosphatase levels. Approximately 4 yr after the first clinical signs of weight loss, the animal fractured its left rear femur and was subsequently euthanized; on the same day necropsy was performed. The liver was grossly enlarged and contained a smooth-surfaced nodular mass that occupied the majority of the right lobe of the liver. The mass had a liver-like appearance exhibiting a tan-red coloration but having a soft consistency. A single, approximately 0.6 cm, round, slightly elevated discrete red nodule was present in the left anterior lung. Microscopically, the hepatic mass and pulmonary nodule diffusely consisted of irregular cords of cells exhibiting hepatoid features, but containing no evidence of normal portal bile duct or portal triad development. To our knowledge, this is the first report in the scientific literature of a naturally occurring case of hepatocellular carcinoma in a Nile lechwe or in any antelope species.
20096069|Penicillin G and antipyrine, which served as model drugs to assess the relative capacities of renal and hepatic elimination pathways, respectively, were each administered intravenously to six ostriches (Struthio camelus) and to six emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae). Drug concentrations in blood samples collected over a period of 12 hr after administration were assayed, and elimination half-life, mean residence time, clearance, and steady-state volume of distribution were calculated. Mean values for elimination half-life and mean residence time of penicillin G were significantly higher in emus than in ostriches; no significant differences in antipyrine pharmacokinetics between species were demonstrated.
20096608|Sea duck populations are declining in Alaska. The reasons for the decline are not known; environmental lead exposure is one suspected cause. Thirty wild Steller's eider ducks (Polysticta stelleri) and 40 wild black scoter ducks (Melanitta nigra) were tested for blood lead levels using a portable blood lead analyzer (LeadCare; ESA, Inc., Chelmsford, Massachusetts 01824, USA). Sixty-seven and one-tenth percent of the sea ducks had undetectable blood lead levels, 30.0% had values indicating normal or background lead exposure, and 2.9% had values indicating lead exposure. None of the birds had values indicating lead toxicity, and no birds demonstrated clinical signs of toxicity. Birds in areas with higher human population density had higher blood lead levels than those in less densely populated areas. This is the first time a portable blood lead analyzer has been utilized with sea ducks in a field setting. Because it provides immediate results, it is valuable as a screening tool for investigators carrying out surgical procedures on birds in the field as well as establishing baseline blood lead data on sea ducks. Lead exposure does occur in wild sea ducks, and the study indicates that additional research is needed in order to determine the role environmental lead plays in declining sea duck populations.
20095877|A presumptive diagnosis of avian tuberculosis can be made when characteristic histologic lesions and acid-fast bacilli are observed in avian tissue samples. However, a definitive diagnosis requires isolation and identification of the causative organism, a process that can take several weeks to complete. The purpose of the study was to determine whether formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded archival avian tissues could be tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to reliably and rapidly diagnose avian tuberculosis. Tissues were examined from both presumptive and definitive cases of avian tuberculosis from captive exotic birds obtained over a 14-yr period (1983-1997). The cases chosen consisted of birds that had characteristic histologic lesions with acid-fast bacilli. The primers used for PCR amplified a 180-base-pair fragment of 16S ribosomal RNA, a sequence specific for both Mycobacterium avium subsp. avium and M. avium subsp. paratuberculosis. If a sequence was detected in a sample, it was presumed that M. a. avium was the organism being detected. This M. avium fragment sequence was detected in 26 of the 97 samples (27%). Some of the negative PCR results may be explained by any of several factors that adversely affect nucleic acid integrity, particularly prolonged fixation in formalin. Of the 17 samples that were culture positive for M. avium and were known to have been fixed in formalin for 4 wk, 11 tested positive by PCR (65%). The findings of this study show that PCR can be a rapid indicator of the presence of M. a. avium in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues. However, the relatively low detection rate the test demonstrated in this sample set may limit its practical use as a diagnostic tool.
41262666|A 46-yr-old male white rhinoceros {Ceratotherium simum) died during anesthesia following agonal excitation. On postmortem, a well-demarcated 2.5-cm tan mass was identified in the right adrenal gland. Histopathology confirmed the presence of a pheochromocytoma, and elevated levels of epinephrine in serum collected shortly prior to the animal's death, as compared with sera from healthy controls, demonstrated the functional nature of the tumor. Although rare, pheochromocytoma should be considered as a differential diagnosis in cases of suspected hypertension and acute death in rhinos.
20095879|Assays of reproductive hormone metabolites require validation in each animal species. For validation of methodology in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), fecal samples were collected from females that had been injected by blowgun with estradiol, progesterone, or a control substance. Analysis by radioimmunoassay revealed that estradiol and pregnanediol were more abundant fecal metabolites of estrogens and progestins than were estrone or progesterone. Peak excretion rates of estradiol and pregnanediol occurred within 12 and 24 hr of injection, respectively. Ovulation time was estimated by measuring the frequency of occurrence of eight behavior patterns, including copulation. Profiles were compiled for three deer over the course of estrus and early pregnancy for estradiol, estrone, progesterone, and pregnanediol using radioimmunoassay. Pregnanediol was excreted at concentrations about 1,000 times higher than those of the other three fecal steroid metabolites, and pregnanediol differed in concentration during estrus, the luteal phase, and early pregnancy. Consequently, a simpler enzyme immunoassay was adapted and used to measure pregnanediol levels over the course of estrus and early pregnancy for seven deer. Measurement of fecal pregnanediol is useful for monitoring reproductive events in female white-tailed deer.
20095959|A group of four red kangaroos (Megaleia rufa), a Bennett's wallaby (Macropus rufogriseus fruticus), and a Gunther's dik dik (Maloqua guentheri smithi) were presented over a 2-mo period with draining lesions over the thorax or on the lateral aspect of a hind leg. Only one animal exhibited more than one lesion. Physical examinations revealed infections with fly larvae. The parasites were manually removed and identified as Cuterebra spp. All of the affected animals survived, with no apparent side effects.
20096260|Paired blood samples were collected from the ear and radial vein of four captive healthy adult black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis). Samples were collected using heparin or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) as an anticoagulant. Packed cell volume (PCV) and total protein (TP) values were compared between samples drawn from the two venipuncture sites and treated with the two anticoagulants to determine whether statistically significant variation occurred. No significant difference in the grouped values was observed when venipuncture sites (ear and radial vein) were compared using the same anticoagulant (heparin). However, when comparing different anticoagulants (EDTA and heparin) used to collect blood from the radial vein, the grouped-heparinized samples had higher mean PCV and TP values than did the EDTA-treated samples. These differences may be important when performing serial sampling in a sick rhinoceros and suggest that the choice of anticoagulant should be consistent, although selection of venipuncture site may be less important when monitoring selected hematologic values in black rhinoceroses.
20095046|Fatal encephalomalacia occurred in three female black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) from three different zoos over a 9-yr period. Rhinoceroses affected included two calves (2 and 6 mo old) from the Denver and St. Louis Zoological Parks and a 2-yr-old from the Kansas City Zoo. Evaluation of the three rhinoceroses for known causes of encephalomalacia in domestic hoofstock failed to provide a definitive diagnosis.
20096268|Little is known about neoplasia in the jaguar (Panthera onca), the largest American feline. A captive black jaguar was diagnosed at necropsy with a mastocytic form of visceral mast cell tumor similar to that which occurs in domestic cats. This animal had no previous clinical disease and died during anesthesia for a routine dental treatment.
40665138|A necropsy was performed on a captive-born, 10-yr-old male Atlantic bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) after it died acutely. Gross necropsy findings revealed hemorrhage within the right cerebrum, right cerebellum, and right eye. Histopathologic findings revealed a moderate multifocal acute necrotizing meningoencephalitis with intralesional fungal hyphae. Several pieces of cerebrum and cerebellum and cerebrospinal fluid were sent to the Fungus Testing Laboratory in San Antonio, Texas (USA). The culture yielded Fusarium oxysporum, which was confirmed by internal transcribed spacer and D1-D2 sequencing. Fusarium oxysporum infection has been reported in marine mammals. No cases of noncutaneous F. oxysporum infection in a cetacean that was not on long-term antimicrobials have been reported in the literature.
20095094|Serum -tocopherol, retinol, cholesterol, and whole blood selenium levels were measured in 151 free-ranging mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) from 14 locations in California. Data were compared by year (n = seven), season (n = four), age (n = three groups), migratory behavior, and sex. Herd mean -tocopherol ranged from 0.8 to 4.2 g/ml, with significantly higher levels in females versus males, migrators versus resident animals, and from samples collected in spring versus later in the year. Serum retinol varied from 0.19 to 0.46 g/ml among herds; adults, females, and migratory deer had higher (P &lt 0.05) levels than appropriate comparison groups. Habitat influenced serum cholesterol more than other variables; -tocopherol (g/ml): cholesterol (mg/dl) ratios were consistently &gt 1.0. Selenium herd means ranged from 19.5 to 167.6 ng/ml; migratory animals had lower (P &lt 0.01) blood levels than residents. No significant correlations were observed among any of these measures, and stepwise regression analysis revealed no consistent prediction of deer body condition. Data suggest widely varying levels of vitamin E and other nutrients in natural diets consumed by mule deer. Such variability must be considered when assessing nutrient status from single blood samples.
41417176|An 18-yr-old, male, albino, American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) was evaluated for decreased appetite and abnormal buoyancy. Computed tomography (CT) of the coelomic cavity showed multifocal mineral and soft tissue attenuating pulmonary masses consistent with pulmonary fungal granulomas. Additionally, multifocal areas of generalized, severe emphysema and pulmonary and pleural thickening were identified. The alligator was euthanized and necropsy revealed severe fungal pneumonia associated with oxalosis. Metarhizium anisopliae var. anisopliae was cultured from lung tissue and exhibited oxalate crystal formation in vitro. Crystals were identified as calcium oxalate monohydrate by X-ray powder defractometry. Fungal identification was based on morphology, including tissue sporulation, and DNA sequence analysis. This organism is typically thought of as an entomopathogen. Clinical signs of fungal pneumonia in nonavian reptiles are often inapparent until the disease is at an advanced stage, making antemortem diagnosis challenging. This case demonstrates the value of CT for pulmonary assessment and diagnosis of fungal pneumonia in the American alligator. Fungal infection with associated oxalosis should not be presumed to be aspergillosis.
41262571|To evaluate the cardiorespiratory changes induced by isoflurane (ISO) anesthesia in the crested caracara (Caracara plancus), eight crested caracaras that weighed 1.0 kg (range 0.9-1.1 kg) were the subjects for the study. The birds were anesthetized by face mask with ISO for brachial artery catheterization. After recovery, anesthesia was re-induced and maintained with ISO with spontaneous ventilation. Electrocardiography, direct systolic arterial blood pressure (SAP), diastolic arterial blood pressure (DAP), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), respiratory rate (RR), end-tidal carbon dioxide (P ET CO), and cloacal temperature (TC) were measured before induction (baseline, under physical restraint) and after 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, and 40 min of ISO anesthesia. Arterial blood samples were collected for blood gas analysis at baseline, 10, 25, and 40 min. No cardiac arrhythmias were observed in the present study. RR, SAP, DAP, MAP, TC and pH decreased from baseline values, whereas arterial partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide, bicarbonate concentration, and P ET CO were significantly higher than baseline. Apnea was not observed in any bird. ISO anesthesia is suitable for use in healthy members of this species despite the moderate cardiovascular and respiratory depression produced.
20094994|The pharmacokinetic disposition of digoxin elixir was determined in 20 quaker conures (Myiopsitta monachus) following administration of a single oral dose given at 0.05 mg/kg of body weight. The plasma concentration time profile best fit a two-compartment open model with an absorption, distribution, and elimination phase. The half-life for absorption was 0.83 hr; for distribution, 1.47 hr; and for elimination, 25.86 hr. Peak plasma concentration (1.80  0.36 ng/ml) was reached 1 hr postadministration; plasma concentration was below the assay sensitivity at 24 hr.
20096230|Virus isolation attempts were carried out on wild-caught Xenosaurus grandis, X. platyceps, and Abronia graminea from Mexico. These animals were also tested for exposure to paramyxoviruses and reoviruses. Pharyngeal and cloacal swabs were collected from 30 lizards, and blood was collected from 23 lizards. A cytopathogenic virus was isolated from the cloacal swab of one of the X. platyceps. The isolate was identified as a paramyxovirus on the basis of its sensitivity to chloroform, resistance to 5-iodo-2-deoxyuridine, size and morphology of the viral particles, hemagglutination of chicken erythrocytes, and serologic reaction with paramyxovirus-specific antisera. Antibodies against the paramyxovirus isolated in this study were found in four animals from three species. Antibodies against a different paramyxovirus isolated from a monitor lizard were found in seven animals from three species, showing that all the species tested are susceptible to paramyxovirus infections. Antibodies to a reptilian reovirus were found in three of the X. grandis.
20095102|Mycobacterium intracellulare and M. chelonae abscessus were cultured from lesions on a captive female and male numbat (Myrmecobius fasciatus), respectively. There was progressive swelling of the feet with accumulation of purulent material under the foot pads of the female. The female died shortly after the mycobacterium was isolated. The male had numerous small pustular lesions on its ventral thorax and abdomen. The animal was treated, and the lesions resolved over several months. Many atypical mycobacteria are ubiquitous in nature, and soil samples from the numbats' enclosures were cultured to investigate possible sources of infection. Mycobacterium intracellulare and M. fortuitum were isolated.
20460432|A retrospective/prospective radiographic study documented 55 cases of moderate to severe hip dysplasia, with varying degrees of shallowing of the acetabulum, flattening or loss of the femoral head, widening or loss of the femoral neck, and femoral diaphyseal abnormalities in northern koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus) in the San Diego Zoo (San Diego, California, USA) collection. For the retrospective study, historic radiographs were examined when available. For the prospective study, three standard views (ventrodorsal extended leg, ventrodorsal frog leg, and lateral extended leg) were used. A scoring system was developed using four areas (acetabulum, femoral head, femoral neck, and femur) and ranges of 0 to 5 (0 = not affected to 5 = severely affected) for each area, creating a total score out of 40. Scores were graded as follows: 0-2 = normal dysplasia; 3-6 = mild dysplasia; 10-19 = moderate dysplasia; and 20-40 = severe dysplasia. Thirty koalas were graded as severe, 25 koalas as moderate, and 38 koalas as excellent or mild. Affected koalas may or may not demonstrate gait abnormalities. Mild to severe degenerative joint disease may develop and symptoms may be alleviated with glucosamine/chondroitin sulfate and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The etiology of hip dysplasia in koalas is not currently understood.
20094936|Epizootics of an acute, fatal hepatitis affecting tamarins and marmosets (family Callitrichidae) have been reported in two zoos in the U.S. and Europe. Two new epizootics of hepatitis affecting seven golden lion tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia) and three emperor tamarins (Saguinus imperator) were identified at the Oklahoma City Zoo in 1984 and 1986. Livers from these animals showed hepatocellular swelling and necrosis accompanied by inflammatory cells and acidophilic bodies. Virus-like particles 85-105 nm in diameter were seen in hepatocytes. Using pathologic and clinical criteria, a case definition of the disease now called callitrichid hepatitis (CH) was developed. Health records of tamarins in zoos in the U.S. were surveyed for the occurrence of CH, and 12 outbreaks of CH were retrospectively identified at 10 zoos or animal parks. These studies show that CH is a highly infectious disease with a high mortality rate. This disease is apparently much more prevalent in zoos than previously recognized, and may therefore pose a serious threat to the survival of captive tamarins, particularly endangered species.
20095352|Two Singapore house geckos (Gekko monarchus) died as the result of a disseminated gram-positive bacteremia. The presence of myriad gram-positive streptococci resulted in nearly complete effacement of normal tissue architecture. Bacteria were found in chains and produced a polysaccharide that formed thick capsules. This is the first report of this infection in Singapore house geckos and describes an uncommon presentation by a bacterial pathogen.
41262611|To reduce male-male aggression in collared lemurs (Eulemur collaris) at Disney's Animal Kingdom  , a clinical trial of leuprolide acetate (Depo-Lupron  ) injections through one breeding season (24 wk), followed by surgical castration after the breeding season was implemented. Daily behavioral observations to record occurrences of aggression were conducted before and during the injection period, as well as after castration. Fecal sample collection began 2 wk before the first injection and continued throughout the clinical trial to determine testosterone metabolite concentration. Samples were collected 3 times per week. Fecal collection and behavioral observation continued for 5 mo after castration. Fecal samples from 3 intact males from other institutions were obtained to compare testosterone values. While the lemurs were treated with Depo-Lupron, testosterone concentrations spiked immediately after injection, and then returned to pretreatment, nonbreedingseason levels after varying lengths of time. Analysis of the behavioral data indicated that aggression was not significantly reduced with Depo-Lupron treatment. However, after castration, contact aggression and wounding decreased to zero. Although the sample is small, this study presents the first documented data on the effects that chemical treatment with Depo-Lupron and surgical castration have upon hormone levels and aggressive behavior in eulemurs.
20096622|A pair of captive adult giant anteaters (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) presented heavily infested with a flea species (Pulex simulans) commonly found on Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana) and raccoons (Procyon lotor) in the central United States. In this case, the flea was demonstrated to have completed its entire life cycle with the anteaters as the host. A single treatment of topical imidacloprid, coupled with removal and replacement of infested bedding, was rapidly effective at controlling the infestation and no adverse effects of the drug were noted. Control of the anteater infestation also removed the flea infestation of aardvarks in the same building.
40665132|Fifteen adult emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae) anesthetic events were successfully undertaken with the use of thiafentanil oxalate (A3080) 0.175 mg/kg i.m. (SD 0.026) and medetomidine 0.092 mg/kg i.m. (SD 0.009) via remote injection. Following induction, the birds were transported to the clinic, where a venous blood gas sample was taken for analysis, which indicated a respiratory acidosis, with a mean arterial pCO of 54.46 mmHg (SD 9.31) and venous pH of 7.135 (SD 0.11), most likely due to moderate bradypnoea. Atipamezole 0.2 mg/kg i.v. (SD 0.02) was administered, immediately followed by orotracheal intubation initiating 2-3% isoflurane with 2 L/min oxygen flow. Parameters evaluated during anesthesia included heart rate, respiratory rate, anesthetic depth, and electrocardiogram readings. Physical exams plus any required procedures were performed in addition to venous blood samples for biochemistry and full blood counts. The birds were then recovered in a crate padded with grass hay with administration of 8.75 mg/kg (SD 1.36) naltrexone (50 mg/mg A3080) administered in equal doses i.v. and i.m. along with 5 mg midazolam i.m. to reduce excitement. Emus were placed in a lateral position and given 4 L/min oxygen via the endotracheal tube, until movement of the head and neck necessitated extubation. Recovery was rapid and smooth in each case with a mean time of 3.1 min from antagonist administration to sternal recovery. On the basis of rapid, smooth, and successful inductions and recoveries, the described dosage of thiafentanil and medetomidine, with administration of midazolam prior to recovery, is recommended for immobilization of adult emus. Due to evidence of respiratory acidosis and bradypnoea, careful monitoring should be instituted throughout and oxygen provision recommended from initial contact.
20096494|A 10.5-yr-old male spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta) developed acute, severe erythematous and ulcerative dermatitis of the hindquarters, feet, face, and ears 19 days after receiving a recombinant canary pox vectored canine distemper vaccine. Biopsies of the lesions supported a diagnosis of erythema multiforme (EM), which is an immunemediated disorder that can occur days to months after exposure to antigenic stimuli. During the lengthy recovery, esophageal regurgitation and ulceration developed either as complications of the disease or secondary to therapy. The esophageal disease was managed with metoclopramide, sulcrafate, omeprazole, and frequent feedings. The distemper vaccine is postulated to have been the inciting cause of EM in this animal.
20096711|A 14-yr-old male, vasectomized African lion (Panthera leo) exhibited mild weight loss despite adequate appetite. Splenomegaly was diagnosed on physical examination. On the basis of hematology and clinical pathology, malignant lymphoma with chronic lymphocytic leukemia was diagnosed. Abdominal exploratory surgery and splenectomy were performed. Histologic examination and immunohistochemistry confirmed a small cell peripheral T-cell lymphoma. Initial treatments consisted of doxorubicin and prednisone, with later addition of lomustine. The lion remained in clinical remission at 2 mo, 6 mo, and 12 mo postchemotherapy physical examinations. The lion survived 504 days from initial diagnosis. At necropsy, the only lesions consistent with lymphoma were localized epitheliotrophic infiltrates of small neoplastic T lymphocytes within the nasopharyngeal epithelium and the underlying submucosa observed on microscopic examination.
20096425|Blood samples were analyzed from 30 domestic cats (Felis domesticus) from the Petn region of Guatemala to determine the seroprevalence of common pathogens that may pose a potential risk to native wild felids. Eight of the cats had been vaccinated previously; however, owners were unable to fully describe the type of vaccine and date of administration. In addition, blood samples were obtained from two captive margays (Leopardus wiedii). Samples were tested for antibodies to feline immunodeficiency virus, Dirofilaria immitis, feline panleukopenia virus, feline herpesvirus, feline coronavirus, canine distemper virus, and Toxoplasma gondii and for feline leukemia virus (FeLV) antigen. Fifty percent or more of the cats sampled were seropositive for feline herpesvirus (22 of 30), feline panleukopenia (15 of 30), and T. gondii (16 of 30). Five cats were positive for FeLV antigen. Both margays were seropositive for feline coronavirus and one was strongly seropositive to T. gondii. All animals were seronegative for D. immitis. This survey provides preliminary information about feline diseases endemic to the Petn region.
20095566|Bustards are large terrestrial birds that inhabit open plains, deserts, and dry bush country. The helminth parasites of captive houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata macqueeni), rufous-crested bustards (Eupodotis ruficrista), and kori bustards (Ardeotis kori) have been investigated at the National Avian Research Centre (NARC) and the International Institute of Parasitology. The cestode species recovered include Hispaniolepis falsata, Ascometra vestita, Ascometra choriotidis, Otiditaenia conoideis, Otiditaenia macqueeni, Raillietina neyrai, and Idiogenes sp. The acanthocephalans Mediorhynchus taeniatus and Centrorhynchus lancea were also recovered. A host-parasite list is presented here. Chlamydotis undulata macqueeni is a new host for A. choriotidis, C. lancea, and R. neyrai, and E. ruficrista is a new host for O. macqueeni. Ascometra choriotidis, R. neyrai, O. macqueeni, H. falsata, M. taeniatus, and C. lancea records are new for the United Arab Emirates. Cestodes were recovered from 18 of 78 houbara bustards, two of three kori bustards, and four of 10 rufous-crested bustards. Pathologic findings in the intestinal tract associated with cestode infection included inflammation, mild atrophy, collapse, and fibrosis of the intestinal mucosa. In some birds, the number of parasites was sufficient to partially obstruct the intestinal lumen. Administration of a single oral dose of 10 mg/kg praziquantel was effective in treating kori bustards known to be infected with the cestode O. conoideis. Importation of stock for captive breeding programs may introduce parasites from one region into another.
20096121|Reptiles can harbor pathogenic microorganisms asymptomatically and serve as potential reservoirs of infection for humans, domestic animals, and other reptiles. Infectious diseases are also problematic for free-ranging reptile populations and are an important consideration in reptile reintroduction and translocation projects. There have been limited serologic studies of free-ranging reptiles for evidence of exposure to potential pathogens. In the present study, serum or plasma samples from five male and five female free-ranging Venezuelan anacondas (Eunectes murinus) were screened for antibodies to eastern, western, and Venezuelan equine encephalitis viruses, vesicular stomatitis virus, ophidian paramyxovirus, 19 Leptospira interrogans serovars, and Cryptosporidium serpentes. Antibodies to these agents were not detected, or antibody titers were low and possibly nonspecific. These results for the limited number of anacondas surveyed suggest that they do not serve as significant reservoirs for these infectious agents at this location.
20096125|To investigate possible causes of embryonic and neonatal mortality in a group of captive Fijian iguanas (Brachylophus fasciatus and Brachylophus vitiensis), the vitamin D status of adults in the colony was compared with that of agamid and iguanid lizards either housed in indoor enclosures under artificial ultraviolet light or exposed to natural sunlight (wild-caught or captive animals housed outdoors). Those under artificial lighting had a significantly lower vitamin D status than those housed exclusively outdoors, whereas the vitamin D status of Fijian iguanas that had received intermittent exposure to natural sunlight was intermediate and not significantly different from that of animals housed exclusively outdoors. However, eggs from some of these Fijian iguanas had substantially lower vitamin D content than eggs from outdoor iguanid and agamid animals. Artificial ultraviolet light, therefore, might not be an adequate substitute for natural sunlight to maintain vitamin D status of lizards. This possible inadequacy may be because either artificial ultraviolet light has a lower intensity of the wavelengths that induce vitamin D than does sunlight or the intensity of the artificial lighting is not sufficient.
20095662|Sixteen horned puffin (Fratercula corniculata) and six parakeet auklet (Cyclorrhynchus psittacula) chicks of various prefledging ages were caught in Alaska and transported to the North Carolina Zoological Park (USA) in August 1995. Six of the 16 puffin chicks died within a 5-day period beginning 2 days after their arrival into quarantine at the zoo. The birds that died were collected at a young age, weighed 45.4-65.7 g, and had been fed a diet of thawed frozen ocean silversides (Atherinidae) that was not supplemented with vitamins. Clinical signs were nonspecific, and gross necropsies, insecticide toxicology screens, and bacterial cultures were unremarkable. Microscopic examination of tissues from five of the six birds showed myocardial necrosis and degeneration suggestive of vitamin E deficiency and intestinal protozoa resembling Microsporidia. The mortality pattern and histopathologic lesions observed in this case support the use of selective age capture and vitamin supplementation for wild alcid chick collection.
20095829|Cutaneous fungal infections occurred in four captive brown tree snakes (Boiga irregularis). The ventral scales were most commonly affected, and lesions began as areas of erythema and edema with vesicle formation, followed by development of caseous brown plaques. Lesions usually started where ventral scales overlapped and spread rapidly. All snakes died within 14 days after clinical signs were first noted. The deaths of three of the snakes were directly attributable to the cutaneous disease; the other snake died from renal failure and visceral gout, most likely induced by gentamicin therapy. Histologically, lesions consisted of epidermal hyperplasia and hyperkeratosis, with foci of epidermal necrosis, intraepidermal vesicle formation, and subacute inflammation of the underlying dermis. These lesions were associated with bacteria and numerous septate, branched fungal hyphae within the epidermis and overlying serocelluar crusts. Hyphae that penetrated through the superficial surface of the epidermis often formed terminal arthroconidia. The same species of fungus was isolated in pure culture from the skin of three snakes, but fungal cultures were not performed on samples from the fourth snake. The fungus has been identified as the Chrysosporium anamorph of Nannizziopsis vriesii based on its formation of solitary dermatophytelike aleurioconidia and alternate and fission arthroconidia. The source of the fungus in this outbreak was not determined; however, the warm, moist conditions under which the snakes were housed likely predisposed them to opportunistic cutaneous fungal infections.
20096500|The gross and histopathologic findings for a primary tonsillar squamous cell carcinoma in a captive 11-yr-old male polar wolf (Canis lupus arctos) are described. The carcinoma had metastasized to regional lymph nodes of the pharynx, the precardial mediastinum, and the lungs. Tumor suppressor protein TP53 was detected by immunohistochemistry in the nuclei of poorly differentiated, cytokeratin-positive cells of the primary neoplasm and the metastases. Canine oral papillomavirus DNA was not detectable by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
20096018|A 13-yr-old female Canada lynx (Felis lynx canadensis) died after a short clinical illness, and necropsy revealed multifocal, nonsuppurative encephalitis with protozoal schizonts present in cerebral vascular endothelial cells. The schizonts stained immunohistochemically with antiserum to Sarcocystis neurona. This is the first report of Sarcocystis encephalitis in the Canada lynx.
20096073|Acid-fast organisms were identified by histopathology of granulomatous lesions in an ostrich (Struthio camelus). The organisms were grown in Herrold's egg media with and without mycobactin and identified as Mycobacterium avium. An agar gel immunodiffusion (AGID) test for Mycobacterium avium paratuberculosis was performed for detection of antibody for M. avium in this infected ostrich and seven other ostriches that were in contact. The results of the AGID were consistent with the pathologic diagnosis of mycobacteriosis and the isolation of M. avium in the affected ostrich.
20096360|A mature male Risso's dolphin (Grampus griseus) stranded along the coasts of Friuli Venezia Giulia, northeast Italy, in May 2001. Parasitic infection with Crassicauda grampicola is often found in the tympanic bullae and pterygoid sinuses in many of the Risso's dolphins examined from the same area. For this reason, it was decided to perform computed tomography of the head to assess this imaging technique for the diagnosis of crassicaudosis in dolphins. A full postmortem examination confirmed the pathologic findings of the computed tomography scan. This technique can be considered a useful adjunct in the diagnosis of cranial crassicaudosis in live dolphins.
41262582|Mortalities among birds of prey from anticoagulant rodenticide (AR) toxicosis have been documented in several countries. Reports on extent of exposure within regions of the United States are limited. This study investigated AR exposure and toxicosis in four species of birds of prey (red-tailed hawks [Buteo jamaicensis], barred owls [Strix varia], eastern screech owls [Megascops asio] and great horned owls [Bubo virginianus]) presented to a wildlife clinic in Massachusetts. The aims of this study are to document the proportion of these four species that died or were euthanized due to their presenting injuries that had detectable amounts of ARs in liver tissue; to identify and quantify ARs present; to describe clinical, postmortem, and histopathologic signs of toxicosis; to evaluate potential sublethal effects of AR exposure; and to associate liver AR level with toxicosis. Birds included in the study were sampled without regard to signs of AR toxicosis. Postmortem examinations were conducted, and liver samples were analyzed for AR residues. Of 161 birds tested, 86% had AR residues in liver tissue. The second-generation AR (SGAR) brodifacoum was identified in 99% of positive birds. Mortality from AR toxicosis was diagnosed in 6% of birds. No indications of sublethal effects of exposure were found, and no association between liver brodifacoum level and signs of toxicosis was apparent. Given the high proportion of birds in this study exposed to ARs, specifically brodifacoum, continued monitoring is warranted as new U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations on the sale and use of SGARs are enacted.
20095586|Nodular bone lesions were identified in three species of fruit bat in the Metropolitan Toronto Zoo collection: 25 of 43 Indian fruit bats (Pteropus giganteus), eight of eight grey-headed flying foxes (P. poliocephalus), and seven of 45 Egyptian fruit bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus). The condition was investigated by retrospective study of clinical and necropsy records, by regular physical examination, radiography, and blood sampling of bats currently in the collection, and by postmortem examination. Bone from necropsy specimens had markedly raised fluoride levels (3,300  1,100 ppm) compared with similar bone samples from another collection (300  50 ppm). Samples of the fruit bat diet contained fluoride at levels higher than the recommended dietary intake. Consequently, the osteoproliferation was attributed to fluorosis.
20095893|Thyroid adenocarcinoma was diagnosed in an adult bald eagle (Haliaeetus leukocephalus) with clinical signs of weakness manifested by inability to fly. Physical examination at the time of admission revealed dried blood in the pharynx and glottis and the presence of pharyngeal trichomonads. Radiographs revealed a large soft tissue mass in the area of the left coracoid and clavicular bones. One month following successful treatment for trichomoniasis, the bird suffered an acute episode of tracheal hemorrhage and died. Necropsy revealed a large mass within the interclavicular air sac. The histologic features were consistent with thyroid adenocarcinoma. This is the first report of thyroid neoplasia in a member of the order Falconiformes.
20096075|A male Cope's grey tree frog (Hyla chrysoscelis) died spontaneously with ventral subcutaneous edema and was necropsied. Thickening of the intestinal mucosa was observed histopathologically, with villous atrophy and intraepithelial nematodes present. Adult female Strongyloides sp. nematodes were isolated from the fixed intestinal tract, the first time this nematode genus has been recovered from this frog genus. Intestinal strongyloidiasis should be considered as a cause for protein-losing enteropathy and death in frogs.
20095834|A 4-mo-old female white lion (Panthera leo) cub was presented with a 2-wk history of persistent postprandial regurgitation, mild dyspnea, and poor weight gain. The cub was weak and thin but otherwise alert. Survey and contrast radiography revealed a large dilated esophagus cranial to the heart base, with an esophageal filling defect present at the level of the fourth thoracic vertebra. A vascular ring anomaly was tentatively diagnosed. Exploratory thoracotomy revealed a double aortic arch and a persistent left vena cava. The left aortic arch was ligated and divided, and recovery was uneventful. A single episode of regurgitation occurred within the first postoperative month, and the cub gained 5.5 kg in weight during the same time period. Neither double aortic arch nor persistent left vena cava has been reported in a nondomestic felid.
20095599|During the winter of 1994, 19 young lions (Panthera leo) died at an animal park in Japan. Feline parvovirus (FPV) was isolated from lung, spleen, liver, and kidney tissues and from feces of a 5-mo-old lioness that died during the outbreak. The FPV isolates from spleen and feces were examined antigenically by hemagglutination inhibition using monoclonal antibodies against feline panleukopenia virus (FPLV). Isolate genomic DNA was analyzed by looking for restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) in polymerase chain reaction amplified capsid gene products. Isolates possessed an antigenic epitope for FPLV and mink enteritis virus (MEV), and their RFLP results were the same as those of FPLV but not the same as those of MEV or canine parvovirus. These results indicate that the isolates are FPLV, and this is therefore the first confirmed case of FPLV infection in captive nondomestic Japanese felids.
20095778|Exploratory celiotomy of an 18-mo-old female ostrich (Struthio camelus) with anorexia, lethargy, and constipation of 5 days' duration showed mesenteric volvulus and a focal narrowing of the rectum approximately 28 cm cranial to the cloaca. The prognosis was poor and the animal was euthanized. Necropsy revealed a fibrinonecrotic proctitis and a 3-cm-long circumferential stricture of the rectum. Histologically, the rectal wall at the stricture was deeply effaced by fibrovascular connective tissue with vascular thrombosis and necrotizing vasculitis, and it resembled the lesions in feeder pigs with fibrinonecrotic colitis.
20096458|The prevalence of chronic renal disease is substantial among captive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus). The purpose of this study was to determine kidney measurements from radiographs of captive cheetahs (n = 15) with normal renal function. The ratio of kidney length to length of the body of the second lumbar vertebrae has been established for domestic cats with normal renal function. The mean ratio of renal length to length of the second lumbar vertebra was 1.81  0.14 in cheetahs. This baseline data may allow an objective evaluation of radiographic kidney size in cheetahs. However, evaluation of a small number of cheetahs with confirmed renal failure resulted in a similar ratio.
20460461|A 10-yr-old male intact Asian small clawed otter (Aonyx cinerus) was presumptively diagnosed by histopathology and immunohistochemistry with lymphangiosarcoma after bony destruction of the ischium and spinal column from local tumor invasion had caused progressive signs of hind limb lameness and paresis/paralysis, which led to humane euthanasia. At necropsy, the primary tumor was identified as a flocculent mass present under the caudal lumbar vertebrae. Multiple nerves were seen to run from the spinal cord into the wall of the mass. This mass had locally invaded the surrounding muscle, vertebral column, and spinal cord, which led to the clinical signs noted at presentation. Bony destruction was severe with almost complete obliteration of the right ischium and osteolysis of L6, exposing the spinal cord beneath. The tumor had metastasized to at least two different sites within the spleen. The abdominal tumor was confirmed to be of endothelial origin by the use of immunohistochemical staining for factor VIII-related antigen and was confirmed as lymphatic origin versus vascular origin because of the lack of red blood cells within the vessels. The length of time from initial presentation with hind limb lameness to euthanasia because of hind limb paralysis was 4 mo. This is the first report of lymphangiosarcoma, an uncommon malignant neoplasm of lymphatic origin, in a mustelid and the first report of neoplastic disease in an Asian small clawed otter. In addition, the presentation of hind limb paresis associated with bony lysis because of local tumor invasion has not been previously reported with lymphangiosarcoma in humans, domestic animals, or nondomestic animals.
40665147|A 6-yr-old, captive-born male lion (Panthera leo) with a 3-day history of acute and nonprogressive spastic paraplegia of the hind limbs and flaccid paraplegia of the left forelimb, was submitted for postmortem examination. Before and after the onset of the neurologic signs, neither hematologic nor other significant clinical abnormalities were observed. The only remarkable gross lesion was restricted to the C6-C7 segments of the spinal cord, where a focal and asymmetric enlargement of the cord displaced the nerve roots. On the cut surface, a poorly demarcated dark red hemorrhagic lesion involved the latero ventral funiculi and the ventral horn of the gray matter, exclusively on the left half of the cord. Extensive necrosis, hemorrhages, degeneration of the neuroparenchyma, and several fibrocartilaginous emboli occluding the lumina of intraparenchymal arteries were present within histologic sections of spinal cord. Emboli also were detected within the meningeal vessels. This is the first report of fibrocartilaginous embolic myelopathy occurring in a lion.
20095376|Trophozoites of a Hexamita-like sp. were observed in the cecum and large intestines of two recently transported captive Florida sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis pratensis) that died with acute fibrinonecrotizing enteritis and catarrhal typhlitis. This is the first report of this organism in cranes in North America.
20095329|Most of the 40 species of tortoises are experiencing population declines. Of the various causes of mortality in wild populations of tortoises, the interactions of disease and population dynamics are least understood. Although habitat degradation is considered the most significant threat to wild populations of tortoises, disease is being observed more frequently in certain populations. An upper respiratory tract disease has been seen in populations of desert tortoise, Gopherus agassizi, in the Mojave Desert, USA, and certain populations of the gopher tortoise, Gopherus polyphemus, in Florida, USA. Much more information is available on diseases of captive tortoises than on those of wild tortoises. Of infectious diseases, viral, bacterial, mycotic, and parasitic diseases have all been reported. Noninfectious diseases identified in tortoises include various nutritional diseases, hypothyroidism, and neoplasia. Virtually nothing is known about the effects of pollutants/toxicants in individual or populations of tortoises.
41262583|Vitamin A deficiency has rarely been reported in captive or free-ranging wildlife species. Necropsy findings in two captively housed southern sea otters (Enhydra lutris nereis) included irregular thickening of the calvaria characterized by diffuse hyperostoses on the internal surface. One animal also had moderate squamous metaplasia of the seromucinous glands of the nose. There was no measurable retinol in the liver of either sea otter. For comparison, hepatic retinol concentration was determined for 23 deceased free-ranging southern and northern (Enhydra lutris kenyoni) sea otters from California and Alaska. Free-ranging otters were found to have similar hepatic retinol concentrations (316  245 mg/kg wet weight) regardless of their location and subspecies. All of these values were significantly higher than the levels in the affected animals. Consumption of a diet with very low vitamin A concentrations and noncompliance in daily supplementation are hypothesized as the causes of vitamin A deficiency in these two sea otters.
20095633|Two collections of exotic felids were screened for the presence of Salmonella by selective fecal culture utilizing selenite broth and Hektoen enteric agar. In &gt 90% of the samples, Salmonella was isolated from a single culture. A commercial horsemeat-based diet was fed in both collections, and one collection also was fed raw chicken. Salmonella was cultured from the raw chicken and the horsemeat diet for both collections. Multiple Salmonella serotypes were identified, with S. typhimurium and S. typhimurium (copenhagen) isolated most frequently. Approximately half of the Salmonella isolates demonstrated multiple antibiotic resistance. The ability to harbor Salmonella as normal nonpathogenic bacteria of the gastrointestinal tract may be a physiological adaptation to carnivory. The high rate of fecal shedding of Salmonella in healthy individuals clouds the interpretation of a positive fecal culture in an ill felid, or one with diarrhea. All zoo employees having contact with cat feces or raw diets have a high rate of occupational exposure to Salmonella and should exercise appropriate hygienic precautions.
20460363|A novel Pasteurella-like organism was recovered postmortem from lung tissue of two captive Wahlberg's epauleted fruit bats (Epomophorus wahlbergi), with severe, unilateral pneumonia. The bats had been recently shipped and died shortly after release from a 30-day quarantine. One presented with clinical signs of anorexia and lethargy before death; the other died without prior clinical symptoms. The same Pasteurella-like organism was recovered antemortem from subcutaneous abscesses in two captive little golden mantled flying foxes (Pteropus pumilus) housed with additional E. wahlbergi. The organism was also cultured on tracheal wash from one Malaysian flying fox (Pteropus vampyrus) and another E. wahlbergi, both demonstrating clinical signs of pneumonia. All recovered isolates appeared morphologically and biochemically similar to the initial isolates and were further characterized as either a Pasteurella or Actinobacillus organism on the basis of biochemical and cellular fatty acid profiles. Screening of the current collection using pharyngeal swabs isolated this organism from 12 of 15 E. wahlbergi, two of three P. vampyrus, one of 26 island flying foxes (Pteropus hypomelanus), and one of nine Rodrigues fruit bats (Pteropus rodricensis). The organism was not identified in pharyngeal culture from eight Indian flying foxes (Pteropus giganteus), nine Egyptian fruit bats (Rousettus aegypticus), or an additional 16 P. pumilus.
20095286|There is an increasing awareness of the impact that infectious diseases can have on conservation programs involving threatened species. As captive breeding, translocation, and reintroduction programs have been developed, there has been a coincident evolution of techniques and methodologies designed to detect infections by pathologic agents. Because many conventional serological tests cannot differentiate active infection, resolved infection, and vaccination-induced seroconversion, an emphasis has been placed on assays that can make these distinctions. Technical advances in molecular biology have been employed to develop diagnostic tests, characterized by enhanced specificity and sensitivity, and applicable to a variety of clinical samples. The opportunity exists to apply these techniques to the management of threatened species.
40665128|This study was designed to develop a simple, noninvasive method for saliva collection: a first step toward developing new diagnostic tests to survey gorillas for infectious diseases. The subjects included free-ranging mountain gorillas (Gorilla beringei beringei) in the Pare National des Volcans, Rwanda, and a group of orphan mountain and Grauer's gorillas (Gorilla beringei graueri) housed nearby in a temporary holding facility. Three collection methods were used to recover saliva from discarded forest food: swabbing, soaking, and washing. Saliva was also collected from orphan gorillas maintained in a captive setting by using dental ropes inside mesh bags. The presence of gorilla saliva in each sample was confirmed by using a salivary -amylase assay and forensic press test paper. The recovery of gorilla DNA was verified by polymerase chain reaction by using primers specific to mountain and Grauer's gorillas. Of the three collection techniques used to recover saliva from forest food, directly swabbing plant bite marks was the most effective. Wild celery (Peucedanum linderi) provided for the most consistent saliva recovery and is eaten year round by mountain gorillas in Rwanda. This study shows that gorilla saliva can be recovered easily and noninvasively from known individual free-ranging gorillas by collecting pieces of wild celery discarded as the gorillas forage and from captive gorillas by offering them juice-soaked dental ropes inside mesh bags. Both methods can be used to recover gorilla DNA for genetic studies. Saliva collected from free-ranging and captive gorillas may prove to be a useful biologic sample for the development of new diagnostic tests and hormonal analysis.
20460517|Two human enzyme immunoassays (EIA) and one radioimmunoassay (RIA) were validated and used to measure osteocalcin (OC), bone alkaline phosphatase (BAP), and the cross-linked telopeptide domain of type I collagen (ICTP), in serum from Asian elephants (Elephas maximus). Sera from four adult females sampled on 7 consecutive days were also analyzed to assess the existence and magnitude of intraindividual day-to-day variability of the serum concentration of these markers. Sample dilution curves were parallel with assay standard curves, which demonstrated that excellent cross reactivity existed between assay antibodies and elephants marker antigens. Statistically significant inverse correlations were found between age and concentrations of all three markers: BAP, r = -0.862 (P &lt; 0.01); OC, r = -0.788 (P &lt; 0.002); and ICTP, r = -0.848 (P &lt; 0.01). Strong positive correlations were found between BAP and OC (r = 0.797, P &lt; 0.01), OC and ICTP (r = 0.860, P &lt; 0.01), and between BAP and ICTP (r = 0.958, P &lt; 0.01). No statistically significant intraindividual variability was found over 7 days in the four adult females for any of the markers assessed (OC: P = 0.089; ICTP: P = 0.642; BAP: P = 0.146; n = 4 in each case). The overall coefficient of variability observed in this group of animals was 10.3%, 7.4%, and 5.5% for OC, BAP, and ICTP, respectively. These results suggest a potential role for biochemical markers of bone turnover in monitoring skeletal health and bone disease in Asian elephants.
41262646|This study aims to establish the hematological values of Crotalus durissus collilineatus snakes captured in Brazil as well as to verify the effects of hematozoan infection on these snakes. Eighty-three blood samples were drawn from C. d. collilineatus specimens for analysis. The sample set was composed of 30 males and 30 females, recently caught from the wild, and 11 males and 12 females bred in captivity. Blood samples were used to determine red blood cell counts, white blood cell counts, thrombocyte counts, hematocrit values, hemoglobin concentration, and total plasma protein. Blood smears were used to diagnose Hepatozoon spp. infection and to calculate the parasitic load in the sample as well as the percentage of immature red cells. Results obtained for the wild-caught animals, with and without parasites, were compared among themselves and with the values obtained for the captive-bred animals. Hematological values for C. durissus were established. Wild-caught snakes had an infection rate of 38.3%, while no Hepatozoon sp. infection was detected in the captive-bred animals. The snakes which were not infected by the Hepatozoon sp. exhibited average weight, length, and weight-length ratios higher than those of the infected animals. An increase in immature red cells was noted in the Hepatozoon-infected snakes.
20096395|Salmonellosis is an important reptile-associated zoonotic infection in the United States. Cloacal swabs were collected from reptiles admitted to the Wildlife Center of Virginia, Waynesboro, Virginia, cultured for Salmonella using Hektoen and xylose lysine deoxycholate agars, and inoculated in selenite broth. All three were incubated at 37C for 18-24 hr. Seventy-five animals were included in the study, representing eight species, 34 eastern box turtles (Terrapene carolina carolina), 14 eastern painted turtles (Chrysemys picta picta), 14 snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina), 6 black rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta), 2 redbelly turtles (Pseudemys rubriventris), 2 yellowbelly sliders (Trachemys scripta scripta), 2 eastern garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis), and 1 eastern river cooter (Pseudemys concinna concinna). All cultures were negative for Salmonella spp., which is in contrast to the high prevalence of Salmonella cloacal shedding reported in captive reptiles but similar to previous reports in free-living North American reptiles. We recommend, nonetheless, practicing proper hygiene methods when handling and housing all reptiles.
41417160|A total of 163 echocardiographic studies on western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) were submitted for evaluation; 140 from 99 animals were suitable for analysis. Of these, 81 studies (42 studies from 35 males ranging in age from 11-41+ yr and 39 studies from 31 females ranging in age from 11-41+ yr) are reported here. Three studies from 3 females and 56 studies from 30 males were excluded from this report due to cardiac abnormalities. Cardiac parameters measured were aortic root (Ao Rt) diameter and left atrial (L atrium) size. Left ventricular (LV) measurements included left ventricular internal diameter in systole (LVID s ) and diastole (LVID d ) as well as diastolic septal (IVS) and posterior wall thickness (LVPW). Values considered to be normal in females > 11 yr of age were: Ao Rt < 3.5 cm, L atrium < 4.0 cm, LVID d < 5.0 cm, IVS < 1.4 cm, LVPW < 1.4 cm, and ejection fraction (EF) > 60%. The data from male gorillas show a separation in animals based on three cardiac parameters: systolic function, LV cavity size, and LV wall thickness. Male gorillas > 11 yr of age fall into two groups; unaffected and affected. Unaffected animals are defined as those with no echocardiographic abnormalities and a consistent Ao Rt of < 4.0 cm, LVID d of < 6.0 cm, IVS and LVPW of < 1.5 cm, and an EF of > 58%. The affected group consisted of male gorillas that exhibited changes in echocardiographic parameters representing the presence of cardiovascular disease. The results determined in this database, gathered from data collected from 1999-2009, suggest a sex-based difference between males and females with predominantly males demonstrating evidence of cardiac disease. The most striking finding seen in this study is that of progressive LV hypertrophy and depressed LV EF in affected adult male gorillas.
20095988|Epierythrocytic parasites associated with a severe anemic episode have not been previously reported in the opossum. A Wright-Giemsa--stained peripheral blood smear from an anemic North American opossum (Didelphis virginiana) revealed numerous organisms attached to red blood cells either singularly or in chains. Ring forms of the organism were common and could be found free in the plasma. Electron microscopy revealed that these organisms were attached to the intact plasma membrane in depressions on the surface of red blood cells. Delicate fibrils between the organism and adjacent membrane were observed. The organisms were round to oval with a diameter of 300-750 nm and were enclosed by a single limiting membrane. The light and electron microscopic features of these epierythrocytic organisms are similar to those reported for Eperythrozoon and Haemobartonella species.
20460361|A 14-yr-old, 5.13-kg bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was hit by a car and presented to the Michigan State University Small Animal Clinic with an open, grade II, transverse, midshaft, Winquist-Hansen type-II-comminuted left tibiotarsal fracture. The fracture was reduced and fixation established with a 4.7-mm-diameter, 112-mm-long, four-hole veterinary intramedullary interlocking nail maintained in position by single 2-mm transcortical screws placed in the main proximal and distal fragments. The bird was weight bearing on the bandaged limb 48 hr postoperatively. Radiographs obtained 4 wk postoperatively revealed bridging callus over three of four cortices. The bird was released after 5 mo of rehabilitation.
20096491|Twenty 6-yr-old (1995-yr-class) Gulf of Mexico sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrinchus desotoi) were diagnosed as having bilateral cataracts. Histopathologic assessment of the lenses of two of the fish revealed the presence of a diplostomid trematode. Pharmacological treatment of the trematodes may be effective for killing the parasites, but the damage to the lenses and resulting cataracts are nonreversible. Because these animals were to be used in a subsequent study as sentinels in the natural environment, it was necessary to return the animals' vision to as close to normal as possible. Electroretinograms were performed on each fish's eyes to ensure that retinal function was present. Cataracts then were surgically removed by phacoemulsification and aspiration. The animals tolerated the surgical procedures well. This report is the first known report of surgical correction of cataracts in sturgeon species. It also is the first known attempt to correct vision problems in fish being returned to the wild.
20096427|A 19-yr-old binturong (Arctictis binturong) with acute upper respiratory disease was euthanized. Postmortem findings included hepatocellular carcinoma, pancreatic islet cell carcinoma, and renal adenocarcinoma with metastasis to the spleen, pleura, and pericardium. A link between primary hepatic and renal neoplasms has been noted in older humans.
20460381|Tilapia are cultured worldwide and are increasing in popularity among aquaculturalists in the United States; however, data regarding normal health parameters are limited. Few hematologic and plasma biochemical values of clinically normal tilapia have been reported, but these data may be key for identifying and managing disease issues in recirculating systems. Therefore, blood was collected from clinically normal hybrid tilapia (Oreochromis aureus  Oreochromis nilotica) housed in recirculating systems for the purpose of establishing normal hematologic and plasma biochemical reference ranges. Using standard clinical techniques the following hematologic values were determined: packed cell volume, plasma protein, leukocyte counts, leukocyte differentials, and thrombocyte counts. Additionally, the following plasma biochemical values were determined: albumin, total protein, globulins, albumin/globulin ratio, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, glucose, uric acid, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, sodium, potassium, chloride, urea nitrogen, and creatinine. The condition of the sample was also noted (lipemic, hemolysis, and icterus). The reference ranges reported in this study can be used in the management of cultured tilapia in recirculating systems.
20095228|Hepatic coccidiosis was present in four adult chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) that died after prolonged illness. The cause of death was not related to liver disease but to emaciation, severe anemia, and metastatic mineralization. Megaloschizonts of various sizes (up to 200 m  300 m) were clearly identified within intrahepatic bile ducts and portal veins; in most cases, the specific location could not be identified. Most megaloschizonts were surrounded by an eosinophilic band of proteinaceous material and induced a mild subacute periportal hepatitis and fibrosis. Eimeria yakimoffmatschoulskyi and Eimeria suppereri oocysts were identified from the feces of one animal. The etiology for the hepatic coccidiosis could not be determined, but the coccidia may have traveled from the intestinal tract by blood or lymph, as has been suggested for other species of Eimeria.
20095697|An adult male mountain chameleon (Chameleo montium), one of 92 individuals recently caught in the wild and transported, died after a 28-day history of anorexia. Gross examination revealed marked emaciation and enteric nematodiasis. Histopathologic examination of the small intestine revealed moderate numbers of enterocytes containing 2-15 m-diameter round to ellipsoid, basophilic, intranuclear inclusions. Ultrastructurally, the inclusions consisted of crystalline arrays of hexagonal viral particles 67-76 nm in diameter with electron-dense cores. The viral particles were consistent with an adenovirus. No pathologic changes were associated with the adenoviral infection.
20095849|Serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoenzyme activity was analyzed in cetaceans. Animals that were treated by i.m. injection and others that received azole therapy had distinctly different LDH isoenzyme profiles. A third distinctive pattern was occasionally observed in clinically normal animals with elevations in total transaminase and LDH activity levels. DH isoenzyme activity patterns were not affected by mild or moderate hemolysis, refrigeration after 24 hr, or freezing for 24 hr with subsequent thawing. However, severe hemolysis produced artifactual changes similar to those observed in individuals that received injections but of a lesser magnitude. DH isoenzyme activity patterns may provide useful corroboration of other clinical findings when diagnostic modalities are limited, especially to differentiate nonspecific enzyme elevation from nonpathologic elevations in serum enzyme concentrations due to i.m. injections or azole therapy.
20096021|A 10-yr-old male Masai giraffe (Giraffe camelopardalis tippelskirchi) presented with acute right forelimb lameness. Radiographs revealed a fracture of the medial claw of the distal phalanx penetrating into the distal interphalangeal joint. The giraffe was sedated while it was standing in a chute, and a wooden "hoof block" was applied to the lateral claw of the same limb. The animal was no longer lame 3 days after the procedure. Subsequent treatments included vitamin E, phenylbutazone, and glycosaminoglycans. For 7 wk it was maintained in a small holding yard on packed sand during the day and on deep sand during the night. The hoof block slowly wore down, and at 7 wk, it was placed back on concrete in the evening. At 8 wk, the block had completely worn off and the animal was no longer lame, but radiographs indicated minimal fracture healing. Radiographs performed at 7 mo indicated that there was still a radiolucent zone at the fracture line but calcification was evident at the margins of the fracture.
27751753|An increased incidence of cataract and fatty liver in plains viscachas (Lagostomus maximus) was noted for many years at the Zurich Zoo (Switzerland). Based on elevated serum fructosamine and glucose, diabetes mellitus was diagnosed; and these parameters normalized when the diet of the animals was changed from a low-fiber to a high-fiber diet. In this present study, 177 necropsy reports from before and after the diet changes were evaluated for the incidence of cataracts and fatty liver. Sixteen of 56 animals (29%) that were born before the diet change developed cataract. In contrast, only two of 121 animals (1.65%) that were born after the diet change developed cataract. The prevalence of cataract and fatty liver in animals born after the diet change (1% and 0%, respectively) was significantly lower than in animals born before (9% and 6%, respectively) the diet change. The results suggest that the plains viscachas at the Zurich Zoo were affected by an alimentary-induced diabetes mellitus (type 2) before the diet was changed.
41262610|Twenty-three lizards were captured for this study, both males and females (12 males, 10 females, 1 undetermined), with a large range in body weights (40286 g) appeared to be healthy based on activity level, physical examinations, and body condition scores. Heparinized blood samples from 20 free-ranging basilisk lizards (Basiliscus plumifrons) in Costa Rica were used for determining complete blood cell counts, plasma, and heparinized whole blood biochemical analysis. This information will serve as baseline reference data for future health assessment studies of free-ranging and captive basilisk lizards, as well as epidemiologic, conservation, and captive-breeding studies. A point-of-care analyzer was useful for this field study, and clinical chemistry values from heparinized whole blood samples were similar to values from plasma, which indicates that separation of plasma may not be necessary to process blood samples on site in remote areas. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of hmatologie and plasma biochemical data from free-ranging B. plumifrons.
20095163|One hundred thirty-two wapiti (North American elk, Cervus elaphus) immobilizations were carried out with a mixture of carfentanil (3.7  1.33 g/kg [mean  SD] and xylazine (0.14  0.08 mg/kg). All immobilizations were carried out with a blowdart aimed at the heavy muscles of the hind limb or shoulder. Fifteen animals received suboptimal injections over other areas of the body. Two of these animals required additional doses of drug before becoming immobilized, and the data on these animals have been excluded from the analyses. The mean time to recumbency for those animals that received injections into heavy muscles was 4.9  2.26 min. For those that were injected elsewhere, the time was 14.8  6.97 min. These times were significantly different. Narcotic antagonists used were naloxone, naloxone plus M5050, and naltrexone. The three antagonist regimes were compared, and no differences were evident in arousal times even between i.v. and i.m. routes of administration.
20095162|A biochemical vitamin E deficiency may exist in captive elephants (Elephas maximus and Loxodonta africana) and black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) because plasma -tocopherol concentrations apparently are lower in these animals than in their free-ranging counterparts. Analysis of serum or plasma from 35 elephants and 11 black rhinoceroses from 11 zoological institutions and one private owner confirmed common occurrence and persistence of low circulating -tocopherol levels. Concentrations averaged &lt0.3 g/ml despite prolonged supplementation with D,L--tocopheryl acetate, the most common vitamin E supplement for animal diets. Further experimental work demonstrated that supplementing the diet with D,L- or D--tocopheryl acetate or D--tocopherol to provide up to 62 IU/kg body weight (BW) in elephants and 23 IU/kg BW in black rhinoceroses increased circulating blood -tocopherol by &lt0.2 g/ml. Apparently, elephants and black rhinoceroses absorbed these fat-soluble or water-dispersible forms of vitamin E poorly. In contrast, the water-soluble form, D--tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1,000 succinate (TPGS), was absorbed well, as indicated by rapid increases in circulating blood -tocopherol (0.3-1.9 g/ml) from several-fold lower TPGS doses in the diet (4.8 or 6.6 IU/kg BW in elephants and 1.5 or 3.9 IU/kg BW in black rhinoceroses). There is a marked difference in the bioavailability of TPGS versus other vitamin E forms in captive elephants and black rhinoceroses, suggesting that there are major species differences in the utilization of various forms of vitamin E.
20095413|Nineteen red-eared sliders (Trachemys scripta elegans) were anesthetized using one of three regimes: 60 mg/kg ketamine, 60 mg/kg ketamine with 2 mg/kg xylazine, or 60 mg/kg ketamine with 2 mg/kg midazolam, all injected i.m. No significant differences in induction times, anesthetic depth, or recovery rates were noted among the various regimes, which produced a variable level of anesthesia suitable for minor procedures only. Differences did appear when sliders were divided on the basis of weight. When the smaller sliders (&lt1 kg) were administered the same mg/kg dosage of the drug combinations as were the larger sliders, they took significantly longer to recover and to become active. Hematologic and biochemical values, blood gas readings, and EKG tracings were all within normal limits, with the exception of blood gas readings and EKG tracings in one slider that died under ketamine/midazolam anesthesia.
27751700|A total of 57 captive neotropical felids (one Leopardus geoffroyi, 14 Leopardus pardalis, 17 Leopardus wiedii, 22 Leopardus tigrinus, and three Puma yagouaroundi) from the Itaipu Binacional Wildlife Research Center (Refgio Bela Vista, Southern Brazil) were anesthetized for blood collection. Feces samples were available for 44 animals, including one L. geoffroyi, eight L. pardalis, 14 L. wiedii, 20 L. tigrinus, and one P. yagouaroundi. Total DNA and RNA were extracted from blood and feces, respectively, using commercial kits. Blood DNA samples were evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for feline leukemia virus (FeLV) proviral DNA, whereas reverse transcriptasePCR was run on fecal samples for detection of coronavirus RNA. None of the samples were positive for coronaviruses. A male L. pardalis and a female L. tigrinus were positive for FeLV proviral DNA, and identities of PCR products were confirmed by sequencing. This is the first evidence of FeLV proviral DNA in these species in Southern Brazil.
20095232|Synhimantus (Dispharynx) nasuta, a spirurid nematode parasite of several avian species, induced proventriculitis in five adult male African jacanas (Actophilornis africana). This infection resulted in localized inflammation in one of these birds, whereas it proved fatal in two others. In two asymptomatic jacanas, multiple fecal examinations failed to reveal spirurid eggs; however, proventricular spiruridiasis was documented by identifying eggs or adult worms via gastric lavage in both birds and by documenting an enlarged proventriculus with a cranial proventricular filling defect on contrast radiography in one bird. Subcutaneous ivermectin at 0.4 mg/kg given once monthly appears to control this potentially lethal infection in African jacanas.
20096567|Color Doppler ultrasonography was used to determine time-average mean velocity and cross-sectional area of the common iliac artery in bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) and marine toads (Bufo marinus). Volumetric blood flow and weight-adjusted blood flow measurements were calculated from this data. Volumetric flow rates of frogs (31.8 ml/min) and toads (23.6 ml/min) did not differ statistically. However, when flow rates were adjusted for body mass, toads displayed a significantly greater flow rate of 238.1 ml/min/kg compared to 114.4 ml/min/kg for frogs.
20095097|The efficacy of using deuterium oxide dilution under field conditions to predict body composition of free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) was evaluated using 10 fawns captured near Chicago, Illinois, between November 1985 and March 1986. Estimated body water was calculated using the average blood deuterium concentration 1.5 and 2 hr after i.v. infusion. Estimated body water was correlated with true body water (r = 0.93) but overestimated true body water by 23.8  1.4%. Including estimated body water in regression models significantly (P &lt 0.05) improved prediction of body composition versus the use of live weight alone. Estimated body water (kg) and live weight (kg) were correlated (P &lt 0.0001) with the ether extract (kg) (R = 0.93), gross energy (Mcal) (R = 0.95), and crude protein (kg) (R = 0.93) content of the ingesta-free body.
20460386|A 4-yr-old male bongo antelope (Tragelaphus euryceros) died after an acute clinical course involving a febrile illness, anorexia, lethargy, minor oculonasal discharge, and diarrhea. Histologic lesions were compatible with malignant catarrhal fever (MCF). Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) revealed an amplified region of a herpesviral DNA polymerase gene sequence nearly identical to that of a MCF virus previously identified in Nubian ibex (Capra nubiana). The bongo had been housed across from an exhibit containing Nubian ibex that tested positive for MCF viral antibodies by competitive inhibition enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Further testing of the zoo's ibex via PCR also revealed viral DNA sequences nearly identical to those found in the bongo's tissues.
20096324|Fentanyl is approved for transmucosal use in the United States as a preanesthetic agent in human pediatric patients and in adults for breakthrough cancer pain. Using this formulation in three species of great ape, including eight orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus), nine chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), and two gorillas (Gorilla gorilla), fentanyl was offered transmucosally at an intended dose of 10-15 g/kg based on estimated body weight. The animals were trained to accept and suck slowly on a piece of placebo candy, given as a treat, after an overnight fast. On the day of the study, the animals were given the lollipop formulation of fentanyl. The resulting plasma concentrations of fentanyl supported transmucosal absorption, similar to that reported in humans. This study provides an alternative sedative regimen and yielded half-life data of transmucosal fentanyl in great apes. Although transmucosal fentanyl was a useful adjunct for sedating orangutans and gorillas, its acceptance by chimpanzees before chemical immobilization was suboptimal and unpredictable.
20096131|Two juvenile male Speke's gazelles (Gazella spekei) at the St. Louis Zoo showed poor body condition, slowed growth, hunched stance, rough hair coat, and profound hypophosphatemia. The first gazelle was treated with parenteral phosphorous supplements but continued to deteriorate clinically and was euthanatized. The second gazelle had serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels of 0 nmol/L and was treated with i.m. injections of vitamin D. It died shortly after starting therapy. The only significant necropsy finding was multiple rib fractures in various stages of healing. Hypovitaminosis D has been confirmed in multiple Speke's gazelles in this collection, indicating possible deficiencies in the diet or in the amount of ultraviolet light available to the gazelles.
20095205|It is important to realize that many of the advances in the broad field of zoological medicine are directly related to the development, refinement, and use of remote drug delivery systems (RDDS). The RDDS of today have an interesting history. The early prototypes with their successes and failures provided insight to the function of current RDDS and the inherent pitfalls and dangers of their use. Although the early crude systems were plagued with problems such as accuracy, limited range, and incomplete injection, they did allow veterinarians to anesthetize and treat free-ranging species. These early limited successes stimulated further development and refinement of the projectile darts and their delivery systems. The continual challenge is to refine RDDS to increase the efficiency of their function (longer range, increased accuracy, more dependable, less trauma, etc.). The RDDS user must develop proficiency and competence through understanding the basic principles and functions of the projectile dart and its delivery system. Practice is needed to insure the safety of the patient and surrounding personnel.
40665067|Pulmonary carcinoma was diagnosed in an 18+-year-old captive female great horned owl (Bubo virginianus). The owl presented with a history of progressive weakness and sudden onset of frank blood in the droppings. On physical examination, the owl had multiple white to yellow plaques in the oral cavity, decreased air sac sounds on the right side, dyspnea (during manual restraint), and reduced pectoral musculature. Whole-body radiographs revealed obliteration of the right-sided air sacs, a soft tissue plaque/density in the left caudal thoracic air sac, soft tissue opacity over the coelomic organs, and increased medullary opacity in the distal right humerus. The owl died during anesthetic recovery, and the body was submitted for necropsy. Although the clinical signs, physical examination results, radiographic signs, and gross pathology supported a diagnosis of mycotic infection, such as aspergillosis, histopathology confirmed pulmonary carcinoma with metastases to the air sacs and humerus.
20460492|A 14-year-old female bottlenose dolphin was diagnosed with mycobacterial panniculitis based on punch biopsy specimens. The necropsy revealed numerous pyogranulomas in the blubber, as well as marked acute multifocal necrosuppurative pneumonia and lymphadenitis. In addition, the animal had marked scoliosis, which had first been noted clinically in the dolphin at about 1 mo of age. The animal had been treated with low-dose dexamethasone for approximately the last 19 mo to reduce perceived discomfort from spondyloarthritis and with the progestational agent altrogenest for approximately 8 yr to prevent pregnancy. Acid-fast positive bacilli were detected in the dermis but not in lung or lymph nodes. Mycobacterium chelonae was isolated from pooled skin, lung, and peripheral lymph-node tissue. Mycobacterial infection may be considered as a differential diagnosis in bottlenose dolphins with generalized cutaneous inflammation, particularly if chronic steroid and progesterone treatments were administered, both of which may have an immunomodulatory effect.
20460434|Complete health assessments were performed on 22 adult red ruffed lemurs (Varecia rubra), comprising nine males and 13 females, found within the Masoala National Park in northeast Madagascar. Each animal was anesthetized using tiletamine and zolazepam and underwent a thorough physical examination, including measurement of its weight and vital signs; blood collection for hematology, plasma total protein concentration, serum chemistries, fat-soluble vitamins, trace minerals, assessment of iron metabolism, toxoplasmosis serology, viral serologies, and examination for hemoparasites; fecal collection for bacterial culture and parasite examination; and collection of a representative number of any ectoparasites. Comparison of blood values with those of captive lemurs demonstrated a number of significant differences thought to be associated with physiologic state (e.g., reproductive stage and stress), hydration, and diet. There was no evidence of serious infectious diseases, and hemoparasites were not detected. The enteric flora appeared unremarkable; however, results may have been skewed toward more cold-tolerant bacteria. The fecal parasite burden was low. Lemurostrongylus spp. was identified in two of the lemurs, and there were moderate numbers of Laelapidae mites present on approximately one third of the lemurs. This study demonstrated the substantial amount of data that can be collected from free-ranging populations, considered invaluable in the management of captive populations, in reducing the incidence of captivity-related diseases, and in the risk assessment associated with reintroduction programs.
20094950|A cephalic anomaly is reported in a newly hatched mandarin duckling (Aix galericulata). Histopathological diagnosis was a brain encephalocele with meningitis. The etiology of similar lesions in domestic avian species is discussed.
20096706|Oral eosinophilic granulomas were diagnosed in 16 tigers (Panthera tigris). All lesions were located on the hard or soft palate and typically consisted of flat or slightly raised circular ulcers. Histologic features of these lesions were essentially identical to those seen in oral eosinophilic granulomas of domestic cats and dogs. No clinical signs were noted in eight cases, though various degrees of inappetence, excessive salivation, and dysphagia were noted in the other eight tigers. Six cases were not treated. Treatment for the remaining 10 cases centered on corticosteroids and additional treatments included surgical removal, cryotherapy, antibiotics, and chlorpheniramine. Treatment with corticosteroids did appear to be effective in some cases, though lesions would worsen after cessation of therapy and no cases were cured. In addition, three cases developed complications possibly related to this corticosteroid therapy. The etiology of these lesions remains unknown, though an underlying allergic condition is likely.
20460331|A cross-sectional parasitologic survey of a population of wild sifaka (Propithecus verreauxi verreauxi) was conducted at the Beza Mahafaly Special Reserve in southwest Madagascar. Ninety fecal samples were collected from thirty 1- to 30-yr-old male and female sifakas, and the formalin-preserved and polyvinyl alcohol-preserved specimens were examined using the zinc sulfate flotation and formalin-ethyl acetate sedimentation techniques. No intestinal parasites were recovered, possibly because the sifakas are arboreal in a dry, riverine habitat and lack human contact. Low rates of parasitic infection may have contributed to the evolution of later age at first reproduction and longer reproductive lifespan, for body mass, in Propithecus compared with other placental mammals.
41417178|The use of 0.025  0.012 mg/kg (median  interquartile range) thiafentanil with 0.15  0.03 mg/kg xylazine (TX) and 0.011  0.0015 mg/kg carfentanil with 0.25  0.093 mg/kg xylazine (CX), with dosages based on estimated bodyweight, was used in the anesthesia of 37 Tibetan yak (Bos grunniens) housed within a drivethrough animal park setting. The median time to lateral recumbency was 5 and 7 min for each group, respectively. With the addition of propofol in 8 CX animals and 17 TX animals, the anesthetic plane was suitable for a wide range of procedures. The median time to standing recovery following administration of naltrexone was 4  3.5 min with TX and 7  1.5 min with CX. There was one fatality and one case of renarcotization in the TX group. Overall, the dosages used in the study provided a reliable and useful anesthetic induction protocol, with TX animals demonstrating a more rapid induction and recovery with less cardiac depression than CX animals.
20096389|Seven captive eastern box turtles (Terrapene carolina carolina) from a large collection of North American chelonians in North Carolina became acutely ill in the fall of 2002. Five of the turtles died. Clinical signs included cutaneous abscessation, oral ulceration or abscessation (or both), respiratory distress, anorexia, and lethargy. The predominant postmortem lesion was fibrinoid vasculitis of various organs, including skin, mucous membranes, lungs, and liver. No inclusion bodies were detected by histopathology or electron microscopy of formalin-fixed tissue. An iridovirus was isolated from tissues obtained postmortem from two of the box turtles that died. The virus was characterized by electron microscopy, polymerase chain reaction, and sequence analysis of a portion of the major capsid protein as a member of the genus Ranavirus.
20460415|Lions (Panthera leo) are an endangered species threatened by illegal hunting, habitat loss, and infectious diseases. Little is known about the tick-borne pathogens that infect lions and could contribute to population declines. The objective of this study was to characterize Rickettsia spp., Anaplasma phagocytophilum, and Coxiella burnetii infections in 10 lions from the Fasano Safari Park in Italy by serology, polymerase chain reaction, and sequence analysis. Although animals did not show clinical signs of tick-borne diseases, evidence of infection with C. burnetii, spotted fever group Rickettsia sp., and A. phagocytophilum were found in 50%, 20%, and 10% of the lions, respectively. One of the lions tested positive for all three pathogens. This study is the first report of molecular evidence of infection with C. burnetii, Rickettsia sp., and A. phagocytophilum in lions and provides evidence that these felids become infected and serve as hosts for tick-transmitted bacteria.
20095026|A female California sea lion (Zalophus californianus) approximately 30 yr old had an enlarged gingival mass at the site of chronic-active periodontitis from 3 yr earlier. The mass was determined to be a gingival squamous cell carcinoma, and the sea lion was euthanized. At necropsy, the tumor was found to be locally invasive and associated with extensive mandibular bone necrosis. There was no evidence of metastatic disease. This is the first known case report of gingival squamous cell carcinoma in a California sea lion.
20096701|The pharmacokinetic parameters of S(+) and R(-) ibuprofen were determined in 20 elephants after oral administration of preliminary 4-, 5-, and 6-mg/kg doses of racemic ibuprofen. Following administration of 4 mg/kg ibuprofen, serum concentrations of ibuprofen peaked at 5 hr at 3.9  2.07 g/ml R(-) and 10.65  5.64 g/ml S(+) (mean  SD) in African elephants (Loxodonta africana) and at 3 hr at 5.14  1.39 g/ml R(-) and 13.77  3.75 g/ml S(+) in Asian elephants (Elephas maximus), respectively. Six-milligram/kilogram dosages resulted in peak serum concentrations of 5.91  2.17 g/ml R(-) and 14.82  9.71 g/ml S(+) in African elephants, and 5.72  1.60 g/ml R(-) and 18.32  10.35 g/ml S(+) in Asian elephants. Ibuprofen was eliminated with first-order kinetics characteristic of a single-compartment model with a half-life of 2.2-2.4 hr R(-) and 4.5-5.1 hr S(+) in African elephants and 2.4-2.9 hr R(-) and 5.9-7.7 hr S(+) in Asian elephants. Serum concentrations of R(-) ibuprofen were undetectable at 24 hr, whereas S(+) ibuprofen decreased to below 5 g/ml 24 hr postadministration in all elephants. The volume of distribution was estimated to be between 322 and 356 ml/kg R(-) and 133 and 173 ml/kg S(+) in Asian elephants and 360-431 ml/kg R(-) and 179-207 ml/kg S(+) in African elephants. Steady-state serum concentrations of ibuprofen ranged from 2.2 to 10.5 g/ml R(-) and 5.5 to 32.0 g/ml S(+) (mean: 5.17  0.7 R(-) and 13.95  0.9 S(+) g/ml in African elephants and 5.0  1.09 g/ml R(-) and 14.1  2.8 g/ml S(+) in Asian elephants). Racemic ibuprofen administered at 6 mg/kg/12 hr for Asian elephants and at 7 mg/kg/12 hr for African elephants results in therapeutic serum concentrations of this antiinflammatory agent.
20096485|This work reports basic hematologic values of a sample of a population of free-living marsh deer (Blastocerus dichotomus) living by the Paran River in Southeast Brazil. Hematologic values are presented separately for male, female, and young animals as well as for anesthetized and nonanesthetized cervids. Nonanesthetized deer restrained by physical means had significantly higher erythrocyte indices and total leukocyte counts. Comparisons of blood parameters of anesthetized animals of different ages and gender differed slightly, with only two significant differences observed: young animals had significantly higher red blood cell counts than adult males and a lower blood total protein content when compared to adult females. Results indicate that two main reference ranges for blood values should be considered for marsh deer, for blood obtained from anesthetized or physically restrained individuals.
20096424|An adult female, radiated tortoise (Geochelone radiata) presented with a grossly swollen left forelimb that restricted mobility and prevented limb withdrawl. Clinical pathology revealed leukopenia (1.9  10) and hyperproteinemia (69 g/L) that on protein electrophoresis was attributed to increased acute-phase proteins in the alpha fraction (26.4 g/L). Biopsy revealed a poorly differentiated soft tissue sarcoma. Surgical amputation at the proximal humerus was curative. To encourage postoperative mobility, a novel methylmethacrylate prosthesis, molded from a lubricated transected tennis ball, was adhered to the plastron using three cortical bone screws. This is the first recorded case of a sarcoma in the genus Geochelone.
20095040|This article reviews federal laws concerning wildlife. Emphasis is placed on consideration of the federal permitting process for maintaining wildlife species in captivity. Federal regulatory procedures are examined in detail.
20094922|The macronutrient content of immediate premetamorphosis larvae of the mulberry silk moth (Bombyx mori) was determined. These large insect larvae are raised easily under colony conditions, and are accepted eagerly by a variety of sight-feeding amphibian, reptilian, avian, and mammalian insectivorous animals. The protein, fat, calcium, phosphorus, and gross energy content were compared to, and found to exceed, those of another commonly cultured insect, the mealworm larvae of Tenebrio molitor.
20095548|A 3-yr-old female green iguana (Iguana iguana) presented with a mass that extended from the cranial right shoulder region to the anterior half of the right hemithorax. A radiograph revealed a soft tissue mass extending from the fifth cervical rib to the fifth thoracic rib on the right side and involving the musculature. Fine-needle aspirate cytology revealed immature pleomorphic lymphocytes, most consistent with lymphosarcoma. The animal died 2 mo later. At necropsy, an oval, firm, cream-colored mass was found in the subcutis and underlying musculature of the right shoulder. Light microscopic examination of tissues confirmed the presence of lymphosarcoma in the subcutis and musculature of the right shoulder area, spleen, liver, ovaries, and kidneys. Viruses were not detected in the neoplastic lymphocytes by electron microscopy.
40665153|A 20-mo-old, female, 9-kg European beaver (Castor fiber) presented with apathy, reduced appetite of 3-day duration and a grade 5/6 systolic heart murmur. Thoracic radiographs revealed a diffuse broncho-interstitial pattern suspicious for bronchopneumonia. The echocardiographic findings of a hypertrophied right ventricle, ventricular septal defect with overriding aorta, and infundibular pulmonic stenosis were consistent with Fallot's tetralogy. Even though the bronchopneumonia rather than the congenital cardiac defect was considered of primary importance for the presenting clinical signs, the latter was relevant for the decision not to continue any medical treatment. Both disease processes were confirmed on necropsy.
20460466|A 5-yr-old aardvark (Orycteropus afer) was presented with dystocia as a result of fetal oversize. A caesarian section was performed using the technique used in domestic dogs. Anesthesia was induced with medetomidine and ketamine and maintained with isoflurane. The neonate was initially unable to suckle because of swelling and paralysis of the face and tongue following the prolonged pressure of the dystocia. A Haberman feeder was used successfully from 5 days of age, and the calf suckled unassisted after 9 days, from which point it was parent-reared. Most captive aardvark calves have been hand-reared. Although all four of this female's calves have required some initial medical assistance, only the first was hand-reared. A management strategy of overnight separation of the calves and dam has allowed the neonates sufficient rest and reduced injury and has reduced the need for hand-rearing.
27751758|The establishment of reference intervals for hematologic and blood chemistry values in a given species is essential for subsequent diagnosis of disease at rehabilitation facilities and in captive breeding programs. In this study, blood samples were obtained from nestlings (18 males and 22 females) of a natural-vegetation breeding population of Montagu's harrier (Circus pygargus) in eastern Spain in order to establish reference intervals for blood values. This is the first study documenting hematologic and biochemical reference intervals for free-living Montagu's harriers. The studied population may reflect typical blood values for the species, since it is a free-living population that seems not to be constrained by food availability, as it is the population of Montagu's harriers with the highest productivity within Europe. Differences related to sex, year, clutch size, brood size, and number of fledglings were analyzed. Packed cell volume and hemoglobin were significantly lower from nests with five chicks compared to values from nests with fewer chicks, indicating that the cost of rearing more than four chicks in this species may be excessive. Total protein, calcium (Ca), and phosphorus (P) were significantly lower in the year with lowest mean rainfall, which correlates with the worst breeding success rate since the population has been monitored. No gender differences were found; this is likely a result of the prepubertal age of the animals sampled.
20460567|Eleven cases of pyometra were diagnosed in a captive exotic felid collection over 3 yr in seven African lions (Panthera leo), two tigers (P. tigris), one liger (lion-tiger crossbreed), and one leopard (P. pardus). Clinical signs included anorexia, lethargy, vulvar discharge, and vomiting. Diagnosis was based on clinical signs, complete blood cell counts, plasma biochemistry and electrolyte values, radiographs, and abdominal ultrasonography. The most common findings on complete blood count and biochemistry profiles were leukocytosis (&gt;15,000/L) and hyperproteinemia (&gt;8.2 g/dL) due to increased globulins. Abdominal radiographic findings were largely nonspecific, but ultrasonography routinely showed a distended, fluid-filled uterus. Each case was treated with ovariohysterectomy and systemic antibiotic therapy. Lions were shown to be at an increased risk for developing pyometra compared with other species. Pyometra should be considered as a differential diagnosis in anorexic or lethargic intact female large felids, and ovariohysterectomy may be warranted in nonbreeding female lions.
20460387|Flamingos are filter feeders that only rarely ingest larger food items. Their bill anatomy is adapted to the suction, filtration, and ejection of a fluid medium. This case report documents a rare case of bill impaction in a group of Caribbean flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber) that were kept in a mixed exhibit together with roseate spoonbills (Platalea ajaja) and scarlet ibis (Eudocimus ruber). The latter species received fatty minced meat as part of their diet, which was also accessible to the flamingos. Weakness and poor body condition of one flamingo were noted. On clinical examination, the animal was emaciated, hypoglycemic, and showed a severe impaction of the bill with a mixture of lard, mud, and sand. This mixture had compressed the tongue and eventually had most likely prevented further food intake. In five additional flamingos, a bulging of the gular area, similar to the extension of this area during the tongue-retraction stage of the feeding cycle, was noted and interpreted as a sign of tongue displacement by similar masses in their bills. All animals were caught and the masses removed. All animals resumed food intake immediately, and the emaciated animal rapidly improved in condition. Food presentation was changed so that the trays for the other species were no longer accessible to the flamingos, and no similar problems have been observed since that time.
20096596|Between 1993 and 2003, 713 (24%) of 2,940 dead Florida manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) recovered from Florida waters and examined were killed by watercraft-induced trauma. It was determined that this mortality was the result of watercraft trauma because the external wound patterns and the internal lesions seen during gross necropsy are recognizable and diagnostic. This study documents the methods used in determining watercraft-related mortality during gross necropsy and explains why these findings are diagnostic. Watercraft can inflict sharp- and blunt-force trauma to manatees, and both types of trauma can lead to mortality. This mortality may be a direct result of the sharp and blunt forces or from the chronic effects resulting from either force. In cases in which death is caused by a chronic wound-related complication, the original incident is usually considered to be the cause of death. Once a cause of death is determined, it is recorded in an extensive database and is used by Federal and state managers in developing strategies for the conservation of the manatee. Common sequelae to watercraft-induced trauma include skin lesions, torn muscles, fractured and luxated bones, lacerated internal organs, hemothorax, pneumothorax, pyothorax, hydrothorax, abdominal hemorrhage and ascites, and pyoperitoneum.
20095846|The intent of the Foreign Quarantine requirements (42 CFR 71.53) for nonhuman primates (NHPs) is to prevent the importation of potentially serious infectious diseases that are not endemic to the United States. In 1990, prompted by an outbreak of Ebola (Reston) hemorrhagic fever at an (NHP) quarantine facility, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) initiated unannounced inspections of all NHP importers' quarantine facilities. During the inspections, the majority did not meet the required infection control and containment standards. Numerous discrepancies were identified in infection control and NHP quarantine protocols. Zoos should have knowledge of CDC requirements and recommendations for the importation of NHPs into the United States. Zoos planning to import NHPs should register with the CDC and have their NHP quarantine facility and protocols inspected and approved by CDC's Division of Quarantine. Specific areas addressed must include protocols for in-transit shipping and handling, transport to the quarantine facility, biocontainment procedures (transfer of NHPs from shipping containers to quarantine cages, entering/exiting the quarantine room, routine daily and emergency procedures, protective clothing, infection control, infectious waste disposal), occupational health, and employee training. Here, we provide information on the approved protocols used for import quarantine at a single registered importer facility specializing in importation of gibbons (Hylobatidae) for species conservation purposes. These procedures are site specific and are not intended to be applicable to the needs of all NHP import facilities.
20096461|A total of 284 fecal samples of 89 species (43 mammalian species and 46 avian species) were examined for Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts from 1999 to 2002. Each sample was collected at the zoo located at Osaka in Japan and examined by microscopy after performing the sucrose flotation method and by two immunofluorescent assay kits for detection of Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts. Cryptosporidium spp. was found only in a raccoon dog (Nyctereutes procyonoides), and Giardia spp. was detected in a mandarin duck (Aix galericulata) and two ruddy shelducks (Tadorna ferruginea). In this study, the prevalences of these parasites were found to be low. However, these results suggested that the infected animals could serve as a source of contamination for surface water. This is the first report about the survey of Cryptosporidium spp. and Giardia spp. at a zoo in Japan.
20095027|Sudden death of a juvenile angelfish (Pterophyllum scalare) was caused by massive necrosis of the viscera. Intact cells in affected organs were enlarged and contained cytoplasmic inclusion bodies, which displaced the nuclei peripherally. Transmission electron microscopy of infected cells individually selected from histopathology slides identified the inclusions as icosahedral virus particles 110-120 nm in diameter. The morphology of the particles was suggestive of an iridovirus, but fresh tissue was not available for additional studies. A subsequent attempt to isolate this virus during a mass mortality of angelfish obtained from the same source as the index case was unsuccessful.
20096222|A 17-mo-old captive-born female red panda (Ailurus fulgens fulgens) presented with a sudden onset of lameness in its left hind leg diagnosed radiographically as having possible severe, bilateral Legg-Calve-Perthes disease with fracture of the great trochanter of the left femur. Surgical repair of the fracture was performed using pins and a tension band wire through a lateral approach to the hip. This is the first case reported at Madrid Zoo-Aquarium, where 63 individuals have been bred over 15 yr.
20094972|Seven out of 10 birds in a mixed group of blue and gold macaws (Ara arauna), scarlet macaws (A. macao), and hybrid macaws developed ataxia, torticollis, and depression after being placed on an island exhibit accessible to raccoons (Procyon lotor). Larvae of Baylisascaris procyonis were found in cerebrospinal tissue from six of the macaws.
20096220|An approximately 11-mo-old female giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) exhibited anorexia, lethargy, hypothermia, depression, and minimal response to external stimuli. Radiography and ultrasonography revealed an enlarged heart, with free gas and fluid in the abdomen. Abdominocentesis produced a clear brown fluid with an acute to subacute septic suppurative exudate. Cardiac ultrasonography revealed a dilated, thin-walled left ventricle with a comparatively low fractional shortening. Despite intensive supportive care, the anteater died. Postmortem findings included gastric ulceration with perforation near the pylorus. Entameba spp. and Acanthamoeba spp. were both identified in large numbers at the site of the gastric ulceration and perforation.
20096320|Historically, therapeutic monitoring for prescribed eradication treatment of Helicobacter in cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) with associated gastritis has been accomplished only through endoscopic biopsies. The
20460564|Both Cryptosporidium and Giardia are frequently found in the stool of domestic ruminants, especially young animals. Wild ruminants are also host to these protozoa, but the prevalence of these parasites in both free-ranging and captive nondomesticated ruminants needs to be further investigated. Moreover, the role of wild ruminants serving as reservoirs for these zoonotic parasites remains unclear. Therefore, a cross-sectional survey was conducted to estimate the occurrence of Cryptosporidium and Giardia in captive wild ruminants younger than 6 mo and to determine the potential of these animals to serve as reservoirs for these zoonotic parasites. A total of 67 captive wild ruminants belonging to 21 different animal species at the Antwerp Zoo (Belgium), along with 82 American bison (Bison bison) on a commercial breeding farm, were sampled for the detection of Cryptosporidium and Giardia, using a commercial immunofluorescence assay (Merifluor Cryptosporidium/Giardia IFA). The Cryptosporidium prevalence was 7.5% in the Antwerp Zoo animals and 3.7% in the bison from the breeding farm. All but two of the Cryptosporidium-positive animals were younger than 1 mo of age. Molecular characterization by amplification of the 70-kDa heat-shock protein and the 18S ribosomal DNA gene identified Cryptosporidium parvum in four animals of the Antwerp Zoo. The prevalence of Giardia was 8.9% in the Antwerp Zoo animals and 23.2% in the bison calves. Most Giardia-positive animals were older than 1 mo of age. Molecular characterization on the -giardin gene and the triose phosphate isomerase gene identified Giardia duodenalis assemblage A in the Antwerp Zoo and both G. duodenalis assemblage A and assemblage E in the bison calves. These findings indicate that both protozoan parasites are prevalent in captive wild ruminants and that these animals can serve as a potential reservoir for zoonotic transmission.
20095738|Herpesviruses have caused the death of kangaroos and wallabies in European and North American zoos. Eight antiherpetic purine or pyrmidine nucleoside compounds were tested in plaque reduction neutralization tests for in vitro inhibition of macropodid herpesvirus 1, a virus that has been associated with illness in captive macropods in Australia. The virus was most susceptible to inhibition by (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2-deoxyuridine (BVDU) and 5-iodo-2-deoxycytidine. Because BVDU effectively inhibits macropodid herpesvirus 2 in vitro, it may be the drug of choice for experimental therapy in herpesvirus infections in captive macropodids.
20094931|Alpha adrenergic and benzodiazepine agonists are among the agents used to improve the quality of chemical immobilization with opioids and cyclohexylamines. Both classes of drugs have prominent sedating and muscle relaxing properties. Alpha agonists, in addition, are analgesic and markedly reduce anesthetic requirements, whereas the benzodiazepine agonists have anxiolytic, amnesic, and anticonvulsant activity. The two classes of drugs depress the central nervous system through different mechanisms. Alpha agonists decrease central nervous system activity by  receptor-mediated hyperpolarization of neurons in the locus coeruleus and frontal cortex, and presynaptic inhibition of norepinephrine release throughout the brain and spinal cord. Benzodiazepine agonists work indirectly by enhancing the effects of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) on chloride ion flux. GABA is the major inhibitory mediator in the brain. Benzodiazepines also bind to receptors in glycine-mediated inhibitory pathways in the brain and spinal cord. Cardiovascular effects of  agonists include peripheral vasoconstriction and centrally mediated inhibition of catecholamine release. A transient increase in blood pressure is followed by decreases in myocardial contractility, cardiac output, heart rate, and blood pressure. Benzodiazepines cause vasodilation and a modest decrease in cardiac contractility, but sympathetic nervous system reflexes remain intact. After benzodiazepine administration, catecholamine release tends to restore cardiac output and blood pressure toward normal, whereas  agonist-induced cardiovascular depression is long lasting. Specific receptor antagonists to  and benzodiazepine agonists are under development. These agents can be used to provide more rapid recovery from sedation and immobilization or to treat animals receiving an overdose of the agonists. The benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil, is virtually without pharmacologic effect when given alone, while yohimbine and the other  antagonists have intrinsic central nervous and cardiovascular activity and must be used judiciously.
20460408|Conservation strategies for the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) include the development of a self-sustaining ex situ population. This study examined the potential significance of infectious pathogens in giant pandas ex situ. Serologic antibody titers against canine distemper virus (CDV), canine parvovirus (CPV), canine adenovirus (CAV), canine coronavirus (CCV), canine herpesvirus, canine parainfluenza virus (CPIV), Toxoplasma gondii, Neospora caninum, and Leptospira interrogans were measured in 44 samples taken from 19 giant pandas between 1998 and 2003 at the Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding in Sichuan, China. Seroassays also included samples obtained in 2003 from eight red pandas (Ailurus fulgens) housed at the same institution. All individuals had been vaccinated with a Chinese canine vaccine that included modified live CDV, CPV, CAV, CCV, and CPIV. Positive antibody titers were found only against CDV, CPV, and T. gondii. Sera were negative for antibodies against the other six pathogens. Results indicate that the quality of the vaccine may not be reliable and that it should not be considered protective or safe in giant pandas and red pandas. Positive antibody titers against T. gondii were found in seven of the 19 giant pandas. The clinical, subclinical, or epidemiologic significance of infection with these pathogens via natural exposure or from modified live vaccines in giant pandas is unknown. Research in this area is imperative to sustaining a viable population of giant pandas and other endangered species.
20096107|A 9-yr and 3-mo-old captive female coati (Nasua nasua) was implanted with melengestrol acetate for contraception for 4.5 yr prior to presentation. During her annual examination, purulent vaginal discharge and a palpably prominent uterus were identified. Ancillary diagnostic tests including hematology, cystocentesis, radiographs, and abdominal ultrasound were consistent with pyometra. An ovariohysterectomy was performed and histologic examination revealed pyometra and uterine adenocarcinoma, similar to pathology that has been associated with melengestrol acetate contraception in felids, canids, and primates. Given the potential association between melengestrol acetate and uterine pathology in this case, we recommend caution with melengestrol acetate use in procyonids.
20096510|Limited nutritional information exists on diets of free-ranging orangutans, Pongo abelii and P. pygmaeus. Although they are classified as frugivores, the chemical composition of their diet and their gastrointestinal anatomy suggest that they rely on fiber fermentation for a substantial portion of energy. However, the extent to which they can ferment fiber is not known. Continuous culture systems, inoculated with orangutan fecal bacteria, were established to determine the fiber-digesting capacity of orangutan hindgut microflora. The cultures received one of four treatments: soybean hulls, ground corncobs, corn starch, or no food. Neither dry matter nor neutral detergent fiber digestibilities differed significantly among treatments. However, neutral detergent fiber digestibilities were high for both the soybean hull (88.4%) and ground corncob (86.1%) treatments, indicating that the microflora had a strong fibrolytic capability. To determine whether the same fiber-degrading capacity occurred in vivo, two adult orangutans and one juvenile were fed four gel-matrix diets containing soybean hulls, ground corncobs, or ground primate biscuits. Neutral detergent fiber concentrations (dry matter basis) of the gel matrices were 52.9% with soybean hulls, 46.8% and 63.7% with ground corncobs, and 31.3% with ground primate biscuits. A fifth diet consisted of primate biscuits with 27.3% neutral detergent fiber (dry matter basis) and was considered the baseline diet. Neutral detergent fiber digestibility (74.5%) was greatest (P &lt 0.05) for the soybean hull gel diet and least (57.5% and 45.0%, respectively; P &lt 0.05) for the 63.7% neutral detergent fiber (dry matter basis) corncob gel diet and the baseline primate biscuit diet. Total volatile fatty acid concentrations in orangutan feces were not significantly different among diets; however, molar proportions of acetic, propionic, and butyric acid differed (P &lt 0.05) among diets. The results from both studies indicated that orangutans are capable of extensive fiber fermentation.
20096330|A 29-yr-old chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) presented after an acute onset of right facial and forearm paresis that progressed to paralysis within 24 hr, with subsequent development of right leg paresis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head revealed an abnormal region of increased signal intensity in the left frontal, parietal, and temporal cerebral hemispheres, corresponding to the vascular territory of the middle cerebral artery, with resultant compression of the left lateral ventricle. The findings were consistent with a cerebral infarct (stroke). MRI is the most sensitive test for early detection of cerebral changes due to ischemia and was essential in obtaining a diagnosis in this case. The chimpanzee responded well to treatment with long-term anticoagulant aspirin and a short, tapered course of prednisone and regained full gross motor function.
20096617|A 32-yr-old white-throated capuchin monkey (Cebus capucinus) was presented for paraparesis. A diagnosis of protozoal meningitis was made on the basis of a lymphocytic pleocytosis with elevated protein in cerebrospinal fluid and a positive serum titer to Toxoplasma gondii of 131,072 using an indirect hemagglutination test. Treatment with clindamycin and trimethaprim-sulfamethoxazole resulted in improvement within 3 days and complete clinical resolution within 2 wk.
20095937|Through the Red Wolf Species Survival Plan, the captive red wolf (Canis rufus) population was developed with the intent of reestablishing wild populations. One part of the plan was a survey for diseases that might occur as a result of population homogeneity or that might impede breeding success and reintroduction. For this survey, complete necropsies and histopathologic analyses were performed on 62 red wolves from 1992 to 1996. Major causes of 22 neonatal deaths were parental trauma, parasitic pneumonia, and septicemia. Common neonatal lesions included pododermatitis and systemic ascariasis. Cardiovascular anomalies and systemic parasitism were found in two juveniles. Causes of death in the 38 adults included conspecific trauma, neoplasia, or gastrointestinal diseases such as necrotizing enteritis, intestinal perforation, and gastric volvulus. Lymphosarcoma represented 50% of the fatal neoplasms. Three adults died from cardiovascular failure or hyperthermia during handling, and several adults were euthanized for suspected genetic diseases. Overall, the captive population had few significant health problems, but population fitness might be improved by continued removal of potentially deleterious genes from the breeding population and by modifying the husbandry of neonates and adults.
20095074|A 3-mo-old king penguin (Aptenodytes patagonica) was found recumbent and unable to stand. On initial examination, no radiographic abnormalities were noted, and the animal was treated conservatively with cage rest, antibiotics, and swimming therapy. No significant improvement occurred, and the animal was euthanized 3 mo after initial presentation of signs. The spine was examined postmortem by radiography, computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and histomorphology. A ruptured intervertebral disc at T8-9 with ventral displacement of T8 relative to T9 (spondylolisthesis) and compression of the spinal cord was found. Histology and histomorphometry were performed on the dissected spine. The intervertebral discs of the thoracic region consisted of a fibrocartilaginous central region surrounded by a synovial cavity, shaped like the letter "C", that extended around the dorsal and lateral margins of the discs. A fibrocartilaginous, wedge-shaped meniscus protruded into the joint cavity from the dorsal and lateral margins. At T8-9, the intervertebral disc had ruptured and the meniscus attached to the cartilaginous endplates of T9 protruded into the spinal canal. There was also ligamentous rupture along the ventral margin of T8-9 that allowed the spondylolisthesis to occur.
20095172|Repair of a tusk fracture in a babirusa (Babyrousa babyrussa) is described. After closing the exposed pulp canal with a polyoxymethylene bolt, the pulp regenerated and formed secondary dentin that completely covered the pulp canal, allowing undisturbed growth of the tusk.
20096099|Twenty-two free-ranging North American river otters (Lontra canadensis) from northern and eastern New York were captured and surgically implanted with radiotransmitters as part of a relocation project. The surgical technique involved an incision in the paralumbar fossa and transection through the abdominal musculature to introduce a radiotransmitter into the abdominal cavity. Two complications were encountered. Excessive hemorrhage occurred during one procedure. The otter was treated for blood loss with fluids, and it recovered uneventfully. Surgical incision infection occurred in a second animal. The otter was treated with metronidazole and enrofloxacin, and the wound was cleaned daily with chlorhexidine. The otter recovered uneventfully. Otters were released in western New York state. Postrelease monitoring via radiotelemetry revealed that the otters became established in their new ranges. The intra-abdominal implants did not affect their survival or reproductive potential.
27751689|Infrared thermography (IRT) measures the heat emitted from a surface, displays that information as a pictorial representation called a thermogram, and is capable of being a remote, noninvasive technology that provides information on the health of an animal. Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) caused by FMD virus (FMDV) is a severe, highly communicable viral disease of cloven-hoofed animals, including both domestic and wild ruminants. Early detection of the disease may reduce economic loss and loss of susceptible wildlife. The objective of this study was to evaluate the use of IRT to detect possible heat changes associated with sites of infection with FMDV in experimentally infected mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus). Infection occurred through either inoculation with FMDV or exposure to inoculated animals. Early vesicular lesions were observed on the mouth, feet, or both within 24 hrs postinoculation and 4896 hrs post-exposure. From internal temperature sensors, the exposed animals' body temperatures elevated significantly from the pre-infection temperature (38.8C, P  0.002) starting the day before any lesions were observed. Body temperature was also found not to be significantly different from eye temperatures of well-focused thermograms. For feet thermograms, the mean of the daily maximum (MMAX) foot temperature rose significantly (P = 0.017) from two days before (27.3C  1.9C SE) to the maximum MMAX observed (33.0C  2.0C SE) at two days after the first foot lesion occurrence. These observed changes indicate that IRT may be a rapid, remote, and noninvasive method to screen for suspect animals in order to test further for FMDV infection during an FMD outbreak.
20096301|Calodium hepaticum (syn. Capillaria hepatica), a nematode parasite commonly found in the liver of wild rodents, infects a wide variety of mammals, including humans. A retrospective study of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) at the Baltimore Zoo showed that 5 of 21 (24%) of the prairie dogs submitted for postmortem examination between 1981 and 2001 had hepatic capillariasis, with all the infections diagnosed during or after 1997. Affected livers contained multifocal granulomas containing numerous eggs and occasional adult nematodes. Asymptomatic wild rats in the zoo with a high prevalence of infection may have served as a reservoir for the disease. Wild rodent control is essential to minimize exposure of susceptible exhibition animals as well as humans to C. hepaticum.
20096516|Electroejaculation in rhinoceroses has historically yielded inconsistent results, with the collection of high-quality, sperm-rich samples rare. The goal of this study was to develop a reliable method of electroejaculation in the rhinoceros by designing a rectal probe that appropriately fits the anatomy of this taxon and refining the procedure. A curved probe handle ending in an oblate, ellipsoid head was built using readily available supplies. A combination of rectal massage, penile massage, and electrical stimulation with a specially designed probe was employed in attempts to collect semen on 14 occasions from greater one-horned rhinoceroses (Rhinoceros unicornis; n = 4), black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis; n = 2) and a southern white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum; n = 1). During 13 of the 14 attempts, ejaculates were collected in multiple fractions. All but one of the ejaculates contained spermatozoa, and seven ejaculates contained good-quality fractions of semen (60% sperm motility; 20  10 spermatozoa/ml) suitable for sperm banking and assisted reproduction procedures. Mean ( SEM) values for volume, pH, osmolality, and total sperm number for ejaculates containing good-quality fractions (98.2  21.8 ml, 8.5  0.1, 290.4  6.7 mOsm, and 37.1  12.0  10, respectively) did not differ (P &gt 0.05) from those containing only poor-quality samples. Urine and/or erythrocyte contamination was not uncommon in fractions of both ejaculate types. Males producing good-quality samples ranged in age from 7 to 34 yr. None of the samples contained 75% morphologically normal spermatozoa. Electroejaculation with a uniquely designed probe consistently produced ejaculates in the rhinoceros. However, the production of high-quality samples continued to be challenging, occurring in only 50% of collection attempts. Regardless, the technology has progressed to a stage at which good-quality semen samples can be produced for sperm banking and assisted reproduction, and thereby can be integrated into intensive rhinoceros management strategies for the ultimate survival of this taxon.
20096448|West Nile virus affects many animals, but the highest prevalence of morbidity and mortality is observed in birds, horses, and humans. The purpose of this study was to determine a protocol in birds of prey and corvids, using a vaccine developed for horses. The birds were assigned to five groups. Groups 1-4 received 0.25 ml, 0.5 ml, 0.75 ml, and 1.0 ml, respectively, and group 5 served as a control group. The greatest percentage of seroconversion (58.3%) was observed in the vaccine group that received a dose of 1.0 ml administered thrice, 3 wk apart. This report demonstrates that a vaccine developed for equines against West Nile virus can be administered to birds.
20094968|An outbreak of septicemia caused by Streptococcus zooepidemicus occurred in two red-bellied (white-lipped) tamarins (Saguinus labiatus) and two Goeldi's monkeys (Callimico goeldii) at the National Zoological Park in Washington, D.C. The tamarins were housed indoors in a mixed exhibit along with two species of small mammals, and the Goeldi's monkeys were in a single-species exhibit within the same facility. One of the Goeldi's monkeys infected with S. zooepidemicus became depressed and dehydrated but responded to antibiotics and recovered uneventfully. The three remaining animals all developed septicemia and died; lesions consisted of suppurative cervical lymphadenitis and splenitis in the tamarins, and enteritis with mesenteric lymphadenitis in the Goeldi's monkey. Infections were most likely associated with an uncooked horsemeat product from which S. zooepidemicus was isolated. When uncooked horsemeat is to be fed to exotic species, the products should be routinely cultured for S. zooepidemicus, and strict sanitation practices carried out to prevent inadvertent streptococcal infection in susceptible species.
20460539|A 38-year-old intact female Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) was evaluated for progressive seizure activity, pale mucous membranes, deficient pupillary light and menace responses, and irregular shallow respiration. Because of poor response to treatment, the animal was euthanized. Gross examination revealed abundant hemorrhage in both lateral ventricles; a large, encapsulated mass within the rostral interthalamic region; and a well-demarcated, round white mass in the apex of the right ventricle. Histologic examination of the interthalamic mass revealed a resolving hematoma composed of stratified layers of fibrin and white blood cells that was surrounded by a thick fibrous capsule. Most meningeal and intraparenchymal blood vessels had multifocal degeneration, fragmentation, and fraying of the internal elastic lamina with prominent intimal proliferations and plaques. The plaques were formed by small numbers of lipid-laden macrophages (foam cells) that were intermixed with occasional lymphocytes and plasma cells. The cardiac mass was composed of pallisading and interlacing spindle cells with parallel nuclei and abundant, pale eosinophilic cytoplasm consistent with a schwannoma.
20096705|A 5-day-old, mother-raised, Amur tiger cub (Panthera tigris altaica) presented with tongue ulcerations. Identical lesions appeared and progressed to sloughing of the tongue in the three littermates of this cub the following day. The lesions progressed in all cubs to include sloughing of the carpal, tarsal, metacarpal, and metatarsal foot pad epithelium. Oral ulcerations were also noted in adult African lions (Panthera leo) and Amur tigers (Panthera tigris altaica), but not in two adult snow leopards (Panthera uncia) housed in the same building. All adult cats had been previously vaccinated for common feline diseases including feline calicivirus (FCV). Detection of FCV RNA in oral secretions by a real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay (RRT-PCR) confirmed FCV infection in the tiger cubs and one lion. A male lion and a male tiger cub died during the disease outbreak. RRT-PCR confirmed FCV in multiple tissues in both of these animals. A stray cat live-trapped outside the feline building during the epidemic was found to be positive for FCV by virus isolation and was thought to be the source of infection.
20095170|Rupture of a coronary artery aneurysm caused fatal cardiac tamponade in one black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) in Zimbabwe, and a second rhinoceros had aneurysms, extensive thrombosis, osseous metaplasia, and mineralization in both coronary arteries. Arteritis was likely the underlying lesion responsible for the changes in both cases, although the cause could not be determined.
20095378|The clinical, morphologic, and immunohistochemical features of an ovarian teratoma are presented in this report. The tumor had benign clinical behavior. The immunohistochemical characterization of intermediate filaments present in the cells of the neoplasm confirmed the diagnosis of a mature ovarian teratoma.
20095448|Two juvenile lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) experienced polyarthropathies subsequent to Shigella flexneri enteritis. The clinical sign of lameness and soft tissue swelling resolved with anti-inflammatory and antibiotic therapy. One of the animals had a major histocompatibility class I allele with some sequence similarity to HLA-B27. This allele is associated with postinfection reactive arthritis in humans.
20095395|Automated methods for counting leucocytes in avian blood are not available because of the presence of nucleated erythrocytes and thrombocytes. Therefore, total white blood cell counts are performed by hand using a hemocytometer. The Natt and Herrick and the Unopette methods are the most common stain and diluent preparations for this procedure. Replicate hemocytometer counts using these two methods were performed on blood from four birds of different species. Cells present in each square of the hemocytometer were counted. Counting cells in the corner, side, or center hemocytometer squares produced statistically equivalent results; counting four squares per chamber provided a result similar to that obtained by counting nine squares; and the Unopette method was more precise for hemocytometer counting than was the Natt and Herrick method. The Unopette method is easier to learn and perform but is an indirect process, utilizing the differential count from a stained smear. The Natt and Herrick method is a direct total count, but cell identification is more difficult.
41417170|Failure of passive transfer (FPT) in captive greater kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros) calves can lead to increased morbidity and mortality. In this retrospective study, serum samples from neonatal kudu calves were tested for immunoglobulin using different tests validated for domestic ruminants, including measurement of gamma globulin (GG) measured by protein electrophoresis, total solids (TS) measured by calibrated refractometry, total protein (TP) and globulins measured by colorimetry, gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT), and the zinc sulfate turbidity test (ZSTT). In a logistic regression model, TP, TS, globulins, and the natural log transform of GGT were the only significant parameters associated with FPT. Various historic parameters related to the dam, as well as calf weight, sex, glucose, and packed cell volume, were not significant. Based on the results, FPT in greater kudu is defined as GG of < 0.5 g/d1, a value lower than that in domestic cattle. TS measured by refractometry has an 80% sensitivity and a 100% specificity for FPT in greater kudu. With FPT defined as GG < 0.5 g/d1, kudu calves with a TS < 4.8 g/d1 and a negative ZSTT have an increased probability of requiring medical intervention and additional diagnostics may be warranted.
20096348|Conventional inhalation anesthesia of wildlife species within natural habitats presents significant practical problems. Heavy cylinders of medical grade oxygen are often unavailable in field situations. Equipment has been modified to permit the delivery of isoflurane in ambient air as the carrier and to be fitted with circuitry adaptable for different species and anesthetic situations. Preliminary empirical studies at low altitude in a range of small mammalian and avian species demonstrate the suitability of this combination and these techniques for inducing and maintaining anesthesia in clinically normal patients undergoing relatively minor procedures. The equipment has also been used to deepen and prolong anesthesia in several larger species, including great apes and large cats, after induction with injectable agents. These techniques, in combination with pulse oximetry to detect hypoxemia, provide a cheap, robust, and portable inhalation anesthetic system for field situations that is not dependent on compressed gasses.
20096407|Difficulties and risks associated with restraining large nondomestic ungulates are limiting factors toward developing and applying assisted reproductive technologies, such as artificial insemination and embryo transfer. In this study on 10 female eland (Taurotragus oryx), we evaluated the use of behavioral training and handling handling in a hydraulic chute to perform transvaginal ultrasound-guided oocyte retrieval and other clinical procedures. Nine females were conditioned to associate specific sound cues with food treats. The interval from the audio cue until acceptance of handheld treats varied among females (1.8-58.3 min). Animals also differed in their response to training for voluntary entry into the chute. Handling eland for oocyte retrieval in the hydraulic chute required xylazine sedation. During sedation and handling, eland undergoing oocyte retrieval procedures had higher blood glucose levels (14.4  3.1) than females handled similarly but without oocyte retrieval (9.3  2.7 mmol/L). Plasma osmotic pressure, hematocrit, and creatine phosphokinase activity were similar between these two groups. Females that were more difficult to train had higher blood glucose levels than the more cooperative animals. Cooperative females had fewer vertical stripes on their sides. More than 40 procedures were conducted without complications or mortality. The combination of behavioral conditioning-training and restraint of sedated eland in a hydraulic chute was a reliable and repeatable method for performing minimally invasive assisted reproductive techniques.
27751770|Surgical castration of giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) has not been commonly performed. Large domestic animal castration has a significant complication rate that includes postoperative mortality. Documentation of castration techniques and complications in large domestic animals occurs regularly. However, literature describing castration experiences with large zoo mammals is sparse. In addition, a suitable anesthetic regimen for surgical castration of giraffe has not been confirmed. Open castration using an emasculator plus ligation was performed in three subadult giraffe weighing 555711 kg. Scrotal incisions were left open and healed in about 6 wk. One animal developed scrotal dermatitis. No other complications occurred. As slow scrotal healing can increase the risk of ascending infection, partial or complete scrotal closure for giraffe may warrant consideration. Experiences with these animals also suggest that closed or modified closed castration may be considered for giraffe of this size. Thiafentanil, medetomidine, and ketamine plus local lidocaine provided suitable anesthesia for surgical castration.
41262637|Striped possums (Dactylopsila trivirgata) are small arboreal marsupials for which limited medical information is known. Mastophorus muris is a gastric spirurid nematode of rodents that uses insects as intermediate hosts. Three cases of gastric spiruridiasis caused by M. muris in captive striped possums are reported for the first time. Diagnosis was made by the presence of adult nematodes in rgurgitant and at necropsy. Low numbers of nematode ova shed intermittently in possum feces made evaluation of treatment success difficult. No histopathologic abnormalities were identified in one case. Control of M. muris in captive possum colonies may be achieved by interrupting the life cycle of the parasite.
20094989|Of the wide variety of clinical imaging modalities available to the zoo and wildlife medicine practitioner, radiography and ultrasonography have the broadest applications. These modalities should be available in every zoo or wildlife clinic. Computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging offer significant advances in zoological diagnostics but require prohibitive investment in equipment and personnel. Clinicians working with zoo and wild animals should establish relationships with area hospitals to avail themselves of these imaging methods in selected cases. Nuclear medicine techniques offer advantages in sophisticated evaluations of specific patient problems but may present difficulties in controlling environmental contamination with nondomestic species. Infrared diaphanography, thermography, and specialized forms of radiography have received little investigation in zoo and wildlife practice and deserve further consideration.
20096147|The immune competence of green sea turtles (Chelonia mydas) with fibropapillomatosis was assessed using in vitro techniques to measure lymphocyte proliferation in response to mitogens. In comparison with captive, healthy green sea turtles, those afflicted with fibropapillomas demonstrated diminished proliferation with Concanavalin A, phytohemagglutinin (T-cell mitogens), and lipopolysaccharide (B-cell mitogen). Also, markedly decreased proliferative responses to the lymphocyte polyclonal stimulator combination of ionomycin and phorbol myristate acetate were observed. Total circulating white blood cell counts were not statistically different between the two groups, although an overall decrease in lymphocyte number was observed in the papilloma group. The albumin/globulin ratio was decreased in the papilloma group because of decreased albumin and increased gamma globulins.
20460570|Four adult, wild caught Parma wallabies (Macropus parma) presented with intermittent, postprandial, midcervical swellings. Esophageal diverticula were discovered in the four animals. One of two wallabies was managed successfully with surgery. A third animal died of other causes. The fourth animal died with possible complications from the diverticulum. This is the first published report of esophageal diverticula in macropods.
20096573|In this study, heart and respiratory rates, cloacal temperature, and quality of sedation were evaluated before (0 min) and after (10, 20, and 30 min) i.m. administration of xylazine (10 mg/kg; n = 7), medetomidine (75 l; n = 6), detomidine (0.3 mg/kg; n = 6), or diazepam (6 mg/kg; n = 7) in rock partridges (Alectoris graeca). All partridges recovered from sedation without any disturbance. Xylazine and diazepam administration did not induce significant changes in heart rate, which did decrease significantly after medetomidine and detomidine administration (P &lt 0.001). Mean respiratory rate was decreased dramatically at 20 and 30 min after xylazine (P &lt 0.001) and medetomidine (P &lt 0.005) administration, and at all stages of sedation after detomidine injection (P &lt 0.001), whereas there was not any significant change after diazepam injection. In all groups, cloacal temperature measured at 10, 20, and 30 min tended to decrease compared with baseline values. Sedative effects of the drugs started within 2.1  0.2 min for detomidine, 2.6  0.4 min for diazepam, 3.1  0.4 min for xylazine, and 4.8  0.8 min for medetomidine application. There was an extreme variability in time to recovery for each drug: 205  22.2 min for xylazine, 95  12.2 min for medetomidine, 260  17.6 min for detomidine, and 149  8.3 min for diazepam. In conclusion, xylazine, medetomidine, detomidine, and diazepam produced sedation, which could permit some clinical procedures such as handling and radiographic examination of partridges to occur. Of the four drugs, xylazine produced stronger and more efficient sedation compared to the others, which could permit only minor procedures to be performed. However, depending on the drug used, monitoring of heart and respiratory rates and cloacal temperature might be required.
40962250|A national survey questionnaire was conducted in 32 zoos throughout 17 U. S. states between February and May 2008. The questionnaire consisted of six questions that evaluated rabies prevalence on zoo grounds; captive mammalian bites among zoo visitors and personnel; and the outcome of each incident. The survey was completed by zoo staff after review of their most recent bite incident reports. Rabies was documented, albeit minimally, on zoo grounds in both wild and collection animals. The information collected documented that mammalian bites occur commonly. An average of 9.1 bite incidents per zoo involving zoo visitors were reported in the last 5 yr, compared to an average of 7.5 bite incidents per zoo involving personnel within the last 5 yr. Zoo personnel had a larger variety of mammals inflicting bites of greater injury severity, with an average rating 3.83 out of 5. While victim profile and severity of the wound differed between visitor and personnel bites, the majority of bites were not reported to the local health department. Lack of reporting may be due to low rabies risk, fear of media involvement, and an unknown conclusion for the offending animal. Animals involved in reported attacks had an average quarantine of 47.5 days when the bite involved a zoo visitor versus an average quarantine of 18 days when the bite involved personnel. These results demonstrate the need for a standardized protocol following a bite incident, including cooperation with the local health department, as necessary.
20095744|As part of a wildlife rescue during the filling of a lake created by a hydroelectric dam (Petit Saut, French Guiana), 10 wild kinkajous (Potos flavus) were immobilized with medetomidine and ketamine for clinical examination and collection of biological samples. A mean (SD) i.m. dose of 0.11  0.01 mg/kg medetomidine and 5.5  0.6 mg/kg ketamine rapidly induced complete immobilization (3.0  0.9 min) with good muscle relaxation and loss of corneal and pedal withdrawal reflexes. The duration and the quality of the anesthesia allowed procedures including minor surgery. Rectal temperature, heart and respiration rates, and relative oxyhemoglobin saturation (
20460481|Laboratory records of serology results from captive macropodidae sampled between 1997 and 2005 were reviewed to assess the seroprevalence of retrovirus exposure. Serum samples from 269 individuals (136 males, 133 females) representing 10 species of macropods housed in 31 North American captive collections were analyzed for retrovirus antibody using an indirect immunofluorescent assay. The prevalence of positive antibody titers comparing male versus female, between species, between age groups, and among animals with identified parentage was examined by nonparametric statistical analyses. Median age of animals at time of sample collection was 36 mo (range 2-201 mo). Total percentage seropositive was 20.4%. Serum antibody was detected in 31 of 47 (66.0%) tammar wallaby (Macropus eugenii), nine of 24 (37.5%) yellow-footed rock wallaby (Petrogale xanthopus), four of 11 (36.4%) swamp wallaby (Wallabia bicolor), 10 of 80 (12.5%) red-necked wallaby (Macropus rufogriseus), and one of 54 (1.9%) parma wallaby (Macropus parma). No individuals of western gray kangaroo (n = 3) (Macropus fuliginosus), eastern gray kangaroo (n = 19) (Macropus giganteus), common wallaroo (n = 6) (Macropus robustus), red kangaroo (n = 11) (Macropus rufus), or Matschie's tree kangaroo (n = 14) (Dendrolagus matschiei) were positive for retrovirus antibody. These results demonstrate that five species of captive macropods have a history of exposure to retrovirus, with the highest percentage seropositive and highest statistical correlation in M. eugenii (pair-wise Fisher's exact test, alpha = 0.05). Additionally, one wild-caught M. eugenii was confirmed seropositive during quarantine period, indicating that retrovirus exposure may exist in wild populations.
20095443|Between July and November 1992, five Goeldi's monkeys (Callimico goeldii), from the collection at the National Zoological Park, were necropsied. All five monkeys had evidence of infection with Gongylonema sp., and Pasteurella multocida was isolated from three of the five monkeys. Spirurid infections of the upper digestive tract of primates are not infrequent, but they have been generally considered to be inconsequential. Clinical and necropsy findings in these cases suggest that such parasite infections may have a more significant effect on health than originally thought.
20094939|Detailed descriptions of the muscular anatomy of the wing and leg of the brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) designed to facilitate development of surgical approaches to the extremities are presented based on the dissection of 14 specimens. The humerus was easily exposed for surgical repair through the benefit of foreshortened muscle bellies of the upper wing muscles. The humerus was pneumatic and connected directly with the sacci claviculari through a foramen pneumaticum arising in the fossa pneumotricipitalis. Dorsal and ventral approaches to the radius and ulna were relatively uncomplicated although concern for structures in the interosseous space was considered important. Approaches to the femur were obstructed by many heavy muscles. An anterolateral approach separating the muscularis iliofemoralis externus and the iliotibialis lateralis was suggested. Access to the proximal tibiotarsus was most readily achieved by anterior displacement of the belly of the muscularis gastrocnemius pars medialis. A lateral approach to the tarsometatarsus was recommended.
20095214|Postmortem material from three zoo-exhibited, 18 translocated, one free-ranging, and six recently caught black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) was examined for the presence of generalized hemosiderin deposition as a possible indicator of prior hemolysis. All zoo-exhibited and 72% of the translocated rhinoceroses had generalized hemosiderosis. None of the recently caught or free-ranging rhinoceroses studied had this lesion. Several processes can result in hemosiderosis, and its presence in the captive and translocated animals may not necessarily indicate a hemolytic process; however, the absence of hemosiderosis in free-ranging and recently caught animals suggests that a hemolytic syndrome previously reported in captive black rhinoceroses does not occur under natural conditions.
41262626|Salmonella and Yersinia are important enteropathogens in poultry and can affect birds of all ages, including embryos. These food-borne zoonotic enteropathogens are of great economic and medical concern worldwide and are intensely studied in poultry. Information regarding the prevalence of these bacteria in wild birds is scarce and biased toward avian species ecologically linked to humans, which have often been incriminated as both reservoirs and disseminators of these enteropathogens. The prevalence of Salmonella and Yersinia recovered from both the feces and eggs in a population of female pied flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) breeding in nest-boxes in central Spain was evaluated. Salmonella arizonae was recovered from the feces of one female but was not recovered from eggs. Yersinia was not detected in either the feces or eggs. These results may suggest that Salmonella and Yersinia may be uncommon in this population studied and may indicate that these birds are unlikely reservoirs of Salmonella and Yersinia.
20096481|From 1999 to 2002 samples from 114 free-ranging polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were collected in the municipality of Scoresby Sound, East Greenland, to detect levels of organochlorines and potential histopathologic changes. Livers of 16 female polar bears from this group were evaluated histologically and analyzed for hepatic retinol-binding protein by immunohistochemistry. Retinol-binding protein is the main transport protein for retinol, an important vitamin A metabolite in the polar bear. Only mild pathologic changes were noted on histologic evaluation of the livers. Small lymphocytic or lymphohistiocytic infiltrates were present in all the livers. Small lipid granulomas, mild periportal fibrosis, and bile duct proliferation were found in several cases. Immunohistochemistry for retinol-binding protein of hepatic tissue from free-ranging polar bears showed no distinct difference in staining intensity by a number of criteria: age, season (fasting and nonfasting), or lactation status. The staining was diffuse to finely stippled in the cytoplasm and showed very little variation among the animals. Because of the lack of macroscopic changes and the absence of severe histologic liver lesions, these polar bears were assumed to be healthy. The diffuse cytoplasmic retinol-binding protein staining in hepatocytes of free-ranging polar bears varies markedly from the prominent granular, less intense staining of captive polar bears investigated previously.
20096236|Diffuse hyperplastic goiter was diagnosed by histopathology in 11 perinatal bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) that died at four separate zoos and aquaria. Thyroid morphology of these animals was compared with the histologically normal thyroids of two stranded wild bottlenose dolphin calves, a neonate and a 2-mo-old calf. Histologic changes included reduced follicular luminal diameter, markedly reduced or absent luminal colloid, hypertrophy of follicular epithelium, and follicular dysplasia. The etiology of the thyroid gland lesion was not identified. Cause of death was not determined for most of these animals, but they were presumed to have died from metabolic derangements associated with the thyroid lesion, drowning, or dystocia.
20096575|This study describes the pharmacokinetics of enrofloxacin following oral and i.v. administration to goral (Nemorrhaedus goral arnouxianus). The objective of this study was to expand upon current antimicrobial treatment options available for use in goral by measuring plasma concentrations and examining the pharmacokinetics of enrofloxacin in these animals. Two single-dose treatments of enrofloxacin were administered to four goral in a crossover design. Single-dose treatments consisted of administration of injectable enrofloxacin i.v. (5 mg/kg) and enrofloxacin tablets (136 mg chewable tablets) dissolved in a grain slurry and administered p.o. (10 mg/kg). Plasma levels of enrofloxacin and its metabolite ciprofloxacin were measured with the use of high-performance liquid chromatography with UV detection. Plasma volume of distribution for i.v. enrofloxacin was 2.15  1.01 L/kg, with a mean elimination half-life of 13.3 hr and total body clearance of 0.19  0.14 L/kg/hr. The maximum plasma concentration measured for oral enrofloxacin was 2.77 g/ml, with a mean half-life of 5.2 hr and systemic availability of 14.6%. The area under the plasma concentration over time curve (AUC) for oral enrofloxacin was 21.06 g/hr/ml. The area under the plasma concentration over time curve generated for oral enrofloxacin in goral yields an area under the plasma concentration over time curve to minimum inhibitory concentration ratio &gt 100 for many gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial pathogens common to small ruminants. Based on these results, oral enrofloxacin may be considered for further study as a treatment option for susceptible infections in goral.
27751734|A 46-yr-old female Sumatran orangutan (Pongo abelli) was first diagnosed with pericardial effusion in July 2006. Pericardiocentesis performed in January 2007 only provided short-term relief. In May 2007, a pericardial-peritoneal window was created using a transabdominal subxiphoid pericardiostomy technique, providing immediate and long-term relief. Seven months later, the orangutan was euthanized due to worsening heart failure, and no pericardial effusion was present. Transabdominal subxiphoid pericardiostomy offers a straightforward surgical approach that can provide significant relief in cases of chronic pericardial effusion in great apes.
20095821|Baseline renal function data was collected during 24-hr periods of feeding and fasting from three male and three female adult Asian small-clawed otters (Aonyx cinerea) with calcium oxalate urolithiasis. Urine was analyzed for calcium, phosphorus, and oxalate, and urinalyses were performed. There was no evidence of glucosuria, which has been previously reported in Asian small-clawed otters with urolithiasis. Urinary oxalate levels were quite high when compared with those of dogs and humans without uroliths, and the ratio of urinary oxalate to calcium was close to 1:1 during periods of food consumption. There was no significant difference in urinary oxalate excretion between the fed and fasting states. Urinary calcium excretion was five times greater during feeding than during fasting. Calcium levels were higher in the otters than those reported for dogs without uroliths but were similar to those for normal humans. Water consumption and urine production were significantly higher during periods of food consumption. Serum chemistry analyses and electrolyte levels were also determined. There was no evidence of hypercalcemia. Fractional clearance of calcium and phosphorus and endogenous creatinine clearance were significantly higher during food consumption than during fasting. Parathyroid hormone levels were similar to those reported for dogs and cats. Serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D was slightly lower in the otters than in dogs.
20095313|Environmental exposure of rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss, to tetrachloroethylene was associated with massive mortalities (about 50%) with acute hepatic and renal toxicity. The liver changes consisted of diffuse hepatocellular necrosis. The kidney changes were manifested as degeneration and necrosis of epithelial cells lining the first segment of the proximal tubule. Intensely basophilic newly developing nephrons were observed in surviving fish sampled 10 days to 3 wk following exposure. The presence of developing nephrons in adult fish may serve as a biomarker for nephrotoxic pollutant exposure.
20096047|An obese adult jaguar (Panthera onca) was euthanized because of progressive lameness. Two 3-cm-diameter pancreatic nodules were identified as islet cell tumors, which were positive with immunohistochemical stains for glucagon, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin. The jaguar did not present clinical evidence of hyperglucagonemia.
20095353|The epidemiology and histopathologic and electron microscopic features of an outbreak of a fatal disease among a group of genetically related juvenile Rankin's dragon lizards (Pogona henrylawsoni), ranging from 1 to 4 mo of age, are described. The disease was characterized by lethargy, inappetence, agonal neurological signs, and death. Other than liver swelling and pallor, gross pathologic changes were lacking. Tissues from nine lizards were examined histologically; significant pathological changes were confined to the livers of seven and were lacking in two. Two of the lizards whose liver cells contained viral inclusions also had similar intranuclear and intracytoplasmic inclusions in epithelial cells lining their renal tubules and pulmonary air sacs. The hepatocellular alterations consisted of marked swelling and distortion, necrosis, and the presence of basophilic intranuclear and occasional intracytoplasmic virus-type inclusions that often distorted the cells in which they were found. Specimens of liver from one of the lizards were examined by electron microscopy, revealing large numbers of intranuclear hexagonal virus particles with electrondense centers in regularly spaced crystalline arrays. A few virus particles were also found scattered randomly throughout the hepatocellular cytoplasm. The morphologic characteristics of these particles are consistent with adenovirus and were believed to be responsible for the hepatitis in these lizards. The histopathologic and electron microscopic findings in these animals were similar to those reported in a group of captive-bred bearded dragon lizards (Pogona vitticeps) and a confiscated adult bearded dragon lizard (Amphibolurus barbatus) that died while in quarantine in New Zealand.
40665140|Diseases of the thyroid gland are common in many zoo species, but there are few descriptions of thyroid dysfunction in Mustelidae. A 7-yr-old, captive-bred female fisher (Martes pennanti) with progressive alopecia was diagnosed with clinical hyperthyroidism based on persistent elevation of both total and free serum thyroxine and triiodothyronine, ultrasound examination, and histologie evidence of adenomatous hyperplasia. Four additional geriatric adult fishers (two male and two female) were identified with thyroid adenomatous hyperplasia in a review of 23 postmortem records. Banked sera were available for thyroid hormone testing from three of the four necropsy cases. Total and free thyroxine were elevated in four of four animals tested, and triiodothyronine was elevated in two of three animals tested. Necropsy findings in four cases identified cardiac hypertrophy, congestive heart failure, and vascular lesions consistent with hypertension; complete tissues were not available from the remaining case. Clinical and subclinical hyperthyroidism may be a common but overlooked condition of captive fishers.
20096642|A 19-yr-old, 78.2-kg captive female Indochinese tiger (Panthera tigris corbetti) from the El Paso Zoo (El Paso, Texas, USA) with chronic renal disease was euthanized after a 10-day course of anorexia, depression, progressive rear limb weakness, muscle fasciculations, and head tremors. Postmortem findings included pericardial effusion, generalized lymphadenopathy, glomerulosclerosis, glomerular atrophy with membranous glomerulonephropathy, and pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Pyogranulomatous pneumonia, pericarditis, and lymphadenitis were associated with fungal spherules histomorphologically consistent with Coccidioides immitis. Rising antibodies to C. immitis were detected on samples obtained perimortem and 2 mo before euthanasia. Retrospective serology was negative for two additional Indochinese tigers, two Iranian leopards (Panthera pardus saxicolor), two jaguars (Panthera onca), two bobcats (Lynx rufus texensis), two ocelots (Leopardus pardalis), and three Amur leopards (Panthera pardus orientalis) housed at the zoo over an 8-yr period. Despite being located within the endemic region for C. immitis, this is only the second case of coccidioidomycosis reported from this institution.
20095472|Eight eastern box turtles (Terrapene carolina carolina) were given a single i.m. injection of gentamicin sulfate at a dosage of 3 mg/kg total body weight. Four turtles received the injection in the right forelimb and the other four received it in the right rear limb. Sequential blood samples were obtained by jugular venipuncture using heparinized syringes over a 96-hr period, and plasma concentrations of gentamicin were measured using a fluorescence polarization immunoassay technique. No clinically important differences were found between the half-life and plasma concentrations of gentamicin in the two groups. The plasma half-life of gentamicin in the eastern box turtle in this study was 41.89 hr (range = 31.50-72.19 hr).
20460527|The marsh deer (Blastocerus dichotomus) is an endangered species from the marshlands of central South America. Its population has declined in several regions due to the loss of available habitat caused by human activities, especially the construction of hydroelectric dams. The capture of individual deer is critical for research programs and population management. This report describes a novel live-capture technique, which uses a helicopter to drive the animals into a terrain that restricts their movement such as thick vegetation or deep water (60-120 cm in depth). Following confinement, animals are manually restrained. The short pursuit time (median = 2 min), low mortality rate (0.82-3.28%), and the absence of injury to both the capture team and animals suggest that this method is appropriate for the safe capture of this species. Body temperature correlated with the pursuit time (R = 0.15) but was not significantly altered with pursuit times &lt;3 min.
20460431|Feces were collected from captive black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis minor) housed at Disney's Animal Kingdom to examine the frequency of Salmonella spp. shedding in asymptomatic animals using enrichment culture and broth culture- polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) for detection. Three samples per animal were collected during the first week of each month between February 2001 and December 2003. During the study period, six different individual animals from one herd participated in the study, including two growing calves. A total of 550 cultures, using duplicate samples at two different laboratories, and 464 PCR tests were performed. When culture and PCR results were compared by the same laboratory, similar herd prevalence was found (2.4% positive cultures compared with 2.6% positive PCR tests). However, even though tests were performed on replicate samples, not every sample that was positive by culture was positive by PCR and vice versa. These results suggest that using multiple diagnostic methods and increasing the number of samples submitted may increase the likelihood of finding an asymptomatic Salmonella shedder. Although all of the rhinos shared the same environment throughout the study period, only four out of the six animals tested shed Salmonella spp. even though a minimum of 37 fecal samples were taken from each of the negative animals. Although this study followed a small number of rhinoceros, it suggests that asymptomatic shedding probably occurs more frequently in captive black rhinoceros than was previously believed. The prevalence appears to be similar to that reported for domestic ungulates.
20096488|A retrospective study was conducted to identify the epidemiologic factors associated with gunshot injuries in raptors presented to the Wildlife Center of Virginia from 1993 to 2002. Of the 3,156 raptors admitted, 118 raptors (3.7%), representing 15 species, were admitted with gunshot trauma as the primary cause of morbidity and mortality. The majority of cases consisted of four species: red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis; 47%), red-shouldered hawk (Buteo lineatus; 14%), turkey vulture (Cathartes aura; 10%), and bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus; 8%). For species with greater than 40 admissions during the study period, the proportion of gunshot trauma of all causes of morbidity and mortality ranged from &lt1% to 11%. Greater numbers of raptors with gunshot trauma were admitted during the fall and winter months (75%) compared with the spring and summer (25%). A significant decrease in the absolute number of gunshot cases per year was observed over the time period studied. The population-level effect of gunshot trauma is unknown for these species; however, it appears to be minor compared with other causes of morbidity and mortality.
20095690|Reference hematologic and plasma biochemical values from island (Pteropus hypomelanus), Malaysian (P. vampyrus), and Rodriquez Island (P. rodricensis) flying foxes were determined. In comparison to other mammals, these bats had very low plasma cholesterol and urea levels, which may be related to diet. The predominant white blood cells observed in P. hypomelanus and P. vampyrus were lymphocytes, while in P. rodricensis they were neutrophils. Elevated plasma levels of calcium, phosphorus, and alkaline phosphatase observed in the juvenile P. hypomelanus were expected, given the greater osteogenic activity of growing animals. In P. hypomelanus, bilirubin levels were higher in juveniles than in adults, and cholesterol levels were higher in females than in males.
27751686|The National Zoological Garden plays a vital role in conservation of reptiles in Sri Lanka. Since parasitic infestations of captive reptiles can impact their health, a survey for intestinal parasites and ectoparasites was conducted on 19 selected reptilian species (14 snakes, four chelonians, and one crocodilian) housed at the National Zoological Garden, Sri Lanka. Of the reptiles screened, 62% (N = 139) were infected with parasites; 66% and 24% exclusively harbored intestinal and ecto parasites, respectively, while 10% carried both types of parasites. Three ticks (Ixodidae), two adult cestodes, plerocercoid larvae, and four nematode species were recovered during this survey. Three types of nematode ova and a single type of digenian ova, protozoan cysts, L3 nematode larvae, and a protozoan were detected in the feces. In this first systematic survey of reptilian parasites in Sri Lanka, four new hostparasite records are documented.
40962268|This study compared immobilization of gemsbok (Oryx gazella) using thiafentanil-xylazine (TX) versus carfentanil-xylazine (CX). Twelve adult gemsboks were divided into two groups, TX and CX. Each group received either 6 mg thiafentanil (0.036 g/kg (0.032-0.040 g/kg) and 20 mg xylazine (TX) or 3.6 mg carfentanil (0.021 g/kg (0.017-0.024 g/kg) and 20 mg xylazine (CX). Once handled, physiologic measurements were taken every 5 min for 20 min. There were few physiologic differences between the groups, although TX gemsboks were more hypertensive. Quality of induction, quality of recovery, depth of anesthesia, and muscle relaxation were subjectively assessed. Although TX gemsboks showed a trend for more-rapid induction and recovery postantagonist administration, this difference was not statistically significant. Similarly, there was a trend for TX animals to have smoother inductions and improved immobilization quality, but only the quality of induction was significantly different. These trends suggest that TX is preferable to CX when anesthetizing adult gemsboks.
20095020|Vitamin E, cholesterol, and selected mineral (Ca, Cu, Fe, Mg, P, and Zn) concentrations were measured in plasma or serum from 10 captive and 14 wild beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) to determine if captive diet and environment altered the circulating levels of these nutrients. Calcium, copper, and phosphorus concentrations were all significantly higher in free-ranging whales. Zinc and cholesterol concentrations were significantly lower in the free-ranging whales compared with captives. Vitamin E, iron, and magnesium concentrations did not differ significantly between the two groups. The variations observed may be due to seasonal, environmental, or dietary differences between the two populations.
41262658|A 32-year-old male Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) underwent routine transrectal stimulation for semen collection as part of an artificial insemination program. The procedure consisted of a preinsemination semen collection followed by two consecutive days of semen collections for artificial insemination. The second day's sample contained large numbers of inflammatory cells, intracellular bacteria, and phagocytized sperm. Semen was submitted for culture and sensitivity. Culture revealed Acinetobacter lwoffii, Staphylococcus intermedius, Kocuria roseus, and an unidentified gram-positive organism. Empirical antibiotic therapy with trimethoprim sulfa was initiated and then changed to enrofloxacin based on sensitivity panel results for a total of 28 days of treatment. Diagnostic semen collections were performed during treatment and 2 wk posttreatment to determine the success of therapy. Posttreatment collections revealed resolution of the inflammation. The origin of the infection was suspected to be the seminal vesicles.
20095857|From fiscal years 1992 through 1996, 14 African hedgehog (Atelerix albiventris) cases were submitted to the Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory at Purdue University. The most common diagnoses were splenic extramedullary hematopoiesis (91%), hepatic lipidosis (50%), renal disease (50%), and neoplastic disease (29%). Other less frequent necropsy findings were myocarditis (21%), colitis (14%), bacterial septicemia (14%), and pneumonia (14%). The data indicate that splenic extramedullary hematopoiesis, hepatic lipidosis, renal disease, and neoplasms are frequent postmortem findings in hedgehogs.
20460487|During late 2001 and early 2002, a mixed species wildlife park in North Carolina experienced an acute outbreak of morbidity and mortality in Pere David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus), axis deer (Axis axis), blackbuck antelope (Antelope cervicapra), white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), and Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus). Clinical signs varied from fulminant disease, progressing from depression to bloody scours to death in fewer than 4 days in Pere David's deer, to a more protracted form of disease, ranging from 2 wk to 3 mo, in axis deer. In moribund axis deer, high levels of anti--malignant catarrhal fever (MCF) virus antibody by competitive-inhibition enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were detected. Ovine herpesvirus 2 (OvHV-2) DNA was detected in peripheral blood leukocytes of the affected axis deer. No other MCF viruses were detected. Retrospective examination of frozen tissue samples from the affected Pere David's deer and blackbuck antelope also confirmed the presence of OvHV-2 DNA. Initial control efforts were directed at preventing further deaths of clinically susceptible animals by removing MCF virus reservoir species, particularly ovine species. The most prevalent ovine species in the wildlife park was mouflon sheep (Ovis musimon). All sheep were removed from the park by June 2002, and the last MCF death occurred in October 2002. Since mouflon sheep had been a prominent attraction in the wildlife park, the owner wanted a means to reintroduce this species to the park. Derivation of OvHV-2--uninfected mouflon lambs was undertaken using the previously described program for production of OvHV-2--free sheep (Ovis ovis). The rederived MCF virus--negative mouflon sheep were introduced into the park in approximately January 2004. As of December 2007, no further cases of MCF have occurred since the removal of OvHV-2--positive mouflon sheep and reintroduction of the virus-free lambs. This paper describes the successful management and control of MCF in a densely populated mixed species animal park.
20460275|Seven owls (one great horned owl [Bubo virginianus], three barred owls [Strix varia], three screech owls [Asio otus]) were each fed tissues of rats containing tissue cysts of the GT-1 and CT-1 strains of Toxoplasma gondii. Serum antibodies to T. gondii were measured by the agglutination test. The owls were necropsied between 40 and 76 days after T. gondii ingestion, and brain, heart, and muscles from the breast and hind limbs were bioassayed in mice for T. gondii parasites. None of the owls developed clinical signs. Toxoplasma gondii was isolated from tissues of all owls, and all owls developed T. gondii antibodies.
20096446|Isolated populations of four species of Mexican parrots were sampled for evidence of selected pathogens of concern in birds originating in Latin America. Data were collected between June and September 1997, and ectoparasite collection was repeated with Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha in September 2000. Serum samples from nine Amazona oratrix, 10 Amazona viridigenalis, 6 Amazona autumnalis, and 25 R. pachyrhyncha chicks were screened for neutralizing antibodies to psittacid herpesvirus and avian influenza and for antibodies to paramyxovirus serotypes 1 and 3. Chicks were also examined visually for fecal parasites and ectoparasites. All serologic and fecal parasite tests were negative. Ectoparasites included ticks, Ixodidae; mites, Ornithonyssus sylviarum; fleas, Psyttopsylla mexicana; lice, Paragoniocotes mexicanus, Heteromenopon sp., and Psittacobrosus sp.; and bugs, Ornithocoris sp. This study provides baseline information to guide future health studies.
40962323|During a preventive medicine examination on a 13-yr-old intact female African spot-necked otter (Lutra maculicollis), radiographs were obtained and a cranial thoracic mass was noted. Cytology from an ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspirate was suggestive of a thymoma. Surgical removal was performed and this diagnosis was confirmed by histopathology. At a recheck examination 6 mo postsurgery, there was no evidence of recurrence. This case highlights the value of a comprehensive preventive medicine program that resulted in the early detection of a subclinical thymoma and its successful removal.
20095417|A 26-yr-old male Western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) at the Denver Zoological Gardens was found dead, having shown no signs of illness. Gross necropsy revealed a ventral intimal tear in the ascending aorta and cardiac tamponade caused by an aortic dissection. Two additional cases of aortic dissection in captive gorillas have been reported in the literature. An international survey of 142 institutions that hold or have recently held gorillas was conducted to search for previously unreported cases of aortic dissection in the captive gorilla population. One hundred eight (76%) of the surveys were returned. A total of eight confirmed cases and one unconfirmed case of aortic dissection in captive gorillas were found, including the case from the Denver Zoological Gardens and those from the literature search and the international survey. Due to the paucity of data available for nonhuman primates, major risk factors for humans with aortic dissection were compared with data collected from affected gorillas. Because antemortem diagnostics and therapeutics for such an acute fulminating disease are impractical in gorillas, efforts should be directed at reducing potential cardiac risk factors that might lead to aortic dissection.
20096352|The pharmacokinetics of enrofloxacin administered orally and i.v. to American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) at 5 mg/kg was determined. Plasma levels of enrofloxacin and its metabolite ciprofloxacin were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography and the resulting concentration versus time curve analyzed using compartmental modeling techniques for the i.v. data and noncompartmental modeling techniques for the oral data. A two-compartment model best represented the i.v. data. Intravenous administration of enrofloxacin resulted in an extrapolated mean plasma concentration of 4.19  4.23 g/ml at time zero, with average plasma drug levels remaining above 1.0 g/ml for an average of 36 hr. Plasma volume of distribution for i.v. enrofloxacin was 1.88  0.96 L/kg, with a harmonic mean elimination half-life of 21.05 hr and mean total body clearance rate of 0.047  0.021 L/hr/kg. Plasma levels of p.o. enrofloxacin remained below 1.0 g/ml in all test animals, and average concentrations ranged from 0.08 to 0.50 g/ml throughout the sampling period. Oral administration of enrofloxacin achieved a mean maximum plasma concentration of 0.50  0.27 g/ml at 55  29 hr after administration, with a harmonic mean terminal elimination half-life of 77.73 hr. Minimal levels of ciprofloxacin were detected after both oral and i.v. enrofloxacin administration, with concentrations below minimum inhibitory concentrations for most susceptible organisms. On the basis of the results of this study, enrofloxacin administered to American alligators at 5 mg/kg i.v. q 36 hr is expected to maintain plasma concentrations that approximate the minimum inhibitory concentration for susceptible organisms (0.5 g/ml). Enrofloxacin administered to American alligators at 5 mg/kg p.o. is not expected to achieve minimum inhibitory values for susceptible organisms.
20095636|Sixteen (10 female, six male) captive-born dama gazelles (Gazella dama) weighing 48  10 kg (
20095418|A young female bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops aduncas) exhibited signs of lethargy and inappettance for 48 hr. Routine blood chemistry and physical evaluation were negative. Diagnostic ultrasonography was performed. The only finding was a viable pregnancy in the left uterine horn. The dolphin quickly regained normal health and behavior. Two weeks after the original examination, a detailed sonographic assessment of fetal morphology was performed. The fetal skull base appeared disproportionately small, and the cranium could not be identified; a severe neural tube defect was suspected. At term, an uncomplicated, spontaneous delivery produced a stillborn male anencephalic calf. This is the first report of anencephaly in a dolphin fetus and of the prenatal sonographic appearance of this fetal abnormality.
20096217|Two young (14-mo-old and 6-mo-old), unrelated, male African lions (Panthera leo) were presented to the Veterinary Teaching Hospitals of Oklahoma State University and Kansas State University with progressive ambulatory difficulty. In both cases, limited neurologic evaluation demonstrated pelvic limb paresis and ataxia with conscious proprioceptive deficits. Spinal imaging showed nearly identical lesions in both cases. Radiography and myelography demonstrated cervical stenosis secondary to atlantal (C) malformation producing a dorsoventral deformity of the laminar arch with atlantoaxial spinal cord compression between the ventrally displaced laminar arch of the atlas and the underlying odontoid process of C. Computed tomography of the atlanto-axial junction confirmed cervical stenosis and cord compression, showing flattening of the spinal cord between the laminar arch of C and the dens of C. Decompressive surgery consisting of dorsal laminectomy of C was performed. Each lion demonstrated progressive improvement of neurologic status to recovery of normal ambulation after surgical intervention. Neurologic disease in large captive felids is rare; atlanto-axial spondylomyelopathy has not been reported previously.
20096016|Fungal dermatitis was diagnosed in two captive gray seals (Halichoerus grypus) and four harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) between 1992 and 1994. Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Malassezia spp., and Yarrowia (Candida) lipolytica were isolated. Erythematous, thickened, alopecic skin lesions were present on the face and on the flippers, particularly around the nail bed. The two most important environmental factors associated with development of fungal dermatitis appeared to be excessive chlorination of pool water and warm water temperature.
20095068|An epizootic of shigellosis occurred in the Old World primate collection at the National Zoologic Park in 1984. Clinical signs ranged from transient diarrhea to protracted diarrhea or dysentery with tenesmus, abdominal pain, severe dehydration, pyrexia, and leukocytosis. The outbreak began in the main monkey house and spread to other zoo primate quarters over a 4-mo period. Clinical signs were first noted in white-cheeked (Hylobates concolor) and siamang gibbons (H. syndactilis), followed by lion-tailed (Macaca silenus), Celebes (M. nigra), and Barbary macaques (M. sylvanus) and lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla). Overall incidence in these species in 1984 was 17 our of 49 primates (35%). After 1984, shigellosis also occurred in black and white colobus monkeys (Colobus guerzea) and remained enzootic in gibbons through 1988, with an incidence of six out of 12/yr and two gibbon fatalities. Management of the shigellosis outbreak included the use of antibiotics, given on an individual case basis, which though palliative resulted in rapid development of multiple drug resistance.
40665059|Hematologic and plasma biochemistry parameters of the white stork (Ciconia ciconia) were studied. Blood samples were taken from a total of 80 adult white storks kept in captivity in Hungarian zoos and bird repatriation stations, between 2002 and 2006. Hematologic (packed cell volume, 46.3%  5.3%; hemoglobin concentration, 127.8  20.4 g/L; red blood cell counts, 2.28  0.35 10/1/1; white blood cell counts, 21.6  4.2 10/1; heterophils, 61.0%  9.8% [13.1  3.2  10/L]; lymphocytes, 34.3%  9.1% [7.4  2.5  10/L]; monocytes, 3.44%  2.3% [0.78  0.57  10/L]; eosinophils 0.75%  0.91% [0.16  0.21  10/L]; basophils 0.38%  0.56% [0.04  0.07  10/L]) and plasma biochemistry values (aspartate aminotransferase, 267.5  145.8 U/L; L--glutamyltransferase, 47.6  49.3 U/L; lipase, 70.3  60.6 U/L; creatine kinase, 443.9  182.2 U/L; lactate dehydrogenase, 880.4  293.6 U/L; alkaline phosphatase, 177.5  116.6 U/L; amylase, 917.6  314.3 U/L; glutamate dehydrogenase, 7.3  4.0 U/L; total protein, 45.2  8.1 g/L; uric acid, 459.2  254.3 mol/L; and bile acids, 46.3  20.5 mol/L) were determined. The results obtained can be used as reference values, because there are no established values previously reported for adult white storks.
20095641|Secondary nutritional metabolic bone disease was diagnosed in a gravid leopard tortoise (Geochelone pardalis pardalis). Diagnosis was based upon history, physical examination, hematology, plasma biochemistry, and radiography. Despite induced oviposition and treatment of metabolic bone disease for 8 wk, the tortoise's condition deteriorated. Repeat radiographs demonstrated gaseous intestinal distention. Oral administration of metoclopramide and mineral oil failed to stimulate defecation. Persistence of the ileus pattern prompted utilization of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computerized tomography (CT). MRI demonstrated brightly enhanced loops of mineral oil-filled small bowel and preovulatory follicles. CT demonstrated dystrophic calcification of the left hepatic lobe and preovulatory follicles and the typical reticular pattern of chelonian lung. The interstitial septa were caused by pulmonary vasculature or bands of smooth muscle.
20460520|The white-footed tamarin (Saguinus leucopus) is an endangered primate that lives in a small forest corridor in northern Colombia, South America. Hematologic and serum biochemistry reference values are important tools in evaluating the health of the white-footed tamarin and serve to promote the survival of this species. The purpose of this study was to establish diagnostically important hematologic and serum biochemistry reference values for healthy white-footed tamarins and to determine whether there was significant variation with respect to age class (juveniles, adults), gender, and housing facility. Blood samples were collected for hematologic and serum biochemistry measurements from 29 wild-caught captive tamarins during February and April 2005, housed at three different facilities in central Colombia. Hematology and serum biochemistry values were similar in adults and juveniles. Female white-footed tamarins had absolute reticulocyte counts that were lower than those of male tamarins and males had lower serum chloride concentrations than female tamarins. Mean values for hemoglobin, mean cell hemoglobin, serum total protein, albumin, glucose, and alkaline phosphatase varied among the three housing facilities. Twenty-two of the 29 tamarins sampled were microfilaria-positive and had significantly higher mean serum alkaline phosphatase concentrations. Among the 29 tamarins sampled in this study, serum values for mean alkaline phosphatase and creatine kinase concentrations were higher than reported values for other mammals. The reference intervals determined in this study were comparable to normal ranges reported for other members of the family Callitrichidae.
20095289|Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) is a novel lentivirus that causes T-cell deficiency in the domestic cat (Felis catus). Recent studies have revealed the existence of antigenically similar lentiviruses in a large number of nondomestic felid species. We summarize here a comprehensive serological survey for FIV cross-reactive antibodies in free-ranging and captive felid populations. Serum or plasma samples from 1,645 animals representing 20 felid species were screened by western blot analysis for exposure to one or more lentiviral proteins. Feline lentiviruses were confirmed to be endemic in several East and South African populations of lion (Panthera leo). Exposure was also detected in nearly all of the natural North American puma (Felis concolor) populations surveyed. Antibodies to FIV were also found in a free-ranging population of cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus). Lentivirus presence among captive exotic cats in the United States and abroad appears to be sporadic and infrequent. Because FIV is endemic in certain natural populations and absent in others, these data suggest that lentivirus infection postdated the geographic separation of felid populations; and therefore, spread of the virus into other seronegative populations may now be restricted by natural geographical barriers.
20096594|Feces from 62 captive African gazelles, including Mhorr gazelles (Gazella dama mhorr), Cuvier's gazelles (Gazella cuvieri), and Dorcas gazelles (Gazella dorcas neglecta), were examined over the course of a year to quantitate nematode egg excretion patterns. Strongyloides sp. eggs appeared only in G. dama during the rainy season. Trichostrongylidae egg excretion showed a marked seasonal variation, with very low levels during the dry and hot period, a finding that is probably attributable to hypobiosis of the predominant species (Camelostrongylus mentulatus). Eggs of the Nematodirus sp., predominantly Nematodirus spathiger, were excreted throughout the year. No seasonal pattern was observed in Trichuris sp. egg excretion.
20095373|Bilateral transverse midhumeral osteotomies were performed in 12 pigeons. The osteotomies were stabilized with three polydioxanone (PDS) intramedullary (IM) pins or three stainless steel (SS) IM pins. Radiographs were made immediately postsurgery and at 3, 6, 12, and 24 wk postsurgery. Three birds were randomly selected and euthanized at 3, 6, 12, and 24 wk postsurgery for gross and histologic evaluation of bone healing. Radiographically the osteotomies stabilized with the PDS IM pins had larger callus diameters than those stabilized with SS at 3 and 6 wk postsurgery; however, the callus diameters of PDS-stabilized humeri were smaller than those of the SS-stabilized humeri at 12 and 24 wk. The differences in corrected callus diameters were significant (P &lt 0.05) only at 3 wk, the PDS-stabilized humeri having larger calluses. Gross and histologic evaluation of the repaired humeri showed no differences in bone healing between PDS- and SS-stabilized humeri.
20095981|A 12-yr-old female free-ranging Florida panther (Felis concolor coryi) was found dead in good flesh. The panther had a ruptured thoracoabdominal aneurysm and 0.5 L of unclotted blood in its thorax. Intimal plaques 6.0  3.0  3.0 cm and 4.0  3.0  1.0 cm were present in the thoracic and abdominal aorta extending below the bifurcation of the renal arteries. Histologic examination revealed necrohemorrhagic aortitis with a mixed inflammatory infiltrate of lymphocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils. Death was almost certainly due to exsanguination and hypovolemic shock secondary to the ruptured aneurysm, and the aortitis with the resultant aneurysm may have been secondary to an infectious or a toxic process. This is the first reported death of a free-ranging mammal from a ruptured aortic aneurysm.
20460532|This case series describes multiple mortalities associated with sepsis, neoplasia, and endoparasitism in yellow-lipped sea kraits (Laticauda colubrina) at an exhibit aquarium. Over a 2-yr period, the facility kept 42 L. colubrina, of which 38 died and 19 were suitable for necropsy and histopathology. The common clinical syndrome seen in these animals consisted of partial to compete anorexia, increased time spent "hauled-out" on land, intermittent regurgitation, chronic lethargy, and weight loss. Few animals died without premonitory signs. Nutritional support and treatment for presumptive parasitism and sepsis were unsuccessful. The mortality seen in this collection of sea kraits could be placed into three groups; one group of animals (n = 9) died of sepsis secondary to necrotizing enteritis or pneumonia; one group (n = 6) remained apparently healthy for over 1 yr and then died with multifocal granulomas and sepsis; and the last group (n = 3) died as a result of multicentric lymphoid neoplasia with secondary sepsis. The unifying factor in the majority of these cases is the presence of septicemia as the proximate cause of death. Based on the clinical picture, it is presumed that an immunosuppressive event, such as transport, captivity stress, or possible concurrent viral infection, resulted in a septic event and death.
20095397|An adult bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) kept in captivity for nearly 7 yr at the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, Laurel, Maryland, died suddenly with gross and microscopic lesions characteristic of septicemia. Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae was isolated from the liver. Fish comprised part of the bird's diet and may have been the source of the organism.
20460357|Twenty-six captive, adult Egyptian fruit bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus) were tested for the presence of rabies virus neutralizing antibodies (RVNA) using a rapid fluorescent focus inhibition test before and after vaccination. The bats were randomly assigned into three treatment groups: group A (n = 10) bats each received one 0.1-ml dose of monovalent inactivated rabies vaccine, group B (n = 10) bats each received two 0.1-ml doses of vaccine given 30 days apart, and group C (n = 6) bats remained unvaccinated. Plasma was collected from all bats before vaccination and on days 14, 30, 60, and 360. All bats were seronegative before vaccination, and all unvaccinated animals remained negative throughout the study. Rabies virus neutralization titers remained above 0.5 IU/ml from day 30 through day 360 for both vaccinated groups. Group B had significantly higher titers on day 60. This study demonstrated a measurable humoral immune response after vaccination with an inactivated rabies vaccine, with two doses producing a higher level of RVNA. This study confirms the feasibility of a rabies vaccination program for Egyptian fruit bats.
20096421|Hematopoietic malignancies are the most commonly reported neoplasms in lizards, occurring sporadically as in other reptiles: An unusually high incidence of lymphoid neoplasia occurred in a collection of Egyptian spiny-tailed lizards (Uromastyx aegyptius) from 1993-2001. Eight of 15 lizards necropsied at the Louisville Zoological Garden (53%) had multicentric lymphoma. Immunohistochemistry was not useful in characterizing the lineage of normal or neoplastic lymphocytes. By light and electron microscopy (EM), the neoplasms had plasmacytoid morphologic features suggesting B-cell origin, although some tumors also had a primitive lymphoblast component. A concurrent leukemic blood profile was identified in seven of the cases (88%). All were adult animals and no sex predilection was observed. No exposure to exogenous carcinogens was observed. Some of the lizards were unrelated, so hereditary factors were unlikely. Although examination by EM and viral isolation performed on archived tissues and plasma failed to detect viruses, an infectious etiology still warrants consideration.
20096239|An 18- to 25-yr-old intact female Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris) was diagnosed antemortem and postmortem with nasopharyngeal myxosarcoma metastatic to the lung, chronic lymphoplasmacytic otitis media, and lymphoplasmacytic and eosinophilic stomatitis. Myxosarcomas are rare in domestic animals and seldom metastasize; this tumor has not been previously reported in an exotic felid. Computed tomography of the skull was used during the diagnoses.
41262650|Carfentanil citrate and thiafentanil oxalate have been used successfully to immobilize captive and free-ranging ungulates. The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy and certain physiologic parameters of protocols by using the 2 opioids in gaur (Bos gaums). Eight adult gaur bulls were immobilized for electroejaculation at Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo (Omaha, Nebraska, USA). All the animals were immobilized twice, by using each of the following protocols one time: 10 mg carfentanil combined with 100 mg xylazine (CX), reversed with 1,000 mg naltrexone and 24 mg yohimbine; and 12 mg thiafentanil combined with 20 mg medetomidine (TM), reversed with 120 mg naltrexone and 100 mg atipamezole. Immobilization drugs were delivered intramuscularly into the shoulder area via pole syringe. Electroejaculation was carried out by a standardized protocol to duplicate procedural stimulation on each animal. Induction and recovery times, initial rectal temperature, heart rate, respiratory rate, anesthetic depth, oxygen saturation, indirect blood pressure, and arterial blood gases were recorded at the time of initial handling, before ejaculation, and after ejaculation. Antagonists were administered 1/4 i. v. and 3/4 s. q. Both protocols require a small volume of drug for a large ungulate, provide smooth induction, and adequate anesthesia. Both protocols produced a significant hypoxemia, although the animals on CX showed slightly better blood gas values (based on lower partial pressure of carbon dioxide) and numerically lower blood pressure values. Animals on TM had better muscle relaxation and smoother recoveries, with no renarcotization noted. The results of the present study indicate the TM and CX protocols used for immobilizing gaur result in similar quality ejaculates that can be used for fertility examination as well as for assisted reproduction such as artificial insemination. Additional immobilizations need to take place to further compare these 2 combinations in this species.
20094971|Two subadult snow leopard (Panthera uncia) littermates developed progressive paraparesis that resulted in severe paraparesis in one cub and paraplegia in the other. Each cub had compressive thoracolumbar spinal cord lesions demonstrated by myelography, and dorsal laminectomies revealed the lesions to be mycotic abscesses involving the spinal canal, vertebral bodies, and epaxial musculature. The fungus isolated from each cub's surgical site had identical microscopic and cultural growth characteristics in each case; the second cub's isolate was identified as Scopulariopsis brumptii. Although the neurologic deficits initially improved postoperatively in both cubs, they were euthanized because of profound residual neurologic deficits and postoperative complications. Bark mulch substrate in the exhibit may have been the source of the fungus.
20094942|Three captive-bred American porcupines (Erethizon dorsatum) developed neurological signs of slow head swaying movements, chomping fits, and head pressing after exposure to raccoon (Procyon lotor) feces. A histologic brain section from one of the porcupines had a nematode larva compatible with Baylisascaris sp. associated with extensive inflammation; a second porcupine had similar brain lesions but larvae were not evident. Both porcupines had toxoplasma organisms present in their brains which were considered to have contributed to the clinical neurological abnormalities.
20095723|An 8-yr-old female tiger (Panthera tigris) died following a 2-wk history of progressive depression, anorexia, respiratory insufficiency, and exercise intolerance. At the time of necropsy, numerous coalescing, 4-20-mm, tan, firm nodules were scattered throughout the pleural surfaces of the thoracic wall and the mediastinum, giving a velvety appearance to these surfaces. Histologically, the nodules were diagnosed as malignant pleural mesothelioma. Secondary metastasis to the regional tracheobronchial and mediastinal lymph nodes was observed.
20096703|Lemurs are a diverse group of primates comprised of five families, all of which are found only on Madagascar and the Comoro Islands. Of the 60 known species, 17 are endangered and 5 of these are considered critically endangered. The effects of inbreeding on population health and viability have been well described; though negative inbreeding effects can be ameliorated through the introduction of new genetic material. Introduction of new individuals into a population can be extremely challenging because of the highly social nature of lemurs. Semen collection in lemur species is notoriously challenging, as the ejaculate forms a coagulum. During normal breeding, the coagulum forms a copulatory plug in the female. However, this coagulum can present a life-threatening situation when retained in the urethra abnormally following electroejaculation. This study investigates the use of ascorbic acid in preventing urethral blockage in two lemur species during semen collection, demonstrates successful collection of semen by electroejaculation from two species of lemur during the breeding season, and discusses removal of urethral plugs subsequent to semen collection. Semen was collected successfully from all animals. Urethral plugs formed during each collection and were abnormally retained in 2/11 collections. Both plugs were successfully and immediately removed with the use of retropulsion through a urethral catheter. Although the results of this study are encouraging, more investigation is required to establish whether or not this procedure can be safely performed in the field.
20095338|Infectious diseases in chelonians are often treated with antibiotics. Doses are sometimes extrapolated from those published for other animals because of a lack of pharmacokinetic data for chemotherapeutic agents in reptiles. Enrofloxacin was administered i.m. at 5 mg/kg of body weight to 92 Indian star tortoises (Geochelone elegans). Blood samples were collected at 0, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, 12, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hr postinjection. Each tortoise was sampled only once. High-performance liquid chromatography was used to measure enrofloxacin, and its metabolite ciprofloxacin, in the tortoises' plasma. The mean (SE) maximum plasma concentration of enrofloxacin (3.59 g/ml  0.63) was reached within an average of 0.5 hr postinjection; the half-life calculated from the mean concentrations was 5.1 hr. Ciprofloxacin was detected within an average time of 0.5 hr and had a half-life of 4.8 hr. Plasma enrofloxacin was not detectable in samples collected at 72 hr postinjection. These data and the known mean inhibitory concentrations for some domestic animal bacterial isolates indicate that a dosage for Indian star tortoises of 5 mg/kg i.m. every 12 hr would be effective in the treatment of Pseudomonas sp. and Citrobacter sp. infections and every 24 hr for other bacterial infections.
27751750|The Cayumapu River black-necked swan (Cygnus melanocoryphus) population in southern Chile suffered a syndrome of malnutrition and hyperferremia in 2005. The iron metabolic imbalance could not be explained on the basis of the quality of their diet. Hence, the primary objective of this study was to determine the relationship between malnutrition and iron homeostasis in black-necked swans. It was proposed that catabolic processes could increase serum iron levels due to the release of endogenous iron from tissues. A free-living swan population undergoing natural nutritional imbalance due to molting was studied. In addition, swans captured were subjected to a diet restriction until they became emaciated. The results revealed that neither lipolytic activity nor emaciation affected serum iron concentrations. The increment of total iron binding capacity observed was in agreement with the reduction of endogenous iron stored, with the increase of erythropoeitic demand, or with both. Future studies are needed to determine the effect of incremental erythropoietic activity on iron homeostasis in anemic, malnourished birds.
27751705|The entodiniomorph ciliates (Ciliophora: Entodiniomorphida) are endosymbiotes widely found in the intestines of herbivorous mammals. These commensals commonly occur in the Artiodactyla and Perissodactyla and have also been described in the Proboscidea, Primates, Rodentia, and Diprotodontia. This study reports the first finding of a ciliate in a member of order Carnivora, the maned wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus). Fecal samples from wild and captive maned wolves were screened using ethyl acetate sedimentation. Prevalence in fecal samples collected from free-ranging maned wolves in Brazil was 40% (6 of 15). Fecal samples from two of four captive individuals from the St. Louis Zoo also had the same species of ciliate. The largely frugivorous diet of the maned wolf likely explains the occurrence of these normally herbivore-associated endosymbiotes in a carnivore.
20096611|A chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) with traumatic loss of the distal penis developed a gradually enlarging ventral urethral swelling and progressive dysuria. Endoscopy identified a urethral diverticulum, and endoscopic resection of the diverticulum wall was performed. Postoperative infection caused extensive necrosis of the penis, which necessitated a perineal urethrostomy. Complications of the urethrostomy included urethral obstruction from recurrent urethral stricture. The stricture was managed by regular dilatation using urethral bougies. Because of considerable postoperative swelling, catheterization was required to allow micturition following both the diverticular resection and polyp debulking. A shortened catheter sutured to the skin was tolerated for up to 10 days. Four yr after the urethrostomy, the animal is healthy and asymptomatic with endoscopic examinations performed at 12 mo intervals. This case demonstrates that with appropriate aftercare, perineal urethrostomy is an effective technique in the treatment of chronic distal urethral obstruction in the chimpanzee and probably other primate species.
20096144|Although reversible contraception is important to successful management of small populations, there are concerns about the reversibility of melengestrol acetate (MGA), the most commonly used implant in captive animals. Female golden lion tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia) placed in potential breeding situations after surgical MGA implant removal showed a 75% return to reproduction within 2 yr, unlike golden-headed tamarins (Leontopithecus chrysomelas), which have had a 29% return to reproduction following implant removal. This rate was indistinguishable from the breeding probability for newly formed pairs involving nonimplanted females. Litter size, stillbirth rate, and infant survival rate were not significantly different between nonimplanted and implant-removed female golden lion tamarins. However, females with implants left in (and assumed to have expired) showed higher stillbirth and infant mortality rates than did females with implants removed. For seven female golden lion tamarins for which reproductive histories before and after MGA implantation were available, litter size was unaffected by MGA implantation and subsequent removal. Infant survival rate for these females appeared to be lower after removal but was indistinguishable from rates in the nonimplanted females. Prior reproductive experience, length of time with an implant, and age of the females did not affect the probability of breeding for females after removal of the implants. Overall, breeding probability of nonimplanted females declined with age. Although the results of this study confirm the reversibility of MGA implants in golden lion tamarins, there appear to be some effects on viability of offspring, particularly offspring born to females with implants left in and presumed expired.
20096555|An adult male giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) was presented with a cutaneous mass ventral to the eye. The animal was anesthetized and the mass was surgically excised. Histopathologic examination determined that the mass was a benign cavernous hemangioma, the first reported case in a giant panda.
40962312|Tramadol is a centrally acting opiate analgesic that has not been well studied in avian species. Tramadol and its metabolites exert their effects at multiple sites, including opiate (, , and ), adrenergic (-2), and serotonin (5HT) receptors. This multi-receptor mode of action is advantageous for avian patients because the mechanisms for analgesia have not been fully elucidated in all species. The objective of this study was to document the pharmacokinetics of tramadol and its active metabolite O-desmethyltramadol (M1) in common peafowl (Pavo cris tatus). Based on results from a pilot animal, six adult peafowl (three male, three female) judged to be clinically healthy based on physical exam and routine bloodwork were selected for this study. Each bird was anesthetized for placement of a jugular catheter, and 7.5 mg/kg tramadol was administered orally via gavage tube. Blood samples were collected just prior to drug administration; at 30 min; and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 24, and 34 hr. Plasma levels of tramadol and Ml were measured and the pharmacokinetics for each drug was calculated. Although tramadol was quickly metabolized, plasma levels of Ml remained at or near human analgesic levels for 12-24 hr. Based on these data, tramadol may be a practical option as an orally administered analgesic agent in avian patients. Further studies, including antinociceptive studies, are needed.
20460555|The use of plasma as a life-saving tool for neonatal African elephants (Loxodonta africana) that failed passive transfer of immunoglobulins is proposed. The methodology of blood sampling, plasma extraction, and plasma storage is described. Values for cellular component sedimentation and biochemical parameters of extracted plasma that was collected from 2 female elephants is presented. The proposal for a central plasma bank for elephants in European zoos is suggested.
20094959|Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) infection has been detected by serologic methods in several species of nondomestic felids, both in captive and in free-ranging populations. Antibody to FIV was detected using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test; positive tests were confirmed by indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) and immunoblot procedures. Infected animals included two snow leopards (Panthera uncia), one lion (P. leo), and one jaguar (P. onca) from the Cheyenne Mountain Zoo, and one white tiger (P. tigris) and one lion from a separate facility. Six free-ranging Florida panthers (Felis concolor coryi) and one bobcat (F. rufus floridanus) from the Everglades National Park, Big Cypress National Preserve and nearby areas in southern Florida were also found to be infected. A tentative correlation between FIV seropositivity and clinical disease could be made in some of these animals; the presence of FIV infection thus may complicate the already difficult management situation of several endangered cat species.
20095597|A 7-mo-old male alpaca (Lama pacos) was presented in midwinter with clinical signs of ataxia and ill thrift. A presumptive diagnosis of cerebrospinal parasitism was made based on the presence of eosinophils in cerebrospinal fluid and historical association of this alpaca with white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), the natural host of Parelaphostrongylus tenuis (a nematode). The alpaca responded to anthelmintic (fenbendazole, diethylcarbamazine, ivermectin), antibiotic (sulfadiazine/trimethoprim, pyrimethamine), and corticosteroid (prednisone) treatment and returned to the farm of origin, at which time its neurologic status had almost returned to normal. The alpaca remained healthy for 1 mo before developing different acute severe neurologic signs, leading to euthanasia. A fulminating, disseminated fungal and bacterial infection was diagnosed at necropsy, characterized by an acute multifocal necrotizing vasculitis and thrombosis associated with fungal hyphal elements that resembled Phycomycetes spp. and multiple pyogranulomatous foci in the kidney, lung, and liver associated with Escherichia coli and Rhodococcus sp. The disseminated phycomycosis and bacterial infection were attributed to a primary immunodeficiency disorder or an opportunistic infection secondary to prolonged antibiotic treatment and corticosteroid administration.
40665129|Anthropozoonotic diseases threaten the survival of western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla). Use of accurate diagnostic techniques in gorilla health monitoring contributes to the conservation of gorillas by providing robust information for appropriate management decisions. To identify suitable protozoa diagnostic techniques for wild gorillas, 95 fecal specimens were collected in Lop National Park and east of Moukalaba-Doudou National Park in Gabon, areas with high and low levels of human activity, respectively. The samples were examined for Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp. by using the following diagnostic techniques: a commercially available immunofluorescent antibody test kit, Merifluor, and a rapid immune-assay, ImmunoCard STAT!, to detect Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp., and a modified Ziehl-Neelsen stain to detect Cryptosporidium sp. oocyst. The results obtained from the Merifluor test, considered the "gold standard" in human studies, were used to estimate the prevalence of Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp. infections in Lop National Park (19.0% and 22.6%, respectively) and east of Moukalaba-Doudou National Park (0% and 9.1%, respectively). The difference in prevalence in both areas may be associated with differing levels of anthropogenic disturbance. The sensitivity and specificity of the latter two diagnostic techniques were calculated by using the Merifluor test as a control. The ImmunoCard STAT! was found suitable for Giardia sp. antigen detection (specific but not sensitive) and inappropriate for Cryptosporidium sp. antigen detection (not specific or sensitive). The modified Ziehl-Neelsen stain was found to be highly specific but not sensitive in the detection of Cryptosporidium sp. oocysts. These results underline the necessity of using ancillary tests and concentration methods to correctly identify positive samples. This is the first report of Cryptosporidium sp. and Giardia sp. infections in free-ranging western lowland gorillas and highlights the importance of verifying the accuracy of diagnostic techniques developed for human use before applying these to non-human primates.
20095880|Hematologic and biochemical reference values were obtained from 27 healthy, captive, nonanesthetized Goeldi's monkeys (Callimico goeldii), a threatened South American primate, using automated techniques. The merits of nonparametric statistical analysis of values over the more common parametric method were demonstrated.
20095889|Temporary episodes of diarrhea in captive beech martens (Martes foina) were accompanied by shedding of Cryptosporidium oocysts. Oocysts were detected in fecal samples by flotation and in acid-fast-stained smear preparations. The oocysts were 3-5 m, which is consistent with C. parvum. The source of the Cryptosporidium infection remained unknown. This is the first demonstration of Cryptosporidium in beech martens.
20095948|A white-handed gibbon (Hylobates lar) lost the use of its right hand. Complete blood count, serum chemistry profile, electrocardiographic findings, blood pressure, and radiographic work-up were normal, but the gibbon died 2 days later. The gibbon was serologically positive for herpes simplex I and Epstein-Barr virus. Necropsy and histopathology showed acute infarction of the right cerebrum and multifocal to coalescing severe myocardial fibrosis.
20094970|Systemic blastomycosis was diagnosed in a 5-yr-old male captive polar bear (Ursus maritimus). Initial signs of disease were intermittent anorexia, weight loss, malaise, and occasional weakness in the rear legs. Thoracic radiographs revealed pleural effusion and diffuse interstitial lung disease. The definitive diagnosis of blastomycosis was made by cytologic examination and culture of pleural fluid. The blastomycosis was cured by treatment with the investigational oral antifungal triazole drug, itraconazole, for 90 days. Complete blood count, serum chemistry, and radiologic evaluation were used at 30-day intervals to monitor treatment. At a dose of 4.3 mg/kg/day, serum and pleural fluid itraconazole levels of up to 1.65 g/ml and 0.89 g/ml were achieved. The polar bear did not show signs of toxicity to itraconazole. In vitro minimum inhibitory concentrations and minimum lethal concentrations of this isolate for ketoconazole and itraconazole were compared.
20095064|The recent development of potent and specific
20460325|Five neonatal Pallas' cats (Otocolobus manul) at the Oklahoma City Zoo died from toxoplasmosis with concurrent herpesvirus infection. These multiple infections suggested underlying immunodeficiency, perhaps caused by concurrent infection with feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV); so blood samples were collected for serology, serum protein electrophoresis, lymphocyte proliferation assays, and cytokine analysis by reverse transcriptase--quantitative competitive polymerase chain reaction (RT-qcPCR). Resulting data were compared with data from FIV-infected and control domestic short-haired cats. In addition, peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures were propagated to detect FIV virus by both RT-qcPCR and detection of reverse transcriptase activity. Serum protein electrophoresis showed that four of six Pallas' cats had increased alpha globulins. At least two Pallas' cats had decreased lymphoproliferation responses to mitogen, and all three tested animals exhibited defective interleukin-12 gene expression. Although these clinical and laboratory findings suggested an immunodeficiency syndrome, FIV infection could not be confirmed. On the basis of repeated blood test results, it can be concluded that nutritional, metabolic, or other systemic problems probably did not contribute to the disease syndrome. Further investigation of other possible causes of immunodeficiency, including a possible genetic component, in this population is needed.
20095992|An 18-mo-old male red wolf (Canis rufus) presented with footpad hyperkeratosis, suppurative paronychia, distal limb pyoderma, and peripheral lymphadenopathy. Diet for the previous 11 mo consisted of a mixture of two commercially prepared dog foods with a mineral supplement containing primarily calcium. Culture of the draining tracts on the distal limbs yielded a mixed population of opportunistic bacteria. Histopathologic findings were consistent with a diagnosis of zinc deficiency. Medical therapy consisted of 15 mg/kg amoxicillin p.o. b.i.d. and 10 mg/kg zinc sulfate p.o. s.i.d. Calcium supplementation was discontinued. Clinical signs resolved by 10 wk after the initiation of treatment.
20096203|A 1.7-kg mature, female brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) was diagnosed with egg retention. Eggs could not be manually stripped and so were surgically removed. To prevent future complications, bilateral ovariectomy was performed. Complications were minimal, and the fish resumed eating within 2 days. Sutures were removed 21 days after surgery. Ovariectomy in display aquarium fish is a viable option for the resolution of ovarian disease.
20095072|Urine samples were collected approximately every other day for 7 mo (February-August) from two juvenile female giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) and analyzed for estrone glucuronide (EG), pregnanediol glucuronide (PdG), and creatinine (Cr) concentrations. The 2.5-yr-old female demonstrated no overt signs of reproductive behavior, and mean (SEM) urinary EG (3.8  0.4 ng/mg Cr) and PdG (3.0  0.5 ng/mg Cr) concentration based on 34 samples were considered baseline. In March, the 4.5-yr-old female displayed behavioral and physical signs of estrus for 4 days. Urinary EG peaked (56.2 ng/mg Cr) coincident with estrus, and urinary PdG increased within 5 days of the EG peak. The urinary PdG peaked at 27.2 ng/mg Cr 12 days after the EG peak but returned to basal levels within 9 days. Approximately 3 mo after estrus, this giant panda became lethargic and anorexic, and there was a concomitant rise in urinary EG and PdG concentrations. Although EG did not increase to levels observed during estrus, PdG concentrations peaked at 48.8 ng/mg Cr. Clinical signs of lethargy and anorexia abated following treatment with 2,880 mg trimethoprim sulfa i.m. s.i.d. for 5 days and 2.5 mg dinoprost tromethamine i.m. b.i.d. for 3 days. There was also a decline in urinary PdG. These observations document the urinary reproductive hormone profiles for a young prepubertal and a postpubertal giant panda. The postestrual urinary hormonal pattern in the older female was consistent with the possibility of pseudopregnancy, which may or may not be related to the marked clinical signs of lethargy and anorexia observed simultaneously.
20096604|In response to growing terrorism concerns, the Transportation Security Administration now requires that all checked baggage at U.S. airports be scanned through a cabinet x-ray system, which may increase risk of radiation damage to transported biologic samples and other sensitive genetic material. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of these new airport security regulations on the viability and DNA integrity of frozen felid spermatozoa. Semen was collected from two domestic cats (Felis silvestris catus) and one fishing cat (Prionailurus viverrinus), cryopreserved in plastic freezing straws, and transferred into liquid nitrogen dry shippers for security screening. Treatment groups included frozen samples from each male scanned once or three times using a Transportation Security Administration--operated cabinet x-ray system, in addition to non-scanned samples (i.e., negative control) and samples previously scanned three times and exposed to five additional high-intensity x-ray bursts (i.e., positive control). Dosimeters placed in empty dry shippers were used to quantify radiation exposure. Following treatment, straws were thawed and spermatozoa analyzed for post-thaw motility (percentage motile and rate of progressive movement), acrosome status, and DNA integrity using single-cell gel electrophoresis (i.e., the comet assay). Dosimeter measurements determined that each airport screening procedure produced 16 mrem of radiation exposure. Our results indicated that all levels of radiation exposure adversely affected (P &lt 0.05) post-thaw sperm motility, but the percentage of acrosome-intact spermatozoa did not differ (P &gt 0.05) among treatment groups. Results also showed that the amount of double-stranded DNA damage was greater (P &lt 0.05) in sperm samples from both cat species scanned three times compared to samples scanned once or negative controls. Findings suggest that new airport security measures may cause radiation-induced damage to frozen spermatozoa and other valuable biologic samples transported on passenger aircraft and that alternative modes of sample transportation should be used whenever possible.
20096365|A 4-yr-old striped skunk (Mephitis mephitis) developed an 11-  7-  7-cm retroperitoneal mass caudal to the left kidney. The mass was surgically excised and, on the basis of histology and immunohistochemistry, diagnosed as a benign teratoma. Six months later, a second histologically similar neoplasm was excised from the same location and was considered to represent local tumor recurrence. The skunk died 16 mo later without recurrence. Complete excision of the tumor appeared curative in this case and supported the benign diagnosis. An extragonadal teratoma should be considered as a differential diagnosis for an abdominal mass in a skunk.
41262633|Hemotropic mycoplasmas, epicellular erythrocytic bacterial parasites lacking a cell wall, are the causative agents of infectious anemia in numerous mammalian species. The presence of hemotropic mycoplasmas in blood samples of neotropical and exotic wild canids and felids from Brazilian zoos were recorded using molecular techniques. Blood samples were collected from 146 Brazilian wild felids, 19 exotic felids, 3 European wolves (Canis lupus), and from 97 Brazilian wild canids from zoos in the Brazilian states of So Paulo and Mato Grosso and the Federal District. Using conventional polymerase chain reaction (PCR), this work found 22 (13%) wild felids positive to Candidatus Mycoplasma haemominutum [4 jaguars (Panthera onca); 3 pumas (Puma concolor); 10 ocelots (Leopardus pardalis); 2 jaguarondis (Puma yagouaroundi); and 3 little spotted cats (Leopardus tigrinus)]. Only one little spotted cat (Leopardus tigrinus) was positive to Mycoplasma haemofelis, and none was positive to Candidatus Mycoplasma turicensis. Two bush dogs (Speothos venaticus) were positive for a Mycoplasma sp. closely related to Candidatus Mycoplasma haematoparvum, and two European wolves were positive for a Mycoplasma sp. closely related to Candidatus Mycoplasma haemominutum. This is the first study regarding the molecular detection of hemotropic mycoplasmas in wild canids.
20095276|Health and disease are becoming extremely relevant issues for the conservation biology of members of all major groups of vertebrates. The importance of disease in captive propagation, relocation, repatriation, and translocation (RRT) programs is just being appreciated. All of us experience multiple diseases in our lifetimes. Reptiles are not different. They are susceptible to the range of infectious agents known to occur in other vertebrates. The causes of disease in captive reptiles are better understood than those in their wild counterparts. However, several important diseases have recently been documented in wild chelonians. One of these, upper respiratory tract disease in the desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) is thought to have been introduced into populations of tortoises in the Mojave Desert in the southwestern USA by release of ill captive desert tortoises. A similar situation appears to exist for certain populations of the gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) in Florida, USA. Although conservation strategies such as RRT programs have been implemented for a number of threatened/endangered reptiles, results indicate that the success rate is rather low. Because of this low success rate and the recent awareness of the possible introduction of exotic pathogens acquired in captivity, release programs should be scrutinized more closely.
20096213|In 1993 a reintroduction project for the Eurasian otter (Lutra lutra) was initiated in northeastern Spain (Girona, Catalonia) to restore extirpated populations. Between 1996 and 2000, 43 otters were captured from south-western and northern Spain and from Portugal with modified foot-hold traps and transported to Barcelona Zoo. Lesions produced by capture were classified into four categories of increasing severity. Thirty four (79%) animals had category I, three (7%) had category II, five (12%) had category III, and only one (2%) had category IV injuries. During captivity five (11%) animals died, including one from a precapture problem. Radiotransmitter devices were implanted i.p. into 36 otters to monitor postrelease movement and survival. At least three radio-implanted otters have bred successfully in Girona province, Catalonia, after release in that area.
20095864|A 19-yr-old spayed female coyote (Canis latrans) was evaluated for an elliptical swelling of the skin beneath its right eye and an elevated mass that involved the soft and hard palate and gingivae around the upper right carnassial tooth and molars. Histopathologic analysis revealed a squamous cell carcinoma, and a postmortem examination revealed no evidence of vascular invasion or dissemination to the regional lymph nodes or viscera. This report describes the biology and progresion of an oral squamous cell carcinoma in an aged captive coyote.
20096038|Ten cotton-topped tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) were infected with Moniliformis clarki a parasitic acanthocephalan. One animal died of intestinal perforation and peritonitis before treatment was initiated. Five of the remaining tamarins were treated successfully with oral albendazole at either 50 mg/kg b.i.d. for 16 days or 100 mg/kg b.i.d. for 3 days, then repeated biweekly for four treatments. A less-intensive treatment regime of 50 mg/kg albendazole orally s.i.d. for 3 days and monthly repeated treatments was unsuccessful. Parasites were removed via surgical enterotomy from two animals, both of which continued to shed acanthocephalan eggs postoperatively.
20460378|Infectious diseases have been responsible for large-scale declines in many endangered animals. Disease outbreaks in small populations have probably led to the eventual extinction of such endangered animals in the wild. The endangered Asiatic lion (Panthera leo persica) population may also face such threats. This was evident from this study on captive Asiatic lions from western India, which were sampled from December 1998 to March 1999. Fifty-six Asiatic lions, including 17 hybrid lions (Afro-Asian crosses) from six captive centers in western India, were tested for antibodies against canine distemper virus (CDV), feline parvovirus (FPV), feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), and feline leukemia viral (FeLV) antigen. Agar gel immunodiffusion test and dot immunobinding assay were employed for CDV and FPV antibody detection. Commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits were used for FIV antibody and FeLV antigen detection. Forty-nine of 56 lions (87.5%) were positive for CDV. All 56 (100%) lions were positive for FPV antibodies. There were no detectable levels of FIV antibodies and FeLV antigens. It was observed that CDV and FPV, two viruses known to cause high mortality in captive carnivores, were widely prevalent in these captive Asiatic lions. It is suggested that these seropositive animals will have the potential to pose a risk of infection to other seronegative animals. Hence, it is imperative to carefully consider any movement, translocation, or reintroduction of these animals to new regions. It is also recommended that these animals be required to undergo standard quarantine and disease screening protocols. The lack of exposure to pathogens, such as FIV and FeLV, would also be a risk, and, hence, identification of reservoirs and screening of in-contact animals is highly recommended. Vaccinations must be considered, using killed or other suitable viral vaccines, which have been proved to be safe, effective, and efficacious in endangered felids.
41262621|Phenobarbital has been the primary antiepileptic drug used in primates, but the dosage required for seizure control is frequently associated with significant side effects. Newer antiepileptic drugs and adjunctive therapies currently being used in human medicine provide additional options for treatment of nonhuman primates. This report describes different drug regimes used for control of epileptic seizures in apes at the Milwaukee County Zoo (Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA), including the addition of acetazolamide to phnobarbital, levetiracetam, carbamazepine, and the use of extended cycle oral contraceptives to assist seizure control in female apes with catamenial epilepsy.
20460327|Five black-footed penguins (Spheniscus demersus) admitted to the Southern African Foundation for the Conservation of Coastal Birds, in Cape Town, South Africa, died from malaria infection. Evidence for malaria as the cause of death included antemortem clinical signs, parasitemia, splenomegaly, pulmonary edema, and the presence of histologically visible schizonts in the reticuloendothelial system. A portion of the malarial small subunit ribosomal ribonucleic acid gene was detected by polymerase chain reaction from postmortem blood samples from all the birds. A species-specific variable region of this gene was compared with the same region on genes from other known avian malarial organisms, establishing that Plasmodium juxtanucleare was involved.
20095043|Tuberculosis, caused by Mycobacterium bovis, was diagnosed in two of 19 Bactrian camels (Camelus bactrianus) in an established herd, based on pathologic findings and correlative postmortem cultures. From 1974 to 1984, tuberculosis was a concern because of positive reactions to intradermal tuberculins in many camels in the herd, but the disease was not diagnosed in 12 postmortem examinations. Following the diagnosis of tuberculosis in a 3-yr-old male camel, the remaining camels were tested with intradermal tuberculins with inconclusive results. An ELISA test indicated antibodies to M. kansasii, M. scrofulaceum, and M. bovis in all of the camels with positive intradermal tests. Of 13 camels tested by fused rocket immunoelectrophoresis, all had antibodies to antigens of four other atypical mycobacteria. These immunologic tests suggest that camels may frequently harbor different mycobacteria, thus explaining why false-positive tuberculin reactions are relatively common. Following a second confirmed case of M. bovis in an aged camel that was euthanized, the remaining 17 camels were treated with isoniazid (INH), which was incorporated into pelleted feed (2.4 mg/kg). Within 6 wk, three young camels died with purpuric hemorrhages and agranulocytosis attributed to INH-induced bone marrow toxicity. Attempts to minimize the INH toxicity with supplemental pyridoxine (vitamin B) failed, and three more camels died from bone marrow suppression-associated anemia and severe leukopenia. The remainder of the herd was euthanized because of the lack of reliable antemortem diagnostic tests for tuberculosis and the failure of the treatment with INH. Of 19 camels necropsied, M. avium was cultured from bronchial lymph nodes of one, and another had histologic lesions of resolving tuberculosis, but no acid-fast bacteria (AFB) were observed or isolated. The lesions seen in camels with tuberculosis differ from those of domestic ruminants in that grossly they appear sarcomatoid and histologically they form solid pyogranulomas with few giant cells and AFB are rarely evident.
27751774|Safe and efficacious anesthesia is required to facilitate biomedical procedures in pronghorn (Antilocapra americana). Two short-term anesthesia protocols were evaluated in 10 juvenile male pronghorn raised in captivity. Following i.m. medetomidine (0.1 mg/kg), pronghorn received either intravenous propofol (P) or ketamine (K). Behavioral and physiologic parameters were assessed for 15 min prior to atipamezole (0.2 mg/kg, i.m.) administration. Quantitative and qualitative values following both protocols were similar. Mean induction times were 80  23 and 75  15 sec after K and P, respectively. Arterial pressure decreased over time, and hypoxemia was evident (PaO2 51  4 mmHg) following both treatments.
20095098|The Iriomote cat (Felis iriomotensis) is an endangered wild felid that inhabits only Iriomote Island of Japan. Two pieces of skin tissue were surgically removed from Iriomote cats and cultured in vitro in an attempt to determine susceptibility to some pathogenic viruses of domestic cats and dogs. Fibroblastic cells were generated from the tissue and were subcultured satisfactorily seven times but not thereafter. Feline calicivirus, feline herpesvirus, feline panleukopenia virus, feline syncytial virus, Iriomote cat foamy virus, and canine coronavirus replicated in the cells, but feline leukemia virus and canine parvovirus did not. Although the results obtained in vitro do not always agree with in vivo virus susceptibility, they are considered to be of use for understanding viral diseases of Iriomote cats.
20096681|An approximately 1.5-yr-old free-ranging male Eurasian badger (Meles meles) from the eastern part of Austria had macroscopic and microscopic lesions consistent with canine distemper virus infection, including nonsuppurative meningoencephalitis, interstitial pneumonia with accumulation of macrophages in alveoli that contained intranuclear inclusion bodies, vesicular exanthema of the ventral abdomen, and atrophy of lymphoid tissues. Canine distemper virus-antigen was demonstrable in a variety of organs by using immunohistology. In addition, there were widespread areas of fibrosis in the myocardium that were rich in collagen and paucicellular. Because such changes are comparable with sequelae of the acute cardiac form of canine parvovirus (CPV) infection in dogs, it was speculated that this badger may have experienced CPV myocarditis as a cub but that the corresponding antigen or DNA was not detectable due to resolution of the disease.
20094919|Serum -tocopherol concentrations were determined in 29 adult raptors representing 11 species. All birds were fed an identical commercial diet supplemented with -tocopheryl acetate to supply 925 or 1,364 IU vitamin E/kg diet dry matter (DM). Serum -tocopherol concentrations ranged from 12.3 g/ml (cinereous vulture [Aegypius monachus]) to 848.8 g/ml (white-tailed sea eagle [Haliaeetus albicilla]). White-tailed sea eagles had significantly higher (P &lt 0.001) serum -tocopherol concentrations (x  SE = 670.8  94.6 g/ml; n = 4) than all other species examined (x  SE = 58.5  8.8 g/ml; n = 25). Supplemental -tocopheryl acetate was eliminated from the white-tailed sea eagles' diet, so the total diet contained 48 IU vitamin E/kg diet DM. Serum -tocopherol was monitored over 12 mo and decreased significantly (P &lt 0.001) to 44.8  9.0 g/ml in the sea eagles. The marked disparity of serum -tocopherol concentrations between white-tailed sea eagles and 10 other raptor species when fed the same diet may indicate a species difference in absorption, metabolism, distribution, storage, and/or excretion of dietary vitamin E by white-tailed sea eagles.
20095171|The left wing of a whooping crane (Grus americana) was amputated for treatment of severe nonunion and malunion fractures of the radius and ulna. During the postoperative convalescent period, the bird aspirated a corn kernel and subsequently suffered episodic bouts of dyspnea. The bird was anesthetized with tiletamine-zolazepam. Attempts to deliver the kernel through the glottis with endoscopic instruments were unsuccessful. The corn kernel was retrieved via a tracheotomy incision. Endoscopy of the trachea 2 mo postoperatively showed complete healing of the tracheal incision. Mucosal integrity had been reestablished, and tracheal lumen diameter was not compromised. The bird continues in good health 2.5 yr after surgery, shows no signs of respiratory disease, and currently is in a captive breeding program.
20096599|Cholesterol concentrations in captive gorillas and orangutans vary widely within species and average approximately 244 mg/dl for gorillas and 169 mg/dl for orangutans as published previously. The International Species Inventory System reports higher concentrations of 275 and 199 mg/dl for gorillas and orangutans, respectively. It is unknown whether these values were typical, influenced by captive management, or both. To answer this question, banked serum samples from free-ranging mountain gorillas (Gorilla beringei), western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla), and Bornean orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus) were analyzed for total cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations. Mountain gorillas did not differ significantly from free-ranging western lowland gorillas in cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, or low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations, indicating mountain gorilla values could be a model for western lowland gorillas. Captive gorilla total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were significantly higher (P &lt 0.05) than in free-ranging groups. Triglyceride concentrations for captive gorillas were significantly higher (P &lt 0.05) than the male mountain and western lowland gorillas, but they were not significantly different from the female mountain gorillas. Captive orangutan total cholesterol concentrations were only higher (P &lt 0.05) than the free-ranging female orangutans, whereas captive orangutan low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were significantly higher (P &lt 0.05) than both free-ranging male and female orangutans. Calculated and measured low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were compared for all free-ranging animals and were significantly different (P &lt 0.05) for all groups, indicating Friedewald's equation for calculating low-density lipoprotein cholesterol is not appropriate for use with nonfasted apes. The higher total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations in captive apes may predispose them to cardiovascular disease and might be attributed to diets, limited energy expenditure, and genetics.
20460575|An emaciated 2.36-kg juvenile green sea turtle, Chelonia mydas, was found floating off of Melbourne Beach, Florida, USA (2824"N, 803232"W). The turtle exhibited signs of cachexia, positive buoyancy, lethargy, and obstipation; was covered with barnacles; and was anorexic at the time of presentation. Dorsal-ventral radiographs with positive contrast confirmed obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract. Serum chemistry abnormalities reflected metabolic/nutritional deficiencies. Gastrointestinal prokinetics and oral/enema mineral oil applications were effective in relieving gastrointestinal obstruction with the turtle defecating a total of 74 foreign objects over a period of a month. After the removal of the foreign material, the turtle quickly regained normal behavior and health. The lack of blood parameters demonstrating infectionor or inflammation; the failure to respond to antibiotic and antifungal treatment as well as the parallel improvement in behavior and health after incremental evacuation of the plastic is highly suggestive of a cause and effect association.
20460504|Chemical immobilization of wildlife often includes opioids or cyclohexamines. These substances are problematic as a result of their required storage, handling, and record-keeping protocols. A potentially useful alternative sedation protocol includes a combination of butorphanol, azaperone, and medetomidine (BAM: 0.43 mg/kg butorphanol, 0.36 mg/kg azaperone, 0.14 mg/kg medetomidine). One risk of wildlife immobilization with any drug combination is hypoxemia. This may be of particular importance when using an alpha 2 agonist such as medetomidine because of its powerful vasoconstrictive effect. In this prospective study, the BAM combination was evaluated for chemical immobilization of white-tailed deer. Additionally, selected physiologic parameters associated with BAM immobilization, including oxygen saturation via pulse oximetry and arterial blood gas measurement, with and without nasal insufflation of oxygen at a relatively low flow of 3 L/min, were evaluated. The BAM combination resulted in a predictable onset of sedation, with a mean induction time to lateral recumbency of 9.8  3.6 min. All deer recovered smoothly within a range of 5-20 min after reversal with intramuscular administration of naltrexone, atipamazole, and tolazoline (NAT). Clinically relevant decreases in arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO) and oxygen saturation (SpO) were observed in animals not receiving supplemental oxygen, while both parameters significantly improved for oxygen-supplemented deer. Pulse oximetry with this protocol was an unreliable indicator of oxygen saturation. In this study, altitude, recumbency, hypoventilation, butorphanol- and medetomidine-specific effects, as well as the potential for alpha 2 agonist--induced pulmonary changes all may have contributed to the development of hypoxemia. Overall, capture of white-tailed deer with the BAM/NAT protocol resulted in excellent chemical immobilization and reversal. Because the BAM combination caused significant hypoxemia that is unreliably detected by pulse oximetry but that may be resolved with nasal oxygen insufflation, routine use of oxygen supplementation is recommended.
40665156|Oral necrobacillosis or lumpy jaw is a common cause of morbidity and mortality affecting captive macropods. This article describes several cases of a new treatment regimen using a sustained release chlorhexidine varnish applied locally to the teeth and the gingivae of two Macropus species, eastern grey kangaroos (Macropus gigantus) from Gan-Garoo Australian Park and a red-necked wallaby (Macropus rufogriseus fruticus) from The Tisch Family Zoological Gardens in Jerusalem. The varnish was applied using a horsehair paint brush as three 1-to 2-mm thick layers. The active ingredient in the varnish was the disinfectant chlorhexidine. Results indicated that use of an intraoral sustained release varnish significantly shortens the treatment time and may prevent recurrence.
20096523|Sharks are important exhibit animals in aquariums and zoologic institutions worldwide. Although veterinarians are encountering these species more frequently in these institutions, our knowledge regarding safe restraint and anesthesia is limited. To date there have been only a few anecdotal reports or studies evaluating the effects of tricaine methane sulfonate (MS-222), ketamine hydrochloride, and tiletamine and zolazepam (Telazol) in sharks. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical and cardiorespiratory effects of propofol in spotted bamboo sharks (Chylloscyllium plagiosum). Nine wild-caught adult female spotted bamboo sharks (mean weight 2.4 kg  SD 1.45 kg) were used in this study. Propofol (2.5 mg/kg) was administered over 30 sec via the caudal tail vein. Heart rate, respiratory rate, time to relaxation, escape response, loss of righting reflex, and response to noxious stimuli (fin pinch) were evaluated and recorded at baseline and 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, 60, and 75 min after propofol administration. A surgical plane of anesthesia was achieved when the shark lost its righting reflex, did not respond to noxious painful stimuli, and no longer resisted handling. The righting reflex was lost within 5 min of propofol administration, and a surgical plane of anesthesia was observed in all nine sharks. Heart rate (P = 0.5) and respiratory rate (P = 0.5) did not change significantly over time. The righting response returned within 60 min in 44% (4/9) of the sharks, 75 min in 22% (2/9) of the sharks, and over 200 min in 33% (3/9) of the sharks. All nine animals recovered uneventfully. Propofol provided a safe anesthetic event for spotted bamboo sharks.
41262579|Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) is a pandemic virus that has caused mortality in numerous captive wildlife species worldwide. An experimental killed vaccine was created from two EMCV isolates associated with zoo animal mortality in the southern United States. The vaccine was tested for safety and efficacy in eleven llamas (Llama glama). All animals received an initial vaccination and a second booster vaccination 4 wk later. Serum antibody responses were monitored at initial vaccination and at 4 wks, 8 wk, 6 mo, and 12 mo postvaccination. Eight of the 11 llamas vaccinated experienced at least a 4-fold increase in serum antibody titer s to EMCV. Antibody titers of those eight animals remained elevated above prevaccination levels when measured at 12 mo. The experimental killed EMCV vaccine tested may be a useful tool to prevent EMCV infection in llamas when given in 2 doses 4 wk apart, and then revaccinated or with antibody levels monitored annually thereafter.
20095632|Circulating concentrations of -tocopherol, -carotene, and lipids were quantified in 19 Przewalski horses (Equus przewalskii) inhabiting the steppes of Ukraine during June 1991. Foals (n = 3) had lower mean plasma -tocopherol (4.7 g/ml) and -carotene (0.3 g/ml) levels than did adults (n = 16; 6.6 and 0.7 g/ml, respectively) and higher mean cholesterol concentrations (1.42 vs. 0.98 mg/ml). Mean triglyceride levels did not differ between foals and adults (0.46 mg/ml). Alpha tocopherol concentrations were substantially higher than those considered normal for domestic and zoo equids, but -carotene, cholesterol, and triglyceride levels were within expected ranges. These limited data suggest excellent circulating vitamin E concentrations in these horses and may provide useful comparative guidelines for assessment of fat-soluble nutrient concentrations and establishment of optimal dietary management of Przewalski horses.
20096607|Surgical tubal ligation was used to sterilize urban free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) as a methodology of a larger study investigating the influences of intact, sterile females on population dynamics and behavior. Deer were either trapped in clover traps (n = 55) and induced with an i.m. injection of xylazine and tiletamine/zolazepam or induced by a similar protocol by dart (n = 12), then intubated and maintained on isoflurane in oxygen. Over 3 yr, individual female deer (n = 103) were captured in Highland Park, Illinois, with a subset of females sterilized using tubal ligation by ventral laparotomy (n = 63). Other sterilization procedures included tubal transection by ventral (n = 1) or right lateral (n = 2) laparoscopy and ovariohysterectomy by ventral laparotomy (n = 1). One mortality (1/67, 1.5%) of a doe with an advanced pregnancy was attributed to a lengthy right lateral laparoscopic surgery that was converted to a right lateral laparotomy. The initial surgical modality of laparoscopy was altered in favor of a ventral laparotomy for simplification of the project and improved surgical access in late-term gravid does. Laparotomy techniques included oviductal ligation and transection (n = 14), application of an oviductal mechanical clip (n = 9), ligation and partial salpingectomy (n = 40), and ovariohysterectomy (n = 1). As of 2 yr poststerilization, no surgical does were observed with fawns, indicating that these procedures provide sterilization with low mortality in urban white-tailed deer.
20460334|A 19-yr-old female lynx (Lynx canadensis) presented for an acute onset of anorexia and reluctance to move. Physical examination, radiography, hematology, and serum biochemistry revealed evidence of renal failure, presumptive uremic gastritis, chronic intervertebral disk disease at T13-L1, and markedly low serum levels of total thyroxine (1.54 nmol/L) and total triiodothyronine (0.55 nmol/L). Twenty-five hours after its original presentation, the lynx exhibited horizontal nystagmus, which has been suggested as a clinical sign associated with hypothyroidism in domestic dogs. The lynx was euthanatized because of poor prognosis, and medical management concerns related to its chronic renal failure. Necropsy examination substantiated that the lynx had true hypothyroidism with 60-90% of the thyroid gland replaced with adipose tissue. Although feline adult-onset hypothyroidism may have low incidence, it should still be considered as a cause of nonspecific signs of disease in cats, as well as signs suggestive of hypothyroidism. Routine monitoring of baseline exotic felid thyroid levels throughout life would help to identify normal values and diagnose a potential disease that has obscure clinical signs.
20095540|A retrospective study of neoplasia in a collection of snakes was conducted due to the large number of neoplasms observed in 1991. Individual snake necropsies, medical records, and inventory records at the Sacramento Zoo were reviewed for the period 1 July 1981-30 June 1991. Twenty-nine neoplasms were diagnosed in 20 individual snakes. Nineteen neoplasms were of epithelial origin, and 10 were of mesenchymal origin. Twenty-two (76%) neoplasms were considered malignant, and five neoplasms had metastases. Seven of 10 mesenchymal neoplasms were poorly differentiated spindle cell sarcomas. Five snakes had multiple types of neoplasms. Thirteen neoplasms were detected clinically and diagnosed antemortem. The annual rate of neoplasia for the population ranged from 0% to 14.1% and increased dramatically from 1988 to 1991. No specific type of neoplasm was more prevalent during this increase. The annual rate of neoplasia at necropsy ranged from 0% to 70% and was 23.1% for the 10-yr study period.
20096228|The identification of three Arizona ridgenose rattlesnakes (Crotalus willardi) with Salmonella arizonae-associated osteomyelitis led to a 5-yr prospective study of radiographic signs and Salmonella intestinal carriage rates in a 19-member colony of this rattlesnake species. Ventrodorsal radiographs were performed and cloacal swabs were cultured for Salmonella spp. annually. Ten snakes survived the 5-yr period, with six of them remaining free of bony lesions. Three snakes that had no bony lesions in 1995 developed radiographic signs of osteomyelitis during the study. Six snakes with bony lesions at the beginning of the study died or were euthanatized due to osteomyelitis during the study. The radiographic signs of osteomyelitis were progressive for five snakes that were serially radiographed. Only one snake with radiographic signs of osteomyelitis at the beginning of the study was still alive at the end of the study, and this animal's bony lesions were more extensive at the end. Thirty-nine intestinal S. arizonae isolates, representing 13 serotypes, were obtained from the 19 snakes. Salmonella arizonae serotype 56:Z4,Z23 was isolated only once from a cloacal culture, from a snake that had no radiographic bone lesions. Twelve extraintestinal Salmonella isolates, representing two serotypes, were isolated from six snakes. All extraintestinal isolates except one were of S. arizonae serotype 56:Z4,Z23, and all isolates from bone were of this serotype. One snake with characteristic bone lesions died, and Providencia rettgeri was cultured from each of the tissues cultured, whereas no Salmonella spp. were isolated from this snake. Salmonella arizonae serotype 56:Z4,Z24 appears to have a tropism for bone and other extraintestinal sites in C. willardi and may cause a progressive, ultimately fatal disease in this species.
20095788|A 14-page comprehensive survey was mailed to all 565 United States members of the American Association of Zoo Veterinarians to identify the frequency of physical injuries, radiation exposures, chemical exposures, allergic or irritant reactions, infections, and use of preventive measures, and 315 (55.8%) veterinarians responded. Significant findings include major animal-related injury (61.5%), back injury (55%), necropsy injury (44.1%), adverse formalin exposure (40.2%), animal allergy (32.2%), zoonotic infection (30.2%), and insect allergy (14.2%). We also found that gender, length of experience, and practice type affected the number and type of incidents encountered in practice. Females reported a higher rate of zoonotic infection, insect allergy, and adverse exposure to anesthetic gas, formalin, and disinfectants/sterilants. Zoo veterinarians with more years of experience were more likely to receive major animal-related injury and associated hospitalization, back injury, and lost work time associated with back injury. Full-time zoo veterinarians were more likely to report back injury and inadequate knowledge of occupational hazards. Results are compared with hazards reported by veterinarians working in other fields. The frequency of injuries reported demonstrates a greater need for comprehensive health and safety programs for zoo veterinarians.
20096042|Six out of seven cuttlefish acquired by the Smithsonian National Zoological Park in July 1998 died before 1 November 1998. Postmortem examinations showed mantle ulcers, secondary bacterial infections, inanition, and cuttlebone fractures. The surviving cuttlefish developed a progressive focal mantle ulcer, was treated with oral chloramphenicol intermittently for 9 wk, and maintained a normal appetite and growth rate until death at 7 mo of age. The National Zoological Park pathology database showed signalments, histories, and causes of mortality of 186 common cuttlefish, each 1-14 mo old, that received gross and histologic examinations; for example, the largest group of cuttlefish of known sex, age, and body weight at postmortem were 7-9 mo old and weighed an average of 376.2 g (males, n = 18) and 299.0 g (females, n = 15). Many cuttlefish had multiple pathologic diagnoses. Significant diseases included inflammation and secondary bacterial infections, especially gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, respiratory, reproductive, and ophthalmic, and septicemia due to Vibrio spp. or other gram-negative bacteria. Mantle lesions, including ulceration/dermatitis, abscess/granuloma, necrosis/fibrosis/cellulitis, and laceration/abrasion/erosion, were also identified, along with inanition, cuttlebone lesions, and trauma. Mantle lesions were associated with secondary bacterial infections and death. On the basis of this information, if captive cuttlefish behavior creates risk for development of mantle lesions, administration of antibiotics effective against gram-negative bacteria may delay or halt disease progression. Cuttlefish exhibits require proper design, husbandry, economic resources, and staffing to minimize disease syndromes and mortality.
41417181|Disseminated infection with Histoplasma capsulatum was diagnosed in a 7-yr-old female Bengal tiger (Panthern tigris). Clinical signs were nonspecific with the exception of brief periods of tachypnea for 5 days prior to death. H. capsulatum organisms were found in the lungs, tracheobronchial lymph nodes, and liver. Diagnosis was confirmed by tracheal wash, urine H. capsulatum enzyme immunoassay, and necropsy results. This report represents the first published account of disseminated histoplasmosis in a tiger.
20460317|A young adult male free-ranging cougar (Felis concolor) was removed from a college campus in Sacramento, California. Blood samples taken shortly after capture revealed it to be anemic, lymphopenic, suffering from renal disease, and feline leukemia virus (FeLV) antibody positive. The animal was euthanized. On postmortem examination, generalized lymphadenopathy and lymphoproliferative disease were noted. FeLV was isolated in cell culture and demonstrated within lymph nodes and salivary glands by immunohistochemistry. Bilateral subacute tubulointerstitial nephritis was also noted, and silver staining revealed spirochetes. This is the first case report of FeLV infection of a free-ranging wild felid in North America.
20095274|A survey of terrestrial vertebrate translocations, 1973-1986, from Australia, Canada, New Zeland, and the USA was analyzed to determine the geographical distribution and relative frequency of translocation methods that had disease transmission implications. Contemporary translocations likely exceed 700 per year. More than 50% of surveyed agencies translocated some species each year. On average, 26% of translocations released captive-reared animals, 29% of releases were to areas on the periphery or outside of historic species ranges, only 32% were soft releases that provided opportunity for postrelease monitoring, and, in 24% of translocations, there was no professional examination of animals for parasites, disease, or injury prior to release. There were differences among countries and among regions in the USA in these characteristics of translocations but no differences among countries or regions in translocation success. Adequate assessment of the effect of disease on translocation success will require multivariate analyses. These analyses will require more complete documentation of disease-related properties of translocations than is currently available.
20096041|Two juvenile Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) presented with an acute onset of facial edema and lethargy. Examination of the oral cavity of each animal revealed cyanosis of the tip and distal margins of the tongue suggestive of endothelial inclusion body disease (EIBD) of elephants. Whole-blood samples were obtained, and polymerase chain reaction tests confirmed the presence of elephant herpesvirus. The animals were administered famciclovir (Famvir, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101, USA), a potent human anti-herpesvirus drug, in the course of their disease, and recovery followed a treatment regime of 3-4 wk. These are the first known cases of elephants surviving EIBD.
20095050|The finding of thickened atrioventricular valves in the heart of a neonate Florida manatee (Trichechus manatus latirostris) prompted a retrospective study of 26 previously collected manatee hearts. Eight of 26 hearts had valvular thickenings on gross examination. Microscopically, the thickenings were the result of excessive numbers of fibroblasts embedded in a mucopolysaccharide-rich matrix within the spongiosa layer of the valvular leaflets. Ultrastructurally, the thickened valve leaflets of one manatee heart showed active mesenchymal cells surrounded by ground substance and collagen fibrils. The morphologic findings closely resembled a similar condition of valves found in older dogs and humans. Unlike the condition in dogs and humans, the valvular condition in manatees is considered incidental.
20096513|Bolivia has a total of 47 species of Psittacidae, seven of which have been identified in our study site, the semiarid Gran Chaco of the Isoso. One species, the blue-fronted parrot (Amazona aestiva), is frequently captured by local Isoseo Guaran Indians for exploitation on the national and international market. These birds are often temporarily housed in small villages under unhygienic conditions with poultry and other domestic species. On occasion, these parrots escape back to the wild. Additionally, many of these birds are kept as pets or are used to lure wild parrots within slingshot range for subsequent capture. In this study, we evaluated the health status, including the level of exposure to selected infectious agents, in the wild-caught captive birds and free-ranging birds. Physical examinations were performed, and blood was collected, from 54 live birds (20 captive and 34 free-ranging). Feces were collected from 15 birds (seven captive and eight free-ranging). Necropsies were also performed on four recently dead wildcaught birds. On serologic testing, no birds were found to have antibodies to avian influenza virus, Chlamydophila psittaci, infectious bronchitis virus, infectious bursal disease virus, infectious laryngotracheitis virus, Marek's disease virus, paramyxovirus-1, paramyxovirus-2, paramyxovirus-3, polyomavirus, eastern equine encephalitis virus, western equine encephalitis virus, or Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus. Positive antibody titers were found for psittacine herpesvirus (8/44, 18.2%), Aspergillus spp. (3/51, 5.9%), and Salmonella pullorum (33/49, 67.3%). All three of the birds that tested antibody positive for Aspergillus spp. were captive, whereas six of the eight and 15 of the 33 birds that tested positive for psittacine herpesvirus and S. pullorum, respectively, were wild.
20460426|Arterial and venous blood-gas and acid-base values were established from a herd (n = 19; 14 male, 5 female) of semi-free-ranging Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) in the United Arab Emirates. The animals were restrained with the use of a modified raceway incorporating a commercially available handling crate. Statistically significant differences were found between arterial and venous values for PO (p &lt; 0.001), PCO (p = 0.0141), SO (p &lt; 0.001), pH (p = 0.0494), and glucose (p &lt; 0.0001). The results are similar to those reported for the same species under field anesthetic conditions, and to those reported from other species of wild bovidae, both tranquilized and nontranquilized, established under similar methods of restraint. In addition, Bland and Altman plots suggest adequate levels of clinical agreement between venous and arterial pH but not between arterial and venous PCO.
20096119|Although Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis infection has had its greatest effect on domestic agricultural animal species, it can also have a significant impact on wildlife species. More cases of infection are being reported, and because of its ability to elude immunologic control and to persist in the environment, M. paratuberculosis may spread within and among captive and free-ranging wildlife populations in the absence of organized control programs. Studies to improve our ability to detect the organism in biologic samples such as milk, blood, and manure through immunomagnetic separation, automated culture methods, and improved polymerase chain reaction procedures are underway in several countries. Studies of the organism's genetic components, virulence factors, and antigens support the development of new diagnostic tools and vaccines.
20079490|Eleven juvenile Burmese pythons (Python molurus bivittatus) weighing 0.75-1.75 kg were randomly divided into two groups. Blood samples were obtained through surgically placed anterior carotid artery cannulas. Six pythons received a single i.m. injection of enrofloxacin at 5 mg/kg. Blood samples were obtained at 0.5, 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hr postinjection. A mean (SD) maximal plasma concentration of 1.66 (0.42) g/ml was measured at 5.75 hr postinjection. The harmonic mean half-life was calculated to be 6.37 hr. The second group of five snakes received enrofloxacin at 5 mg/kg i.m. s.i.d. for 5 days. Blood was collected immediately before each injection and at 6 hr after each injection. Over the 5-day period, there was a stepwise increase in mean trough plasma concentrations of enrofloxacin. Clinically effective peak plasma enrofloxacin concentrations were attained after the first injection but did not significantly increase during the sampling period. Pharmacokinetic data were assessed against minimum inhibitory concentrations of enrofloxacin for Pseudomonas spp. isolates in snakes obtained from historical data at the Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital, University of Florida. Enrofloxacin should be administered at 10 mg/kg i.m. every 48 hr when treating Pseudomonas spp. infections in juvenile Burmese pythons. Treatment of infections of more enrofloxacin-sensitive gram-negative bacteria could be achieved with the administration of an initial i.m. dose of 10 mg/kg followed by 5 mg/kg every 48 hr.
20096532|A 4-yr-old female golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia) had placental retention after delivery of a stillborn fetus. Conservative therapy with oxytocin and dinoprost tromethamine did not result in placental expulsion and ovariohysterectomy was performed. Placental retention is a rare condition in humans and has not been well documented in non-human primates.
20095284|Outbreaks of infectious disease can ruin conservation programs. In order to minimize catastrophic disease outbreaks, it is important to understand the dynamic relationship between populations of threatened hosts and their parasites. The dynamics of the host--parasite relationship are ineluctably linked to host-population density. Intensive conservation management programs are often characterized by small population size. In small host populations, the dynamics of host--parasite relationships are particularly fragile and disease outbreaks will tend to die out rapidly. The most significant disease risks for intensive management programs will probably occur when hosts are chronically stressed, when they are exposed to novel pathogens, and when herd immunity is lost. Biologically diverse parasites will never be entirely eliminated from intensively managed wild-life. Rather, one of the great challenges facing conservation biologists is to learn how to manage the natural and healthy relationship between parasites and their hosts. The population dynamics of host--parasite relationships must be integrated into species survival and recovery plans.
20095721|A fibrosarcoma of periosteal origin was identified in the oral cavity of a 22-yr-old male captive Siamese crocodile (Crocodylus siamensis). The diagnosis was based upon the gross and light microscopical examination. The mesenchymal histogenesis was derived from the capability of the cells to produce collagen fibers. The invasive growth and the polymorphous cells in combination with the low mitotic index suggest a low-order malignancy. Attempts by immunohistochemical staining techniques to identify the specific lineage of the neoplastic cells and the expressed collagen type were unsuccessful.
20460367|An adult, male, captive lined seahorse (Hippocampus erectus) was presented with weight loss, anorexia, and brood pouch distention. Initial treatments included manual expression of the brood pouch followed by saline flushes and enrofloxacin infusions. Radiographs and physical examination identified a nodular swelling in the brood pouch wall. The mass was excised, but the seahorse died. Necropsy and histopathology revealed a malignant mesenchymal tumor with a collagenous stroma, and a brood pouch fibrosarcoma was diagnosed.
20095306|Electroejaculates were collected from chital deer (Axis axis) and frozen in pellets (0.1 ml/pellet) on dry ice after extension with either Triladyl or a Tris-egg-yolk-citrate extender. The semen was thawed in a 36C water bath for 1 min and evaluated for percentage sperm motility and rate of forward progression immediately after thawing and at 2 hr. The Triladyl-extended semen had significantly greater motility immediately after thawing, but after incubation the Tris-egg-yolk-citrate-extended semen showed a significantly higher proportion of motile sperm.
20096283|A 12-yr-old mountain lion (Felis concolor) developed a 0.5-cm raised nonpigmented and nonulcerated mass between the lip and the nasal planum. The tumor was surgically removed and diagnosed histologically as a fibropapilloma. The tumor recurred 1 yr later, at which time it was again excised, and the diagnosis was reconfirmed by biopsy. Frozen tissue from the second excision was submitted for polymerase chain reaction testing for papillomavirus. The 176--base pair polymerase chain reaction product recovered from the tumor was cloned and sequenced. The papillomavirus had 96% homology with a papillomavirus previously retrieved from a fibropapilloma in a domestic cat and is the next most closely related to bovine papillomavirus type 1. This is the first report of a virus-associated fibropapilloma in a mountain lion.
20096557|Manual restraint and jugular venipuncture were used to obtain blood for hematology and coagulation tests for 18 captive Speke's gazelles (Gazella spekei). The hematocrit and hemoglobin values were slightly higher in Speke's gazelles than in domestic ruminants. The Speke's gazelles had a mean prothrombin time of 15.1 sec and a mean activated partial thromboplastin time of 24.2 sec. The pregnant female Speke's gazelles had shorter activated partial thromboplastin times than the males, but the differences was not significant. Ideally, prothrombin times and activated partial thromboplastin times would be compared to a healthy conspecific during a suspected bleeding crisis. Baseline prothrombin and activated partial thromboplastin times are presented here for Speke's gazelles because clotting times for exotic hoofstock are quite limited.
20096393|A mass was removed from the left flank of a 10-yr-old male king cobra (Ophiophagus hannah), and histologic examination revealed granulomatous dermatitis with intralesional gram-positive cocci and filamentous bacteria. Fourteen months later, a histologically similar subcutaneous mass was removed from a different site. One year later, a large subcutaneous mass at the first surgical site was removed, and histopathologic examination revealed multiloculated granulomas with intralesional gram-positive cocci. An organism was cultured and identified by 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing as Dermatophilus chelonae. After a course of antibiotic therapy, no further lesions were seen for 5 mo.
20095017|This study examined selected anatomical features of sea otters (Enhydra lutris), using computer tomography, radiography, and dissection. Five animals were dissected emphasizing visceral and circulatory anatomy. Although the anatomy of the sea otter most closely paralleled terrestrial carnivores, some distinctions were noted. The thyroid of the otter was a paired rather than a singular organ. The thymus persisted and was more prominent in older animals than expected. There was considerable variability in the pulmonary and coronary vasculature of the sea otter, with anastomoses between the left circumflex and right coronary arteries observed in some animals. All five animals in this study received interventricular supply from the left coronary artery. Adaptations to the great vessels seen in pinnipeds and cetaceans were not present. The stomach of the sea otter resembled that of a pinniped, but the lack of a cecum and the arteries that would normally supply it was more reminiscent of cetaceans. The sea otter kidney was reniculated with ureters leaving the ventral aspect caudal to the hilus, similar to cetaceans and some phocid seals. A sternal depression found in the adult otters was suggestive of an acquired pectus excavatum.
20096422|An adult American crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) from Virginia, USA, was diagnosed with combined infection of avian poxvirus and the skin fluke Collyriclum faba. The flukes and viral inclusions were combined in a large (4  4 cm) multilobulated proliferative mass on the ventrum just cranial to the cloaca. The flukes were identified using light microscopy of organisms obtained by antemortem wedge biopsy. Intraepithelial cytoplasmic inclusions consistent with poxvirus infection were seen on histopathologic examination of the mass.
20096286|A 10-mo-old female eland (Taurotragus oryx) at the Wilds exhibited recalcitrant, progressive unilateral uveitis for a 5-wk period, despite constant medical treatment. Unilateral enucleation was performed because of blindness and animal discomfort evidenced by continuous blepharospasm. Histopathologic examination of the eye demonstrated intraocular larvae morphologically consistent with Parelaphostrongylus tenuis, the first known case of intraocular P. tenuis migration. This animal subsequently was euthanatized because of severe, nonresponsive neurologic signs associated with P. tenuis infection.
20095710|Eimeria gruis and E. reichenowi are common coccidial parasites of a number of crane species. In the present study, monoclonal antibodies (McAbs), elicited against Eimeria spp. of chickens and turkeys, cross-reacted with sporozoites and developmental stages of E. gruis in the tissues of Florida sandhill cranes. These McAbs were used to define the area of the intestine that was invaded by sporozoites of E. gruis and to demonstrate the feasibility of using McAbs to study the early development of E. gruis in the intestines and visceral organs of cranes. At 6 hr postinoculation (PI), E. gruis sporozoites were found primarily from just proximal to Meckle's diverticulum in the jejunum to the ileocecal juncture. Fewer sporozoites were found in the ceca and rectum, and none were found in the duodenum. Most of the sporozoites were in the middle third of the villi and within the lamina propria. At 14 days PI, developmental stages were detected in the ceca, jejunum, liver, and lungs but not in the heart, kidney, or brain. In the ceca and jejunum, the number, location, and maturity of the stages differed markedly.
20096212|This study monitored fecal cortisol and corticosterone levels in 14 black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) and in seven white rhinoceroses (Certotherium simum) under various conditions of captivity, including translocation. Free cortisol and free corticosterone were measured in methylene chloride extracts of feces, using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The extraction-assay method was validated for quantitative measurement of these hormones by mass spectroscopy analysis, chemical derivitization, and radiolabel tracking and recovery. Both cortisol and corticosterone were extractable from feces and routinely detectable by HPLC. In three nonstressed, captivity-adapted white rhinoceroses monitored across 21 days of routine activity, fecal cortisol ranged from 2.0 to 7.3 ng/g dry feces and corticosterone from 4.0 to 10.8 ng/g dry feces, with no observable trend. Matched plasma, urine, and fecal samples in these rhinoceroses yielded corticosterone:cortisol ratios of 2.0:1.0, 2.7:1.0, and 2.2:1.0, respectively. Both black rhinoceroses (n = 5) and white rhinoceroses (n = 4) exhibited higher fecal cortisol (6.9- to 10.0-fold) and corticosterone (3.2- to 4.5-fold) levels in association with restraint-translocation than in limited free-roaming conditions. In five black rhinoceroses monitored across 6 wk after release from translocation, fecal levels of both cortisol and corticosterone decreased significantly between week 1 and weeks 4-6. In general, cortisol and corticosterone paralled each other, with cortisol exhibiting a greater range of response. Measurement of either hormone in feces appears to be reliable for adrenal axis monitoring in the white and the black rhinoceroses.
20095042|Four female and five male mixed-breed domestic adult goats (Capra capra), weighing 36.5  12.4 kg (mean  SD), were used to determine the comparative cardiovascular effects of i.v. etorphine (20 g/kg) and carfentanil (20 g/kg). The effects of etorphine and carfentanil on heart rate, respiration rate, and systolic, mean, and diastolic blood pressures were not significantly different (P &lt 0.05) from each other. Although both drugs appeared to decrease heart rate, this effect was not statistically significant. Etorphine and carfentanil produced significant elevations in systolic, mean, and diastolic systemic arterial pressures, with peak effects at 2.5 min (etorphine systolic blood pressure [SBP] = 164  26 mm Hg, carfentanil SBP = 166  26 mm Hg). Blood pressures slowly declined over the recording period but were still significantly elevated at 120 min (etorphine SBP = 135  12 mm Hg, carfentanil SBP = 139  10 mm Hg). Both drugs also produced significant bradypnea, with maximum depression occurring at 2.5 min (etorphine 13  3 breaths/min, carfentanil 13  4 breaths/min). Carfentanil-treated goats remained behaviorally abnormal for up to 8 hr, in contrast to the etorphine-treated goats, which were able to walk at 4 hr.
40665076|From September 2000 to January 2002, a serologic survey was conducted in a population of freeranging Brazilian tapirs {Tapirus terrestris) inhabiting Emas National Park and surrounding areas in Gois state, central Brazil, as part of an ecologic study. Ten tapirs were immobilized with a tiletamine-zolazepam combination, and blood samples were collected. All sera were negative for Leptospira spp., Brucella abortus, and equine infectious anemia; and one of 10 animals was positive for Toxoplasma gondii. This report represents the first serologic survey for selected infectious diseases in a free-ranging population of Brazilians tapirs in central Brazil.
20096480|A study of 10 clinical pathology values in four groups of Andean flamingo chicks (Phoenicoparrus andinus) was conducted to evaluate an artificial feeding program in Chile. Three groups were fed controlled diets (groups 2000, 2001, and 2002) with quantitative differences in their nutritional content. A fourth group of free-living Andean flamingo chicks was used as normal controls. Nutritional management techniques used in 2002 resulted in hematologic values with similar levels of total protein, globulins, albumin, cholesterol, urea, phosphorus, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), creatinine, and calcium to those obtained in free-living chicks. In addition, final weight, physical condition, and plumage in flamingo chicks of group 2002 were considered satisfactory to face local climatic conditions and nomadic activity. These results may be useful as reference values and help to improve conservation management and veterinary care of this species.
20095995|Enterotoxigenic Clostridium perfringens was associated with diarrhea in a 4-yr-old female captive-bred red-footed tortoise (Geochelone carbonaria). Diagnosis was based on bacterial culture, detection of C. perfringens enterotoxin in feces, and exclusion of commonly recognized pathogens. After treatment with metronidazole, normal feces were passed and C. perfringens enterotoxin was no longer detected in the feces. Although the role of C. perfringens cannot be determined definitively from this case, this pathogen should be considered in cases of diarrhea in tortoises and, perhaps, other reptiles.
20095638|Fungal infections due to Cryptococcus neoformans occurred in seven short-eared elephant shrews (Macroscelides proboscides), six large tree shrews (Tupaia tana), and five lesser tree shrews (Tupaia minor) at the National Zoological Park during a 30-mo period in 1991-1993. Clinical signs were absent or included weight loss, shivering, dyspnea, and/or neurologic disease. Definitive antemortem diagnostic techniques included tracheal lavage and serum cryptococcal antigen latex agglutination titers. Thirteen cases were diagnosed solely by postmortem examination. The source of infection for these animals was uncertain, but C. neoformans is commonly found in soil and other organic material. Two lesser tree shrews and one large tree shrew received antifungal therapy and converted to a negative serum cryptococcal antigen titer.
20096499|A 6-yr-old female leopard (Panthera pardus) was evaluated for a history of chronic obstipation of 4-mo duration. Radiographic, ultrasonographic, and computed tomographic evaluation revealed an intrapelvic mass that was compressing the distal colon. Because of the difficulties of postsurgical management of this animal, the owner requested euthanasia. On postmortem examination, a mass measuring 3 times 5 times 10 cm was found arising from the body of the uterus. Histopathologic evaluation of the mass revealed a leiomyoma of the uterus. This case report documents the presence of a uterine tumor in a large felid that resulted in constipation and obstipation. Additionally, the value and limitations of the imaging modalities used to provide diagnostic, prognostic, and treatment options are discussed.
41262624|Two of three captive adult African ostriches exhibited inappetance and weakness. In spite of treatment, the two birds were euthanized because of lack of clinical improvement. Postmortem examination demonstrated exocrine pancreatic degeneration, necrosis, and atrophy. Grossly, one ostrich had a markedly diminished pancreatic mass. Histologically, there was massive pancreatic acinar (exocrine) atrophy, marked interstitial fibrosis, and tubular complex formation in one animal, and the second ostrich had active pancreatic acinar necrosis. Toxicologie testing revealed markedly elevated liver zinc levels in the first two birds, whereas the third ostrich had normal serum levels of zinc and continues without apparent disease. This form of zinc toxicosis, while previously reported in different avian species, has been only rarely described in ratites.
20096644|Bacteriological examination of 70 nesting green turtles (Chelonia mydas) from Tortuguero National Park, Costa Rica was performed to investigate nasal and cloacal aerobic bacteria. A total of 325 bacterial isolates were obtained, including 10 Gram-negative and three Gram-positive genera. Two hundred thirty-nine were Gram-negative and 86 were Gram-positive isolates. Klebsiella pneumoniae was the most common microbe identified in turtle samples: 27/70 (38.5%) in cloacal, and 33/70 (47.1%) in nasal samples. The Enterobacteriaceae family, including Enterobacter agglomerans, E. cloacae, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, K. pneumoniae, and Serratia marcescens, was the largest Gram-negative group of bacteria recovered and comprised 127 of 239 (53.1%) of the Gram-negative isolates. Staphylococcus species was the largest Gram-positive bacteria group, including S. aureus, S. cromogenes, S. epidermis, and S. intermedius, and made up 63 of 86 (73.2%) of the Gram-positive isolates recovered. The results of this study demonstrate that the aerobic bacterial flora of nesting green turtles at Tortuguero National Park is composed of a very wide spectrum of bacteria, including several potential pathogens.
20095525|In 1987, an epizootic in cranes at the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, Laurel, Maryland, USA, caused illness in 80% of 300 captive whooping cranes (Grus americana) and sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) and death of 15 of these cranes. Gross pathology findings were inconclusive and consisted of dehydration, atrophy of fat, renal insufficiency, and small spleens. Extensive testing resulted in isolation of Fusarium sp. mold from constituents of the grain-based diet. Low levels of two mycotoxins, T (1-2 ppm) and deoxynivalenol (0.4 ppm), were isolated from the pelleted feed.
20460296|Hematologic and selected plasma chemistry values were determined for the prehensile-tailed skink (Corucia zebrata). The heterophil has an unlobed nucleus in contrast to other skink species that reportedly have heterophils with segmented nuclei. Glucose, calcium, sodium, and chloride levels were higher than values reported for other reptiles with similar dietary habits. Other parameter values were consistent with those reported for other reptilian species.
20460478|The European mink, Mustela lutreola, has suffered a dramatic decline in Europe during the 20th century and is one of the most endangered carnivores in the world. The subpopulation of European mink from Navarra, Spain, estimated to number approximately 420, represents approximately two thirds of the total number of mink in Spain. Aleutian Disease Virus (ADV) is a parvovirus with a high degree of variability that can infect a broad range of mustelid hosts. The pathogenesis of this virus in small carnivores is variable and can be influenced by both host factors (e.g., species, American mink genotype, and immune status) and viral strain. A cross-sectional study was conducted during the pre-reproductive period of February-March 2004 and 2005 and the postreproductive period of September-December 2004. Mink were intensively trapped along seven rivers that were representative of the European mink habitat in Navarra. Antibody counter immunoelectrophoresis against ADV was performed on 84 European mink blood samples. All the samples were negative. Protein electrophoresis was performed on 93 plasma samples. Nine of those samples (9.6%) had gamma globulin levels exceeding 20% of the total plasma protein. Complete necropsies were performed on 23 cadavers of European mink collected in the area between 2000 and 2005. Seventeen of the mink (74%) had traumatic and hemorrhagic lesions compatible with vehicular impact injuries. Although there were no histopathologic lesions associated with ADV, this study documents the first description of a naturally occurring canine distemper virus infection in a European mink. In addition, pulmonary adiaspiromycosis in three European mink from Spain was reported.
20096496|A 6-yr-old maned wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus) was diagnosed with an extraosseous osteosarcoma on the lateral aspect of the right thigh. Antemortem radiography revealed a calcified mass with no skeletal involvement. The mass was excised, but visible regrowth of the tumor was evident within 5 wk. Histologic examination and immunohistochemistry, including staining for p53 tumor suppression gene protein, were performed on the excised mass. The maned wolf was euthanized 13 wk after the initial diagnosis. The neoplasm was located in a site commonly used for the delivery of intramuscular injections, including vaccinations. Although no definitive association can be made, it is worth noting this relationship, as vaccine-site neoplasias have been observed in other species, most notably the domestic cat (Felis domesticus).
20095833|Corrective surgery on a 1.5-yr-old male polar bear (Ursus maritimus) with hypospadias included amputation of the vestigial penis, bilateral orchiectomy with scrotal ablation, and distal perineal urethrostomy. Hypospadias in other species is a congenital deformity that may be caused by extra- and intrauterine factors resulting in a disruption of the testosterone balance during urethral development, but the causative mechanism in this bear is unknown. the urethrostomy site was functional without complications 8 mo after surgery.
20095569|Single-dose pharmacokinetics of amikacin following i.m. administration were determined in six adult fallow deer (Dama dama). A dose of 7.47  0.71 mg/kg was determined by metabolic scaling. Serial blood samples were collected through an indwelling jugular catheter at 0, 5, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, and 90 min and 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hr postadministration. Drug concentration vs. time curves were best fit to a biexponential equation, which was interpreted as a single compartment open model with first-order input. Maximal serum concentrations of 34.99  9.93 g/ml were reached at 0.40  0.21 hours based on a disappearance rate constant of 0.57  0.11
27751724|Renal disease is a major cause of illness in captive and wild avian species. Current renal disease markers (e.g., uric acid, blood urea nitrogen, and creatinine) are insensitive. Two endogenous markers, creatine and N-acetyl--D-glucosaminidase (NAG), were selected for study in the pigeon (Columba livia). Representative organs from four pigeons were surveyed to determine those exhibiting the highest level of each marker. In a separate study, NAG and creatine from plasma and urine were assayed before and after gentamicin (50 mg/kg twice daily), administration for up to 9 days. Observer-blinded pathologic scoring (five saline solution controls, 17 treated birds) was used to verify the presence of renal disease that corresponded to marker increases. The first study revealed that kidney tissue had the highest NAG activity (by approximately six times), and pectoral muscle had the most creatine (&gt;900 times). In response to gentamicin, plasma creatine (&gt;five times) and NAG increased (approximately six times), which paralleled uric acid (&gt;10 times). Urine creatine (approximately 60 times) and NAG increased dramatically (approximately 50 times) in response to gentamicin. In conclusion, NAG, especially in the urine, may be of value to noninvasively detect renal toxin exposures and to monitor potentially nephrotoxic drugs, and might be of value to screen free-ranging birds in large exhibits or in the wild by assaying fresh urate samples at feeding stations.
20096519|The objective of this project was to evaluate the acid-base, blood gas, and physiologic parameters of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) during laparoscopy in the head-down position. Eleven white-tailed does were captured and then immobilized with xylazine (6 mg/kg i.m.) and ketamine (7 mg/kg i.m.). The deer were intubated orotracheally and maintained with isoflurane in oxygen. The deer were positioned in dorsal recumbency and positive pressure ventilated. Heart rate (HR), arterial blood pressure, end-tidal carbon dioxide concentration (
20460269|Blood samples from 37 Cuban Amazon parrots (Amazona leucocephala leucocephala) were evaluated to determine hematologic and serum biochemical reference intervals. Hematologic and serum chemistry values were not significantly different (P &gt; 0.05) between males and females. Value ranges for Cuban Amazon parrots were comparable to those published for other Amazona species.
20460477|Electrocardiograms (ECGs) are a good baseline test for assessing cardiac rhythm. ECGs have not been reported in any zebra species and in very few Perissodactyla species. Standard limb, six-lead ECGs were recorded in 23 anesthetized Grevy's zebras (Equus grevyi). Heart rate, RR interval, P-wave duration, RR maximum/minimum, PR interval, QRS duration, QT interval, ST segment deviation, P-wave amplitude, QRS amplitude, and T-wave amplitude were measured and calculated from lead II ECGs from these Grevy's zebras. Several variables were tested, including gender, age (0-24, 24-48, 48-180, and &gt;180 mo), weight (&lt;350 kg or &gt;350 kg), pregnancy status, and anesthetic differences (standard dose or supplemented dose), to see if they affected ECG values in these animals. There were no significant differences in any of the ECG parameters between genders. RR and QT intervals were longer in older zebras; heart rates were faster in younger zebras. The RR and PR intervals, as well as the QRS duration, were greater in heavier zebras; heart rates were faster in lighter zebras. The RR interval was significantly longer in pregnant zebras. There were no significant differences in any of the ECG parameters for zebras anesthetized with a standardized dose of the drug combination etorphine--detomidine--acepromazine compared to those receiving additional supplements of these drugs and/or ketamine. All other parameters were not significantly different among groups, except where noted previously. The results of this research indicate that differences in ECG parameters in zebras may occur between animals of different ages, weights, and pregnancy status and that these factors should be considered when interpreting the respective ECGs of these zebras.
20096181|A high prevalence of fecal Salmonella shedding in a collection of healthy exotic felids precipitated a change to two new commercially available feline diets. One year after initiation of the new diets, 18 fecal samples from individual felines, their exhibits, and representative samples of the diets were cultured for Salmonella spp. Only one culture grew a Salmonella sp. Salmonella uganda was cultured from the feces of one snow leopard (Felis uncia). Feeding a diet with minimal to no Salmonella contamination lowered Salmonella shedding rates in this collection of captive exotic felids.
20096354|Iodine in the form of iodide is required for synthesis of tri-iodothyronine and thyroxine in fish. Iodine chemical speciation in aliquots of raw artificial seawater mix was measured before, during, and after exposure for fixed time periods to air only and to concentrations of ozone required to achieve oxidation-reduction potentials typical of a protein skimmer (400 mV) and an ozone contact chamber (800 mV). Chemical species of iodine were also measured in tank water from a large, recirculating, ozonated aquarium system that has a low-grade incidence of thyroid lesions (e.g., thyroiditis, hyperplasia, adenoma, and adenocarcinoma) in its fish. With increasing exposure to ozone, concentrations of iodide and dissolved organic iodine (DOI) decreased, whereas iodate levels increased. As a result of exposure to 400 mV, iodide concentration dropped to less than half the amount found in raw artificial seawater mix. After exposure to 800 mV, initial iodide levels decreased by 67%, and DOI became undetectable, whereas iodate concentration increased by 155%, with no remarkable change in total iodine concentration. These results indicate ozone-induced conversions from iodide to iodate, and DOI to iodide or iodate (or both). Iodide and DOI were not detectable in the acquarium system's water samples. Ozonation of artificial seawater may alter the relative concentrations of iodine species in a closed tank system, so that iodide supplementation of the diet or tank water of captive teleosts and elasmobranchs living in ozonated seawater is advisable.
41262649|Chronic kidney disease is a common finding in older captive exotic felids. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a probiotic to reduce blood urea nitrogen and creatinine in large felids. Fifteen adult, large felids (6 tigers [Panthera tigris], 5 lions [Panthera leo], 3 cougars [Puma concolor], and 1 leopard [Panthera pardus]) were administered a probiotic twice daily after a baseline complete blood cell count and plasma chemistry panel was obtained. Plasma chemistry values were rechecked at 2 mo (n = 14) and 6 mo (n = 9). There was no significant change in blood urea nitrogen over time; however, there was a significant change in creatinine over time (P = 0.04). Creatinine concentration decreased significantly between 2 and 6 mo (P = 0.02), and a decrease was seen between 0 and 6 mo, but this change was not significant (P = 0.05). There was no significant difference noted for creatinine concentration between 0 and 2 mo (P = 0.35). This probiotic may be helpful in large felids with elevated creatinine concentrations because of chronic kidney disease; however, further studies are warranted.
20460328|After recent isolations of Brucella sp. from pinnipeds and cetaceans, a survey was initiated to investigate the prevalence of Brucella sp. infections and serologic evidence of exposure in marine mammals stranded along the coasts of Connecticut and Rhode Island. One hundred and nineteen serum samples from four species of cetaceans and four species of pinnipeds were collected from 1985 to 2000 and tested for antibodies to Brucella sp. using the brucellosis card test, buffered acidified plate antigen test, and rivanol test. In addition, 20 of these were necropsied between 1998 and 2000, with lymphoid and visceral tissues cultured for Brucella sp. Three of 21 (14%) harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) and four of 53 (8%) harp seals (Phoca groenlandica) were seropositive. Brucella sp. was isolated from two of four (50%) harbor seals and three of nine (33%) harp seals. Of the five animals with positive cultures, two were seropositive and three seronegative. Brucella sp. was most frequently cultured from the lung and axillary, inguinal, and prescapular lymph nodes. Tissues from which Brucella sp. was isolated showed no gross or histopathologic changes. These results indicate that marine mammals stranded along the coast of southern New England can be exposed to and infected with Brucella sp.
20096417|The fungus Chrysosporium anamorph of Nannizziopsis vriesii was identified as the cause of fatal, multifocal, heterophilic dermatitis in four freshwater aquatic captive-bred tentacled snakes (Erpeton tentaculatum). Pale, 1- to 4-mm focal lesions involving individual scales, occurred primarily on the head and dorsum. Histology showed multifocal coagulation necrosis of the epidermis, with marked heterophilic infiltration without involvement of the underlying dermis. Septate, irregularly branched hyphae, and clusters of 4- to 8- by 2- to 3-m rod-shaped cells (arthroconidia) were present within the lesions and in a superficial crust. Failure to maintain an acidic environment was likely a predisposing factor in the development of these lesions.
20460505|A die-off occurred in a captive colony of blue-winged grasshoppers (Tropidacris collaris) at the Toronto Zoo. One fourth of the colony died within a year due to infection with worms initially mistaken for nematomorphs but later identified as nematodes belonging to the Mermithidae, genus Mermis. Mortality persisted and the grasshopper population dwindled over the following years. Mermithid larvae developed in the hemocoel of the insects until they eventually emerged from a hollowed-out exoskeleton. Circumstantial evidence suggests that the parasites were introduced with raspberry browse that was grown on site and contaminated with mermithid eggs.
20096007|Circulating plasma fat-soluble vitamin and mineral concentrations were compared in captive females of three species for fruit bats (Pteropus vampyrus, Pteropus hypomelanus, and Pteropus pumilus) fed the same diet. Daily total food intake averaged 28% of body weight on an as-fed basis or 7% on a dry matter basis. Dietary leftovers contained higher concentrations of phosphorus, magnesium, and zinc than the diet offered, suggesting some nutrient selectivity. Additionally, fecal mineral concentrations were two- to threefold higher than dietary concentrations of corresponding nutrients. Plasma concentrations of vitamin A (0.02-0.05 g retinol/ml), vitamin D (1.50 ng 25-OH
20095233|During an epizootic in a zoological collection, 26 of 42 viperid and nonviperid snakes that were necropsied had pathological findings consistent with ophidian paramyxovirus (OPMV) infection. Clinical signs of illness included regurgitation, mucoid stools, and signs of central nervous system disease; no signs of respiratory disease were observed. At necropsy, gross abnormalities were primarily limited to the lungs and livers. Lungs were often hemorrhagic and consolidated and contained exudate. In the livers, white nodules were seen diffusely on the surface and throughout the parenchyma. Major microscopic findings included a proliferative interstitial pneumonia, pyogranulomatous hepatitis and/or hepatic necrosis, and loss of pancreatic cytoarchitecture. Microbiological isolates from lungs and livers of dead snakes consisted primarily of gram-negative organisms, with Pseudomonas spp., Morganella morganii, and Salmonella arizonae most frequently cultured. Ophidian paramyxovirus was isolated from tissues of five snakes, and a serological survey of 31 snakes over a 1-yr period identified 12 with OPMV titers &gt1:10. In those snakes with initially high antibodies, titers declined to lower values over a 3-4-mo period.
20095619|A captive Thomson's gazelle (Gazella thomsoni) died after an acute neurologic illness characterized by depression, recumbency, and seizures. Histopathologic changes in the brain consisted of mild subacute nonsuppurative perivascular meningoencephalitis. Equine herpesvirus 1 was isolated from pooled brain and lung tissue. The virus was genetically distinct from isolates recovered from domestic equids but was similar to isolates from an onager and a zebra herd. This is the first report of equine herpesvirus 1 infection associated with neurologic disease in a ruminant and may represent the isolation of a new equine herpesvirus 1 variant.
20095385|Current methods for genetic management of captive cetacean breeding rely on intrainstitutional animal movement or occasional interinstitutional breeding loans. Breeding loans between cooperating institutions should be organized to emphasize the genetic management of the total captive population of each species as these populations become self-sustaining. Advanced reproductive technologies (ART) currently used with domestic species, including artificial insemination and embryo transfer, should be developed and utilized to improve the ability of marine mammal managers to regulate the captive gene pool. Before ART can be developed, an improved understanding of anatomy and reproductive physiology of these animals is necessary. Available anatomical data provide insight into potential techniques for insemination. Initial research concerning semen handling and freezing techniques has been accomplished in the bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus). However, additional studies are required to define what factors influence the effectiveness of cryopreservation procedures. A combination of sonographic ovarian evaluation and endocrine data should help determine and define the effectiveness of synchronization or ovulation induction protocols and the appropriate timing for semen introduction. Development and application of these technologies should first be accomplished in a species that breeds successfully in captivity, such as bottlenose dolphins. These technologies can then be used to help establish and manage breeding colonies of endangered cetacean species.
20095539|Many of the native species of Partula snail have been predated to extinction since a predatory snail (Euglandina rosea) was introduced into the Society Islands to control feral populations of the exotic giant African land snail (Achatina fulica). A major international captive breeding program for the surviving species of Partula now plans to reintroduce this snail into its native island habitats. However, many of the captive Partula populations have high mortality rates, and three species recently became extinct both in captivity and in the wild. Pathologic investigations have detected two types of flagellated protozoans in the feces of the snails, one of which resembles Cryptobia spp., and granulomata associated with infection with ameboid organisms. These findings indicate the need for further investigation of infectious disease in these populations, particularly before captive-bred snails are released into the wild.
20095216|The amount of feed consumed per day and the rate of food passage were measured in captive male northern river otters (Lutra canadensis). Daily feed consumption averaged 33.9 g dry matter/kg body weight. Using ferric oxide as a feed marker, the mean food transit time was determined to be 202 min.
20096132|A captive male Adelie penguin (Pygoscelis adeliae), wild caught in 1976, died unexpectedly. Necropsy revealed cholangiocarcinoma with metastases to lung, pancreas, mesentery, and cloaca, the first known case of a penguin hepatic tumor.
20096572|Parasite surveys of free-ranging wildlife provide important information for monitoring population health. Between March 2001 and March 2003, we sampled 10 ocelots (Leopardus pardalis), eight Geoffroy's cats (Oncifelis geoffroyi), a jaguarundi (Herpailurus yaguarondi), five pampas foxes (Pseudalopex gymnocercus), and three crab-eating foxes (Cerdocyon thous) at three sites in the Bolivian Chaco. The objective of the study was to survey the parasite fauna of these carnivores and compare prevalence of parasites among the sites. The parasite community of these carnivores was diverse, with representatives from eight genera of nematodes, two families of cestodes, two protozoan species, and six arthropod species. Fecal parasites identified from 12 of the 13 felids and five of the six canids examined included Aelurostrongylus abstrusus, Ancylostoma tubaeforme, Uncinaria sp., Crenosoma sp., Toxocara cati, Spirurida, Capillaria aerophila, Spirometra sp., Taeniidae, and Cystoisospora sp. Four tick species, Amblyomma parvum, A. tigrinum, A. ovale, and A. cajennense, and two flea species, Pulex irritans and Delostichus phyllotis, were identified. Two crab-eating foxes had serologic evidence of heartworm disease (HWD). Antibodies against Toxoplasma gondii were found in 15 of 26 animals. Although HWD was found only in canids inside the national park, parasite prevalence did not appear to differ among sites, and no evidence was found of parasite spillover from domestic to wild carnivores.
27751768|Pituitary pars intermedia dysfunction (PPID), also known as Equine Cushing's disease, is most often diagnosed in older horses and ponies. To the authors' knowledge, there have been no reports of its diagnosis in captive nondomestic equids. A 13-yr old onager (Equus hemionus onager) at the Zoological Society of London (ZSL) Whipsnade Zoo showed clinical signs suggestive of PPID, including hirsutism, fat redistribution, weight loss, laminitis, and chronic infections. A dexamethasone suppression test was performed to confirm PPID. Subsequently, adenomatous hyperplasia and microadenoma of the pars intermedia were identified postmortem. Four months later, this onager's dam died suddenly, and adenomatous hyperplasia of the pars intermedia was diagnosed following necropsy. The dam had shown no clinical signs of PPID. Examination of archives identified eight other adult onagers that died or were euthanized between 1993 and 2007. The brain was not examined in four of these, but pituitary glands were described as enlarged during necropsy in three animals based on the subjective assessment of an experienced zoo and wildlife pathologist, making an overall prevalence of enlargement of 83.3%. Hyperplastic pituitary changes are positively correlated with age in domestic equids, and this may also be the case in onagers. Alternative etiologies are also discussed.
20096327|Amikacin, an aminoglycoside antimicrobial, was administered to a killer whale (Orcinus orca) and a beluga whale (Delphinapterus leucas) for the treatment of clinical signs consistent with gram-negative aerobic bacterial infections. Dosage regimens were designed to target a maximal plasma concentration 8-10 times the minimum inhibitory concentrations of the pathogen and to reduce the risk of aminoglycoside toxicity. Allometric analysis of published pharmacokinetic parameters in mature animals yielded a relationship for amikacin's volume of distribution, in milliliters, given by the equation Vd =
20095067|Toxoplasma gondii was identified in a collection of exotic hoofstock. One slender-horned gazelle (Gazella leptoceros), two gerenuk (Litocranius walleri), and one dama gazelle (Gazella dama) died of toxoplasmosis over a 17-mo period. Primary histologic findings were pulmonary edema, fibrinous pneumonia, necrotizing hepatitis, and fibrinonecrotic lymphadenitis. Protozoal organisms consistent with Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoites and/or cysts were identified in several tissues.
20460349|Oral, nasal, and cutaneous lesions resembling eosinophilic granulomas (EGs) were observed in eight captive black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis). Oral lesions were observed in all affected animals and occurred most often behind the prehensile lip. The typical clinical history of affected animals included oral bleeding or epistaxis from multilobulated, fungating, proliferative masses with areas of ulceration. Histologically, lesions were characterized by prominent infiltrates of eosinophils and rare foci of collagen degeneration on a background of marked submucosal or dermal neovascularization. Mucosal or epidermal hyperplasia was also present sometimes in association with distinctive epithelial degenerative changes consistent with superficial necrolytic dermatopathy of black rhinoceroses. Lesions of EG and superficial necrolytic dermatopathy were interpreted as being concurrently manifested in these cases. EG lesions spontaneously resolved over periods of 30 days-7 mo and were recurrent in three animals. Lesions were responsive to treatment with corticosteroids or to local cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen. Two animals treated with systemic corticosteroids died of disseminated fungal infections, emphasizing that corticosteroids should be used cautiously in black rhinoceroses.
20096529|A 13-yr-old male Alpaca (Lama pacos) presented with multiple ovoid, well-circumscribed, nonulcerated intradermal masses. Individual masses measured 1-4 cm in diameter, and the overlying skin was alopecic. Several of the masses were surgically removed and evaluated microscopically. Histopathologic evaluation demonstrated multiple dermal cysts lined by neoplastic follicular epithelium. The cysts were filled with multiple layers of lamellar keratin and lined by abortive inner and outer root sheaths exhibiting cellular atypia, supporting the diagnosis of trichoepitheliomas. No additional treatment was initiated, and the alpaca continues to do well.
20095368|-tocopherol (-TOC, as D--tocopherol) administered both intramuscularly (i.m.) and orally (p.o.) to a captive group of five Swainson's hawks (Buteo swainsonii) at doses of 15 or 30 mg/kg body mass resulted in markedly different serum responses. Neither i.m. dose significantly altered serum concentrations within a week from an average baseline value of 28.4  3.2 g/ml. A single p.o. dose (15 mg/kg body mass) without food significantly increased circulating serum concentration from 30.0  8.7 to 57.9  27.4 g/ml by 192 hr; values plateaued at elevated levels for up to 62 days postadministration. This apparently represented serum saturation, as a subsequent oral dose of 30 mg/kg effected no changes in serum concentrations measured over 32 days. A suggested therapy for raptor patients suspected to be vitamin E deficient includes p.o. (15 mg/kg body mass) doses of -TOC without food, followed by dietary supplementation to maintain status.
41262648|Two pilot trials and one study in a closely related grebe species suggest that Western grebes (Aechmophorus occidentalis) will not tolerate intracoelomic transmitter implantation with percutaneous antennae and often die within days of surgery. Wild Western grebes (n = 21) were captured to evaluate a modified surgical technique. Seven birds were surgically implanted with intracoelomic transmitters with percutaneous antennae by using the modified technique (transmitter group), 7 received the same surgery without transmitter implantation (celiotomy group), and 7 served as controls (only undergoing anesthesia). Modifications included laterally offsetting the body wall incision from the skin incision, application of absorbable cyanoacrylate tissue glue to the subcutaneous space between the body wall and skin incisions, application of a waterproof sealant to the skin incision after suture closure, and application of a piece of porcine small intestine submucosa to the antenna egress. Survival did not differ among the 3 groups with 7 of 7 control, 6 of 7 celiotomy, and 6 of 7 transmitter birds surviving the 9-day study. Experimental birds were euthanized at the end of the study, and postmortem findings indicated normal healing. Significant differences in plasma chemistry or immune function were not detected among the 3 groups, and only minor differences were detected in red blood cell indices and plasma proteins. After surgery, the birds in the transmitter group spent more time preening tail feathers than those in the control and celiotomy groups. These results demonstrate that, in a captive situation, celiotomy and intracoelomic transmitter implantation caused minimal detectable homeostatic disturbance in this species and that Western grebes can survive implantation of intracoelomic transmitters with percutaneous antennae. It remains to be determined what potential this modified surgical procedure has to improve postoperative survival of Western grebes that are intracelomically implanted with transmitters with percutaneous antennae and released into the wild.
20095310|Thirty free-ranging California sea lions, Zalophus californianus, including 20 adult females (approximate individual weight of 100 kg) and 10 newborn pups (average weight 7.9 kg) were anesthetized using halothane and oxygen on San Miguel Island, California. The halothane was delivered through a precision, out-of-circle vaporizer in a portable semiclosed circle system anesthesia machine. Sea lions were monitored for respiratory and heart rates, and time of capture, induction, and duration of anesthesia were recorded. Twenty-nine of the 30 sea lions recovered uneventfully; one adult female became apneic and died despite resuscitation efforts. Adults had significantly lower heart and respiratory rates than pups, although induction, anesthesia, and recovery times did not differ between age groups.
20096032|Canine distemper virus is a member of the genus Morbillivirus in the family Paramyxoviridae. Canine distemper has been recorded in domestic dogs for centuries. It is now recognized as a worldwide problem of carnivores and has the second highest fatality rate of any infectious disease, after rabies, in domestic dogs. The importance of this disease in nondomestic animals has become evident with vaccine-induced infections in a variety of species and large-scale epidemics in captive and free-ranging felids. To date, canine distemper has been reported in all families of terrestrial carnivores: Canidae, Felidae, Hyaenidae, Mustelidae, Procyonidae, Ursidae, and Viverridae. Veterinarians, including those working with nondomestic carnivores, should be familiar with the clinical signs, diagnosis, and clinical management of this disease.
40962315|The carpal region of an Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) with a clinically obvious varus deformity of the carpus was examined radiographically with a standard portable x-ray unit. Several dorsopalmar radiographs were taken at a short source-to-image distance, moving the beam center along the carpus. To obtain a single image of the carpal region, radiographs were assembled digitally using a composite technique. Radiographs revealed a deviation of the limb's axis of approximately 25 in the region of distal physis of the radius and ulna and a wedgeshaped epiphysis of the ulna. Healed physitis due to trauma and subluxation of the middle carpal joint are discussed as possible causes of the deformity. The radiographie technique described proved to be helpful to evaluate a relatively large anatomic area in the carpal region of an adult Asian elephant with a varus deformity and may be an alternative tool to previously described single image radiography.
20460469|A 16-yr-old, castrated male lion-tailed macaque (Macaca silenus) presented with acute bilateral pelvic limb paralysis. Cisternal and lumbar myelograms demonstrated right-sided spinal cord compression at T13-L1. During an extradural hemilaminectomy, chronically ruptured disk material was removed at T13-L1, with moderate venous dilatation observed cranially. The macaque fully recovered from clinical signs within 2 mo.
20095646|Over a 15-yr time span, a 30-yr-old female chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) exhibited recurrent upper respiratory disease that was suspected to be allergen induced. Until 1993, symptomatic therapy with several different antibiotics and antihistamines yielded variable results. In early 1993, the chimpanzee was consistently observed to be open-mouth breathing despite medication. Nasal polyposis was diagnosed using rigid endoscopy in September 1993, and the polyps were removed by loop excision. A fluorescent allergosorbent test was performed to differentiate hypersensitivity to specific regional allergens causing chronic inhalant allergic rhinitis. Oral immunotherapy was then instituted using standard human treatment for Sacramento Valley pollens. This combination of polyp removal and immunotherapy resulted in a marked reduction of clinical signs, and continuous oral immunotherapy has controlled these signs. Hyposensitization therapy will continue for at least 2-3 yr. The chimpanzee continues to breath normally following occasional antihistamine treatment.
20095415|Six captive pine martens (Martes martes) were immobilized with a combination of medetomidine hydrochloride (MED) and ketamine (KET) in three experiments (Experiment 1, July 1991; Experiment 2, November 1991; Experiment 3, January 1992) to establish a dose range for field use and to assess potential seasonal influence on drug effects. The mean  SD i.m. doses (range) used in these three experiments were 0.19  0.03 (0.14-0.24) mg/kg MED + 9.3  1.5 (7.1-11.8) mg/kg KET, 0.17  0.04 (0.14-0.24) mg/kg MED + 8.6  1.8 (7.1-11.8) mg/kg KET, and 0.15  0.01 (0.13-0.17) mg/kg MED + 7.6  0.8 (6.5-8.9) mg/kg KET, respectively. These doses induced complete immobilization with good muscle relaxation and loss of both the corneal and pedal withdrawal reflexes in all animals. The induction times were 4.3  1.6 (2.0-6.0) min, 3.8  0.8 (3.0-5.0) min, and 4.5  1.9 (3.0-8.0) min, respectively. Side effects included hypothermia, bradycardia, and bradypnea, but all animals recovered completely without clinical complications. Blood samples were drawn from immobilized animals and sera were analyzed for 24 different measures (enzymes, metabolites, minerals, and electrolytes). Hyperglycemia occurred in all animals, but there were no clinically important differences in serum chemistry values among the experiments. Forty minutes after administration of MED-KET, the animals in Experiments 1 and 2 were given atipamezole hydrochloride (ATI) i.m. at five times the MED dose. In Experiment 3, the animals received saline i.m. for comparison. Immobilization was rapidly reversed by ATI, and side effects such as muscle rigidity and incoordination were of short duration. The mean time from ATI injection to mobility in Experiments 1 and 2 was 7.7  2.3 (4.8-10.0) min and 3.8  1.6 (2.0-5.8) min, respectively. The mean mobility time was 31.7  21.8 (11.0-59.0) min in the saline-treated animals, and recovery was accompanied by prolonged sedation, incoordination, and motor impairment. MED in combination with KET and reversed with ATI at a dose ratio of 5:1 relative to MED was a safe and effective immobilization protocol for captive pine martens.
20095148|A 17-yr-old female Burmese python (Python molurus bivittatus) was evaluated for pitting edema of the integument cranial to the heart and enlargement of the body wall at the level of the heart. Ultrasound examination revealed a mass in the right atrium. Contrast angiography confirmed the presence of a space-filling defect within the right atrium, with obstruction of venous return. The snake recovered from anesthesia but died the next day. Necropsy revealed a caseous mass filling the sinus venosus and right atrium, fibrin within the pericardial space, and adhesions between the pericardium and epicardium. Salmonella arizona and Corynebacterium sp. were isolated from the thrombus, pericardial space, and spleen. The exact portal of entry for infection could not be determined.
20095696|One male of a group of seven Pacific white-sided dolphins (Lagenorhynchus obliquidens) died after a brief period of nonspecific clinical signs. Four beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) and four harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) were managed in the same water system. Gross examination of the dolphin revealed only moderately enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes. Histopathology revealed small to massive numbers of gram-positive bacilli, usually intravascular, in all tissues. Bacteria were both extracellular and present in macrophages, monocytes, and neutrophils. Aerobic bacterial culture of lung, liver, kidney, and spleen yielded pure cultures of Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae. Based on clinical course, histopathology, and bacteriology, a diagnosis of acute erysipelas septicemia was made. None of the other cetaceans or pinnipeds exhibited clinical signs.
20095124|The recovery effort for the black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) is one of the most ambitious survival plans ever initiated for a wild animal species. Presently, there are three captive breeding programs for this endangered species in North America. This paper describes the facilities and management protocols for the colony at the Conservation and Research Center of the National Zoological Park. One- and 2-yr-old black-footed ferrets were maintained in an open-air out-of-doors environment under natural light and managed under quarantine conditions. Data were analyzed for impact of age on colony reproductive performance. When standardized to the day of copulation, all females, regardless of age, demonstrated similar (P &gt 0.05) temporal profiles in vaginal cornification indices and vulvar tumescence. The only distinguishing feature between 1- and 2-yr-old females was that the older animals generally initiated copulatory activity 2-4 wk earlier than yearlings. Mean testes volume in males increased from February to April, but maximal testes volume was reached earlier in the year in older versus younger males. All six females copulated and, with the exception of a single female in both 1989 and 1990, became pregnant and produced young. The mean (SEM) duration of gestation was 42.4 (0.2) days, and the mean litter size was 3.3 (0.5) kits. Neither gestation nor litter size were affected by dam age. Five kits survived to weaning in 1989 and 11 kits in 1990. These results demonstrate 1) the feasibility of propagating black-footed ferrets in an out-of-doors facility, and 2) the ability of animals &lt1 yr old to become sexually mature, copulate, and produce young.
27751733|Ranaviruses are known to cause mortality in a variety of anuran species and have the potential to significantly impact wild and captive frog populations. In this study, 16 captive frogs and toads from the Louisville Zoological Garden were examined for the presence of ranavirus; this group included 14 Cope's grey tree frogs (Hyla chrysoscelis), an American toad (Bufo americanus), and a southern toad (Bufo terrestris). All animals were wild caught and were evaluated via polymerase chain reaction (PCR), while animals that died were also assessed via histologic study to understand the role of ranaviral disease in these specimens. Of the animals that died, 82% were positive for ranavirus via PCR. Multiple swab samples collected over time from live tree frogs were positive for ranavirus via PCR. These findings reveal that ranaviral infection in captive adult anurans may occur without clinical signs or consistent histopathologic lesions.
20095318|The physicochemical characteristics of the milk of a captive Indian rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis) were determined at 30, 37, and 44 days postpartum. The milk was ivory white and aromatic. The mean value for pH was 6.49 and specific gravity was 1.0296. The mean values of different components in whole milk in g/dl were as follows: total solids, 9.81; fat, 1.40; nonfat solids, 8.41; lactose (total reducing sugars), 7.60; total protein, 1.39; casein, 1.00; whey protein, 0.39; beta-lactoglobulin, 0.23; alpha-lactalbumin, 0.17; serum albumin, 0; immunoglobulin, 0; urea, 0.04; calcium, 0.08; sodium, 0.02; potassium, 0.09; inorganic phosphorus, 0.02; and chloride, 0.04. Values for total protein, casein, whey protein, sugar, and minerals in the present investigation were similar to values reported previously in Indian rhinoceros milk, but not in milk of the white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum) or black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis). Comparisons of the present values with reported values in milk of domestic horses, elephants (Elephas maximus), cows, buffalo (Bubalis bubalis), goats, and sheep revealed similarity only with milk of the horse.
20095715|This retrospective study describes 16 immobilizations performed on nine adult captive Nile hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius). Animals were immobilized using intramuscular etorphine alone (1.0-5.0 g/kg; n = 9) or in combination with xylazine (67-83 g/kg; n = 6) or acepromazine (20 g/kg; n = 1). Exact weights for the animals were unknown so drug dosages were based on estimated weights. Seven animals either were in good health or had minor or localized medical problems. Following etorphine and xylazine induction, one animal undergoing castration was anesthetized with isoflurane in oxygen delivered by endotracheal tube. Ten immobilizations occurred without complications, and eight of those procedures were rated as good or excellent. Complications, including bradypnea, cyanosis, and apnea, occurred during six immobilizations. One animal died following prolonged apnea, and the necropsy failed to find a specific cause of death. Immobilizations were reversed with diprenorphine alone (4.4-10.0 g/kg; n = 13), diprenorphine (2.9 g/kg) and naloxone (14.6 k/kg; n = 1), or naltrexone (146-180 g/kg; n = 2). Mean time to reversal of immobilization for those animals given etorphine alone and reversed with diprenorphine alone was 21.6 min (n = 5). Time to reversal for the two immobilizations reversed with only naltrexone was 4 min. No renarcotizations were observed. Total doses of 2.0-6.0 mg etorphine i.m. should produce heavy sedation to surgical anesthesia in calm adult captive Nile hippopotamuses. Insufflation with oxygen during immobilization seems warranted.
20096204|A 37-yr-old chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) died due to bacterial meningoencephalomyelitis. At necropsy, a mass was observed in the fundus of the gallbladder. Histopathologic examination resulted in a diagnosis of adenoma, the first diagnosis of a primary spontaneous neoplasm in the gallbladder of a non-human primate.
20096635|The Columbia basin subpopulation of pygmy rabbit Brachylagus idahoensis was listed as endangered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in November 2001, and no pygmy rabbits have been seen in the wild since spring 2002. Captive propagation efforts have attempted to increase population size in preparation for reintroduction of animals into central Washington. Disseminated mycobacteriosis due to Mycobacterium avium has been the most common cause of death of adult captive pygmy rabbits. Between June 2002 and September 2004, mycobacteriosis was diagnosed in 28 captive adult pygmy rabbits (representing 29% of the captive population), in contrast to 18 adult pygmy rabbits dying of all other causes in the same time period. Antemortem and postmortem medical records were evaluated retrospectively to describe the clinical course of mycobacteriosis in pygmy rabbits, physical examination findings, and diagnostic test results in the diagnosis of mycobacteriosis in pygmy rabbits. Various treatment protocols, possible risk factors for mortality, and recommendations for prevention of mycobacteriosis were evaluated also. Compromised cell-mediated immunity appears to be the best explanation at this time for the observed high morbidity and mortality from mycobacterial infections in pygmy rabbits.
20096126|Serum samples from 37 captive exotic felids in 12 zoos from six Brazilian states were assayed for antibodies to Toxoplasma gondii by the modified agglutination test using formalin-fixed whole tachyzoites. Titers greater than or equal to 1:20 were considered positive. Antibodies to T. gondii were found in 24 of 37 (64.9%) felids, including one European lynx (Lynx lynx), two jungle cats (Felis chaus), two servals (Leptailurus serval), two tigers (Panthera tigris), three leopards (Panthera pardus), and 14 of 27 lions (Panthera leo). This is the first serologic analysis for T. gondii infection in exotic wild felids from Brazilian zoos.
20096411|"Lumpy jaw" of artiodactyls and macropods, although often considered a manifestation of actinomycosis, is actually an osteomyelitis, perhaps commencing with a dental root abscess or trauma to the jaw. Anaerobes may be cultured from the lesions, and vegetable matter may be impacted in them. It is a chronic disease and difficult to treat. Successful treatment may include draining the abscess, cleaning the cavity with saline and antibiotics, flushing with a combination of hydrogen peroxide-sodium hypochlorite and Betadine, and apicoectomy and endodontic filling when active inflammation has subsided.
20095280|Conservation programs for captive breeding and reintroduction of threatened and endangered species need a means to assess the risk of introducing infectious diseases into or obtaining diseases from the reintroduction environment. Risk assessment is seriously hampered by insufficient knowledge of the diseases of these species. Acquisition of data on the infectious diseases of threatened and endangered species can be expedited through cooperative disease surveys of captive and free-ranging animals. Integrating information from various sources will be greatly facilitated by setting standards for data collection. Standard guidelines for monitoring, investigating, and surveillance of infectious diseases in captive animals are presented that will provide essential information for an infectious disease data base. A method for prioritizing infectious diseases by the degree of threat to a species or environment is also proposed, so that the limited resources for disease investigations can be appropriately allocated. Application of these methods to species targeted for reintroduction will reduce the risk of human-caused catastrophic epidemics in endangered species. Furthermore, these methods will significantly increase our knowledge of disease epidemiology in nondomestic species.
20095737|Nutritional husbandry of captive wild ruminants often requires feeding these animals a supplemental diet to enhance their health, reproductive performance, and productivity. Although supplemental diets for wild ruminants are commercially available, few have been evaluated in controlled intake and digestion trials. Voluntary intake, digestive efficiency, nitrogen retention, and gross energy utilization of pronghorn (Antilocapra americana), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis), mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus), and wapiti (Cervus elaphus) consuming a high-energy, high-protein pelleted supplement were compared. Voluntary intake of dry matter, energy, and nitrogen were similar (P &gt 0.34) between mountain goats and mountain sheep and consistently lower (P &lt 0.03) for these species than for pronghorn, mule deer, and wapiti. Differences in digestive efficiency among species were inversely related to dry matter intake rates. Apparent digestibility of dry matter, organic matter, and neutral-detergent fiber was 10-20% higher for mountain goats and mountain sheep than for the other species (P &lt 0.04). Although these findings suggest a superior digestive efficiency for mountain goats and mountain sheep, species comparisons are inconclusive because of the confounding effects of season and ambient temperature on voluntary intake and digestion. Under the conditions of this experiment, the diet tested was safe, nutritious, and highly palatable. Protein and energy concentrations appear to be sufficient to meet or exceed known nutritional requirements of captive wild ruminants.
20096712|Passive transfer of maternal antibodies against West Nile virus (WNV) was studied in a captive population of Chilean (Phoenicopterus chilensis) and Caribbean flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber). Transfer of WNV antibodies from hens to chicks was documented and measured by plaque-reduction neutralization test. Hen titers were significantly correlated to chick titers. Mean half-life of maternal WNV antibodies was 13.4 days in chicks for which half-life was measurable.
20096671|Contagious caprine pleuropneumonia (CCPP) caused by Mycoplasma capricolum subsp.capripneumoniae is a highly contagious and serious respiratory disease of domestic goats, characterized by coughing, severe respiratory distress, and high mortality rates. The lesions at necropsy are mainly a fibrinous pleuropneumonia with increased straw-colored pleural fluid. An outbreak of CCPP in wild goat (Capra aegagrus), Nubian ibex (Capra ibex nubiana), Laristan mouflon (Ovis orientalis laristanica), and gerenuk (Litocranius walleri) occurred at Al Wabra Wildlife Preservation in the State of Qatar. The disease was suspected because of the clinical symptoms and the necropsy findings and was confirmed by the isolation and identification of the causative organism. This new finding indicates that CCPP should be considered a potential threat to wildlife and the conservation of endangered ruminant species, especially in the Middle East, where it is enzootic because of its presence in chronic carriers. Susceptible imported animals should be quarantined and vaccinated. The preferred samples for diagnosis are the pleural fluid, which contains high numbers of Mycoplasma, and sections of hepatized lung, preferably at the interface of normal and diseased tissues. Samples must be shipped to diagnostic laboratories rapidly, and appropriate cool conditions must be maintained during shipping.
20095856|A 6-mo-old hand-raised male western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) was diagnosed with acute lymphocytic leukemia based on complete blood count and bone marrow cytology. Clinical signs of the disease were pyrexia, abdominal distention, splenomegaly, and lethargy. Acute lymphocytic leukemia has rarely been reported in this species, and therapy was based on human oncologic protocols. Remission induction chemotherapy resulted in complete clearing of leukemia cells from the bone marrow. Consolidation and maintenance chemotherapy followed. Therapy was facilitated by the use of an infusion port for i.v. treatments and an indwelling lumbar catheter for intrathecal therapy. Side effects associated with chemotherapy were inappetence, moderate alopecia, pancytopenia resulting in sepsis, and bleeding tendency. In spite of initial success, the leukemia reappeared 120 days into treatment. The gorilla was euthanized 7 days later when respiratory distress developed. Intensive care by the animal staff was a key factor in the treatment of this gorilla.
40665084|Neosporosis was diagnosed in a 16-year-old female white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum) that died suddenly without clinical signs. Histopathology revealed disseminated protozoan tachyzoites in liver, adrenal cortex, kidney, and intestine, with morphology compatible with either Toxoplasma or Neospora. The organism was identified as Neospora caninwn with the use of primary rabbit anti-N. caninum antibody immunohistochemistry and polymerase chain reaction. The exact source of infection remains unknown, but it is suspected that N. caninum oocysts were ingested from the soil.
20095241|An adult female two-toed sloth (Choloepus didactylus) was euthanized because of intractable progressive malaise of undetermined origin. Cachexia, chronic necrotizing adrenalitis, and multiple microgranulomatous lesions of the lymphohemopoietic tissues, liver, pancreas, and heart were the predominant pathologic features. Microorganisms morphologically identified as Histoplasma capsulatum var. capsulatum were encountered in the lesions.
20095496|Mebendazole and ivermectin were studied for the control of gastrointestinal helminthiasis in three species of captive gazelles: Gazella dama mhorr, G. cuvieri, and G. dorcas. Ivermectin was given s.c. in a single 0.2-mg/kg live-weight dose and mebendazole was given in three dosages based on species: G. dorcas, 14 mg/kg; G. cuvieri, 6 mg/kg; and G. dama, 3 mg/kg orally twice daily for 3 consecutive days. Each drug was tested in 13 individuals of each species; 13 additional individuals served as untreated controls. Helminths detected by fecal examination and culture were species of Trichuris, Ostertagia, Cooperia, Trichostrongylus, Nematodirus, and Strongyloides. The prevalence among the total gazelle population was: Trichuris, 55%; Nematodirus, 26%; and other nematodes, 84%. After treatment with mebendazole, the nematode egg counts and the number of animals shedding eggs decreased moderately. After ivermectin treatments, there were marked decreases in the amount of eggs being shed and the number of animals shedding eggs of these nematodes.
20095996|Sera from nine species of clinically healthy nonhuman primates were assayed for T and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) using human immunoassays (a fluorescence polarization immunoassay for T, a microparticle enzyme immunoassay for TSH). The T levels ranged from 20 to 132 nmol/L (x  SD = 62.8  24.7 nmol/L). Levels of TSH were detected only in western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) and Sumatran orang-utans (Pongo pygmaeus abelii) (range, 0.4-10.8 mIU/L; detectable limit = 0.01 mIU/L). The results suggest that the antibodies used in the commercial TSH immunoassay assessed in this study cross-react with gorilla and orang-utan TSH but not with TSH of primates of the genera Macaca, Papio, Erythrocebus. Ateles, Leontopithecus, and Lemur.
20095314|A captive colony of the endangered Olimpia ground beetle, Chrysocarabus (Carabus) olympiae, was found to be infected by entomopathogenic fungi during the latter stages of the winter diapause period. Beauveria bassiana and Verticillium lecanii were isolated from affected beetles. This is the first report of either of these fungi infecting C. olympiae. The insects were individually treated with either povidone-iodine (P-I), nystatin, or clotrimazole. Clotrimazole proved to be the most efficaceous while P-I gave the poorest results. This report highlights the requirement for veterinary input in the captive care of invertebrates and demonstrates that the individual treatment of insects can be warranted. Surviving beetles bred successfully the following year--the first time this species had bred in the U.K.
20096578|This study evaluated the pharmacokinetics of florfenicol in the white-spotted bamboo shark (Chiloscyllium plagiosum). In addition to the pharmacokinetics, the potential application for treatment of bacterial meningitis was explored. A pilot study was used to compare doses of 30, 40, and 50 mg/kg i.m. Following that study, 10 adult sharks were administered a single i.m. dose of florfenicol at 40 mg/kg. Plasma and cerebrospinal fluid were collected and analyzed for florfenicol by a sensitive and specific high-pressure liquid chromatographic method. Pharmacokinetic analysis was performed using both non-compartmental and compartmental techniques. The absorption produced an average peak at 54 (19) hr from the i.m. site of administration, and the half-life was prolonged, averaging 269.79 hr (135.87). Florfenicol plasma concentrations peaked at an average of 11.85 g/ml (1.45) and were maintained above our target minimum inhibitory concentration of 4-8 g/ml for at least 120 hr. Cerebrospinal fluid concentrations peaked at an estimated 9 g/ml around 48 hr, surpassing the target minimum inhibitory concentration for at least 72 hr.
41262580|Entodiniomorphid ciliates occur in the hindgut of both captive and wild African great apes. These ciliates do not form cysts, and therefore they are more susceptible for degradation. This present study focused on the survival, quantification, and decomposition processes of Troglodytella abrassarti trophozoites in the feces of captive chimpanzees. Fecal samples were examined using wet mounts and the merthiolate-iodine-formaldehyde concentration method, and the number of ciliates was expressed as ciliates per gram, which did not differ when examined from three different samples of the same feces. Trophozoites of T. abrassarti survived 5-15 hr after defecation at 25C under aerobic conditions. Decomposition of trophozoites began immediately after defecation; however, most of the trophozoites had a compact shape and visible cilia. Trophozoites, although without cilia, can be detected in the feces 55-65 hr after defecation, although most of the trophozoites were fragmented. The total number of ciliates in the sample started to decrease 35-55 hr after defecation. The absence of entodiniomorphid ciliates in fecal samples could not be caused by delayed feces fixation; instead, the absence was due to low sensitivity of coproscopic techniques. However, because of quick morphologic changes of trophozoites, accurate identification of ciliates in older samples may be difficult or even impossible.
20095663|Salmonellosis caused by Salmonella enterica subspecies arizonae (formerly known as Salmonella arizonae) was diagnosed in three of five captive black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) at the Denver Zoological Gardens. Two of the three animals died despite supportive treatment. The other two rhinoceroses remained asymptomatic and were negative for Salmonella spp. after serial fecal cultures. The source for the salmonellosis was never identified.
20460336|An Amazon River dolphin (Inia geoffrensis) developed a dermatologic syndrome characterized by the occurrence of slow-growing, nodular, s.c. abscesses. Initial biopsies, cultures, and cytologic analysis of needle aspirates from the abscesses indicated steatitis with probable secondary, gram-negative bacterial infection. Treatment with dietary vitamin E supplement and broad-spectrum antibiotics yielded minimal improvement. Subsequent cultures revealed Streptococcus iniae in addition to several gram-negative bacteria. Vigorous surgical management of the abscesses, including lancing, debridement, and irrigation, combined with antimicrobial therapy specific for Streptococcus and gram-negative organisms, and improvement of the animal's diet and environmental water quality led to gradual recovery. When the animal was ill, it demonstrated an inflammatory leukogram and transient uremia. Streptococcus iniae is a serious pathogen of aquacultured fishes and humans and should be included in the differential diagnosis of chronic dermatopathy in river dolphins. Specific antimicrobial therapy, excellent water quality, surgical management of abscesses, and adherence to sanitary protocols should be observed in cases of suspected S. iniae infection in dolphins.
20095689|An outbreak of aspergillosis with the death of six birds in the North Carolina Zoological Park R. J. Reynolds Forest Aviary in the spring of 1993 led to an investigation of the concentration of Aspergillus fumigatus spores in the air. No Aspergillus sp. was found in the facility through use of the drop plate method. (gravitometric sampling) along with swab-sampling of selected surfaces within the exhibit and plating of food samples and nesting material onto petri dishes of nutrient media. A number factors that could stress the avian population were identified. These included excessive heat in the upper portion of the aviary due to the failure of an air handling system, a malfunctioning cooling tower, and large numbers of visitors to the facility (an average of 3,500/day). In addition, the outbreak occurred during a period of increased nesting behavior. Sampling of the fungal population of the air was conducted 1 year later, when no disease was noted, to compare the sensitivity of the commonly used drop plate method (open plates of nutrient media) with a volumetric impaction method (Andersen N-6 Air Sampler). The volumetric method delivered quantitative as well as qualitative data and exhibited more sensitivity for fungal spores of size similar to those of Aspergillus sp.
20096237|During a 10-yr period, a killer whale (Orcinus orca), two Pacific white-sided dolphins (Lagenorhynchus obliquidens), and two bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus), all housed at SeaWorld of Texas from 1991 to 2001, were infected with fungi from the class Zygomycetes. In four out of five cases, the fungi were identified as either Saksenaea vasiformis or Apophysomyces elegans. All fungi in the class Zygomycetes aggressively invade the vascular system. Death occurred within 23 days after the initial clinical signs. The primary site of infection involved the s.c. tissue and skeletal musculature. In one case, infection originated in the placenta and uterus of a periparturient animal. All cases exhibited systemic spread of the organisms, including two to the central nervous system. The fifth and most recent case, a bottlenose dolphin, was treated with liposomal nystatin, an antifungal formulation with reduced nephrotoxicity. This animal initially responded to therapy; however, 14 days after cessation of therapy, fungal growth reoccurred. Thus, the animal was euthanatized 39 days after the initial clinical signs. This drug represents a promising treatment option if combined with early disease detection and aggressive tissue resection.
20095398|Between January 1986 and April 1992 Pseudomonas aeruginosa-infected corneal ulcers occurred in one of 11 Siberian crane (Grus leucogeranus) chicks and two of 21 whooping crane (Grus americana) chicks aged 3 to 18 days. Seventy-seven chicks of nine other crane species and 60 adult Siberian and whooping cranes housed concurrently at the same facility were not affected. Corneal perforation and loss of vision occurred in both whooping cranes despite immediate and aggressive therapy with appropriate topical and systemic antibiotics and topical antiproteases. Both birds subsequently developed irreparable physeal fractures and were euthanized. The affected eye of the Siberian crane chick also perforated and was enucleated. Predisposing factors to infection in these two endangered species may include the bird's age and behavioral traits, which increase the risk of corneal trauma and bacterial inoculation.
20460309|During winter 1992, 48 North American river otters (Lutra canadensis) were anesthetized in cooperation with an otter restoration program administered by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission. Three anesthetic protocols were evaluated: ketamine, ketamine/midazolam, and isoflurane. Heart rate and rhythm, respiratory rate, rectal temperature, oxyhemoglobin saturation, and systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial blood pressures were monitored every 5 min during anesthesia. Anesthesia intervals (induction time, total anesthesia time, recovery time, and total immobilization time) were recorded. Hematologic and serum biochemical analyses were performed on all otters. Ketamine anesthesia (10 mg/kg) was adequate in most otters, but anesthesia time was short (median = 17.6 min), and 15/16 otters exhibited one or more of the following: tachycardia, bradycardia, tachypnea, bradypnea, relative hypoxemia, hyperthermia, random limb movement, and poor myorelaxation. The combination of midazolam (0.25 mg/kg) with ketamine (10 mg/kg) in the river otter produced fewer anesthetic-related complications, longer anesthesia time (median = 26 min), and greater muscle relaxation than did ketamine alone. Most otters anesthetized with isoflurane were free of cardiopulmonary complications, but the animals struggled vigorously during placement of the facemask for induction.
20095831|An adult golden-mantled flying fox (Pteropus pumilus) was diagnosed with nephrotic syndrome on the basis of the findings of proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, hypercholesterolemia, and cranial edema. Membranoproliferative glomerulitis and interstitial nephritis were confirmed antemortem by renal biopsy. The bat had received seven injections of oxytocin in the period immediately prior to presentation. The possible role of oxytocin in the development of the nephropathy is discussed. Supportive care and treatment with a single plasma transfusion, furosemide, and prednisone led to a gradual but complete resolution of the nephrotic syndrome in this animal.
40962247|Vitamin A is essential for a variety of functions, including cellular differentiation, morphogenesis, growth, vision, immune response, and reproduction. A captive population of African foam-nesting frogs (Chiromantis xerampelina) with a known history of vitamin A deficiency had higher than expected incidence of sudden death, bacterial osteomyelitis, and stunted growth. Due to the high prevalence and untreatable nature of the diseases in the population, euthanasia of the population was recommended. Before euthanasia, the population was entered into a study to compare oral dietary supplementation of vitamin A to topical treatment with water-miscible vitamin A palmitate (AQUASOL A <sup></sup> Parenteral, Mayne Pharma Inc., Paramus, New Jersey 07652, USA). Eightyfour frogs, weighing 2-7 g, were divided into a control and three treatment groups of 21 frogs per group, with normalized weight distribution. The control group received standard daily nutrition of crickets dusted with a supplement containing 342,000 international units (IU) vitamin A/kg. The treatment groups consisted of oral supplementation with crickets dusted with a fortified supplement containing 822,510 IU vitamin A/kg; topical vitamin A palmitate 50 IU every other day; and topical vitamin A palmitate 50 IU once a week. After 30 days, all frogs were euthanized, and 12 frogs from each group were analyzed for whole-body vitamin A levels. The control and treatment groups 1, 2, and 3 had average whole-body vitamin A levels of 1,371.4 IU/kg (SE 284.4), 908.7 IU/kg (SE 186.5), 6,385.9 IU/kg (SE 675.9), and 3,521.8 IU/kg (SE 575.1), respectively. These results suggest that oral supplementation using a product high in vitamin A may be ineffective at raising whole-body vitamin A levels above those achieved with standard nutrition. Topical administration of vitamin A on an every other day and once a week dosing schedule achieved levels 4.5-and 2.5-fold higher than standard nutrition, respectively.
20095590|Mammographic techniques similar to those used in humans, produced with or without a special mammography unit, produce images of higher resolution and greater detail than traditional radiographic techniques. Many medical conditions can be easily diagnosed with fewer exposures if mammography techniques are used instead of standard radiographic techniques. In this study, we compared four radiographic techniques, based on image quality, for evaluation of bone and soft tissue in reptiles. Radiographs were obtained using Bucky and table-top techniques with a matched routine radiography film-screen combination and using mammography unit and table-top films with a matched mammography film-screen system. All four techniques were used on three small reptiles, and results were evaluated by 16 radiologists and veterinarians. Films produced using the matched mammography film-screen combination had greater resolution and detail and were considered superior to standard Bucky and table-top radiographs in the evaluation of bone and soft tissues in reptiles.
20095742|The ultrastructure of Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) platelets before and after activation with the agonist platelet activating factor (PAF) was studied. The unactivated platelet has a distinct ultrastructural appearance: the cytoplasm contains large randomly distributed granules but lacks the internal cristae that typify the open canalicular system in many types of mammalian platelets. Following PAF stimulation, large platelet aggregates form, but many platelets remain discrete, with little evidence of pseudopod formation or fusion of membranes. Two types of platelets are visible within the aggregates: those that are morphologically intact and those with gaplike features on the outer membrane and that have become degranulated, appearing as empty swollen sacs. The lack of platelet membrane fusion within the aggregates may permit the reversal of aggregation that is a characteristic response of elephant platelets to PAF.
40962309|Serum chemistry panels and complete mineral and heavy metal screens were performed on blood samples from eight adult northern goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) breeding in Pennsylvania. Serum chemistry panels were performed to determine the health status of each bird. Biochemical values measured included serum glucose, sodium, potassium, chloride, magnesium, uric acid, creatine kinase, and aspartate transaminase. Glucose, creatine kinase, and aspartate transaminase values were elevated when compared with published values for northern goshawks and other species of raptors. Complete mineral screens were performed to better document the blood mineral content of northern goshawks. Plasma calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, total phosphorus, potassium, sodium, and zinc levels were determined. Whole blood heavy metal screens were done to evaluate the northern goshawk's exposure to environmental arsenic, cadmium, lead, thallium, and selenium. Arsenic, cadmium, lead, and thallium whole blood levels of less than 0.05 ppm in all birds indicated that the northern goshawks were not being exposed to significant levels of heavy metals in their environment. Whole blood selenium levels of the northern goshawks were above the minimum dietary requirement for avian species (0.130-0.200 ppm) and below published toxic selenium concentrations.
20095189|An ostrich (Struthio camelus) and two emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) in a private zoological collection developed progressive neurologic disease and eventually became unable to stand or walk. At necropsy, all three birds had extensive multifocal encephalomalacia and inflammation in the brain stem and cerebellum associated with larvae of Baylisascaris procyonis. The birds' pen was contaminated with feces from three to five infected raccoons (Procyon lotor) that had been housed in a barn loft directly overhead. Infective B. procyonis eggs were recovered from soil samples taken within the ostrich--emu pen and from raccoon feces and soil from under a new cage occupied by the three remaining raccoons.
20079485|Based on a 1.3 mg/kg mean dosage determined by metabolic energy scaling, enrofloxacin pharmacokinetics of a single i.v. dose of enrofloxacin in five adult scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx dammah) were determined. Drug concentration versus time curves were best fit by residual analysis to a one-compartment open model with a maximum (mean  SD) serum concentration after distribution of 1.887  0.632 g/ml and an elimination half-life of 41.2  27.5 min. Model-independent parameters were area under the curve (173.63  147.5 gmin/ml), mean volume of distribution (steady state) (0.80  0.30 L/kg), clearance (12.07  7.12 ml/min/kg), and residence time (77.22  72.8 min). Mean serum enrofloxacin concentrations reached the recommended minimum inhibitory concentration (1.0 g/ml). Drug concentrations remained above the minimum inhibitory concentration of most sensitive bacteria (0.5 g/ml) consistently for 90 min. Based on this study, enrofloxacin would have to be administered parenterally to scimitar-horned oryx at 1.6 mg/kg every 6-8 hr (minimally) to maintain appropriate serum concentrations against susceptible bacteria. The metabolic energy scaled dose regimen from this study appeared to be too low for the oryx.
20095660|Two Baird's tapir (Tapirus bairdii) calves born at the Columbus Zoo from the same sire and dam developed hemolytic anemia that was consistent in history and clinical signs with neonatal isoerythrolysis (NI). One calf developed severe, fatal hemolytic anemia after being fed maternal colostrum, and the other developed moderate hemolytic anemia after being fed equine colostrum. No cross-reactivity was demonstrated between sire and dam blood samples, and both tapirs possessed serum antibodies reactive against equine blood group Ca and antigens reactive with several equine blood group D antibodies. Electrophoresis demonstrated significant genetic diversity between tapir and equine blood proteins. Agglutination testing demonstrated strong reactivity between a far greater percentage of equine colostrum samples when tested against sire and dam tapir blood (61% and 65%, respectively) than would be expected for equine blood (2%). These data are suggestive of a diagnosis of NI but are not definitive. Further study is required to determine whether NI occurs in tapirs and whether equine colostrum is harmful to tapir calves.
20460479|Twenty-seven healthy captive lions (Panthera leo) and 13 healthy captive tigers (Panthera tigris) from So Paulo Zoo (Fundao Parque Zoolgico de So Paulo, So Paulo, Brazil) collection were selected for this study. They were anesthetized with ketamine (10 mg/kg) combined with xylazine (1-2 mg/kg) for physical examinations, hematologic and serum chemical analysis and electrocardiogram recording. The main aim of this research was to gather initial information about normal electrocardiographic parameters of large felids. Standard P-QRS-T deflections on leads described for domestic carnivores were analyzed, and they did not greatly differ from those of large felids, taking into account the greater weight and corporal mass of large felids. Heart rate of lions ranged from 42 to 76 beats per minute (bpm). Heart rate of tigers ranged from 56 to 97 bpm. In both species, the most common rhythm detected was normal sinus rhythm followed by sinus arrhythmia; wandering pacemaker was also observed with normal sinus rhythm or sinus arrhythmia. Mean electrical axis lay between +60 and +120. QRS complexes were predominantly positive in leads DI, DII, DIII, and AVF, and negative in AVR and AVL. This study provides insights into normal electrocardiograms of large felids. Wider investigations on the same subject are necessary to establish criteria for the recognition of abnormalities in these species and should include other anesthetic drug(s) combinations and reports of electrocardiographic features of animals with cardiac disease and electrolytes disturbances.
20460521|Chemical immobilization of free-ranging and captive wildlife is often required in many clinical situations. In this trial, tiletamine-zolazepam was combined with the -agonist, detomidine, in order to use the least amount of anesthetic drug possible to achieve a rapid immobilization; to ensure safety for animals and operators; and to be easily reversible with specific antagonists for a fast recovery. Twelve captive Asiatic black bears were anesthetized for clinical procedures, including clinical examination and blood sample collection, and for electrocardiographic and echocardiographic procedures. The combination detomidine-tiletamine-zolazepam, at the dosages of 0.03 mg/kg for detomidine and 1.5 mg/kg for tiletamine-zolazepam, proved to be reliable and effective in immobilizing Asiatic black bears for a 1-hr handling period for routine clinical procedures. Minimal or no respiratory and/or cardiopulmonary adverse side effects were observed, even with dosages calculated on the basis of an estimated body weight. The respiratory rate, pulse rate, and hemoglobin-oxygen saturation remained stable for the entire duration of anesthesia. Cardiac rhythm was always sinusal in all animals. Small injection volumes and darts for blowpipe use were utilized to minimize tissue damage at the site of injection. Induction and recovery were smooth and predictable, and provided for the safety of operators who could observe the bears' activities from a safe distance. Furthermore, the availability of the -antagonist atipamezole to counteract the effects of detomidine made this anesthetic regimen easily controllable and reversible. Moreover, the recovery time can be shortened by intravenous administration of this antagonist drug.
20096704|Intraerythrocytic piroplasms, morphologically indistinguishable from Cytauxzoon felis, were identified in stained blood films from more than one third of free-ranging cougars (Puma concolor couguar) in southern Florida in a study that failed to demonstrate negative effects of piroplasm infection on measured hematologic parameters. However, a recent study with a nested 18s rRNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay identified only 9% of the free-ranging cougars in southern Florida as infected with C. felis but found 83% of these animals were infected with an unnamed small Babesia sp. In this study, hematology and clinical chemistry parameters were determined during the initial appearance of piroplasms in stained blood films of three western cougars housed in northern Florida. One animal became ill, but the remaining two animals did not exhibit clinical signs of disease. The hematocrit decreased in all three cougars concomitant with the first recognized parasitemia. A regenerative response to anemia (increased polychromasia, increased mean cell volume, and increased red cell distribution width) was recognized in two cougars that were examined twice during the following 2 weeks. Thrombocytopenia and probable leukopenia occurred in one animal. The most consistent clinical chemistry findings were increased serum bilirubin concentrations and increased alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activities at the time of initial recognition of parasitemia. Serum protein findings were not consistent in these cougars. The use of PCR and determination of 18S rRNA gene sequences in the blood from these three animals revealed infection with C. felis, but not with the Babesia sp. In this report, we demonstrate that mild hemolytic anemia, and probably liver injury, occurs concomitant with the initial discovery of C. felis piroplasms in stained blood films.
20095340|The purpose of this study was to describe the vertebrate stages of a hemogregarine species naturally infecting the Mojave Desert sidewinder (Crotalus cerastes cerastes) and to partially characterize its effects on the host. Four recently acquired wild-caught sidewinders owned by the Lincoln Park Zoological Garden were examined for hemogregarines by peripheral blood film examination. Two of the four snakes surveyed were parasitemic. Intraerythrocytic gametocytes obtained from both host animals caused marked erythrocytic hypertrophy and dehemoglobinization. Histopathologic evaluation of tissues collected from the most heavily infected snake demonstrated two distinct sizes of preerythrocytic meronts in the liver and pulmonary endothelial cells. No evidence of inflammation was observed in association with the preerythrocytic meronts. No significant difference in serum liver enzyme activities or serum total protein was noted between infected and noninfected snakes. Electrophoretic analysis of the serum proteins in infected and noninfected snakes revealed changes in the serum protein fraction analogous to mammalian beta-globulin and increases in gamma-globulin in association with the infection.
20096261|Feline leukemia virus (FeLV), Gammaretrovirus, and feline immunodeficiency virus, a Lentivirus, are members of the family Retroviridae, and may establish persistent infections in the domestic cat (Felis catus). Cytoproliferative and cytosuppressive disorders may result from infection with these viruses. Morbidity and mortality rates are high in domestic cats worldwide. Infection of endangered neotropic small felids with these viruses could be devastating. To investigate the prevalence of FeLV and feline lentiviruses in neotropic small felids kept in captivity in So Paulo state, Brazil, serum samples from 104 animals belonging to the species Leopardus pardalis, Leopardus tigrinus, Leopardus wiedii, Herpailurus yaguarondi, and Oncifelis geoffroyi were tested for FeLV and feline lentiviruses by commercially available immunoassays. All results were negative, suggesting that retrovirus infection is not an important clinical problem in these populations. Because domestic cats in So Paulo city are naturally infected with these pathogens, and feral cats are commonly found in zoologic facilities in Brazil, preventive measures should be taken to avoid transmission of retroviruses to naive populations of wild and captive neotropic felids in Brazil.
20095719|A polar bear (Ursus maritimus) cub, delivered by a cesarean section, was diagnosed with congenital agenesis of the radius on the basis of clinical presentation and radiology. A specific etiology could not be ascertained. Agenesis of the radius has not been previously reported in any nondomestic species.
20096392|A 2.5-yr-old, intact male Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata) was observed to have a thickened ileum during exploratory laparotomy. Lawsonia intracellularis--associated proliferative enteritis was diagnosed using histopathology (Warthin-Starry stain), immunohistochemistry, and polymerase chain reaction analysis of the ileal biopsy. The animal developed transient diarrhea and severe hypoproteinemia 16 days after surgery but recovered with intensive treatment using azithromycin. Given the fact that very specific tests are required for identifying this organism. L. intracellularis may be underdiagnosed in nonhuman primates.
40665135|Seven captive adult male guanacos (Lama guanicoe) weighing 112.0  10.9 kg (mean  standard deviation) were anesthetized with a combination of medetomidine (90.0  8.8 g/kg), ketamine (2.7  0.3 mg/kg), and butorphanol (0.3  0.03 mg/kg) administered intramuscularly to evaluate its anesthetic and cardiopulmonary effects. Inductions were smooth and rapid, with a mean time to initial effect of 3  1.5 min and a mean time to recumbency of 5.1  3.1 min. Anesthesia was predictable, smooth, and characterized by excellent muscle relaxation. Spontaneous ventilation was maintained throughout anesthesia in all animals. Marked bradycardia ranging from 24 to 52 beats/min was noted across all time points for all individuals. Median heart rates decreased during the procedures, but median heart rate, temperature, respiratory rate, and end-tidal carbon dioxide values over the 20 min monitoring period were not significantly different. Mean arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO) on initial sampling was 65.9  14.8 mm Hg, with six of seven animals exhibiting hypoxemia (PaO < 80 mm Hg). After oxygen supplementation for 20 min, mean PaO values showed statistically significant increases to a mean value of 127.7  32.4 mm Hg (P = 0.0014). Mean arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO) showed a significant increase over the monitoring period (P = 0.0004), and mild hypoventilation (PaCO > 45 mm Hg) was noted in four animals. Mean total duration of procedure time was 23.3  3.3 min. All guanacos received 0.45  0.04 mg/kg atipamezole and 2.7  0.25 mg/kg naltrexone administered intramuscularly for anesthetic antagonism. Recoveries were smooth and uncomplicated. Mean time to sternal recumbency after antagonist administration was 7.7  4.5 min, and time to successful standing was 12.9  5.0 min, with all animals standing on first attempt.
20096715|Mycoplasma iguanae was the suspected etiology of spinal disease in feral iguanas (Iguana iguana) from Florida. In an experimental infection study, juvenile iguanas were inoculated with M. iguanae intravenously or by instillation into the nares. Blood samples obtained at intervals postinoculation were all culture negative for mycoplasma. Gross anatomic and histologic findings at necropsy 12 wk postinoculation were unremarkable. Mycoplasmas were cultured in high numbers from the posterior choanae and upper trachea of some inoculated and control iguanas at necropsy. The 16S rDNA gene sequence of these isolates revealed they were all a previously undescribed strain, Mycoplasma insons proposed species nova. M. iguanae. Mycoplasma iguanae was not recovered from the conjunctivae, choanae, trachea, lung, coelomic cavity, blood, heart, liver, spleen, limb joints, brain, or spinal cord of inoculated iguanas, and the iguanas did not seroconvert. We conclude that M. iguanae is unlikely to be an agent of acute disease in iguanas and that M. insons can be considered as normal flora in the respiratory tract of iguanas.
20096574|Feces and duodenal scrapings were collected from 22 coyotes (Canis latrans) killed in managed hunts in northeastern Pennsylvania. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods were used to detect Giardia and Cryptosporidium spp. PCR-amplified fragments of Giardia and Cryptosporidium spp. SSU-rRNA genes were subjected to DNA sequence analysis for species/genotype determination. Seven coyotes (32%) were positive for G. duodenalis: three assemblage C, three assemblage D, and one assemblage B. Six coyotes (27%) were positive for Cryptosporidium spp. One isolate shared 99.7% homology with C. muris, whereas five others (23%) shared 100% homology with C. canis, coyote genotype. This is the first report on multiple genotypes of Giardia spp. in coyotes and on the prevalence of Cryptosporidium spp. genotypes in coyotes.
20095684|North American river otters (Lutra canadensis) were anesthetized with tiletamine-zolazepam or tiletamine-zolazepam-flumazenil combinations in cooperation with the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission Otter Restoration Project for evaluation of physiologic changes during anesthesia. Sixteen otters received tiletamine-zolazepam (4 mg/kg combined, i.m.) in 1994. Induction and recovery times were recorded and physiologic data (heart rate and rhythm, respiratory rate, rectal temperature, relative oxyhemoglobin saturation, and mean arterial blood pressure) were collected at 5-min intervals. Respiratory depression developed initially in all otters, and median relative oxyhemoglobin saturation remained below 90% for the first 15 min of anesthesia. Anesthetic induction with tiletamine-zolazepam was rapid and smooth, but recovery was prolonged (median = 89 min) and characterized by persistent head motion. In 1995, flumazenil was evaluated as a partial antagonist for tiletamine-zolazepam anesthesia in otters. Sixteen otters were anesthetized with tiletamine-zolazepam (4 mg/kg combined, i.m.) and given flumazenil (1 mg per 25 mg of zolazepam) after 20 min. Flumazenil markedly shortened recovery time in all otters anesthetized with tiletamine-zolazepam (median = 65 min) with no adverse effects.
20460483|This study reports urinalysis values for three species of captive rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis, Dicerorhinus sumatrensis, and Diceros bicornis) and evaluates individual and species differences. Repeated urinalysis was conducted on 11 individuals to establish normal reference ranges. Although no individual or species differences existed in urinary values for pH, all species differed in specific gravity. Rhinoceros urine demonstrated many physical and chemical properties similar to that of the horse, but reliability of this comparison was limited. Urinary pH in the rhinoceros was within range of that established for the horse and other large herbivores. However, all rhinoceros species exhibited urinary specific gravities below the lower limit of the normal equine reference range. Comparative urinalysis using an outside laboratory source confirmed the results of this study and illustrated the value of conducting in-house analysis. These results are the first data available on reference ranges for urine parameters in the greater one-horned, Sumatran, and African black rhinoceros and provide a useful diagnostic tool for the veterinary care of individuals in captivity.
41417167|Wild ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta) can be anesthetized with Telazol via blow dart, but improved techniques are needed so that each lemur is reliably induced with a single dart. Medetomidine-butorphanol (MB) is a good supplemental protocol to be administered once the lemurs are captured, but other protocols may provide longer periods of sedation and immobility. One possible way of increasing the efficacy of each dart is to increase the time it is retained in the leg. In this investigation, a "double-sleeve" technique was used to try to increase the time of dart retention. This technique used a standard silicone sleeve on the needle, along with a second sleeve at the needle hub. Induction values were compared between lemurs darted with double-sleeve needles and those induced with needles that each had a single silicone sleeve. Once the lemurs were induced, supplementation with MB (0.04 mg/kg and 0.2 mg/kg) was compared with supplementation with ketamine-medetomidine (KM) (10 mg/kg and 0.04 mg/kg). Twenty-three lemurs were darted with Telazol by using single-sleeve needles, and 24 were darted with double-sleeve needles. The number of darts per lemur and number of escapes were not different between animals darted with a single sleeve compared with a double-sleeve; thus, there were no significant improvements in induction success with the double-sleeve technique. Adequate sedation and muscle relaxation were achieved with both MB and KM; however, lemurs that received MB were more relaxed and needed fewer additional supplements that those that received KM. Single-sleeve dart needles are recommended for Telazol induction of ring-tailed lemurs via blow dart and MB is preferable to KM for supplemental sedation and muscle relaxation.
20095957|Acute unilateral keratomalacia, probably secondary to trauma, occurred in a greater one-horned rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis) transferred between zoologic facilities. Following 2 days of medical treatment, a 360 conjunctival surgical graft was performed. Staphylococcus and yeast were isolated from a perioperative culture of the affected eye and were treated with antimicrobials. There was rapid healing and minimal midcorneal scar formation with peripheral corneal clarity.
20096076|Preductal aortic coarctation and patent ductus arteriosus are described in a neonatal Sumatran tiger, Panthera tigris sumatrae. Eight days postpartum, the cub appeared weak, and it was separated from the dam for hand rearing. On examination it was dehydrated and hypothermic. Despite treatment, the animal's condition worsened and the cub died 12 days postpartum. Gross postmortem and histologic examinations revealed a preductal aortic coarctation and patent ductus arteriosus with a patent foramen ovale and moderate dilatation of the right ventricle of the heart. Focal pneumonia and mild hepatitis were also present; however, diffuse pulmonary congestion and edema were considered to be the proximate cause of death.
20096552|Recent studies of serum iron and iron binding capacity have indicated that tapirs could be at risk of developing hemochromatosis. However, in recent surveys of pathologic findings in tapirs, hemochromatosis was not reported as a cause of death. This study reviews necropsy reports from three species of tapir (Baird's tapir [Tapirus bairdii], Malayan tapir [Tapirus indicus], and Brazilian tapir [Tapirus terrestris]) at the Philadelphia Zoological Garden between 1902 and 1994. Twelve cases of hemosiderosis, including fatal hemochromatosis in two Baird's tapirs, were found among 19 cases examined histologically. Hemochromatosis has previously been reported in the horse, rhinoceros, and in one Brazilian tapir. Dietary factors were investigated but could not be confirmed to have contributed to the incidence of hemosiderosis and hemochromatosis in the three species of tapir in the Philadelphia Zoological Garden collection.
20095477|Bilateral adrenal cysts were discovered in a common dolphin during a routine necropsy. The dolphin appeared to be a mature female with immature reproductive structures. The adrenals were removed, scanned ultrasonographically, sectioned, and stained. The occurrence of adrenal cysts in humans and other animals are reviewed.
20095410|Parasitism by strongylate nematodes has been a continuing concern in exotic ungulates kept in large multispecies enclosures at the San Diego Wild Animal Park. In an attempt to evaluate and modify the existing control program, nine species of the subfamilies Antilopinae and Hippotraginae were followed over a 2-yr period to monitor levels of nematode egg shedding and response to two different doses (114 g/ton feed, 228 g/ton feed) of fenbendazole milled in pelleted feed. Paired pretreatment and posttreatment fecal samples were obtained at six treatment periods from individually identified animals for fecal egg counts. For 1 yr, Persian gazelles (Gazella subgutturosa) were intensively monitored by performing egg counts and pasture larval counts at 3-wk intervals. Over all nine ungulate species, fenbendazole treatment was associated with a significant (P &lt 0.05) reduction in fecal egg counts. Response to the two anthelmintic doses was not significantly different (P &gt 0.05). Time series analysis with cross-correlation indicated that fecal egg counts significantly influenced the larval counts 6 wk later (r = 0.613, P &lt 0.05). Year-round presence of infective larvae on irrigated pasture makes strategic parasite control difficult and may necessitate frequent anthelmintic treatments (&gt3/yr) for adequate parasite control.
20096620|An 18-mo-old female Hartmann's Mountain zebra (Equus zebra hartmannae) died secondary to a traumatically induced cervical fracture. Microscopic examination of renal tissues revealed occasional coccidian sporocysts and budding sporonts containing sporoblasts encased within a bilaminated cell membrane within the renal tubules, compatible with a morphologic diagnosis of Klossiella equi, a coccidian parasite of renal parenchyma in equids. Repeated urinalyses of several Hartmann's Mountain zebra failed to reveal sporocysts, which are believed to be the infective stage of the parasite. The definitive life cycle of K. equi is unknown, although transmission is presumed to be via oral ingestion of sporocysts that are passed in the urine. Although generally considered an incidental finding, K. equi has been associated with nephrosis and nephritis in immune-compromised equids and should be considered when evaluating renal disease in equids, including zebras.
20095915|The mean values for amplitude and duration of electrocardiogram intervals, cardiac rhythm, and mean frontal plane QRS-axis were measured in 18 free-living weanling southern elephant seals (Mirounga leonina) anesthetized with tiletamine-zolazepam. Animals were 30-50 days old and had been weaned about 3 wk earlier. All animals had a normal sinus rhythm. The mean P-wave duration per animal had a range of 0.06-0.09 sec, and mean PR interval and QT interval ranges were 0.08-0.12 sec and 0.25-0.26 sec, respectively. The amplitude of the R wave was 0.22 mV in a VR and 0.5 mV in DI. The electrical axis was between -60 and +30 in 13 of the weanlings. Electrocardiograms were also obtained from five anesthetized juveniles and one adult female. The electrical axis of juveniles was between 0 and 120, whereas the QRS vector for the adult female had an orientation of -150. This report is the first detailed description of the southern elephant seal electrocardiogram.
20096660|Low egg fertility and hatchability is a common problem in captive populations of rockhopper penguins (Eudyptes chrysocome chrysocome). These conditions make sustaining a captive population challenging. A method for collecting and evaluating semen from rockhopper penguins was developed to assist in the evaluation of low egg fertility found in one captive population. Six adult male rockhopper penguins were conditioned to allow semen collection once a week from the start of breeding season until ejaculates no longer contained sperm. A total of 59 ejaculates was collected between 17 September and 31 December 2004. Forty-five of these samples were evaluated for volume, pH, sperm concentration, and sperm quality (motility, viability, and morphology). There was a large variation between individuals and between collections for each individual. The mean motility was 34.5% (22%). Mean volume of ejaculate was 0.23 ml (.31 ml). Mean concentration was 16.9  10 sperm/ml (48.7  10 sperm/ml). Mean number of sperm per collection was 1.7  10 (4.2  10). Mean percentage of living sperm was 82.9% (18.1%). Mean percentage of sperm with normal morphology was 82.1% (18.8%). Mean pH was 6.47 (0.49). During this season, only one of these males paired with a female. The pair produced one fertile egg, but the embryo died early in incubation. Male rockhopper penguins had low sperm concentration and low motility indicating that low male fertility may be contributing to the poor egg fertility rate. This work represents the first step in an ongoing study to improve captive breeding of rockhopper penguins.
20096522|Toxicosis associated with benzimidazole anthelmintics has been reported with increasing frequency in zoologic collections. Clinical signs, clinicopathologic abnormalities, and gross and histologic lesions are primarily the result of damage to the gastrointestinal and hematopoietic systems. Profound leukopenia, especially granulocytopenia, is the most common and severe clinicopathologic change associated with benzimidazole administration. Death usually occurs from overwhelming systemic bacterial and/or fungal infections secondary to severe immunosuppression. In this 125-day study, six male Hermann's tortoises (Testudo hermanni) were treated orally with two 5-day courses of fenbendazole 2 wk apart at a dosage of 50 mg/kg. Serial blood samples were used to assess hematologic and plasma biochemical changes before, during, and following the treatment period. Although the tortoises remained healthy, blood sampling indicated an extended heteropenia with transient hypoglycemia, hyperuricemia, hyperphosphatemia, and equivocal hyperproteinemia/hyperglobulinemia, which were considered to be in response to fenbendazole administration. Changes in several other clinicopathologic parameters appeared to correlate with fenbendazole administration. The hematologic and biochemical changes seen in the healthy animals in this study should be considered when treating compromised tortoises with fenbendazole. Hematologic and plasma biochemical status of tortoises/reptiles should be determined before treatment and monitored during the treatment period. The risk of mortality of an individual from nematode infection should be assessed relative to the potential for metabolic alteration and secondary septicemia following damage to hematopoietic and gastrointestinal systems by fenbendazole.
20095167|During capture of free-living wildlife, stress is potentially the greatest problem encountered. For this reason, reduction in induction time during immobilization is of paramount importance. Hyaluronidase reduces induction times, although no reports have assessed stability of the enzyme in the drug mixtures used for chemical capture. This report presents information on the stability of hyaluronidase in combination with etorphine and xylazine, one of the most common drug mixtures used in chemical immobilization of wildlife. Hyaluronidase activity remains high for at least 48 hr, provided storage temperatures can be maintained at 30C. Storage at 40C is associated with rapid loss of enzyme activity in the mixture.
27751747|The nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) meloxicam is a very popular anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and antipyretic agent used in veterinary medicine. To determine the pharmacokinetics of this NSAID in rabbits following a single dose and 10-day period of dosing, eight clinically normal, 8-mo-old New Zealand white rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) were administered 0.2 mg/kg meloxicam p.o. daily. Pharmacokinetic analysis of the meloxicam was determined via noncompartmental analysis. After oral administration, mean  standard deviation values for area under the curve were 1.8  0.50 and 2.1  0.55 g  h/ml, and maximum plasma concentrations were 0.17  0.06 and 0.24  0.07 g/ml for Day 1 and Day 10, respectively. The half-life was approximately 8 hr. Administration of meloxicam at a dosage of 0.2 to 0.3 mg/kg p.o. every 24 hr is suggested. Although a higher dose may be required for optimum effects, this would require efficacy and safety studies in this species. Meloxicam administered at 0.2 mg/kg p.o. daily for 10 day was well tolerated by the rabbits.
20096634|Feces from 62 beavers (Castor canadensis) in Massachusetts were examined by fluorescence microscopy (IFA) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for Microsporidia species, Cryptosporidium spp., and Giardia spp. between January 2002 and December 2004. PCR-positive specimens were further examined by gene sequencing. Protist parasites were detected in 6.4% of the beavers. All were subadults and kits. Microsporidia species were not detected. Giardia spp. was detected by IFA from four beavers; Cryptosporidium spp. was also detected by IFA from two of these beavers. However, gene sequence data for the ssrRNA gene from these two Cryptosporidium spp.--positive beavers were inconclusive in identifying the species. Nucleotide sequences of the TPI, ssrRNA, and -giardin genes for Giardia spp. (deposited in GenBank) indicated that the four beavers were excreting Giardia duodenalis Assemblage B, the zoonotic genotype representing a potential source of waterborne Giardia spp. cysts.
20460277|Seventeen hand-reared crested wood partridge (Rollulus rouloul) chicks, 1-31 days old, died of Aspergillus pneumonia or septicemia between September and December 1990. The clinical course of the disease was acute to peracute. Clinical signs included anorexia, depression, dyspnea, and sudden death. Gross lesions varied from yellow miliary nodules throughout the lungs and on air sac surfaces to large caseated masses that involved the lung, heart, liver, spleen, kidney, musculature, and bone. Microscopically, granulomatous pneumonia was the predominant finding. Many granulomas contained fungal hyphae. Aspergillus spp. were cultured from the lungs of eight birds. Environmental cultures from the incubation/hatching and brooder rooms grew Aspergillus spp. Prophylactic therapy with flucytosine did not prevent deaths. Attempts to reduce exposure to spores did not significantly reduce mortality.
20095677|As part of ongoing ecological studies and reproduction enhancement efforts for macaws in southwestern Peru, a health survey of parent- and hand-reared scarlet macaws (Ara macao) and blue and gold macaws (Ara ararauna) was conducted in 1994. Thirty-three birds were examined during handling procedures, and blood samples were collected from 27 (9 parent reared, 18 hand reared) for laboratory analysis. All but one bird appeared to be in good condition, with no abnormality noted during physical examination. Hematology, plasma chemistries, and plasma vitamin and mineral levels were studied and correlated with the results of bacterial and viral serology. Positive antibody titers for Salmonella and psittacine herpesvirus were found. These diseases have the potential to affect wildlife population dynamics, and Salmonella may have public health significance. Serological tests for avian influenza, infectious laryngotracheitis, paramyxovirus-1, -2, -3, polyoma virus, chlamydiosis, and aspergillosis were negative. Differences in disease prevalence were found between rearing situations.
20096714|The conscious, resting heart rate and body temperature of healthy western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) is not reported in the literature. To obtain this information, two clinically healthy adult male western lowland gorillas in a training program were conditioned to allow auscultation and obtain tympanic temperatures. The mean heart rate was 73.8  8.96 beats per minute (n = 176), and it was lower than mean heart rate reported in studies on anesthetized gorillas. The mean tympanic temperature was 35.5  0.7C (95.9  1.23F) (n = 209). The right tympanic temperature (rtt) and left tympanic temperature (ltt) were recorded separately for one gorilla. A small but statistically significant difference was present between the mean rtt of 35.8  0.7C (96.5  1.2F) (n = 137) and the mean ltt of 35.7  0.8C (96.2  1.3F) (n = 121).
41262663|The genus Arcobacter encompasses campylobacter-like organisms that grow in air at 25C. Arcobacter has been detected or isolated from clinically healthy livestock as well as aborted fetuses and has been presumptively identified as either Campylobacter or Leptospira, based on its growth in selective semisolid media. Because reports from nonlivestock species are limited, this study examined nine presumptive isolates of Arcobacter spp. from an alpaca (Vicugnapacos), black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis), white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum), gorilla (Troglodytes gorilla), gazelle (Eudorcas thomsoni), rhea (Rhea americana), and aborted equine fetuses. Seven of these nine phenotypically identified isolates of Arcobacter were confirmed by a multiplex polymerase chain reaction assay. The remaining two isolates were subsequently identified as Arcobacter skirrowii (Case 5) and Campylobacter jejuni (Case 6) by sequence analysis of a 527-base pair fragment of the 16S rRNA gene. Together, these cases underscore the challenges to a clinical laboratory of identifying Arcobacter in cases which mimic vibrionic abortion or leptospirosis.
20096353|The pharmacokinetics of a long-acting oxytetracycline preparation administered i.v. and i.m. to American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) at 10 mg/kg was determined. Plasma levels of oxytetracycline were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography, and the resulting concentration versus time curve was analyzed using compartmental modeling and noncompartmental modeling techniques for i.v. and i.m. samples, respectively. A two-compartment model best represented the i.v. data. Intravenous administration of oxytetracycline resulted in an extrapolated mean plasma concentration at time zero of 60.63  28.26 g/ml, with average plasma drug levels of 2.82  0.71 g/ml at the end of the 192-hr sampling period. Plasma volume of distribution for i.v. oxytetracycline was 0.20  0.09 L/kg, with a harmonic mean elimination half-life of 15.15 hr and mean total body clearance rate of 0.007  0.002 L/hr/kg. Intramuscular administration of oxytetracycline achieved a mean peak plasma concentration of 6.85  1.96 g/ml at 1 hr after administration, with average plasma drug levels of 4.96  1.97 g/ml at the end of the 192-hr sampling period. The harmonic mean terminal elimination half-life for i.m. oxytetracycline was 131.23 hr. Based on the results of this study, long-acting preparations of oxytetracycline administered parenterally to American alligators at 10 mg/kg q 5 days is expected to maintain plasma concentrations above the minimum inhibitory concentration of 4.0 g/ml for susceptible organisms.
20096333|An umbilical hernia was diagnosed in a 2-wk-old Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) by physical and ultrasonographic examinations. Umbilical herniorrhaphy was elected because the defect was large (approximately 7 cm long and 10 cm deep) and could potentially lead to incarceration of an intestinal loop. General anesthesia was induced with a combination of ketamine, xylazine, and diazepam and maintained with isoflurane in oxygen. The hernial sac was explored and contained fibrous tissue, fat, and an intestinal loop but no adhesions. The hernial sac was resected and the body wall closed using the technique of simple apposition. Following a superficial wound infection, the surgical site healed with no further complications.
20095396|Zinc toxicosis was diagnosed in four species of diving ducks associated with the ingestion of pennies and fence clips containing zinc. Clinical signs included weight loss, depression, anorexia, and posterior paresis. A presumptive diagnosis of zinc toxicosis was made in one Bahama pintail (Anas bahamensis bahamensis) and two redhead ducks (Aythya americana) that had ingested metal fence clips. Diagnosis was based on complete recovery of the ducks after endoscopic removal of the clips, which contained 96% zinc. Assays for zinc and other minerals were performed on four Barrow's goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica) that died and one American merganser (Mergus merganser americanus) survivor. All of the animals had ingested one or two pennies. Two of four goldeneyes, from which serum was available, had elevated zinc concentrations of 12.6 and 13.1 g/ml (normal range, 1.84-4.65 g/ml, n = 8); all four goldeneyes had liver zinc concentrations ranging from 242 to 548 g/g (normal, 35.9 g/g, wet weight basis, n = 1). The American merganser from which a penny was removed endoscopically from the gizzard had an elevated serum zinc concentration of 16.6 g/ml. Pertinent pathologic findings in the four goldeneyes included necrotizing ventriculitis. Pennies in various stages of dissolution were present in the ventriculus. The pancreas had degenerative lesions that resulted in acinar atrophy and ductular proliferation.
20079493|Technical grade milbemycin (A-A oxime) was formulated in propylene glycol to produce a stock concentration of 5.0 mg/ml. Groups of six pond-reared freshwater angelfish (Pterophyllum scalare) randomly housed in 32-L aquaria were exposed to milbemycin by prolonged bath at 63, 125, and 188 PPB or by its incorporation into their gelatinized food at 2.5 mg or 5.0 mg/100 g food, which they were fed ad lib. for 1 day. Control fish were exposed to a prolonged bath (24 hr without charcoal filtration) of 0.8 ml propylene glycol/32 L water, were given gelatinized food incorporating 1 ml propylene glycol/100 g food ad lib. for 1 day, or were untreated (no propylene glycol exposure). All fish treated at 188 PPB and the smallest individuals from the 63- and 125-PPB aquaria died. Other fish at 125 PPB exhibited transient lethargy and increased opercular movement but recovered within 24 hr. No deleterious effects were noted in the fish given milbemycin orally. Pretreatment parasitic nematode infection rate, evaluated by gut dissection of 16 randomly selected fish, was 68.75%. Identification of nematodes to species was not performed. No significant differences in infection rates between treated and untreated groups were detected.
20095617|One of 14 captive, wild-caught South American giant tree frogs (Phyllomedusa bicolor) displayed progressive ulcerative erythematous dermatitis on the dorsal skin lateral to the vertebral column and on the left hind leg. It had septicemia of unknown etiology. Tissue imprints revealed a mass of microsporidial spores. Red blood cells were parasitized by gamonts of Hepatozoon sp. (Apicomplexa: Hepatozooidae) or meronts of Babesiosoma stableri (Apicomplexa: Dactylostomatidae) or had inclusions and single or multiple cytoplasm lesions caused by frog erythrocytic virus. Monocytes had lesions in the nuclei and cytoplasm caused by frog leucocytic virus. Intramuscular injections with 6.25 mg of chloramphenicol sodium succinate for 18 days and topically administration of oxytetracycline HCl with polymyxin B sulfate for 21 days led to healing of the lesions. The total prevalence of infection for 14 P. bicolor was 50% for B. stableri and Hepatozoon sp., 36% for frog erythrocytic virus, and 21% for frog leucocytic virus.
20094999|Fourteen captive orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus), ages 0.5-20 yr (mean  SD: 9.7  6.4 yr), were examined for the presence of periodontal disease. The percentage of tooth surfaces with supragingival plaque (%P) and gingival surfaces (%G) that bled upon superficial probing were calculated. Subgingival plaque samples were obtained and examined using darkfield microscopy. In eight animals, subgingival plaque from the deepest pocket was cultured anaerobically and analyzed. Attachment loss was found in eight animals. The mean age (SD) of animals with attachment loss was 13.5  5.2 yr versus 4.6  3.5 yr for those without attachment loss. The %P was 74  32% and 41  34% for animals with and without attachment loss, respectively. The %G was 36  45% and 21  40%, respectively. The mean differential darkfield counts were 21.4  19.0% cocci, 15.5  18.2% motile rods, 22.5  16.8% spirochetes, and 40.6  14.0% others (filaments, fusiforms, and nonmotile rods) for the animals with attachment loss and 50.5  33.0% cocci, 5.3  4.8% motile rods, 16.7  17.7% spirochetes, and 27.5  20.7% others for animals without attachment loss. Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, Bacteroides intermedius, Eikenella corrodens, Wolinella sp., and Capnocytophaga sp. were isolated from both healthy and diseased sites. The clinical and microbiologic features of orangutan periodontal disease appear to be quite similar to those of humans.
20095642|An adult female canebrake rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus atricaudatus) at Zoo Atlanta (Atlanta, Georgia, USA) had a subcutaneous mass on the left lateral abdomen. Microscopically, the tumor contained a pleomorphic population of cells with abundant intracytoplasmic brown to gold nonrefractile pigment (chromatophores), large stellate cells resembling neurons, and small stellate cells whose cytoplasmic processes formed a fibrillar matrix. The pigment stained black with the Fontana-Masson technique and was positive with the periodic acid--Schiff technique (prior to and after diastase treatment). Neuron-specific enolase was detected in the large stellate cells using an immunohistochemical staining technique. In addition, glial fibrillary acidic and S-100 proteins were detected in the chromatophores with immunohistochemical staining. The smaller stellate cells were strongly S-100 positive. Ultrastructurally, chromatophores contained intracytoplasmic structures composed of concentric lamellar membranes bordered by a triple-layer outer membrane. The morphology of these structures was compatible with pterinosomes. Three fluorescent pigments were isolated from the neoplasm by one-dimensional chromatography and characterized by spectrophotometry and spectrofluorometry.
20096082|Two 6-yr-old male sibling Amur leopards (Panthera pardus orientalis) housed together at the Pittsburgh Zoo presented for acute onset of diarrhea with no changes in appetite or behavior. Heat-fixed modified Wright-stained and Gram-stained fecal smears revealed a mixed bacterial population with a large number of gram-positive Clostridium perfringens-like spores (&gt20 per high-power oil immersion field). In addition, C. perfringens enterotoxin was isolated from one leopard at 1:256, confirming the presence of C. perfringens enterotoxicosis. Treatment with oral metronidazole, tylosin tartrate, and psyllium fiber was prescribed, with return of more normal stool by the third day of treatment. Fecal consistency steadily improved and was considered normal by the time all prescribed treatments were complete. Diarrhea has not recurred. Partially thawed meat in the leopards' diet may have precipitated the production of an endogenous clostridial enterotoxicosis by disrupting digestive tract flora with resultant clostridial overgrowth and sporulation.
20096048|A captive 9-yr-old female Siberian tiger (Panthera tigris altaica) at the Lisbon Zoo was treated with equine chorionic gonadotropin followed 80 hr later by human chorionic gonadotropin to stimulate follicular development and ovulation, respectively. Forty-one hours after the second hormone administration, the tiger was subjected to transvaginal artificial insemination with diluted fresh semen containing 500  10 motile spermatozoa obtained from an 8-yr-old male Siberian tiger via electroejaculation. After anesthesia, the female tiger was placed in an inclined position with the hind limbs elevated during and after the insemination and was maintained in this position for 15 min to minimize semen reflux. An anesthetic reversal agent was then administered. After a 103-day gestation, the female gave birth to three apparently healthy cubs that survived 24-48 hr. These results demonstrate that transvaginal artificial insemination can be successfully performed in the Siberian tiger to produce full-term offspring.
41262577|Cardiomyopathy is a common finding in captive African hedgehogs (Atelerix albiventris) at postmortem exam. To date, treatment attempts have been mostly empirical and unrewarding. The objective of this study was to determine reference cardiac values for captive African hedgehogs based on echocardiogram, electrocardiogram (ECG), and radiographs. Adult African hedgehogs with no clinical signs of cardiac disease (n = 13) were selected. Each animal was anesthetized with isoflurane via facemask and an echocardiogram, ECG, and radiographs were performed. Standard measurements were taken and the descriptive statistics performed. Values were comparable to limited data available in other hedgehog species and other similar-sized exotic species. Two animals were removed from consideration of reference values due to valvular defects that were considered significant. These data are the first establishing cardiac parameters in normal African hedgehogs using radiographie cardiac measurement, echocardiogram, and ECG. Evaluating animals with possible cardiomyopathy may allow for earlier diagnosis and more successful treatment.
20094945|Hypothyroidism was diagnosed in a 13-yr-old female reticulated giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis reticulata) based on clinical signs of poor hair coat, hoof abnormalities, and poor reproductive history. Supporting laboratory data included a nonregenerative anemia (hematocrit 21%) and decreased serum thyroid hormone levels (total thyroxine, 23.8 ng/ml; total triiodothyronine, 0.38 ng/ml). Levothyroxine sodium treatment was implemented, and 0.014 mg/kg/day appeared to be the most effective dose leading to improvements in hoof quality without weight loss.
27751762|Capybara (Hydrochaeris hydrochaeris), the largest rodent in the world, is widely distributed in South America. These animals live in areas with abundant water, which makes them a potential reservoir for Leptospira. The objective of this study was to investigate seroconversion, leptospiremia, and leptospiruria in capybaras experimentally infected with a virulent strain of Leptospira interrogans serovar Pomona. Seven capybaras were used: one control and six infected. Agglutinins against serovar Pomona were initially detected in serum 6 or 7 day after innoculation with Leptospira (1091011 organisms, given i.v.), peaked (titer, 3,200) between 9 and 27 day, and were still present at 83 day (end of study). The earliest and latest isolation of leptospires from the blood was from 212 day and from urine, 919 day after exposure. However, polymerase chain reaction and isolation results from kidney and liver samples were negative for leptospires. The control animal tested negative on all diagnostic tests. Hence, the capybara can serve as a host for Leptospira.
20096081|A neonate male owl monkey (Aotus sp.) was identified cytogenetically as a hybrid after it failed to nurse and died. Phenotypically, the male parent possessed characteristics of the "gray-neck group," and G-banded karyotypes identified him as Aotus lemurinus griseimembra (2n = 53), heterozygous for the centric fusion of chromosomes 13 and 14. The female parent belonged to the "red-neck group" and was identified cytogenetically as Aotus nancymaae (2n = 54). The neonate hybrid had 2n = 54 chromosomes with 13 homologous pairs of autosomes, 26 nonhomologous autosomes, and XY sex chromosomes. Thirteen of the nonhomologous chromosomes represented the paternal complement, and 13 were from the maternal complement. Chromosomal rearrangements occurring between the karyotypes of A. l. griseimembra and A. nancymaae were believed to include two paracentric inversions, a reciprocal translocation, and two complex rearrangements involving pericentric inversion, telocentromeric fusion, and centromeric adjustment. Cytogenetic analyses are necessary to identify most Aotus taxa and thus should be utilized to pair chromosomally compatible animals and avoid interspecies hybridization.
20095409|Blood samples were collected from 22 free-ranging adult African elephants (Loxodonta africana) in the Kruger National Park, Republic of South Africa, and analyzed for concentrations of serum sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, copper, zinc, and iron. Fourteen of the animals (males) were anesthetized at the time of sample collection; the remaining samples were obtained from male (n = 4) and female (n = 4) elephants during an annual population control program. There were no gender differences in mineral concentrations among culled elephants. Serum calcium, magnesium, copper, and sodium concentrations also were similar between anesthetized and culled animals. In contrast, serum potassium and zinc concentrations were higher and serum iron concentration was lower in culled elephants than in anesthetized animals.
20095776|Necropsies performed between 1989 and 1995 on 15 African rope squirrels (Funisciurus substriatus) and 20 African ground squirrels (Xerus erythropus) from the Baltimore Zoo revealed 13 cases of gongylonemiasis. Nematodes were embedded in the epithelium of the esophagus, pharynx, buccal mucosa, and tongue, resulting in varying degrees of esophagitis, pharyngitis, stomatitis, and glossitis, respectively. Routine fecal examinations were negative, and the nematodes appeared to be unaffected by repeated treatments with ivermectin. Most of the affected animals had shown clinical signs of dyspnea and/or inanition and emaciation. Suppurative rhinitis was also a frequent finding at necropsy and was associated with the presence of the nematodes in eight animals. Dissection of whole nematodes from formalin-fixed specimens revealed morphologic features consistent with Gongylonema macrogubernaculum, a species previously only reported in nonhuman primates. The squirrels were housed in the same building with numerous primate species, and a review of pathology records revealed esophageal gongylonemiasis in three lion-tailed macaques (Macaca silenus), lingual gongylonemiasis in a spotnose monkey (Cercopithecus buettikoferi), and buccal gongylonemiasis in a brown-headed tamarin (Saguinus fuscicollis). Examination of whole nematodes dissected from one of the lion-tailed macaques also demonstrated the unique morphology of G. macrogubernaculum. Nematodes belonging to the species Gongylonema are acquired by ingestion of the intermediate host, the cockroach. This is the first report of G. macrogubernaculum in a nonprimate species and suggests that captive African squirrels can serve as reservoir hosts for this parasite in a zoo environment.
20460548|An outbreak of Yersinia pseudotuberculosis (Yptb) occurred in a closed colony of Egyptian fruit bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus) and resulted in the death of seven bats over a 6-week period. An initial survey of the remaining bats revealed visceral abscessation characteristic of pseudotuberculosis in five of the 12 bats examined (41.7%), inciting depopulation of the colony. At necropsy, 70% of the 115 bats in the colony exhibited gross evidence suggestive of Yptb infection, including mesenteric lymphadenopathy (ML), hepatic abscessation (HA), and/or splenomegaly (SPM). Thirty of these bats (13 females and 17 males of various ages) were chosen at random and their tissues submitted for bacterial culture and histopathologic examination. Twenty-three of these 30 bats had one or more gross lesions considered consistent with Yptb, including ML, HA, and SPM. On histopathology, four of the 30 bats had necrotizing lesions containing Gram-negative bacteria in multiple organs, while 18 others exhibited mild mesenteric lymphadenitis and hepatitis. Four of the 30 bats had positive cultures for Yptb. Bats with gross evidence of mesenteric lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, or histopathologic presence of demodicosis or bacteria in tissues were more likely (P &lt; 0.05) to have a positive Yersinia culture. Examination of the correlation between population density and mortality rates of the colony revealed that the mortality rate of subadult bats increased dramatically at the time of the outbreak, when the population density was at its highest. It is suspected that stress, primarily from severe overcrowding, predisposed the bat colony to morbidity and mortality from this organism, which likely originated from a rodent reservoir.
20095305|Medetomidine was used to immobilize 50 handreared Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) for various minor clinical procedures. Compared to the effects of different drugs tried on the same animals, medetomidine at the dose of 53  9 g/kg (39-75 g/kg), administered i.m. in a single dart, gave excellent results. The induction stage was particularly quiet, with complete recumbency in 11.05  4.8 min (4.1-26.6 min). The immobilization was characterized by good to excellent myorelaxation, normal rectal temperatures, bradycardia, a low but stable respiratory rate, and no significant change in hematologic and serum chemistry values. Atipamezole, two-thirds given i.v. and one-third given i.m. at a dose of five times the medetomidine dose, led to standing recovery in 2.6  2.3 min (0.75-8.9 min). No deaths and no major adverse effects were noted during immobilization or after reversal. The use of medetomidine as a mild sedative agent at low doses was also investigated. A dose of 25  3 g/kg (21-30 g/kg) induced a sedation in males sufficient to facilitate transport of the animals.
20460530|A 4.5-yr-old multiparous female eastern bongo (Tragelaphus eurycerus isaaci) presented with a prolapsed vagina 4 mo after dystocia and vaginal extraction of a large calf. The prolapse was corrected via manual reduction and vulvoplasty (Caslick operation). A melengesterol acetate contraceptive implant was placed and the bongo was asymptomatic for 6 yr until vaginal prolapse recurrence. The vaginal prolapse recurred four times over a 2-yr span and was managed with repeat Caslick procedures and several epidural injections using 95% grain alcohol. Complications secondary to long-term progestin implant usage, acquired urovagina, as well as perineal atony from the alcohol epidurals are believed to have contributed to prolapse recurrence. Ovariohysterectomy and vaginoplasty ultimately were elected and were curative. According to a survey conducted in response to this case, obstetrical issues and female reproductive tract problems appear to occur sporadically in captive bongo but are not uncommon.
41417158|Seasonal reproductive-endocrine norms have not been described for the genus Tragelaphus, which consists of seven species of African antelope. Longitudinal patterns of progesterone metabolite excretion were assessed by radioimmunoassays in fecal samples collected noninvasively (three to seven samples per week) from greater kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros, n = 4) and lesser kudu (Tragelaphus imberbis, n = 4). Progesterone metabolite excretion patterns revealed seasonal estrous cycles in both species, and discrimination of pregnant versus nonpregnant females was achieved in lesser kudu. These data reveal the value of fecal progesterone metabolites for establishing reproductive-endocrine norms in both zoo-maintained and free-living antelopes of the genus Tragelaphus.
20096123|Two long-acting neuroleptics were used to tranquilize nine captive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus). Perphenazine enanthate (3.0 mg/kg) and zuclopenthixol acetate (0.6 mg/kg) were each administered to separate groups of three cheetahs in a double blind trial. Both products were administered together to a third group of three animals at the same dosages. Behavioral effect, duration of effect, and possible side effects were observed by a predefined protocol. Under standardized holding conditions, the cheetahs were observed 5 days before drug administration and 14 days after administration. Daily activity was defined and statistically evaluated by a U-test. A significant reduction of activity was observed after administration in all three trials. Zuclopenthixol acetate at 0.6 mg/kg alone and in combination with perphenazine enanthate caused inappetence, ataxia, extra pyramidal reactions, akathisia, and prolapse of the third eyelid. Zuclopenthixol acetate should not be used in cheetahs. Perphenazine enanthate did not cause inappetence, reduced appetite, or any of the previously mentioned side effects when used alone. It produced satisfactory tranquilization and is suitable and safe for cheetahs at 3.0 mg/kg. This dosage should be varied depending on health, age, and temperament of the individual cheetah.
41262587|This report describes toxoplasmosis infection in a black-headed night monkey (Aotus nigriceps) from the Zoological Park of the Federal University of Mato Grosso, Brazil. The animal was submitted alive to the Veterinary Hospital of the Federal University of Mato Grosso presenting neurologic clinical signs. There were no improvements on the animal's clinical condition after treatment, so it was euthanized. At necropsy, the most significant gross lesions observed were hemorrhages diffusely scattered throughout the cerebral hemispheres. Histologic findings were characterized by nonsuppurative encephalitis and mild multifocal necrotizing nonsuppurative myocarditis. Groups of tachyzoites and cysts were observed surrounding the inflamed areas of cerebral parenchyma. Sections of the brain were submitted for immunohistochemistry examination for Toxoplasma gondii and Neospora caninum and also for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to determine the presence of Toxoplasma gondii. The samples were positive for Toxoplasma gondii by PCR; however, cross reactivity was observed between Toxoplasma gondii and Neospora caninum antibodies. These findings were consistent with a toxoplasmosis infection in this animal.
20095521|One hundred twelve bacterial isolates were obtained from the inferior conjunctival culde-sac of both eyes of 48 normal captive cranes: 28 whooping cranes (Grus americana, 14 chicks and 14 adults), 12 Florida sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis pratensis, six chicks and six adults), and eight Siberian cranes (Grus leucogeranus, four chicks and four adults). Two birds (4.2%) had no growth; and up to six bacterial species were obtained from individual birds. A trend toward multiple isolates (four or more) in chicks was noted. Gram-positive organisms made up 58% of the isolates, with Corynebacterium spp. (26 isolates from 22 birds), coagulase-negative Staphylococcus spp. (15 isolates from 13 birds), -hemolytic Streptococcus spp. (10 isolates from 10 birds), and Bacillus spp. (10 isolates from nine birds) being the most prevalent. Gram-negative organisms made up 42% of the isolates, with the most common being Enterobacter spp. (18 isolates from 16 birds) and Pseudomonas spp. (eight isolates from eight birds). Pseudomonas aeruginosa was not identified in normal crane eyes in this study. Although there were no statistically significant differences in the composition of the bacterial flora across the three crane species or with age, Pseudomonas spp. tended to be more commonly isolated from whooping cranes (seven of eight isolates) than from Florida sandhill or Siberian cranes.
20095918|Eight nonreproductive female Drakensberg crag lizards (Pseudocordylus melanotus melanotus) were each fed diets of mealworms and calcium capsules with various calcium levels. Excreta were collected and analyzed for calcium and uric acid content. The amount of calcium in the feces was calculated. The lizards appeared to be able to maintain calcium balance at calcium intakes equivalent to 1.4-5.6% calcium in the dry matter of feed. Calcium balance was maintained by adapting intestinal calcium absorption.
41262619|Staphylococcus simulans, a coagulase-negative staphylococcal species, can cause several diseases in humans and animals. This report describes a case of dermatosis characterized by broad, well-circumscribed hyperkeratosis and alopecia on the back of a household pygmy hedgehog (Erinaceous albiventris). Quills and exudates were studied by microscopy. The microscopic examination of the exudates collected from the lesion revealed several leukocytes and numerous gram-positive cocci. An aerobic bacterial culture revealed overgrowth of the same gram-positive bacteria. The bacterium was identified as S. simulans by polymerase chain reaction amplification and direct sequencing targeted to the 16S ribosomal RNA gene. This report is the first to show that S. simulans could be related to the dermatitis of hedgehogs.
40962265|A 25-yr-old male freshwater crocodile (Crocodylus johnstoni) was diagnosed with pulmonary mycobacteriosis caused by Mycobacterium szulgai. Necropsy revealed fibrinous exdate in the right pleural cavity and white miliary nodules in the right lung lobe. Histopathologic examination revealed well-demarcated granulomas consisting of multinucleated giant cells and epithelioid cells surrounded by fibrous connective tissue. Atypically, lymphocytes had accumulated in the outer region of fibrous connective tissue. Mycobacterial infection was confirmed by nested polymerase chain reaction targeting the hsp65 gene and by Fite's method for detection of acid-fast bacilli within formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded lung tissue. Sequence analysis of the DNA amplicon revealed that the species of mycobacterium shared 98% homology with the gene encoding the hsp65 gene of M. szulgai. This is the first report of M. szulgai as the causative agent of mycobacteriosis in a reptile.
20096129|This case report documents the application of transabdominal ultrasonography for detecting pregnancy and monitoring fetal development in an unanesthetized, unrestrained babirusa (Babyrousa babyrussa). A 4-yr-old multiparous female babirusa was trained to accept monitoring via transabdominal ultrasonography on a weekly basis postcoitus. Uterine changes associated with pregnancy were first detected at 30 days gestation. Three fetuses were first visualized on day 38, and two of the three fetuses were detectable until term. One fetus failed to develop and appeared to be resorbed between days 80 and 94 of the 161-day pregnancy. The growth of the remaining two fetuses was monitored via cranial measurements taken during the weekly scans throughout the pregnancy. By monitoring a subsequent pregnancy via ultrasound in the same female it was possible to confirm her tendency towards partial resorption, with earliest detection of uterine changes on day 32 and apparent resorption of one of three fetuses at approximately the midpoint of gestation. Two rectal scans of a different female under anesthesia at 28 and 50 days gestation showed stages of development comparable to those visualized transabdominally. However, the transabdominal scans produced better images of the reproductive tract, perhaps because of the close proximity of the pregnant uterus to the abdominal wall.
40962311|The prevalence of gastrointestinal parasites was investigated in mammals housed in two of the main Italian zoological gardens: the Zoo Safari of Fasano (province of Bindisi, Apulia, Italy) and the Giardino Zoologico of Pistoia (Tuscany, Italy). In November 2007, fecal samples were collected at the Zoo Safari of Fasano (n = 96) and at the Giardino Zoologico of Pistoia (n = 60), from primates, carnivores, perissodactyls, artiodactyls and proboscideans. In most of the cases, the same animal species or genera were considered in both the zoos. One or more intestinal parasites were detected in 61.5% of the examined samples. However, very different percentages of protozoa- and helminth-positive samples were obtained in the animals from the two zoos, with an overall gastrointestinal parasitic infection of 77.1% in the Zoo Safari of Fasano and 36.7% in the Giardino Zoologico of Pistoia. Overall, 10% (Cryptosporidium sp.) and 43.3% (Toxocara cati, Strongyloides stercoralis, Toxascaris leonina, and hookworms) of carnivores, 66.7% (Cryptosporidium spp.) and 100% (Trichuris spp. and Strongyloides flleborni) of primates, 25.0% (Eimeria spp., Cryptosporidium spp.), and 57.1% (Trichuris sp., Toxocara [Neoascaris] vitulorum, gastrointestinal strongyles, and Paramphistomidae) of artiodactyls were infected with protozoa and helminthes parasites, respectively. Only gastrointestinal strongyles were diagnosed in 16.7% of proboscideans and in 50.0% of perissodactyls examined. The results of this study suggest that zoonotic protozoans and gastrointestinal helminths are common in zoo mammals and that these animals may serve as a potential reservoir and transmit these parasites to humans. The different animal management in the two zoos indicates that the regular monitoring of parasitic diseases and the use of selective treatments can represent effective measures for the control of several gastrointestinal infections in zoological gardens.
20095251|Eight captive raccoon dogs (Nyctereutes procyonoides) were immobilized with medetomidine HCl (MED) 0.1 mg/kg and ketamine (KET) 5 mg/kg i.m. in a crossover study. In group I, the animals were left to recover spontaneously, and in group II, the animals received atipamezole HCl (ATI) 1 mg/kg i.m. for reversal 20-25 min after the MED/KET injection. MED/KET rapidly induced complete immobilization in both groups. The induction times were 3.3  0.2 (x  SEM) and 3.4  1.1 min in groups I and II, respectively. Both the corneal and pedal withdrawal reflexes were absent in immobilized animals, and the mean times to reappearance of these reflexes in animals recovering spontaneously were 90.3  8.6 and 102.4  10.0 min, respectively. In group I, the mean rectal temperature dropped from 36.8  0.2C to 35.4  0.1C recorded 5 and 90 min after the MED/KET injection, respectively, and the mean heart rate dropped from 110.0  5.7 to 75.0  6.4 beats/min at the corresponding times. All animals had irregular respiratory patterns, with intermittent periods of apnea and tachypnea shortly after immobilization. Respiratory patterns became more regular during the immobilization period (group I), and the mean respiration rate increased from 7.9  0.7 to 18.0  2.3 breaths/min recorded 20 and 90 min after the MED/KET injection, respectively. Administration of ATI markedly shortened the recovery of immobilized animals without apparent side effects. The mean time from ATI injection to when the animals were able to walk was 15.9  2.3 min. In animals left for spontaneous recovery the mean time from MED/KET injection to when the animals were able to walk was 129.3  7.0 min. Medetomidine and ketamine can be recommended for immobilization of captive raccoon dogs; induction is rapid, there are few side effects, and the animals can be remobilized with atipamezole.
20095467|Ten blue duiker (Cephalophus monticola) were blowdarted with a combination of ketamine and medetomidine, resulting in a level of sedation adequate for minor procedures in eight of the duikers (mean dosages: ketamine, 2.2 mg/kg; medetomidine, 190 g/kg). Two duikers required an additional dose. Atipamezole (mean dosage: 0.95 mg/kg) given as a split dose i.v. and i.m. in all duikers, resulted in complete reversal of sedation. No anesthetic complications were seen in any of the duikers.
20096275|The transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) represent an emerging group of diseases that have been labeled as "prion diseases" because of the recent characterization of the infectious agent. TSEs are caused by prions, which induce neurodegenerative fatal diseases in humans and animals. Some TSEs (scrapie and kuru), have existed in both animals and humans for a very long time, whereas others such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy and variant Creutzfeld-Jakob disease have either recently emerged or are more thoroughly described and recognized. It is obvious that the medical community will be forced to consider these diseases in humans and animals for the future. This article offers a short review of the TSEs of immediate concern to zoo and wildlife veterinarians and wildlife biologists and suggests risk management strategies for the prevention of these diseases, with special focus on chronic wasting disease of cervids in North America.
20096600|The effects of vaginal implant transmitters for tissue damage after 11 wk in 13 captive adult elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) and subsequent reproductive performance in 38 free-ranging elk were evaluated. Vaginal implant transmitters are designed to be shed at parturition and are used to locate birth sites of wild ungulates; however, potential adverse effects of these transmitters on tissues associated with the vaginal walls or subsequent reproductive performance have not been assessed. Vaginal implant transmitters consist of a transmitter encased in inert acrylic with an antenna trailing out the distal end and wings at the proximal end to hold the transmitter in place. Using a laparoscope on sedated captive elk, necrosis or measurable differences in tissue trauma between designs with wing spans of 80 versus 150 mm over an 11-wk trial were not observed. After the captive elk trial, vaginal implant transmitters with 80-mm wings were placed into 38 pregnant wild elk, and 31 live births were documented. Fates of seven calves were not determined, because their transmitters were not shed at the birth site. We recaptured 36 of these cow elk again in fall 2003 or spring 2004, and 32 were pregnant. This study was unable to document any short- or long-term effects of vaginal implant transmitters on reproductive performance of cow elk in captive and free-range environments.
41262576|Zoos and zoologie gardens make optimal environments for interspecies transmission of viral infections. There are seven zoos and several small zoologie collections in Turkey. This study aimed to determine the current status of viral infections in captive ungulates living in these environments. Blood samples were taken from 163 captive animals from two zoos. There were 39 Cameroon sheep (Ovis ammon f. aries), 11 Barbary sheep (Ammotragus lervia), 57 pygmy goats (Capra hircus), 9 Angora goats (Capra hircus), 21 mountain goats (Capra aegagrus-aegagrus), 7 llamas (Lama glama), 8 Persian goitred gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa subgutturosa), 1 Caspian red deer (Cervus elaphus maral), 2 fallow deer (Dama dama), and 2 camels (Camelus dromedarius). Antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine adenoviruses (BAV-1 and -3), parainfluenzavirus 3 (PI-3), and bluetongue viruses (BTV-4 and -9) were investigated using the virus neutralization test, and malignant catarrhal fever (MCF) antibodies were screened by ELISA. All animals were negative for BVDV and BHV-1 antibodies. Seroprevalence of BAV-1, BAV-3, PI-3, BRSV, BT-4, BT-9, and MCF were detected as follows: 46.6%, 60.1%, 0.6%, 7.3%, 1.8%, 1.2%, and 51.6%, respectively. Seroprevalence of BAVs and MCF were more common than all other viruses (P < 0.0001). Ten sheep (37.0%), 48 goats (84.2), and 1 llama (14.2%) were the only species positive for MCF antibodies. Prevalence of BRSV and MCF antibodies were found to be significantly higher in goats than in sheep. BTV antibodies were detected both in Cameroon sheep and mountain goats and suggest that zoo animals are at risk for BTV in endemic regions.
20095720|A wild-caught adult female southern water snake (Nerodia fasciata pictiventris) did poorly in captivity. A peripheral blood-film examination demonstrated numerous hemogregarines characterized as fusiform nondividing intraerythrocytic gametocytes. Xenodiagnostic typing in laboratory-reared mosquitoes demonstrated the parasite to be of the genus Hepatozoon. Gross and histopathologic examination of the liver demonstrated numerous granulomas centered on groups of one to six Hepatozoon sp. meronts, an unusual finding in naturally infected wild-caught snakes.
20095620|A cholangiocarcinoma with multiple metastases was diagnosed in an adult red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) maintained in captivity for 14 yr. Antemortem radiography revealed an extensive periosteal reaction and medullary opacification of the left femur and severe hepatomegaly. Laboratory sampling over a 5-wk period revealed a persistent mild leukocytosis and elevations in aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase, and creatinine phosphokinase. On postmortem examination, unencapsulated masses consisting of epithelium-lined tubulelike structures were observed in the liver, adrenal gland, lung, and left femur. The neoplastic epithelial cells contained eosinophilic cytoplasm and large round to ovoid nuclei with single large or multiple smaller nucleoli and exhibited extensive nuclear pleomorphism and variably abundant mitotic figures. This is the first report of bile duct neoplasia in a bird of prey.
27751729|Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) was diagnosed at necropsy in a captive aged female pygmy hippopotamus (Hexaprotodon liberiensis), which presented with numerous cysts in both kidneys, the liver, and the duodenum and with one single cyst in the pancreas. There were no premonitory clinical signs of a nephropathy observed prior to its death. Similar findings were made in a male cage mate 6 mo later. Both animals had been wild caught. A literature review revealed that another seven cases of PKD have been reported in pygmy hippopotamuses, and an additional screening of records available from the international studbook for the species revealed yet another six cases. In all cases, aged females were affected, and in several instances, affected animals were related to each other. These patterns indicated familiar transmission similar that associated with PKD in humans and other animals. The disease, and especially the presumptive bias in diagnosis toward females, indicated that the male animal of this report was the first case of PKD reported in a male pygmy hippopotamus; thus, further investigation is warranted. The status of the kidneys with respect to PKD should be assessed (including histology) in every deceased pygmy hippopotamus, and whenever possible by ultrasonography in live animals.
27751776|An adult female hedgehog (Erinaceus europaeus) developed hemorrhagic diarrhea and was euthanized after failure to respond to treatment. At postmortem examination, the gastrointestinal tract was distended with clear fluid. Histopathologic examination of the jejunum and ileum revealed numerous small, round, pale basophilic organisms typical of cryptosporidia on the luminal surface of the enterocytes and free in the crypts. In addition, there was severe villus atrophy in the ileum. It was thought that an underlying chronic systemic disease had predisposed the hedgehog to cryptosporidiosis by immunosuppression. This report appears to be the first detailed description of cryptosporidiosis in this species.
20096484|Serial transrectal ultrasonographies were performed measuring different structures of mouflon (Ovis gmelini musimon) fetuses to establish their gestational age. Data were obtained from 14 mouflon ewes that became pregnant after estrous synchronization. From day 25 of gestation onward, the crown-rump length and the trunk diameter of the embryo were estimated. Later, when the fetal organs and structures could be distinguished, several measurements were done in the skull (occipito-snout length and biparietal and orbit diameters), the trunk (thoracic diameter and width of vertebrae), and the abdominal cavity (stomach and kidney longitudinal diameters); femur length was also determined. All fetal measurements were correlated with gestational age (P &lt 0.001), but the parameters showing the highest correlation with time (R up to 0.94) were the crown-rump and occipito-snout lengths and the thoracic and biparietal diameters. No significant differences were observed in pregnancies with one or two fetuses in the period studied.
20460410|Intestinal strictures were diagnosed in two captive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus jubatus). The cheetahs presented with lethargy, anorexia, diarrhea, and weight loss. The first cheetah had a stricture of the ileocecocolic junction diagnosed at necropsy. The second had an ileocecocolic stricture causing obstruction that was diagnosed at surgery. After resection and anastomosis, the cheetah recovered well. The etiology of the strictures remains undetermined. Intestinal stricture, particularly of the ileocecocolic junction, should be considered as a differential diagnosis for cheetahs with nonspecific gastrointestinal signs.
20095543|Twenty grey duiker (Sylvicapra grimmia) were blow-darted with a combination of ketamine and xylazine, resulting in a level of sedation adequate for capture and minor procedures in 13 of them (mean dosages: ketamine, 13.4 mg/kg; xylazine, 16.8 mg/kg). Sedation was judged to be inadequate in seven duikers (mean dosages: ketamine, 9.14 mg/kg; xylazine, 11.4 mg/kg). Sedation was reversed with atipamezole (mean dosage: 1.1 mg/kg) given as a split dose i.v. and i.m. in 19 duikers, resulting in variable reversal of sedation. Complications included inadequate sedation, trauma, hyperthermia, bradycardia, slow recovery, and one death.
20460578|Cervical subluxation and compressive myelopathy appears to be a cause of morbidity and mortality in captive Komodo dragons (Varanus komodoensis). Four cases of cervical subluxation resulting in nerve root compression or spinal cord compression were identified. Three were presumptively induced by trauma, and one had an unknown inciting cause. Two dragons exhibited signs of chronic instability. Cervical vertebrae affected included C1-C4. Clinical signs on presentation included ataxia, ambulatory paraparesis or tetraparesis to tetraplegia, depression to stupor, cervical scoliosis, and anorexia. Antemortem diagnosis of compression was only confirmed with magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography. Treatment ranged from supportive care to attempted surgical decompression. All dragons died or were euthanatized, at 4 days to 12 mo postpresentation. Studies to define normal vertebral anatomy in the species are necessary to determine whether the pathology is linked to cervical malformation, resulting in ligament laxity, subsequent instability, and subluxation.
20096257|Numerous cases of ataxia, hind limb paresis, and paralysis have occurred in cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) cubs over the past 10 yr within the European Endangered Species Program population, including 12 in mainland Europe, two in the British Isles, one in Namibia, and one in Dubai. The condition is the most important medical factor limiting European cheetah population growth. Eight cubs at the Salzburg Zoo, Austria, were affected. They demonstrated upper motor neuron lesions when alive and bilateral, symmetrical myelin degeneration of the spinal cord on necropsy. Ballooning of myelin sheaths surrounded mostly preserved axons, and no spheroids, characteristic of acute axonal degeneration, were found. Myelin loss markedly exceeded axonal degeneration. The syndrome's etiology is unclear, although viral, bacterial, parasitic, genetic, nutritional-metabolic, toxic, and physical causes have been considered.
20096668|Complete medical evaluations were performed on 25 wild black lemurs (Eulemur macaco macaco) in Lokobe Reserve, northwestern Madagascar. Each animal received a complete physical examination. Weight, body temperature, heart rate, and respiratory rate were recorded. Blood samples were collected for complete blood cell count, differential white blood cell count, hemoparasite examination, serum biochemical profile, fat-soluble vitamin analysis, trace mineral analysis, and Toxoplasma gondii and viral serology. Fecal samples were collected for bacterial culture and endoparasite examination. Ectoparasites were collected and identified. Values were compared to established ranges from captive black lemurs in North American zoos. Significant differences exist between captive and wild animals for total white blood cell count, segmented neutrophil count, band neutrophil count, eosinophil count, monocyte count, and basophil count, and for serum biochemistry values of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, total bilirubin, serum alkaline phosphatase, total protein, creatinine, phosphorus, calcium, sodium, potassium, and creatine phosphokinase. One animal had a positive Toxoplasma titer. Detected endoparasites were identified as Lemuricola and Callistroura. Two ectoparasite mites were identified, one within the Psoroptes genus and one within the Laelapidae family. Enteric bacterial flora included Enterococcus sp., Staphylococcus sp., Escherichia coli, Streptococcus sp., Klebsiella ozaenae and Bacillus cereus.
20096267|Fibroblast cultures of a skin biopsy from an adult intact male Siberian tiger (Panthera tigris altaica) revealed an abnormal standard and G-banded karyotype diploid chromosome number of 2n = 39 XXY due to an extra sex chromosome as opposed to the expected 2n = 38 XY. The tiger was euthanatized 1 yr later due to acute multifocal intervertebral disc disease. Histopathology of the reproductive tract demonstrated a paucity of seminiferous tubules and these were devoid of spermatagonia. An increase in fibrous connective tissue was noted in sections of the prostate and epididymis, and expansion of the fibrous interstitium was observed in the testes.
27751715|Marine mammal researchers and veterinarians evaluate the health of individuals and populations by using observed ranges for blood values. The goal of this study was to establish observed ranges for dependent (04 week) and weanling (&gt;4 week) harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) pups that were admitted for rehabilitation at the Marine Animal Lifeline in Portland. Maine from 19982003 and to record changes in hematologic and biochemical values as they convalesced. Blood values, measured both at admission to and release from rehabilitation, were quantitatively compared between these two groups. Of the 29 blood analytes measured in this study between dependent and weanling pups upon admission to rehabilitation, 14 were significantly different including white blood cell (WBC), red blood cell (RBC), hemoglobin (Hb), hematocrit (HCT), platelets, lymphocytes, monocytes, potassium, chloride, CO2, total bilirubin, calcium, alanine transaminase (ALT), and alkaline phosphatase. Between admission and release, 14 analytes had significantly changed for dependent pups including RBC, Hb, HCT, mean cell volume (MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), platelets, lymphocytes, monocytes, potassium, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), total protein, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, and ALT. Between admission and release, 10 analytes had significantly changed for weanlings including RBC, MCV, neutrophils, eosinophils, potassium, chloride, anion gap, total protein, total bilirubin, and calcium. At the time of release, six parameters were significantly different between pups admitted as dependent and those admitted as weanlings including MCV, neutrophils, eosinophils, total protein, globulin, and albumin.
20096398|A 3-yr-old intact male dingo (Canis familiaris dingo) presented with a 3-mo history of diarrhea. The diarrhea did not resolve with antibiotics or intestinal protectants. Fecal examination for parasites, fecal cultures, physical examination, and radiographs were unremarkable. Enteroscopic duodenal biopsies showed dilated lacteals without inflammation. Results of serum folate, cobalamin, and trypsin-like immunoreactivity were normal. Low serum total protein and albumin combined with increased fecal levels of alpha-1 protease inhibitor suggested the diagnosis of lymphangiectasia. Full-thickness intestinal biopsies of the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum revealed dilated mucosal and submucosal lacteals without associated inflammation, confirming the diagnosis of primary lymphagiectasia. Currently, the dingo is being maintained with nutritional management.
40962318|A wild-born, 34-yr-old female western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) was transferred between zoologie collections in the United Kingdom. Adjustment to its new environment was difficult and a series of health problems ensued. Progressive severe illness of multiple etiologies, and a failure to respond to multiple therapies, led to its euthanasia 5 mo later. Disease processes included severe thoracic and axillary cutaneous ulcration of T2-3 dermatome distribution, gastroenteritis, ulcerative stomatitis, emaciation, hind limb weakness or paresis, and decubitus ulcers of the ankles and elbows. Ante-and postmortem infectious disease screening revealed that this animal was not infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, simian varicella virus (SW), simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), or hepatitis virus; but was infected with varicella-zoster virus (VZV) and simian T-lymphotropic virus (STLV). It is hypothesized that recrudescence of VZV and other disease processes described were associated with chronic STLV infection and the end of a characteristically long incubation period.
20096074|An epizootic of severe Cryptosporidium sp.--associated enteritis occurred in a group of 15 wild-caught juvenile rough green snakes (Opheodrys aestivus) at the Baltimore Zoo quarantine facility. All of the animals died with no premonitory signs. Histopathologic examination of the small and proximal large intestine of eight of the green snakes showed moderate to severe Cryptosporidium sp. infection and enteritis characterized by dense heterophilic and lymphocytic inflammatory infiltrates throughout the lamina propria with epithelial necrosis. Cryptosporidium sp. was also found in feces of an adult common garter snake (Thamnophis sirtalis) that was wild caught on zoo grounds and held in quarantine during the epizootic. After euthanasia, histologic examination of the garter snake showed a severe small intestinal Cryptosporidium sp. infection with only mild enteritis consisting of sparse heterophilic and lymphocytic infiltrates. There was no gross or histologic evidence of Cryptosporidium sp. gastritis in the nine snakes evaluated, and this is the first report of Cryptosporidium sp.--associated enteritis in snakes without gastric lesions.
20460533|A 31-yr-old male, captive harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) was evaluated for a 48-hr period of anorexia followed by the onset of seizures. A prolonged seizure failed to respond to anticonvulsant therapy and the animal was euthanized. At necropsy, no significant gross lesions were identified. Reverse transcriptase--polymerase chain reaction testing of brain samples was positive for eastern equine encephalitis virus (EEEV) RNA, and serum was positive for anti-EEEV antibodies by plaque reduction neutralization. Histopathologic evaluation revealed severe and multifocal encephalitis with leptomeningitis, characterized by neutrophilic infiltrates in neuropil, neuronal necrosis, satellitosis, neuronophagia, and perivascular cuffs of lymphocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils. Additionally there was moderate, multifocal, adrenal cortical necrosis. Immunohistochemical staining for EEEV demonstrated viral antigen within necrotic neurons and glial cells. Virus was isolated from frozen brain tissue, sequenced for comparison to other strains, and determined to be a typical North American strain. EEEV should be included as a possible cause of neurologic disease in harbor seals with compatible signs located in geographic regions where vector transmission of EEEV is encountered.
27751694|A 7-mo-old female cougar (Puma concolor) was presented with a 2-wk history of anorexia and a 1-wk history of regurgitation. Barium contrast esophagogram and gastroesophagoscopy revealed the presence of a segmental intraluminal esophageal stricture in the middle third of the esophagus. The stricture was potentially secondary to a previous anesthetic episode. Three endoscopic balloon dilations allowed increasing the luminal diameter to a size that enabled the cougar to eat food softened with water without any signs of discomfort or regurgitation. Two months after being discharged, the cougar was doing well, had gained weight and was eating horsemeat softened with water.
20460355|The clinical use of oral Fe chelators for the treatment of Fe-storage disease in birds requires evaluation. In this study, the efficacy of the Fe chelator deferiprone in reducing hepatic Fe stores, its effects on hematologic, biochemical, and plasma Fe parameters, and its potential toxicity during a 30-day treatment period were investigated in a controlled setting using two model species, the white leghorn chicken (Gallus gallus f. domestica) and the domestic pigeon (Columba livia). A second phase of the study investigated deferiprone-related Fe elimination in the excreta. Deferiprone, administered orally at a dosage of 50 mg/kg twice daily to birds that had been experimentally Fe loaded, significantly reduced hepatic Fe concentrations compared with levels in Fe-loaded and non--Fe-loaded controls. There were no significant alterations in routine clinical hematologic or biochemical parameters, although decreased transferrin saturation was noted in both species. Side effects associated with deferiprone administration were decreased weight gain and significant decreases in plasma Zn concentrations. No mortalities occurred in the pigeons, but there were three deaths in the deferiprone-treated group of Fe-loaded chickens, most likely associated with acute reduction of Fe required for normal enzymatic processes. Histologic changes associated with deferiprone treatment were not noted. Deferiprone caused a dose-dependent increase of Fe in the excreta at oral dosages of 50 and 75 mg/kg once daily in both species. Deferiprone is a promising, orally active Fe chelator for the treatment of Fe overload in birds, although its potential side effects need to be considered.
20096357|Transitional cell carcinomas (TCC) of the urinary bladder were diagnosed in four related fishing cats (Prionailurus viverrinus). The major clinical sign in each case was persistent hematuria unresponsive to medical therapy. Cystotomy and biopsy provided an antemortem diagnosis in three of the fishing cats before euthanasia because of progression of clinical signs. The diagnosis was made in the fourth cat after euthanasia because of renal failure. Hematuria improved temporarily in one of the cats diagnosed antemortem and treated with piroxicam and carboplatin. Attempts to isolate a herpesvirus in two of the cats failed. Histopathologic appearance of the TCC was similar to that described for other species. TCC metastasis to the lungs was noted at necropsy in one cat; metastatic disease was not noted in the other fishing cats on gross or histopathologic examination. TCC of the urinary bladder appears to be more prevalent in fishing cats than in other species of domestic or nondomestic felids.
20095345|Systemic cryptococcosis was diagnosed in a common anaconda (Eunectes murinus) that died after a 2.5-mo history of progressive neurologic disease. Pathologic examination revealed granulomatous pneumonia and meningoencephalitis associated with yeast organisms morphologically consistent with Cryptococcus. Cryptococcus neoformans was confirmed as the etiologic agent using a specific fluorescent antibody test for this pathogenic yeast. This is the first reported case of C. neoformans infection in a poikilothermic host.
20096662|Numerous cases of Gongylonema spp. infection with associated pathological lesions and clinical signs were identified in a collection of Goeldi's monkeys (Callimico goeldii) (GMs) at a zoological park during a 3-yr period. An increase in the incidence of clinical signs in the GMs and other callitrichid species prompted an investigation to determine the prevalence of infection within the collection and evaluate treatment protocols. Twenty-one callitrichids [nine GMs, four golden lion tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia), six cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus), and two golden-headed lion tamarins (Leontopithecus chrysomelas)] were included in this study. Many of the animals had been positively diagnosed on past examinations. Repeated cytological evaluations of scrapings taken from the mucosa of the tongue were performed to diagnose infection. The animals were randomly divided into two groups and treated with either ivermectin (290 g/kg p.o., q7 days for four doses) or mebendazole (70 mg/kg p.o. q24 hr for three doses). Follow-up scrapings were performed on all animals at days 35, 64, and 156. Numerous animals displayed clinical signs (facial pruritis, inflammation, and ptyalism) before and throughout the investigation; however, Gongylonema spp. infections were only confirmed by tongue scrapings in two animals. Fecal floatation by using a sodium nitrate solution for recovery of spirurid eggs also was performed, but it yielded no positive results. The low number of confirmed cases precluded comparative evaluation of the efficacy of the anthelmintic treatment protocols. However, both regimes seemed subjectively similar in decreasing clinical signs and were safe with no adverse effects. Diagnosis of Gongylonema spp. infection is challenging, even when severe clinical signs are present. This investigation further demonstrates the lack of a reliable ante-mortem test for the parasite and underscores the importance of treatment based on clinical signs. Until a more sensitive test is available, further comparison studies on treatment regimes will be difficult and likely unrewarding.
20095466|Eleven of 14 mature Przewalski's horses (Equus przewalskii przewalskii) were successfully anesthetized for routine hoof trimming, vaccination, and blood sampling with a combination of medetomidine (0.07-0.1 mg/kg, x = 0.09 mg/kg) and ketamine (1.8-2.6 mg/kg, x = 2.1 mg/kg) administered i.m. with a rifle and metal projectile dart. Mean induction time (time from dart administration to recumbency) was 11 min (SD = 6 min). Atipamezole (0.17-0.23 mg/kg, x = 0.19 mg/kg) was administered approximately 30 min after darting to reverse the effects of medetomidine. The mean standing time (time to standing after administration of atipamezole) was 13 min (SD = 5 min), and total recumbency time was 28-62 min (x = 46 min). Heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure, temperature, hemoglobin saturation, pH, Paco, and Pao were measured and recorded during recumbency. Some bradycardia and transient decrease in Pao occurred, however no complications were recognized. The three horses that were not successfully immobilized were obviously sedated but were not manageable for the intended procedure. A higher atipamezole dose than used in this study is recommended to decrease the recovery time.
20096108|Three free-roaming Victoria crowned pigeons (Goura victoria) housed in a completely enclosed tropical exhibit were found dead without antemortem signs of illness. The birds died within 9 days of each other. Gross necropsy revealed moderate pulmonary edema in all three birds. Histopathologic examination revealed pulmonary edema and pulmonary protozoal merozoites compatible with Sarcocystis spp., Toxoplasma gondii, or Neospora spp. infection. Immunohistochemical staining for T. gondii and Neospora spp. were negative. Immunohistochemical staining identified a Sarcocystis falcatula-like parasite in all three birds. It is suspected that new exhibit soil contaminated with feces from the Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana) was the source of the infective sporocysts.
40962321|In December 2008, a southern white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum) aborted a 7-mo gestation male fetus. On hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections of fetal tissues, foci of necrosis were noted in the hepatic parenchyma and were associated with low numbers of lymphocytes, plasma cells, and neutrophils. Protozoal zoites were identified within the hepatic lesions and within the cerebellum. Evaluations utilizing immunohistochemistry, polymerase chain reaction, and DNA sequencing identified the protozoan as Neospora caninum. A microsatellite analysis using MS 10 marker showed a unique trinucletoide repeat pattern (ACT) (AGA) (TGA) distinct from all studied N. aninum to date. This is the first report of TV. caninum-related abortion of a rhinoceros fetus of any species and the first report of polymerase chain reaction-confirmed N. caninum infection in any rhinoceros.
20095735|Twenty free-ranging guanaco (Lama guanicoe) in Chubut Province, Argentina, were immobilized for health evaluations. All but two animals appeared to be in good condition. Hematology, serum chemistry, and vitamin and mineral levels were measured, and feces were evaluated for parasites. Serology tests included bluetongue, brucellosis, bovine respiratory syncitial virus, bovine viral diarrhea/mucosal disease, equine herpesvirus 1, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, Johne's disease (Mycobacterium paratuberculosis), foot and mouth disease, leptospirosis (17 serovars), parainfluenza-3, and vesicular stomatitis. Blood samples from 20 domestic sheep (Ovis aries) maintained in the same reserve with the guanaco were also collected at the same time for serology tests. No guanaco had positive serologic tests. Sheep were found to have antibody titers to bovine respiratory syncytial virus, Johne's disease, leptospirosis, and parainfluenza-3. There was no apparent difference in external appearance or condition, or statistical difference in blood test values, between the animals that were positive or negative for parasite ova.
41262573|One hundred serum samples collected from free-ranging white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum) in Kruger National Park (KNP) during the 2007 capture season were selected for measurement of antibody levels to several different vector-borne viral agents. These infectious diseases were chosen to compare with an earlier serosurvey that had been conducted in KNP in rhinos during 1987-1997. Positive antibody titers were found against epizootic hemorrhagic disease (EHD) of deer (8%), Bluetongue (BT) (1%), and Rift Valley fever (RVF) (49%). However, none of the 100 animals tested had detected antibody levels to African horse sickness (AHS). These values were in sharp contrast to those measured in the 1987-1997 survey in KNP white rhinos (AHS 60%, EHD 30%, BT 37%, RVF 0%). Vector-borne viral infection prevalence in white rhinos in the same geographical location appears to vary over time and may be important for monitoring presence of pathogens in an ecosystem.
20094969|Examination of impression smears and tissue sections of multiple organs from two young Bali mynahs (Leucopsar rothschildi) that died in March 1988 revealed severe disseminated infections with Atoxoplasma (Isospora), a protozoan parasite previously described in sparrows (Passer domesticus), canaries (Serinus canarius), evening grosbeaks (Hesperiphona vespertina), rose-breasted grosbeaks (Pheucticus ludovicianus), and two species of mynah (Acridotheres tristis melanosternus, Gracula religiosa). Seven additional young Bali mynahs were found to have atoxoplasmosis, diagnosed from impression smears of liver biopsies and laparoscopic examination of the spleen. Two of the seven Bali mynahs died near the beginning of the study and showed infections similar to the index cases. Fecal samples from five of the young birds and three parent pairs contained coccidial oocysts with isosporan morphology when sporulated. Atoxoplasma infection was believed to be initiated when sporulated oocysts were ingested and disseminated when the zoites released in the intestine invaded macrophages. No effective treatment has been found although some evidence indicates that primaquine suppresses tissue forms and sulfachlor-pyrazin may reduce oocyst shedding. Infection is best prevented by reducing exposure to sporulated oocysts.
40962245|This population-based, retrospective study examined the susceptibility of a prosimian primate, Coquerel's sifaka (Propithecus coquereli), to Cryptosporidium spp. over a 9-yr period from 1999 to 2007 at the Duke Lemur Center (DLC) located in Durham, North Carolina. The investigation examined potential epidemiologie risk factors that could be correlated to infectious outbreaks at the center, such as prevalence, signalment (species, age, and sex), seasonality of occurrence, recurrence rate, family lineage, parturition, clinical signs, and concurrent diseases or health conditions. Findings included Propithecus spp. being the only lemur species at the DLC showing clinical signs of infection, with age being an important factor in susceptibility, and showing a strong correlation between temperature and seasonality with shedding of Cryptosporidium oocysts. These findings present new information regarding cryptosporidiosis in captive prosimians.
20096502|A 6-day-old, female roan antelope (Hippotragus equinus cottoni) was diagnosed with a single intrahepatic portosystemic venous shunt at necropsy. Clinical signs had included weakness, lethargy, hypothermia, diarrhea, and a weak suckle response. Multiple seizure episodes were associated with hypoglycemia and characterized by vocalization, muscle fasciculations, and disorientation. Hematologic abnormalities included anemia with hypochromasia, anisocytosis, poikilocytosis, and leukopenia with neutropenia and lymphopenia. Serum biochemical abnormalities included elevations in blood urea nitrogen and total serum bile acid concentration. A portosystemic vascular anomaly should be a differential diagnosis for nonthriving, exotic ruminant calves with overt or subtle neurologic signs, persistent hypoglycemia, and/or elevated bile acids. In very young calves, total bile acid concentration may be more useful in establishing a diagnosis than blood ammonia concentration.
20096171|Nutrition most certainly affects health and may play a role in the etiology of growth and reproductive problems in captive cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) populations. The objective of our research was to examine nutritional differences between two dietary regimens and quantify their physiologic effects on cheetahs held in captivity. Twelve cheetahs were randomly assigned to either a commercial diet (COM) or a supplemented meat diet (SMD) group. These cats were physically examined and had blood samples taken three times over the course of a year. Representative samples of COM and four separate components of the SMD treatment were analyzed over the same time frame for proximate nutrient composition, digestibility, and concentrations of taurine, fat-soluble vitamins, and selected minerals. Concentrations of fat, vitamins A and E, Se, Fe, Cu, Na, and Mn were significantly higher in COM compared with those in SMD samples, with the exception of fat content in turkey. Mg content was lower in COM than in SMD; other nutrients did not differ. Mean concentrations of vitamins A and E in COM were markedly higher than in SMD samples (408,140 vs. 29,696 IU/kg dry matter [DM] and 431 vs. 48 IU/kg DM, respectively) and varied dramatically between sampling periods. Percent crude protein and protein-to-fat ratios were high for SMD compared with either whole preybased or commercial food preparations. Blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels were above normal reference means for domestic cats. Plasma concentrations of vitamins A, D, and E were significantly higher in COM-fed than in SMD-fed cheetahs. Both plasma retinol and tocopherol levels were almost three times higher in COM-fed cats (1.26  0.06 vs. 0.53  0.03 g/ml and 17.5  0.7 vs. 6.4  0.02 g/ml, respectively) and exceeded the normal ranges expected for domestic felids. Significant differences between male and female cheetahs were found for plasma concentrations of vitamin E, Se, and Fe after allowing for effects of diet and time of collection. Excess fat-soluble dietary vitamins can result in direct toxicities as well as nutrient antagonisms and may be linked to reproductive and health issues in captive cheetahs. The high protein levels found in SMD may be linked to chronic renal disease, which was detected in some of these cheetahs.
20096716|Microchips are commonly used in companion, research, and zoo animal medicine for easy, reliable, and cost-effective identification with relatively low risk of side effects. This report describes development of a metastatic leiomyosarcoma associated with a microchip in an Egyptian fruit bat (Rousettus aegyptiacus)
20096713|A 6-wk-old tiger (Panthera tigris) was evaluated for severe skin lacerations from an adult tiger attack. A caudal superficial epigastric skin flap was surgically placed to cover a defect that could not be closed over the hind limb; however, the skin flap did not adhere well to the granulation tissue over a period of 1 mo. The granulation bed matured and deteriorated. A subatmospheric pressure technique (vacuum-assisted closure, V.A.C. Therapy, Kinetic Concepts Inc., San Antonio, Texas 78219, USA) was utilized, and flap adherence occurred after 4 wk. This technique should be considered when dealing with severe or chronic wounds in tractable animals.
20095751|Two half-sibling neonatal llamas (Lama glama) and one unrelated adult llama were presented with various complaints, including failure to thrive, respiratory distress, and excessive recumbency. The related camelids were born in successive years to the same dam but from unrelated sires. Thoracic auscultation revealed significant systolic and diastolic murmurs on both sides of the chest in all three llamas, and arterial blood gas evaluation revealed hypoxemia in two llamas. Echocardiographic examinations revealed large atrioventricular septal (AVS) defects in all three llamas. Two llamas were euthanized after diagnosis and the third died 4 mo later. Postmortem examination confirmed large AVS defects in all animals. There also was marked cardiomegaly in each animal. The discovery of such a cardiac anomaly in these three camelids suggests that it may be common in this species and may have a genetic basis.
20096646|Medetomidine (0.02-0.06 mg/kg) in combination with zolazepam-tiletamine (0.8-2.3 mg/kg) were evaluated for reversible anesthesia in four species of Southeast Asian primates: Bornean orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus), Bornean gibbon (Hylobates muelleri), long-tailed macaque (Macaca fascicularis), and pig-tailed macaque (Macaca nemestrina). Twenty-three anesthetic procedures of captive-held and free-ranging primates were studied in Sabah, Malaysia. The induction was smooth and rapid. Respiratory and heart rates were stable throughout anesthesia, whereas body temperature and systolic arterial blood pressure decreased significantly. Atipamezole at five times the medetomidine dose effectively reversed anesthesia, with first signs of recovery within 3-27 min.
41262655|Two adult female bontebok (Damaliscus pygarus dorcas) were euthanized because of signs of pneumonia and weakness (case 1), and a nonresponsive lameness with draining fistula (case 2). Necropsy findings were similar in both cases and consisted of disseminated granulomatous lesions in the liver, kidneys, spleen, lungs, pleural surfaces, and multiple lymph nodes. Mycobacteriwn kansasii was isolated from both cases after multiple attempts on a variety of samples by two laboratories. The remaining four animals in the herd were tested for antibody responses using the Chembio ElephantTB STAT-PAK  , DPP  VetTB kits, and multi-antigen print immunoassay (MAPIA), for immune reaction using the intradermal tuberculin test, and by tracheal wash cultures, and thoracic radiographs. Banked serum samples collected in 2005 and obtained from the original institution, revealed 1/9 (11.11%) seropositive animals using the three immunoassays. Retesting the current herd in 2008 showed 2/6 (33.33%) seropositive animals by the three tests, with MAPIA demonstrating antibody reactivity to MPB83 and MPB70 proteins. Inconsistent intradermal tuberculin test results, cross-reactivity in serologie assays designed for tuberculosis detection, difficulty in obtaining definitive identification by culture, and inability to identify a source of infection created challenges in distinguishing the atypical mycobacteriosis due to M. kansasii from the initially suspected tuberculous infection in this herd. Owing to regulatory considerations, differences in host-to-host transmission, and source of infection between Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex and nontuberculous mycobacteria, correct diagnosis is crucial for management of these diseases in wildlife species.
20095941|Ten desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) were given i.m. injections of 150 g/kg of medetomidine. Sedation was achieved in all tortoises by 20 min postinjection and was accompanied by a significant decrease in mean heart and respiratory rates, systolic, diastolic, and mean ventricular pressures, and mean ventricular partial pressure of oxygen (Po). There was no change in mean blood pH,
20096179|Adenoviral infection was associated with hemorrhagic enteritis, serosal hemorrhages, and severe pulmonary edema in six captive moose (Alces alces) in Toronto, Ontario, Canada: an adult female moose and three calves in 1985 and two calves in 1998. Adenoviral disease was suspected based on histological findings of systemic vasculitis and widespread thrombosis associated with amphophilic intranuclear inclusions in endothelial cells. Diagnosis was confirmed by immunohistochemistry using antiserum to bovine adenovirus type 5, transmission electron microscopic identification of viral particles consistent in morphology with adenovirus within nuclei of pulmonary endothelial cells in an affected calf, and virus isolation. The restriction pattern of virus isolated from the lung of one of the calves indicated that the virus was identical to a recently characterized adenovirus in black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus) in California. The moose adenovirus reported here may have been endemic in the captive moose herd, or infection may have resulted from either direct or indirect contact with other species of captive or wild cervids. This is the first report of adenoviral infection in moose and of the presence of adenoviral disease in a cervid in Canada.
20460417|A 5-yr-old female African rose-ringed parakeet (Psittacula krameri) presented with an ulcerated mass in the medial postpatagial area of the right wing. Biopsy specimens of the mass demonstrated a well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Photodynamic therapy resulted in tumor cell necrosis and initial reduction in tumor burden, but complete remission was not achieved. Based on this and other avian cases, it appears that photodynamic therapy designed to eradicate squamous cell carcinoma in avian species using protocols modeled after canine, feline, and human photodynamic therapy protocols may not be useful. It is hypothesized that differences in light penetration, photosensitizing agent pharmacokinetics, and wound healing properties in avian species necessitate alteration of photodynamic therapy protocols if this treatment modality is to be effective in avian oncology.
40665066|The biology and reproductive anatomy of male loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) have been difficult to study. The principle method for evaluation of the coelomic cavity in both adult and juvenile male sea turtles is celioscopy. The purpose of this study was to describe the technique and structures seen when scanning the inguinal region of live, wild-caught, adult male loggerhead sea turtles and to compare these findings to those resulting from celioscopy and necropsy. Twenty-one adult male loggerhead sea turtles were collected by trawling in the Cape Canaveral shipping channel in April 2007. All turtles were placed in dorsal recumbency and imaged with a Sonosite 180 Vet Plus (Sonosite, Inc., Bothell, Washington 98021, USA) and a microconvex, 4-7-MHz curvilinear array probe. The inguinal region was divided into four quadrants: cranial, lateral, medial, and caudal. Celioscopy was performed on 13 turtles, and biopsies were obtained of the testes and the epididymides to confirm correct identification of the structures. In the cranial aspect of the inguinal region, the urinary bladder and large and small intestines were identified. In the lateral inguinal region, the lung and kidney were seen. In the medial aspect of the inguinal region, the testis and epididymis were routinely identified. In the caudal aspect of the inguinal region, the coxofemoral joint was seen. A small learning curve was required; however, correlation with celioscopy and biopsy showed that consistent, repeatable identification of caudal coelomic structures was easily achieved. Ultrasound provided an inexpensive, rapid, noninvasive method to evaluate the reproductive anatomy of live-captured, male loggerhead sea turtles.
27751737|A 9-yr-old male Basilisk lizard (Basilicus plumifrons) with a history of painful and limited mobility for approximately 4 mo, which had seemed to be more pronounced in the front limbs, was presented for necropsy. The animal had exhibited moderate weight loss and anorexia before euthanasia. Postmortem examination revealed yellow-to-white, soft-to-semifirm nodules within the periarticular fascia and musculature of the left and right shoulder joints, hip joints, and stifle joints. Several other joints, including the left and right tarsi, left and right elbow joints, and the left carpus had calcified, white material present on the articular surfaces. Histopathologic evaluation of representative sections of all organs and the joints confirmed tophaceous articular gout and articular pseudogout. The differentiation between articular gout and pseudogout was based on histologic appearance, histochemical staining for calcium, and birefringence under polarized light.
20095321|Ciprofloxacin was used to treat a chronic foot infection in a Macaroni penguin, Eudyptes chrysolophus. After 8 days of antibiotic therapy, normal coliform flora of the gut were absent and only ciprofloxacin-resistant Aerococcus viridans, Pseudomonas cepacia, Clostridium difficile, and Rhodotorula rubra remained. Overgrowth of Clostridium difficile, a known toxin-producing organism, apparently led to pseudomembranous enteritis similar to the syndrome described in other species being treated with fluroquinolone antibiotics.
20095986|From 1991 to 1995, eight New World nonhuman primates of the family Callitrichidae belonging to the collection of Fundao Parque Zoolgico de So Paulo died of toxoplasmosis. Of the eight affected nonhuman primates, four were Leontopithecus chrysomelas (one male, three females) and four were Saguinus imperator (two males, two females). The most commonly affected organs were the lungs, liver, and lymph nodes, with hemorrhagic and necrotic lesions. Histopathologic examination revealed protozoa that were morphologically consistent with Toxoplasma gondii. Immunohistochemical assays were strongly positive for T. gondii.
20460326|Seven serum samples of 101 samples from nondomestic, captive and free-ranging felids from the United States were indirect fluorescent antibody positive for antibodies to Neospora caninum, whereas 44 samples were positive for antibodies to T. gondii. Although none of the captive animals displayed clinical signs of disease, nondomestic felids in the United States have been exposed to, and are likely infected with, N. caninum and T. gondii. This may have serious implications for zoological gardens exhibiting susceptible animals, such as kangaroos, close to felids.
20096636|Thiafentanil oxalate, previously known as A-3080, is a synthetic opioid used for chemical immobilization of a variety of nondomestic hoofstock species. This study compared the combination of thiafentanil oxalate, medetomidine, and ketamine (TMK; 0.09  0.02 mg/kg, 0.01  0.003 mg/kg, and 1.36  0.33 mg/kg, respectively) with the combination of medetomidine and ketamine (MK; 0.09  0.02 mg/kg and 3.48  0.55 mg/kg, respectively) for anesthetization of 17 captive male axis deer (Axis axis) for vasectomy. Nine deer received TMK and eight deer received MK via projectile syringe during the months of January and February, 2005. Mean induction and arousal times, vital signs, and arterial blood gas values were monitored and compared. All animals received supplemental oxygen during the surgical procedure. Animals receiving TMK were reversed with naltrexone (100 mg/mg thiafentanil) and atipamazole (5 mg/mg medetomidine). Animals receiving MK were reversed with atipamazole (5 mg/mg medetomidine). Two MK animals and three TMK animals required supplementation with ketamine i.v. immediately upon handling. Six of the nine animals immobilized with TMK required intubation for positive-pressure ventilation. Two of these six animals also required isoflurane to maintain anesthesia. Mean induction time was 3.5  2.0 min in the TMK group, and 9.8  6.7 min in the MK group. Despite shorter mean induction times, animals anesthetized with TMK experienced unpredictable inductions, apnea, muscle rigidity, limb movement, and significant respiratory and metabolic lactic acidosis. MK resulted in smoother inductions, better respiratory function, and less adverse metabolic disturbances, and thus was considered superior to TMK for anesthesia in captive axis deer at the dosages tested.
20460537|A 10-yr-old female lion (Panthera leo) presented for acute onset ataxia and weakness with a history of two seizure episodes 6 mo prior to presentation and a persistent head tilt for at least 6 mo. Gross necropsy findings included a gelatinous mass in the right cerebral hemisphere extending from the frontal to the occipital lobes. Histologically, the mass was composed of polygonal cells surrounding lakes of mucinous material. These cells had clear cytoplasm, ovoid basophilic nuclei, and inapparent cell processes. Immunoreactivity was positive for S100 and neuron-specific enolase but negative for glial fibrillary acid protein, myelin basic protein, neurofilament triplet, vimentin, and cytokeratin. All findings were consistent with an oligodendroglioma. A second neoplasm, a pulmonary adenoma, was also identified at necropsy.
20460338|Six adult female tigers (Panthera tigris) were anesthetized repeatedly for elective medical procedures using 3 mg medetomidine and 200 mg ketamine i.m. Inductions were repid and smooth, although supplemental ketamine was needed for safe transport after induction in 6 of 17 procedures. Reversal of the medetomidine-induced sedation with 15 mg atipamezole i.m. 59-232 min after induction resulted in smooth, rapid recoveries.
20096518|Health status of a total of 57 loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta; 42 migratory and 15 residential turtles) was analyzed using body condition and hematologic parameters. A subset of 18 juvenile migratory loggerhead sea turtles in the fall of 1997 and 15 residential turtles in the summer of 2000 were analyzed for barnacle epibiota. The migratory group had significantly higher red blood cell counts and percent heterophils and significantly lower percent lymphocyte and absolute eosinophil counts, as well as significantly lower plasma concentrations of calcium, sodium, chloride, potassium, glucose, alkaline phosphatase, and anion gap. Many of these variations may be because of physiology of migration. A positive association between turtle weight and hematocrit was detected and may be because of larger turtles diving for longer periods of time. There were no significant differences of epibiota load, health of the turtles, or condition index between turtles captured during the two events.
20095421|On routine yearly examination, polycythemia with hypererythropoietinemia and normoxemia was found in a clinically normal 12-yr-old intact male lemur (Petterus fulvus). Marked proteinuria and histologic evidence of severe, chronic membranous glomerulonephritis were associated with erythrocytosis. Hematocrit was reduced by intermittent phlebotomy for short-term management.
20095923|Three adult female North American river otters (Lutra canadensis) demonstrated severe anesthetic complications shortly after being immobilized for dental procedures. Two of the animals died shortly after anesthesia, and the third otter died 2 mo after immobilization. All three animals were diagnosed with pulmonary silicosis on the basis of histopathology, polarized light microscopy, and mass spectrometry. One animal also had primary pulmonary bronchoalveolar carcinoma. Significant concurrent disease was not found in other organs. Analysis of the lung tissue by laser microbe mass spectrometry confirmed the presence of an aluminum silicate in the lung tissue associated with insulation material used in nest box construction.
40962267|A 4-mo-old bison (Bison bison) was evaluated and treated at a university veterinary hospital for a cleft defect in the hard and soft palate. Using a mandibular symphysiotomy approach, the palatal defect was repaired with a Z-plasty pattern in the soft palate and mucoperiosteal flaps in the hard palate. A small area of dehiscence in the rostral aspect of the hard palate, and aspiration pneumonia, were complications, but the bison calf recovered with medical management. Even though this surgical procedure has a high potential for complications, the described technique allowed return to normal feeding and resolution of the aspiration pneumonia by 14 mo postsurgery.
20460467|The prevalence of woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV) in wild populations of woodchucks is understudied and therefore unclear. Although infection is common in the southeastern region of Pennsylvania and surrounding states, it is virtually absent in New York and New England. Sera were collected from wild woodchucks from Orange County, North Carolina and tested for the presence of markers of current or previous infection with WHV. Of the 24 woodchucks tested, there were three animals (12.5%) with WHV surface antigen as well as antibodies to woodchuck hepatitis core antigen in their serum, indicative of active infection. There were four (17%) animals with antibodies to WHV core antigen but no woodchuck hepatitis surface antigen, indicative of prior infections. The remaining 17 animals had no detectable markers of WHV infection. These data indicate that WHV is present in central North Carolina at rates approaching those seen in endemic areas, such as the mid-Atlantic region of the United States.
40665068|Five cases of late-stage abortion in dama gazelle (Gazeila dama) occurred in the United Arab Emirates. Histopathologic and molecular diagnostics found the abortions to be associated with Coxiella burnetii infection. Examination of the herd 6 mo later revealed a significant number of serologically positive animals but failed to detect the antigen in genital swabs. There are few reports in the literature of C. burnetii abortion in nondomestic ungulates and no published reports from the United Arab Emirates.
20095500|The B mode ultrasonographic images of bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) eyes from cadavers and live animals were measured and compared with physical measurements of cadaver eyes. The average sonographic diameters of the cadaver eyes were 2.34 cm  2.0 cm (cranial--caudal  dorsal-ventral) with an internal circumference of 7.11 cm. Physical measurements of these diameters were not significantly different (2.51 cm  2.2 cm). Ultrasound measurements of cadaver eye tunic thickness were significantly larger than physical measurements of the same eyes. In live dolphins, eye diameters measured sonographically were not significantly different (2.55 cm  2.32 cm) than either ultrasound or physical measurements. The optical axis diameter was 1.80 cm, and the circumference was 7.30 cm in live dolphins. Comparisons of circumference showed no significant difference between cadaver and live dolphin eye measurements. B mode ultrasonographic ocular morphometry may be useful once baseline values have been established.
20095585|Gross appearance, histopathology, electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and bacteriology of uteri from 17 melengestrol acetate (MGA)-implanted Goeldi's marmosets (Callimico goeldii), three MGA-implanted squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus), and four nonimplanted Goeldi's marmosets were evaluated. The marmosets were first implanted at 1-7 yr of age with 88-267 mg/kg MGA, and the squirrel monkeys were implanted at 5-12 yr of age with 109-376 mg/kg MGA. Implants remained in marmosets for 2-7 yr and in squirrel monkeys for approximately 3.5 yr. Three MGA-implanted marmosets were ovariohysterectomized because of clinical signs related to uterine lesions. Other samples were obtained via laparotomy or postmortem. In all MGA-implanted marmosets, the uteri were grossly enlarged, firm, and distended with desiccated, friable material. Histologically, uterine lumina contained massive amounts of necrotic debris merging peripherally with proliferative endometrial stromal cells. The endometrium consisted of multinodular crowded sheets, cords, and papillary projections of large stromal cells with proliferations often thicker than the distended myometrium and with obliteration of glands and normal architecture. The stromal cells had large, irregular, vesiculated nuclei with moderate numbers of often bizarre mitotic figures, abundant and vacuolated cytoplasm, often indistinct cytoplasmic borders, and occasional intercellular bridges. There was random invasion of underlying myometrium with occasional remote, deep, isolated nests of cells. Lesions were often accompanied by severe infiltrates of primarily neutrophils. Biopsies of all nonimplanted marmosets were histologically normal. Immunohistochemical examination revealed multifocal immunoreactivity for vimentin within proliferative stroma and no reactivity for cytokeratin and desmin. The proliferative cells ultrastructurally had features consistent with decidualized endometrial stroma. Aerobic bacterial cultures of eight implanted marmosets were negative. All implanted squirrel monkeys had similar lesions but with less necrotic debris and suppuration and only slight invasion. The lesion was termed exuberant decidualization, and we concluded that MGA implantation caused the lesion in the marmosets and probably caused the similar lesion in the squirrel monkeys. The use of MGA for long-term contraception in Goeldi's marmosets should be discouraged because it will almost certainly result in exuberant decidualization and may result in clinically apparent disease. The use of MGA in squirrel monkeys should also be discouraged, and any implanted animals should be closely monitored. The development of nonsteroidal birth control measures should be pursued.
41417163|Infections by Cryptosporidium spp. in aquatic mammals is a major concern due to the possibility of the waterborne transmission of oocysts. The aim of the present study was to report the occurrence of Cryptosporidium spp. in Antillean manatees (Trichechus manatus) and Amazonian manatees (Trichechus inunguis) from Brazil. Fecal samples were collected and processed using Kinyoun's method. Positive samples were also submitted to the direct immunofluorescence test. The results revealed the presence of Cryptosporidium spp. oocysts in 12.5% (17/136) of the material obtained from the Antillean manatees and in 4.3% (05/115) of the samples from the Amazonian manatees. Cryptosporidium spp. infection was more prevalent in captive animals than in free-ranging specimens.
20460418|A 5-yr-old female African hedgehog (Ateleris albiventris) presented with hematuria. Vulvar culture results revealed a 4+ growth of Enterococcus sp. and gamma-Streptococcus sp. susceptible to trimethoprim sulfa and enrofloxacin. Ultrasound evaluation of the abdomen revealed an unidentifiable tubular structure in the region of the reproductive tract. An exploratory laparotomy and ovariohysterectomy were performed. Pathologic studies of the uterus showed a uterine spindle cell tumor, uterine endometrial polyp, uterine adenomyosis, and a possible acute infarct resulting in uterine wall necrosis. Hematuria did not reoccur, and the hedgehog lived for another 19 mo until she died from an oral squamous cell carcinoma. To date, this is the first report of a uterine spindle cell tumor in an African hedgehog.
20096670|Three cases of metabolic bone disease (MBD) were identified in juvenile Humboldt penguins (Spheniscus humboldti) in a zoological collection. Diagnosis, monitoring, and treatment were challenging, in part because radiographs and traditional serum biochemistries did not provide adequate information to guide appropriate clinical management. Normal values for ionized calcium (iCa), 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25-(OH) D], and parathyroid hormone (PTH) have not been reported for any species in the order Sphenisciformes. This study aimed to establish reference ranges for these parameters to provide a method for assessing clinical cases of MBD and other disease processes. iCa was measured in 33 healthy adult birds from two zoological collections by using a portable clinical analyzer. iCa also was measured from 14 of these birds at a commercial laboratory. Mean and standard deviation were determined to be 1.21  0.09 and 1.29  0.10 mmol/L, respectively. Limited data exist on iCa in avian species, but these results are consistent with other reports and provide a useful clinical parameter. Analysis of PTH and 25-(OH) D was performed at a commercial laboratory on samples from 14 healthy adult penguins in one collection. Means and standard deviations for PTH and 25-(OH) D were 0.8  0.3 pmol/L and 3.7  2.4 nmol/L, respectively. These results are near the minimal functional detectable limits of the assays; raising uncertainty about the validity and usefulness of currently available PTH and 25-(OH) D tests in this species.
20096017|A 1-yr-old male leopard (Panthera pardus) presented for intermittent anorexia, emaciation, and generalized muscle wasting. Plain radiographs, ultrasonography, and esophageal endoscopy led to a diagnosis of diaphragmatic eventration with probable concurrent hiatal hernia. An exploratory laparotomy confirmed both diagnoses, and surgical repair and stabilization were performed. After surgery, the leopard was maintained on small liquid meals for 4 days, with a gradual return to normal diet over 2 wk. By 4 wk after surgery, the leopard was eating well and gaining weight, and it showed no recurrence of clinical signs for 2 yr subsequently, becoming mildly obese.
20095926|A free-ranging juvenile female red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) that was unable to fly was admitted to a rehabilitation center and died 1 day later. Hematology and serum chemistry abnormalities included moderate regenerative anemia, elevated creatine kinase, and hyperphosphatemia. Necropsy revealed a generalized steatitis, and histology showed a necrotizing and granulomatous pansteatitis with intralesional pigment compatible with ceroid. There was also moderate diffuse myodegeneration, mild multifocal cardiomyopathy, and mild multifocal hepatic necrosis. These changes and lesions resemble those caused by vitamin E deficiency in mammals and fish-eating birds.
20096391|An 8-yr-old male meerkat (Suricata suricatta) presented with sudden lethargy. A globular-shaped heart associated with pleural effusion on chest thoracic radiographs was consistent with congestive heart failure, and echocardiography was performed under general anesthesia. It revealed an Ebstein anomaly, with mild pericardial effusion and marked right heart enlargement. The animal was treated with imidapril chlorydrate. After 4 mo of treatment, thoracic radiographs still showed right-sided cardiomegaly; however, the animal appeared clinically normal.
20096418|A 9-yr-old, female Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) developed severe pruritus in June 1993. During the next 8 yr, the camel exhibited annual episodes of pruritus and epiphora, generally beginning in June and subsiding in October of each year. These signs could usually be controlled with topical agents and fly repellents, although pruritus flare-ups were effectively controlled with intermittent injections of diphenhydramine and corticosteroids. There were no signs during the colder months. The pruritus became more severe and difficult to control when the camel reached its 18th year. Histopathologic descriptions of skin biopsies taken from several sites suggested a hypersensitivity reaction with secondary changes because of bacterial infection or corticosteroid administration (or both). An intradermal test (IDT) performed using 62 allergens regionalized to Northern California resulted in 17 positive test sites. Hyposensitization therapy was initiated using allergens chosen on the basis of exposure, availability, and the results of the IDT, using standard protocols. The clinical signs of pruritus were markedly reduced in the 2 yr after the hyposensitization injections were initiated.
20095659|A nonsuppurative meningoencephalitis, previously presumed to be toxoplasmosis, was found in 53 capercaillies (Tetrao urogallus L.) examined at necropsy at the National Veterinary Institute, Uppsala, Sweden, between 1966 and 1985. Pronounced meningitis and encephalitis with perivascular cuffs of mononuclear inflammatory cells as well as focal gliosis were prominent histopathologic findings. Protozoa were frequently associated with these lesions. Ultrastructurally, the protozoa appeared to divide by endopolygeny, and merozoites had no rhoptries. Organisms from all 12 birds subjected to Sarcocystis cruzi immunohistochemical staining reacted positively but did not react to Toxoplasma gondii antiserum. The agent was, therefore, assigned to the family Sarcocystidae and was probably more closely related to species of the genus Sarcocystis than to T. gondii.
20095215|An 8-mo-old blue and gold macaw (Ara ararauna) was presented for the primary complaint of multiple 1-2-mm erythematous papules involving the facial skin and plantar skin of both feet. A diagnosis of pseudolymphoma (lymphocytoma) was made based on light and electron microscopic examination of cutaneous biopsies. Attempts to demonstrate a viral etiology using electron microscopy, virus isolation, and serology were unsuccessful. Disease progression was arrested through the use of chlorambucil (20 mg/m p.o. q14d). The only adverse effect associated with chlorambucil treatment was elevation of serum alanine aminotransferase concentrations. The disease has remained quiescent 3 yr posttreatment.
20094930|Interpretations of the Animal Welfare Act and other regulations governing use of research animals in the United States are changing. Recent amendments to the Act have resulted in the inclusion of more species under the umbrella of regulation. The role of the zoo and wildlife veterinarian should be that of leading his or her institution into a positive endorsement of these regulations and their application. Recent additions to the Code of Federal Regulations spell out the roles of the veterinarian and the Animal Care and Use Committee at an institution.
41262644|Although bats are one of the largest groups within the class Mammalia and may carry several zoonotic diseases, basic information about their hematology is limited. In this study, hematocrit (Hct), total white blood cell counts (TWBC; leukocytes), and differential white blood cell counts (DWBC) of free-ranging Neotropical bats were quantified. Blood samples from 255 bats representing 26 species from the families of Emballonuridae (3 species; 33 individuals), Molossidae (2 species; 26 individuals), Mormoopidae (1 species; 1 individual), Phyllostomidae (18 species; 180 individuals), and Vespertilionidae (2 species; 15 individuals) were collected in a Caribbean lowland rainforest of Costa Rica. Hct was measured after centrifugation of microhematocrit capillaries, TWBCs were performed using the Unopette system and a hemocytometer, and DWBCs were performed on eosin methylene blue stained blood films. Hct of bats ranged between 51.8  0.7% for Phyllostomus discolor (n = 27) and 65.8  2.2% for Molossus sinaloae (n = 6). Bat species of the same taxonomic family had comparable TWBCs; these were lower for insectivorous emballonurid, molossid, and vespertilionid bat species than for mostly phytophagous phyllostomid bat species. However, Ectophylla alba (Phyllostomidae) exhibited exceptionally low TWBCs (836  166 /l; n = 10); this was less than half of the TWBCs of all other bat species, which ranged from 1,714  297/l for Molossus bondae (w = 20) to 7,339  1,503/l for Trachops cirrhosus (n = 6). Species with higher TWBCs tended to have lower Hct values. Overall, blood cell morphology was similar to other mammalian species. A large number of polychromatophilic erythrocytes and differences in lymphocyte morphology were noted. This study provides important hematological values for Neotropical bat species and significantly expands the knowledge on basal physiological measurements of Chiroptera.
20095149|A long-term captive black specked palm-pitviper (Bothriechis nigroviridis) was heavily infested with the arthropod mite Ophionyssus natricis. The left loreal pit of the snake was completely occluded with a mass of caseous material. The impaction was removed surgically, and remnants of an arthropod parasite were found in the core of the mass, which was composed largely of heterophils and inflammatory cells. Bacterial colonies and fungal hyphae were associated with the arthropod remains. The loreal pit was flushed once daily with antibiotics for 7 days. The snake had no postoperative complications.
20095865|Duration of anesthesia onset (time to intubation) and recovery (time to extubation, sternal and standing) and quality of recovery were compared for sevoflurance and isoflurane in 10 adult psittacines. Both agents were initially administered at an equal volume percentage (2%) rather than at equal minimum alveolar concentrations (MACs), therefore the initial concentration was above the isoflurane MAC for dogs and birds (1.3%) but below the sevoflurane MAC for dogs (2.3%). The time to intubation was significantly longer with sevoflurane because of initially delivering the sevoflurane below suspected MAC for birds. Although recovery times (time to extubation, sternal, and standing) were not significantly different, birds recovering from sevoflurane were less ataxic. Sevoflurane is a suitable inhalant agent for use in these psittacines and merits further study.
20094963|Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) was isolated from eight nonhuman primates, one Thomson's gazelle (Gazella thomsoni), and one dromedary camel (Camelus dromedarius) that died peracutely between January 1985 and October 1987 at Audubon Park Zoo, New Orleans, Louisiana. Gross pathology consisted of excessive pericardial fluid, epicardial hemorrhages, and pale foci within the myocardium. Microscopic changes included myofiber necrosis, edema, and mononuclear cell infiltration within the myocardium. Anti-EMCV antibody was found in a variety of species including a capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris), which subsequently died of a necrotizing myocarditis but from which virus was not isolated. Although one hospital staff member had a high anti-EMCV antibody titer, all primate keepers were seronegative. Encephalomyocarditis virus was recovered from 38 wild rodents, one opossum (Didelphis virginiana), and one rabbit (Sylvilagus sp.) collected on the zoo grounds. Fifty-five percent of the positive samples were found in areas where confirmed deaths had occurred or antibody-positive animals were housed. A killed vaccine was developed and administered to six domestic cats, 12 primates, and one camel. Antibody response to vaccination was variable.
20096366|A 14.6-yr-old, female, multiparous polar bear (Ursus maritimus) acutely developed an apparent hind limb weakness. Physical examination and diagnostic tests including a hemogram, serum biochemistry, electrolytes, radiographs, and myelogram did not provide a definitive diagnosis. No improvement in condition was noted during 4 days of supportive care, and the bear was euthanized. An ovoid mass was present in the anterior mediastinum, and a thymoma was confirmed histologically. Compared with control polar bears, elevated serum acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies (0.13  0.06 nmol/L vs. 0.86 nmol/L) were detected by immunoprecipitation radioimmunoassay, which is consistent with myasthenia gravis (MG) in other species. Although the AChR antibody test has not been validated in the polar bear, we are confident in the postmortem diagnosis of MG, which is commonly associated with thymoma in other species.
20096238|A 28-yr-old female California sea lion (Zalophus californianus) in a commercial aquarium developed an ulcerated lingual tumor and died. Necropsy revealed a moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Immunohistochemical staining and electron microscopic studies revealed that the tumor cells were strongly positive with anti-keratin-cytokeratin antibody and had abundant tonofibrils and desmosomes. The neoplasm had metastasized to a mandibular lymph node.
20096337|An acute rectal mucosal prolapse in a 26-yr-old Indian rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis) was repaired surgically by mucosal resection. Two days postoperatively, suture line dehiscence accompanied by substantial hemorrhage was managed by ligation and hemostasis during a second immobilization. Medical management with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and diuretics reduced the mucosal edema and prevented recurrence of the prolapse. A combination of butorphanol and detomidine provided excellent reversible chemical restraint for this animal.
20096423|An eviscerated hunter-harvested female black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus columbianus) was submitted to the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife. The deer was emaciated, devoid of adipose tissue, and the parietal surface of the thoracic cavity contained multiple granulomas. Acid-fast bacteria were detected histologically from the granulomas and were isolated and identified as Mycobacterium kansasii, a nontuberculous mycobacterium sporadically reported to cause tuberculosis-like disease in a variety of vertebrates. This was the first report of symptomatic disease caused by M. kansasii in free-ranging deer. This case indicates that atypical mycobacteria can cause tuberculosis-like disease in free-ranging deer and illustrates the importance of identifying causative agents of tuberculosis-like disease in wildlife.
20096044|A juvenile western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) experienced recurrent fever, lethargy, diarrhea, and/or arthritis starting at age 6 mo. During an episode at age 15 mo, Shigella sp. was isolated from diarrheic feces. At age 41 mo, reactive arthritis was diagnosed. In addition, the gorilla's growth was retarded. All arthritic attacks were managed symptomatically prior to age 4 yr, at which time a severe episode precipitated the implementation of therapy with sulfasalazine, an arthritis suppressive medication. Examination 27 mo later revealed cessation of progressive joint pathology although the animal exhibited decreased range of motion in most joints. The gorilla has been on sulfasalazine therapy for 4 yr without lameness. Growth has resumed, and there has been no radiographic evidence of progressive joint degeneration. Immunogenetic analysis of whole blood obtained at age 68 mo identified the gorilla major histo-compatibility class I allele,
40962239|A 24-yr-old, male western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) was diagnosed in March of 2003 with congestive heart failure (CHF). Transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated global left and right ventricular hypokinesia with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 0.20. At the time of diagnosis, the animal exhibited symptoms and signs of CHF with minimal exertion (New York Heart Association class III). Over a 16-mo period, the severity of CHF progressed to class IV (resting signs and symptoms) despite angiotensinconverting enzyme inhibition, beta-blockers, and diuretics. Because of intractable CHF and a QRS duration that was markedly prolonged compared with the normal range for this species, a cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) device was implanted using implantation techniques based on human surgical procedures. Placement of the right ventricular, right atrial, and left ventricular leads and pulse generator were accomplished in 5.5 hr. Telemetry of the device postoperatively via wand or remote radio frequency has allowed for noninvasive programming and interrogation. The clinical improvement in CHF with this therapy was immediate and dramatic for this animal. Six months after CRT device implantation, the device leads became dislodged during an altercation with another gorilla, with the rapid development of CHF upon cessation of biventricular pacing. A second procedure to replace the leads returned the gorilla to his previous level of activity. In 2007, the pulse generator was electively replaced for battery depletion with a device capable of remote radiofrequency programming and interrogation. CRT implantation, although requiring specialized equipment and surgical skill, appears to be a viable option for treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy in gorillas.
20095438|In a retrospective study of 260 spontaneous deaths of vervet monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops), gastric ulcers were diagnosed at necropsy in 32% of all cases over a 7-yr period. Gastric ulcers were found to be significantly associated with solitary housing conditions and animals with ulcers tended to have a history of diarrhea. The conclusions are that the monkeys were stressed and exhibited a conservation--withdrawal response resulting in gastric ulcers in association with adrenal cortical changes.
20460534|A 36-yr-old male captive siamang (Symphalangus syndactylus) was evaluated for mange in the form of generalized alopecia, flaky skin, and pruritus of 1 mo duration. Multiple skin scrapings and biopsies revealed high numbers of trombidiiform mites identified as Psorobia (formerly Psorergates) sp. near cercopitheci (Acarina: Psorergatidae) based on morphologic characteristics. Prolonged repetitive treatment with ivermectin killed the mites and resolved the clinical signs. Psorergatid mites should be considered as a cause of dry flaky skin in even long-term captive siamangs or other primates. This is the first record of psorergatid mites from a primate host in the family Hylobatidae.
20096546|A retrospective study of neoplasia in reptiles held at the Philadelphia Zoological Garden was conducted. A total of 3,684 original necropsy reports for the period 1901-2002 were reviewed and revealed 86 cases of neoplasia. Original glass slides or re-cuts from paraffin-embedded tissue blocks were examined for confirmation of the original diagnosis. At necropsy, a total of six neoplasms were identified in six of 490 chelonians (1.2%), 22 neoplasms in 19 of 736 lizards (3.0%), and 58 neoplasms in 53 of 1,835 snakes (2.9%). An additional 12 neoplasms were found in biopsies of one turtle and 10 snakes. In the chelonians, all the neoplasms were seen in turtles, four of six tumors were malignant (66%) and no organ predilection was noted. For lizards, the liver was the most commonly affected organ, with 7 of 22 primary neoplasms (31%). Multiple tumor types were identified in three lizards (15%), metastasis occurred in five cases (25%), and malignant tumors were identified in 16 cases (73%). In snakes, the liver was most frequently affected by neoplasia at necropsy, with 13 of 58 primary neoplasms (22%); multiple types of neoplasm were identified in five cases (10%) and metastasis in six (9%); and 42 tumors (80%) were diagnosed as malignant. When biopsies were included for snakes, however, the skin was the most commonly affected organ, with 17 of 69 neoplasms (24%). One of five lizards (20%) and four of six snakes (66%) with metastasis also had a second primary neoplasm. Since 1967, the incidence of lizard neoplasia has increased from 0.7% to 5.9%, and snake neoplasia has increased from 2.6% to 9.3%.
20095210|Normal cardiopulmonary data in seven African (Loxodonta africana) and eight Asian (Elephas maximus) elephants were documented in conscious animals standing and in left lateral (LL) recumbency. In the standing position, arterial blood pressures, heart and respiratory rates, and blood gas values did not differ (P &gt 0.05) over time or between species. Systolic, diastolic, and blood pressure means (SEM) were 178.6 (2.94), 118.7 (3.10), and 144.6 (2.90) mm Hg, respectively, in unsedated standing elephants. Arterial blood pressures increased (P  0.05) with time in LL recumbency and were highest (179.83  9.32) by the last reading at 16.5  0.41 min. Arterial Po values decreased (P  0.05) from 96.2 (1.55) mm Hg while standing to 83.8 (3.37) mm Hg by 13.6 (6.8) min in LL recumbency. Lateral recumbency increased (P &lt 0.05) arterial pH, adjusted base excess, and
20079486|The pharmacokinetics of enrofloxacin in emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) were examined following parenteral administration. A mean allometrically scaled dose of 2.2  0.03 mg/kg was administered as a single i.v. bolus, and serum samples were collected at predetermined intervals over a 24-hr period. Enrofloxacin levels were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography, and the resulting concentration versus time curve was analyzed using nonlinear regression with least squares parameter estimation. The data were best represented by a two-compartment model with a mean elimination half-life of 3.33 hr. Mean model independent parameters obtained were area under the curve (8.26 ghr/ml), mean residence time (4.40 hr), apparent volume of distribution (1.49 L/kg), and total body drug clearance (0.36 L/hr/kg). Mean serum concentrations exceeded the target peak of 2.0 g/ml and remained above an estimated inhibitory concentration of 0.5 g/ml for approximately 2 hr. Based upon the results of this study, enrofloxacin administered parenterally to emus at 2.2 mg/kg every 12 hr is expected to achieve therapeutic serum concentrations against susceptible organisms.
20460536|Body condition in wild ungulates is traditionally evaluated during the necropsy of animals on the basis of the weight of fat stored around or within the vital organs, the weight of the organs themselves, and their derived indices. However, sometimes it is important to evaluate the nutritional status of the animal by means of blood and serum analyses and the interpretation of specific parameters. Only in a very few studies is the nutritional status of the animal obtained by blood biochemistry and, when obtained, compared with the values for body condition obtained by anatomic dissection. In this study, the usefulness of two serum parameters, total serum proteins (TSP) and serum triglycerides (ST), was assessed in the monitoring of the body condition of Iberian wild goats (Capra pyrenaica). In addition, their relationship with the kidney fat index (KFI) and its components, kidney mass without fat (KM) and kidney fat (KF) is evaluated. A total of 25 wild goats from the Sierra Nevada National Park (southern Iberian Peninsula) that were shot by hunters were used in this study. The parameter TSP was found to be correlated with KM, and ST was correlated with both KM and KFI. Hence, both TSP and ST can be used for monitoring physical condition in wild and captive Iberian wild goats.
20095567|To investigate the potential use of long-duration anesthesia for airlifted translocations of Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx), six animals were anesthetized for a mean of 259 min (SD = 76.9 min), using a combination of etorphine and medetomidine given i.m. at mean dosages of 68 g/kg (SD = 29 g/kg) and 5.00 g/kg (SD = 0.27 g/kg), respectively. Clinical variables (rectal temperature, heart and respiratory rates) and behavioral responses (reactions to a pain solicitation, movements of animals) were recorded every 15 min to assess the state of anesthesia. Body temperature decreased slightly at the beginning of anesthesia and remained constant in all but one animal with hypothermia and another with hyperthermia. Respiratory rate increased from a mean value of 20 breaths/min (SD = 5 breaths/min) 30 min following darting (T = 30 min) to a mean value of 40 breaths/min (SD = 15 breaths/min) at T = 90 min. Respiratory rate decreased to a mean value of 20 breaths/min (SD = 15 breaths/min) at T = 120 min and then remained constant in all but one male, which displayed persistant polypnea. Heart rate remained roughly constant. All the clinical variables remained in normal physiological ranges. Hematologic analysis showed a significant (P &lt 0.001) decrease of hematocrit and red blood cells counts from 41.00% (SD = 3.00%) and 7.86  10 cells/ml (SD = 0.93  10 cells/ml) at T = 30 min to 34.30% (SD = 2.70%) and 4.70  10 cells/ml (SD = 0.90  10 cells/ml) at T = 140 min, respectively. No major problems occurred during the anesthesia, but the difficulty of performing close monitoring of clinical parameters after 3 hr anesthesia could jeopardize the safety of anesthesia for longer than 5 hr.
20096072|A 3-yr-old bearded dragon (Acanthodraco vitticeps) presented with lethargy, a swollen right elbow joint, inability to move its rear limbs normally, and marked leukocytosis. The majority of leukocytes were an abnormal mononuclear lymphoid-type cell with a high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio, a slightly blue cytoplasm, nuclei with coarsely granular chromatin, and some nuclear clefts. Acute leukemia of lymphoid or myeloid origin was tentatively diagnosed. The abnormal mononuclear leukocyte cell population stained positively for the myeloid cytochemical stains: peroxidase, chloroacetate esterase, and L1-calprotectin. The abnormal cell population of the peripheral blood did not stain with the lymphoid cytochemical stains: -naphthyl butyrate esterase, CD3, and CD79a.
20096154|A 30-yr-old untamed European female brown bear (Ursus arctos arctos) with a craniodorsal luxation of the right femoral head and bilateral degenerative joint disease of the coxofemoral joint had a femoral head and neck excision following unsatisfactory conservative medical therapy. The bear was injected with zolazepam-tiletamine, and anesthesia was induced with i.v. thiopental and maintained with isoflurane in oxygen via endotracheal tube. A lumbosacral epidural injection of medetomidine-bupivacaine provided additional analgesia. Slight initial cardiorespiratory depression was counteracted with fluid and inotropic drug administration and ventilatory assistance. The bear's gluteal muscle anatomy differs from that of the dog. Recovery was uneventful. The bear was confined indoors for 6 wk and was able to ambulate normally within 6 mo.
20095772|Blood samples from 36 clinically normal adult chuditch (Dasyurus geoffroii), a carnivorous Western Australian native marsupial, were analyzed to establish hematologic and biochemical reference ranges for this species.
20095898|A 20-yr-old female Pre David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus) died following a 3-wk history of depression, anorexia, and progressive respiratory distress. At necropsy, numerous soft to firm, tan or blood-filled nodular structures, 1-6 cm in diameter, were noted in the lung and the visceral and parietal pleura and within the mediastinum. Similar nodules were also found in the liver, spleen, kidney, and lymph nodes. Histologically, the nodules were diagnosed as hemangiosarcoma. A benign teratoma was present in the left ovary.
20096064|To examine the waveforms of electrocardiograms, cardiac rhythm, heart rates at rest and during excitement, and the rate of increase of heart rate, electrocardiograms were recorded with standard bipolar limb leads from 79 free-living birds, including 19 species. The heart weights and heart-to-body weight ratios were obtained from an additional 96 free-living birds, including 20 species. In the majority of the electrocardiograms, lead I was of low amplitudes for all waves except the P wave, and leads II and III were very similar to each other with a predominant S wave and a very short or elevated ST segment. The P wave was often superimposed on the T wave when the heart rate increased to 330 beats/min. Four types of arrhythmia were observed in 50 of the 79 birds (63.3%): 48 sinus arrhythmias, four sinus arrests, two atrial premature contractions, and one ventricular premature contraction. The resting heart rate was negatively associated with the rate of increase, suggesting that a bird with a low resting rate might be able to maintain a greater capacity to increase its heart rate than one with a high resting rate. A negative correlation on a bilogarithmic scale was obtained between the heart weight and the resting heart rate, indicating that a bird with a high heart weight had lower resting heart rate than a bird with a low heart weight. When the heart-to-body weight ratios of free-living birds were compared according to their motility, the ratios of more active birds were greater than those of less active ones.
20095888|An 8-mo-old captive male reticulated giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis reticulata) developed an acute lameness (grade IV/V) of the right forelimb, with swelling of the metacarpophalangeal joint. A traumatic injury was suspected based on clinical, radiographic, and arthroscopic evaluation. Several abnormalities were identified arthroscopically, including synovitis, cartilage damage, and an osteochondral fragment. Medial collateral ligament damage was also suspected based on radiographic evaluation. Arthroscopy provided a means of diagnosis and treatment of the abnormalities identified. The lameness in this giraffe resolved within 6 wk following arthroscopic surgery.
40962319|A 3-yr-old male Rothschild's giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis rothschildi) presented for acute swelling caudomedial to the left parietal horn. Following initial diagnostics and supportive treatment, the mass was surgically resected and intralesional chemotherapy was administered. Despite treatment, the giraffe's condition worsened and euthanasia was performed. Gross necropsy revealed neoplastic invasion and destruction of underlying parietal bone, adjacent horn base, and sinuses, and mtastases in the tracheobronchial and mandibular lymph nodes and lung. Histologically, the tumor was composed of packets of anaplastic round cells. Immunohistochemical studies further characterized the tumor as an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma. This is the first reported case of rhabdomyosarcoma in a giraffe.
20460389|A juvenile cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) died with rapidly progressive pyrexia, tachypnea, abdominal effusion, and hepatomegaly. Postmortem examination revealed lesions consistent with acute disseminated infection with Toxoplasma gondii. The presence of this organism was confirmed in multiple organs by immunohistochemistry and polymerase chain reaction. To the best of our knowledge, we propose this to be the first reported case of primary acute disseminated toxoplasmosis in a cheetah.
20096192|The prevalence of Chlamydophila psittaci (formerly Chlamydia psittaci) infection was assessed in 95 apparently healthy, captive Amazon parrots from three breeder collections in southeastern and west-central Brazil. Cloacal swabs from 95 birds were tested for chlamydial antigen, which was detected by direct immunofluorescence (DIF), and serum samples from 44 of these birds were tested for antibodies to C. psittaci using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The prevalences of active infection as detected by DIF were 16.7%, 22.2%, and 56.1%, and seroprevalences were 100%, 87.5%, and 60% in flocks A, B, and C, respectively. We can therefore infer that C. psittaci may be widespread in captive parrot populations in Brazil.
20095771|Intraocular pressure (IOP) was measured in a pride of 22 (11 males, 11 females) lions (Panthera leo) using a Schiotz tonometer. Two anesthetic protocols were used in the study. Lions in group I (n = 14) were anesthetized using xylazine, atropine sulfate, and ketamine. Lions in group II (n = 8) were anesthetized using ketamine and diazepam. Five sequential readings were taken from each eye of every lion. There were no significant differences in IOP between the two anesthetic groups, between left and right eyes, or over the five readings. The IOP was significantly higher in males than in females, controlling for age and weight. The mean (SD) tonometer reading in 22 eyes of 11 male lions was 2.9 (0.5) mm; with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.6-4.5 mm. The mean tonometer reading in 22 eyes of 11 female lions was 4.0 (0.7) mm, with a 95% CI of 1.8-6.3 mm. Using the 1955 Friedenwald human calibration table, the estimated mean IOP in 22 eyes of 11 male lions was 24.9 (2.0) mm Hg, with a 95% CI of 20.4-29.4 mm Hg. The estimated mean IOP in 22 eyes of 11 female lions was 20.9 (2.4) mm Hg, with a 95% CI of 15.6-26.3 mm Hg.
20460482|The somatotropic axis, including growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I, and IGF binding proteins (IGFBP), is a bridge between growth physiology, developmental age, and nutritional status in domestic animals. However, the importance of the somatotropic axis in nutrition, growth, and development of harbor seals has not been previously explored. Given the difficulty of conducting longitudinal studies in free-ranging harbor seals, this study focused on the potential use of harbor seals in rehabilitation facilities as a model for free-ranging seals. The purpose of this research was to compare concentrations of components of the somatotropic axis in free-ranging versus rehabilitated harbor seal pups. The hypothesis was that measurements of the somatotropic axis will be similar between individuals of comparable age and nutritional status (fasting versus feeding). To investigate this hypothesis, harbor seal pups (n = 8) brought to The Marine Mammal Center (Sausalito, California, USA) or Mystic Aquarium (Mystic, Connecticut, USA) were initially assessed and determined to be healthy but abandoned. All pups were less than 2 wk of age upon arrival at rehabilitation facilities. Standard length was assessed at the time of arrival and again at release. Body mass was measured every week and blood samples were collected from each pup at 0, 4, and 8 wk of rehabilitation. Blood was collected and morphometrics assessed in free-ranging harbor seal pups (n = 8) from the Gulf of Maine. Sera were analyzed for GH, IGF-I, and IGFBP concentrations. Concentrations of GH, IGF-I, and IGFBP-2 and -3 in rehabilitated pups were within a similar range compared with free-ranging pups when considered in the context of presumed nutrient intake. These data suggest that rehabilitated harbor seals may provide a useful model to investigate the effects of nutrient intake on growth and development of harbor seals, and will provide insight into phocid endocrinology and metabolism.
20095316|A 10-yr-old male captive koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) was examined for neurologic signs. The animal had a stress leukogram and a hypoalbuminemia. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed inflammatory disease due to yeasts, which on subsequent culture and biotyping proved to be Cryptococcus neoformans var. gattii. A latex-cryptococcal antigen test (LCAT) on serum gave a high titer of 1:512. At necropsy the koala had an extensive meningoencephalitis and focal pneumonia due to cryptococcal organisms. Cryptococcosis has been recorded in koalas before, but biotyping has not been attempted. In this koala, the source of the organism appeared to be forest red gums (Eucalyptus tereticornis), and it was speculated that the animal was predisposed by immunosuppression, possibly triggered by altered management practices.
40665154|Nonspecific responses to intradermal tuberculin skin testing (TST) have been frequently documented in silvered langurs (Trachypithecus cristatus ultima) at the Wildlife Conservation Society's Bronx Zoo. A commercial rapid lateral flow immunoassay (RT) for the identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. bovis antibodies was employed to assess this test's correlation with TST results and tuberculosis status. Twenty-two silvered langurs were tested with both TST and RT. TST results were characterized into three groups as nonspecific tuberculin responses (n = 9), responses to avian tuberculin only (n = 6), or negative (n = 7). Rapid lateral flow test results were negative in 20 of 22 individuals with equivocal results in two avian tuberculin responders. There was no difference in RT results between TST groups (P = 0.178). Rapid lateral flow test results were not in agreement with mammalian old tuberculin TST results (k= 0.08) but showed raw agreement with tuberculosis status (proportion of overall agreement = 0.909). Results suggest the RT assay may useful in the confirmation of nonspecific TST responders in silvered langurs.
20096416|Sarcoids were diagnosed in two captive zebras from different facilities. Zebra 1 (Equus burchellii boehmi) was a 4.5-yr-old, captive-born male that presented with a 9- by 7-cm inguinal mass. Seven months after surgical excision of the inguinal mass, the zebra presented with a similar lesions in the right upper eyelid that has relapsed repeatedly and has not responded to treatment including local cisplatin injections and cryosurgery. Zebra 2 (of undetermined taxon) was housed at a private wild animal farm. The zebra presented with a single, raised, 2.5- by 2.0- by 2.0-cm, ulcerated mass on the nose, and surgical excision was curative. Histologically, the three masses consisted of a dermal, compact, nonencapsulated, poorly demarcated neoplasm composed of well-differentiated spindle cells arranged in streams and whorls and accompanied by moderate epidermal hyperplasia with long rete pegs. On the basis of the morphologic resemblance to the unique equine cutaneous neoplasm, "sarcoid" was diagnosed. This is the first description of sarcoids in captive zebras. Association with bovine papillomavirus (BPV) type 1, as it occurs in horses, was demonstrated by polymerase chain reaction, nucleic acid sequencing, and in situ hybridization (ISH) on paraffinembedded tissues from the inguinal mass of zebra 1. Sequencing revealed 98% identity of the 244-bp fragment with BPV type 1. The ISH for BPV type 1 DNA intensely stained the nuclei of neoplastic mesenchymal spindle cells. The sites and the clinical behavior of the sarcoids in these zebras are similar to those described in horses.
20460538|Anesthesia in the giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) may be complicated by apnea. Although emergent orotracheal intubation may be possible in other species, the particular anatomy of the anteater prevents a smooth intubation. A technique, developed on a cadaver model, is described for a surgical approach to the trachea of the giant anteater that may be used to secure an airway in an anesthetized animal under emergent conditions. The approach is complicated by the presence of the large paired submaxillary salivary gland and the relatively deep and caudal position of the larynx relative to the ramus of the mandible. This procedure, however, appears to be a feasible method to achieve endotracheal intubation in the anteater.
40962241|Bilateral transpalpebral ultrasonography was performed on 53 captive Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) in order to describe the normal ultrasonographic appearance and measurements of the Asian elephant eye. Transpalpebral ultrasonography was performed using a portable ultrasound unit and a 4 7-MHz broadband curvilinear transducer on animals housed at seven institutions in the United Kingdom and in Sri Lanka. Both males and females were included in the study and ages ranged from 14 mo to 65 yr. Ultrasonic examinations were conducted on unsedated animals, without the use of topical or local anesthesia. The ultrasonographic appearance of the globe and intraocular structures of the Asian elephant eye is similar to that in other species. Biometry measurements recorded for adult (n = 41) and juvenile (n = 10) Asian elephants were: axial length, 3.44  0.21 cm and 3.18  0.19 cm (mean  SD); equatorial diameter, 3.88  0.32 cm and 3.60  0.24 cm; corneal thickness, 0.17  0.02 cm and 0.16  0.02 cm; anterior segment depth, 0.45  0.08 cm and 0.36  0.07 cm; lens diameter, 1.90  0.14 cm and 1.75  0.19 cm; lens depth, 1.01  0.12 cm and 0.94  0.10 cm, and posterior segment depth, 1.82  0.17 cm and 1.72  0.15 cm, respectively. Multiple linear regression analysis indicated a significant relationship between the explanatory variables (age, sex, and height) and the dependent variables (axial length, equatorial diameter, corneal thickness, anterior segment depth, lens diameter, and lens depth). The main finding of this statistical test was that the globe increases in size as the animal ages. Transpalpebral ultrasonography was found to be an effective and practical imaging modality in the evaluation of the Asian elephant eye, without the need for chemical restraint.
20095393|Geopetitia aspiculata was isolated at the Lincoln Park Zoological Gardens, Chicago, Illinois. Infections in birds were determined by fecal analysis and/or postmortem examination. Feces from infected birds were fed as an exclusive diet to insects (potential intermediate hosts), including several species of cockroaches (Periplaneta americana, P. australasiae, Blattella germanica, Leucophaea maderae, Supella supellectilium), crickets (Gryllus pennsylvanicus, Acheta domestica), and mealworm beetles (Tenebrio molitor). Nematode larvae were identified in B. germanica, S. supellectilium, and A. domestica. In B. germanica (n = 35), the parasite developed to the infective stage in approximately 35 days. Zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) (n = 50) were inoculated p.o. with 15, 30, or 100 infective larvae recovered from experimentally infected insects. Infective third-stage larvae penetrated the proventricular mucosa, and 24 hr postinoculation, larvae were identified within the keratin layer at the proventricular-ventricular junction. At 4 days postinoculation, larvae were found encapsulated in the lamina propria of the superficial mucosa. Proventricular mucosal damage rendered the host susceptible to secondary bacterial and fungal invasion. The fourth-stage larvae penetrated the muscle layers of the proventriculus between 1 and 2 wk postinoculation. From 2 wk to 14 wk postinoculation, the fifth-stage worms developed to maturity. The prepatent period was 70-98 days (x = 88 days). During the patent period, eggs were shed intermittently. The primary macroscopic lesion was a transmural and periproventricular mass of tightly coiled and intertwining nematodes. The mass originated from a single penetrating focus in the greater curvature of the distal proventriculus immediately proximal to the ventricular junction. The posterior end of the nematodes protruded 1-2 mm into the proventricular lumen. The mass was composed of fibrous connective tissue and granulation tissue which varied from thin and translucent to thick and opaque, depending on the duration of infection and the degree of host response.
20096547|Parasite control in wild ruminants is based mainly on anthelmintics. The objective of the present study was to evaluate three parasite control programs in seven herds of captive wild ruminants in 3 consecutive years. In the first year, a biannual spring-summer treatment regime with fenbendazole at 7.5 mg/kg body weight p.o. for 3 days was applied. The next year, an early-season treatment program with three administrations of fenbendazole at the same dosage at 3-wk intervals was used. In the third year, an early-season treatment program with ivermectin (0.2 mg/kg p.o. for 3 days), applied three times at 5-wk intervals, was evaluated. Effectiveness of these control programs was assessed by fecal egg counts and by scores of body condition and fecal consistency at weekly intervals. Involved animal species were Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx), scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx dammah), slender-horned gazelle (Gazella leptoceros), Soay sheep (Ovis aries soay), ibex (Capra ibex), red deer (Cervus elaphus hippelaphus), and Nelson's elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni). With the spring-summer regime, fecal egg counts remained low during the first 5 mo, but from September onward, they slowly increased to significant levels in all seven herds. The early-season program with fenbendazole resulted in fecal egg counts near zero during the entire year in four herds but a significant egg shedding from August onward was noted in Arabian oryx, scimitar-horned oryx, and Soay sheep. The early-season program with ivermectin resulted in very low to zero egg shedding in gazelle, adult Soay sheep, ibex, red deer, and Nelson's elk during the entire grazing season, but failed to prevent high shedding in October in Arabian oryx and scimitar-horned oryx. High contamination of grassy pastures with infective larvae/eggs in the previous year or before the first treatment may explain failure of the treatment regimes in some herds.
20460335|Regional digital i.v. perfusion was used to treat a severe sole abscess associated with a wire foreign body in a 19-yr-old female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) housed at the Paris Zoo. The cow presented with acute right forelimb lameness and swelling that persisted despite 4 days of anti-inflammatory therapy. Under anesthesia, a 10-  0.5-  0.5-cm wire was extracted from the sole of the right foot. There was a 2-cm-deep, 7-cm-diameter abscess pocket that was subsequently debrided. Regional digital i.v. perfusion was performed and repeated 15 days later, using cefoxitin and gentamicin on both occasions. Between treatments, the cow received trimethoprim--sulfamethoxazole and phenylbutazone orally. Within 2 days of administering anesthesia and the first perfusion treatment, the lameness improved dramatically. When phenylbutazone was discontinued 1 wk after the first treatment, the lameness had completely resolved. At the second treatment, there was no evidence of further soft tissue infection, and the abscess pocket had resolved.
20096399|A 1.5-kg, 6-mo-old male patas monkey (Erythrocebus patas) was cyanotic and panting. Evaluation of the heart by electrocardiography, thoracic radiography, two-dimensional echocardiography, and Doppler color-flow echo-cardiography revealed a ventricular septal defect (VSD) with right-to-left shunting as well as tricuspid valve dysplasia with dilated annulus of the tricuspid ring, dilated right atrium, dilated right ventricle, and deformity of the tricuspid valve. Because of the severity of the cardiac disease, the patas monkey had complications recovering from anesthesia and died 3 days later. Gross postmortem findings included VSD, tricuspid dysplasia, and cerebral hemorrhage.
40665070|Melanocytic neoplasms were diagnosed in a captive black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) and a captive Indian rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicomis) from different facilities. The first case was a 10-yr-old, captive-born male black rhinoceros that presented with a small firm cutaneous mass on the dorsal midline. Aspirate cytology results were suggestive of a melanocytic neoplasm, and histologic examination of the excised mass confirmed a welldifferentiated neoplasm with much pigment production, minimal anaplasia, and no mitotic figures. Several months after mass removal, a similar mass with identical histologic features was excised from the right medial thigh. The second case was a 28-yr-old, wild-born female Indian rhinoceros that presented with a draining wound at the coronary band of a rear digit. Histologic examination of a biopsy from this lesion revealed a melanocytic neoplasm with moderate cellular anaplasia, frequent mitoses, and scant pigment production. At necropsy, the tumor was found to ablate P3 and most deep tissues of the toe. No evidence of vascular invasion or metastasis was found. These two cases represent the only melanocytic neoplasms in Rhinoceridae reported in detail in the literature.
20460278|A biopsy of a periocular tumor in a great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) was initially diagnosed as malignant lymphoma. Chemotherapy was instituted, and biochemical and hematological laboratory values were monitored throughout the course of therapy. The tumor was only partially responsive to therapy. The bird eventually succumbed to myelosuppression induced by chemotherapy and to a secondary fungal bronchiolitis. Gross, histologic, and ultrastructural investigations performed both on surgical biopsy and postmortem tissues revealed a probable multicentric histiocytic sarcoma (malignant histiocytoma) involving the extraocular structures of the lower left eyelid and one digit. To our knowledge, this is the first histiocytic sarcoma described in a raptor.
20095939|Degenerative spinal disorders, including intervertebral disc disease and spondylosis, seldom occur in domestic cats. In contrast, a retrospective study of 13 lions (Panthera leo), 16 tigers (Panthera tigris), 4 leopards (Panthera pardis), 1 snow leopard (Panthera uncia), and 3 jaguars (Panthera onca) from the Knoxville Zoo that died or were euthanatized from 1976 to 1996 indicated that degenerative spinal disease is an important problem in large nondomestic felids. The medical record, radiographic data, and the necropsy report of each animal were examined for evidence of intervertebral disc disease or spondylosis. Eight (three lions, four tigers, and one leopard) animals were diagnosed with degenerative spinal disease. Clinical signs included progressively decreased activity, moderate to severe rear limb muscle atrophy, chronic intermittent rear limb paresis, and ataxia. The age at onset of clinical signs was 10-19 yr (median = 18 yr). Radiographic evaluation of the spinal column was useful in assessing the severity of spinal lesions, and results were correlated with necropsy findings. Lesions were frequently multifocal, included intervertebral disc mineralization or herniation with collapsed intervertebral disc spaces, and were most common in the lumbar area but also involved cervical and thoracic vertebrae. Marked spondylosis was present in the cats with intervertebral disc disease, presumably subsequent to vertebral instability. Six of the animals' spinal cords were examined histologically, and five had acute or chronic damage to the spinal cord secondary to disc protrusion. Spinal disease should be suspected in geriatric large felids with decreased appetite or activity. Radiographic evaluation of the spinal column is the most useful method to assess the type and severity of spinal lesions.
20096334|Computed tomography (CT) was used to diagnose the cause of lameness in a radiated tortoise (Geochelone radiata) and to determine the extent of shell and skeletal trauma in two snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina). The radiated tortoise's lameness was ultimately attributed to luxation of the right-shoulder joint that was not detected during plain film radiography. Axial and appendicular fractures were identified in one of the snapping turtles that were not detected during plain film radiography. In each patient, the information obtained during CT provided important diagnostic, therapeutic, or prognostic information.
20095125|Semen collection and artificial insemination (AI) techniques were developed and tested in captive Hispaniolan parrots (Amazona ventralis). Between January and May of 1987 and 1988, semen collection attempts were made using five singleton males and six paired males. Spermatozoa were collected on 41.4% (46/111) of the occasions from single males and on 37.7% (20/53) of the occasions from paired males. Mean values for semen volume, sperm motility, and sperm concentration were not different (P &gt 0.05) between the single and paired groups. However, differences (P &lt 0.01) were found in the volume of semen produced among singletons. Four females were artificially inseminated with freshly collected spermatozoa. Two of these females produced single fertile eggs. These results demonstrate that semen can be collected routinely from Hispaniolan parrots. With further technique refinement and a greater understanding of the optimal time to deposit sperm, AI could potentially serve as a useful tool in the captive propagation and conservation of Amazona parrots.
20095331|Poison dart frogs (Dendrobatidae) are small, brightly colored frogs indigenous to the neotropics. In the wild, two genera are vulnerable to extinction, yet in captivity increasing numbers of dendrobatids are maintained. Despite the great interest in these frogs, there is little published information available on their health. Clinical assessment of the protozoa from wild-caught and captive-bred dendrobatids was based on examination of approximately 300 direct fecal samples from a colony of frogs. Intestinal protozoa were observed in 26% of all colony frogs. In different groups, the prevalences were as follows: sick frogs, 50%; quarantined frogs, 35%; healthy frogs, 25%; and exiting frogs, 15%. The densities of infection were usually light or moderate for all protozoa (opalinid, ciliate, and flagellate trophozoites and opalinid and coccidian cysts). Most of the intestinal protozoa appeared to be commensals rather than parasites and are not routinely treated. The use of therapeutic agents may be indicated, however, to regain homeostasis in frogs following stressful events such as capture, shipping, or illness. Protozoa were identified in detail from black and green poison dart frogs (Dendrobates auratus) and strawberry poison dart frogs (Dendrobates pumilio), "research frogs" wild caught in Central America especially for this purpose. The 69 research frogs were euthanized and necropsied. Protozoans in the large intestine and blood were photographed and preserved for identification using light microscopy and scanning and transmission electron microscopy. All research frogs had a dense protozoan fauna in their large intestine. Organisms included the opalinid Zelleriella sp., the ciliate Nyctotheroides sp., and retortamonad, trichomonad, and diplomonad flagellates; these flagellates are reported from dendrobatids for the first time. Prevalence of infection was not significantly different in D. auratus euthanized within a day of capture and in frogs subsequently maintained in captivity. Nyctotheroides sp. was not seen in D. pumilio, and Zelleriella sp. was significantly less prevalent in D. pumilio than in D. auratus. Trypanosoma sp. was present in the blood of D. auratus.
20460380|Caribbean iguanas, including the Ricord's iguana (Cyclura ricordii) are ranked as critically endangered on the International Union of the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. The taxon is endemic to Hispaniola, where it inhabits xeric lowlands and is found in a very limited range in two subpopulations in the southwestern area of the island. The goals of this study were to obtain and analyze plasma biochemical and intestinal microbiological data from Ricord's iguanas in the subpopulation of the Neiba Valley, on Cabritos Island National Park, Dominican Republic, and to establish biochemical reference intervals. A Total of 23 blood samples from clinically healthy iguanas (16 males, 7 females) and 14 fecal samples from clinically healthy iguanas were analyzed. Adult female iguanas had higher concentrations of cholesterol, phosphorus, triglycerides, urea, uric acid, and aspartate transaminase activity compared with male iguanas, although the difference was not statistically significant. Seventeen bacterial isolates were obtained, including: Salmonella sp. (serogroup B; serogroup D negative) Escherichia coli, Brevibacterium sp., Enterobacter cloacae, and Enterococcus durans. These data will help contribute to the management and recovery of Ricord's iguana populations.
20095212|Coccidia (Eimeria gruis and E. reichenowi) are common parasites of whooping (Grus americana) and sandhill (G. canadensis) cranes. Although Eimeria spp. infections are generally a disease of the intestinal tract, this parasite can become extraintestinal (disseminated visceral coccidiosis [DVC]) in cranes. In DVC, granulomatous nodules may form in many tissues and organs or may result in bronchopneumonia, hepatitis, myocarditis, splenitis, and enteritis. Because crane chick mortality from DVC at the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center increased in 1988, suggesting that the parasite may be developing a resistance to the coccidiostat amprolium, a target animal safety study using two coccidiostats, monensin and clazuril, was conducted on 27 subadult sandhill cranes. Results of this study indicate that both monensin and clazuril are safe in cranes when administered at 1 , 2 , and 5  the dosage approved for use in poultry.
20096533|A 43 yr-old female African elephant (Loxodonta africana) collapsed acutely and died. Necropsy revealed an enlarged right adrenal medulla. Histologic appearance was typical of pheochromocytoma. Special stains and electron microscopy demonstrated chromaffin granules, suggesting that the tumor was derived from catecholamine secreting cells of the adrenal medulla, and may have been functionally secretory. Serum levels of both norepinephrine and epinephrine were elevated at time of death, supporting the functional nature of the tumor. Histologic findings of arteriolar sclerosis and smooth muscle hyperplasia suggested that the animal may have suffered from chronic systemic hypertension. Pheochromocytoma should be considered as a differential diagnosis in cases of suspected hypertension and acute death in elephants.
20095317|In September 1988, treatment of an adult male Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) for bovine tuberculosis was initiated after the animal had reacted positively to an intradermal injection of bovine purified protein derivative. Infection with Mycobacterium bovis had been suspected because of the animal's rapid weight loss and a history of tuberculosis in the herd to which it belonged. The administration of ethambutol, isoniazid, and rifampicin through the drinking water resulted in a dramatic improvement of the animal's condition. During the 1-yr treatment period, blood samples were collected on three occasions. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays on blood samples were performed by the University of Otago, New Zealand, by the Central Veterinary Institute in Lelystad, the Netherlands, and by the Central Veterinary Laboratory in Weybridge, United Kingdom. Additionally, a lymphocyte transformation test was performed on two different occasions at the University of Otago. All tests showed an unusually high reactivity to M. bovis. Because the animal was well represented genetically in the herd and was precluded from further breeding because of the disease risk to its mates, it was culled at the end of January 1990, more than a year after the inception of treatment. Necropsy was performed in order to establish the effectiveness of the treatment. It was found that there had been remarkable resolution of a very severe tuberculosis infection, but M. bovis was still cultured from a dry, caseous lung lesion and an enlarged mediastinal lymph node.
20095835|Over a 9-mo period, three adult ball pythons (Python regius) (one male, two females) were evaluated for severe dyspnea. Partial obstructions of the tracheal lumen were identified radiographically and/or visualized with a 3.0-mm rigid laparoscope inserted into the tracheal lumen in all three snakes. Administration of systemic antibiotics and nebulization resulted in partial improvement of the dyspnea. In two snakes, the tracheal lesions were removed with a rigid laparoscope and a flexible biopsy instrument inserted into the tracheal lumen. The other snake died and was necropsied. Histologically, the lesions from two snakes were determined to be benign chondromas. The chondromas were composed of a variably disorganized chondroid matrix populated by quiescent, normal-appearing chondrocytes within lacunae, although the chondrocytes were increased in density compared with normal hyaline cartilage and contained rare mitotic figures. The tracheal masses in one snake grew by expansion, not invasion, and were focally continuous with a mineralized cartilage tracheal ring, suggesting a benign nature. This is the second report of tracheal chondroma in ball pythons. Tracheal chondromas are exceedingly rare in humans and domesticated animals, suggesting a possible predisposition of ball pythons for this neoplasm.
41417179|Eastern gray squirrels (EGS) (Sciurus carolinensis) damage trees through bark stripping or gnawing due to territorial marking or agonistic gnawing behavior in concert with higher densities. This study was conducted to determine the effects of a contraceptive vaccine on EGS and its reproductive organ histology. Freeranging urban EGS were vaccinated with the immunocontraceptive GonaCon. All EGS were > 6 mo of age as determined by a combination of pelage characteristics and body weights. The vaccine was administered by injection at a dosage rate of 0.4 ml containing 400 g of GnRH-mollusk protein conjugate i.m. in the thigh to 33 EGS (17 male [m], 16 female [f]) in trapping session 1 (TS1), 23 (14 m, 9 f) in trapping session 2 (TS2), and 11 (8 m, 3 f) in trapping session 3 (TS3). A sham injection containing 0.4 ml saline-AdjuVac was given as control to 22 EGS (16 m, 6 f) in TS1,20 (12 m, 8 f) in TS2, and 8 (4 m, 4 f) in TS3. In the last trapping session (TS4), 35 EGS (16 treated, 19 control) were killed for necropsy to evaluate histologie changes in testes and ovaries. Treated EGS males had testicular, prostatic, and epididymal atrophy compared with control EGS males. The tubuli seminiferi and prostatic glandular lumen of treated EGS males were atrophie, and the epididymal lumen contained no sperm cells. No histologie changes were observed in treated EGS females; however, females likely were not collected when changes due to GonaCon would have been observed. There were no observable histologie differences in the pituitary gland of treated and control EGS. There were no statistically significant differences in either testosterone or progesterone concentrations between control and treated EGS. Although there were no serious side effects to the vaccine, six EGS developed injection site abscesses. GonaCon  may be a potential tool for EGS population control.
27751761|As a result of the lack of basic microscopic anatomy of the elephants' foot, this study deals with the normal microscopic morphology of both the Asian (Elephas maximus) and African (Loxodonta africana) elephant foot with consideration of pathologic changes. A total of 727 histologic samples from defined locations of 24 hooves of both species (17 Asian and seven African species) were studied, measured, and evaluated. Minor differences between the feet and species are seen histologically. Poor horn quality in captive elephants' hooves and loci of minor resistance in captive and wild animals are detected. The thickness of the weight-bearing surface of the captive elephants' hooves is histologically measured as "very thin" (about 10 mm). The normal histologic findings provide a basis for assessing histopathologic changes and especially horn quality. The histologic findings might explain some of the foot problems, but they also give rise to questions about the quality and correctness of current husbandry techniques.
20096102|Carfentanil citrate was given orally to five adult brown bears (Ursus arctos) on 14 separate occasions during the winter and summer to determine effective anesthetic dosages and how season may alter these dosages. Lower blood urea nitrogen: creatinine ratios, depressed appetite, and decreased activity levels in the winter versus summer were reflective of different metabolic states, even though bears were not hibernating in the winter. Doses of carfentanil citrate between 6.0 and 15.2 g/kg were mixed with 5-10 ml of honey, which the bears licked voluntarily from a spoon. During each anesthetization, respiratory and heart rates, hemoglobin saturation, temperature, electrocardiogram, blood gas values, and level of consciousness were monitored and utilized to determine effective dosages. Mean (SE) dose requirements in the winter were 7.6  0.4 g/kg, whereas a greater mean dose of 12.7  0.5 g/kg was required in the summer (P &lt 0.05). After ingestion began, sternal recumbency occurred in an average of 7.5 min (range: 4-11 min), and full restraint and safe handling was achieved in 21 min (range: 8-40 min). At the end of each procedure, naltrexone was given as the reversal agent at a ratio of 100 mg naltrexone per 1 mg carfentanil, with 25% of the dose given i.v. or i.m. and 75% given s.c. Mean reversal time was 6 min after injection of naltrexone (range: 4-9 min). Rapid induction and recovery times and ease of oral administration make carfentanil citrate an effective anesthetic agent for use in brown bears. However, hypoventilation and respiratory acidosis were noted in all bears, and oxygen insufflation is recommended.
20095828|Two bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) aborted fetuses that died as a result of Brucella infection. Brucella placentitis occurred in both cases. Infected placenta and vaginal/uterine fluids may transmit Brucella species to other cetaceans. In a third case, an identical organism was cultured from lung necropsy tissue of an adult female T. truncatus. Microbiology, specific polymerase chain reaction, and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis results supported the designation of an additional genomic group(s), Brucella delphini, for isolates adapted to T. truncatus. Current serologic diagnostic tests reliable for known Brucella species are unreliable in detecting dolphin brucellosis. Our findings, together with previous reports, suggest that dolphin brucellosis is a naturally occurring disease that can adversely impact reproduction in cetaceans. The zoonotic significance of cetacean brucellosis is unknown, although the disease has not been reported in people who have frequent contact with dolphins. Further studies on the zoonotic aspects, distribution, prevalence, virulence, and impact of this disease in cetaceans and other marine mammal species are needed.
20095309|Ten neoplastic and six nonneoplastic lesions of the reproductive tract were identified in 14 woodchucks (3 females, 11 males) out of 748 woodchucks necropsied over an 11-yr period. All animals were from a colony of woodchucks used for studies on woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV). Of the 14 animals, 11 came from a group of 59 woodchucks whose reproductive tracts received detailed examination, including histology, regardless of gross observations. Lesions in the female reproductive tracts included cystic rete ovarii, ovarian hematoma, cystic endometrial hyperplasia, and uterine leiomyoma. The males had orchitis, periorchitis, epididymitis, Sertoli cell tumor, interstitial cell tumors, adenoma of the rete testis, seminomas, intralymphatic testicular lymphosarcoma, and a teratoma. In male woodchucks, nonneoplastic lesions occurred in animals less than 2 yr old while neoplasms were identified in animals ranging in age from 1 to 7 yr. There was no relationship between the presence of reproductive tract lesions and the source (colony vs. native habitat) or the presence or absence of WHV infection.
40665075|Cerebral xanthomatosis was diagnosed in three female green water dragons {Physignathus cocincinus), all of which presented with progressive neurologic signs. No antemortem evidence for xanthomatosis was identified, but on postmortem examination cholesterol granulomas, composed of cholesterol clefts surrounded by macrophages and multinucleated giant cells, were found in the forebrain of each animal and were associated with significant displacement and pressure on the adjacent brain. Although the cause of xanthomatosis in these animals is unknown, nutrition and trauma may be involved in the pathogenesis of this condition.
20096258|The cardiorespiratory effects, effectiveness, and reversibility of two injectable anesthetic combinations were compared in captive patas monkeys (Erythrocebus patas). Seven patas monkeys were hand-injected with medetomidine (40 g/kg, i.m.), butorphanol (0.4 mg/kg, i.m.), and ketamine (3.0 mg/kg, i.m.), and seven were injected with the same dosages of medetomidine and butorphanol plus midazolam (0.3 mg/kg, i.m.). Heart rates decreased in monkeys in both treatment groups and were lower than those previously recorded in patas monkeys anesthetized with either ketamine or ketamine and isoflurane. Mean arterial pressures were highest in ketamine-treated monkeys but remained within normal limits for both groups. End tidal CO values increased gradually over time in both groups and were above physiologic norms after 20 min. Respiratory rates were similar between groups and remained constant throughout the procedures. Despite adequate ventilation parameters, initial low percent oxygen-hemoglobin saturation (SpO) values were suggestive of severe hypoxemia. It was not clear whether these were accurate readings or an artifact of medetomidine-induced peripheral vasoconstriction. Oxygen supplementation restored SpO values to normal (&gt94%) in both groups. Both combinations effectively produced a state of light anesthesia, although spontaneous recoveries occurred after 30 min in three ketamine-treated monkeys. All monkeys were given i.m. atipamezole (0.2 mg/kg) and naloxone (0.02 mg/kg), whereas midazolam-treated monkeys also received flumazenil (0.02 mg/kg, i.v.), which resulted in faster (median recovery time = 5 min) and more complete recoveries in this group. Both combinations are safe to use when supplemented with oxygen, although the midazolam combination provided a longer anesthetic period and was more fully reversible.
20096338|A protocol was developed to control an exotic tick (Aponomma komodoense) infestation on three Komodo dragons (Varanus komodoensis) at a Florida zoo without direct application of acaricides to the lizards. With the Komodo dragons secured within their indoor pens, their outdoor enclosures and the exhibition area were sprayed with a formulation of permethrin prepared specifically for use with reptiles. Once the acaricide had dried, the Komodo dragons were allowed to return to their outdoor enclosures, whereupon the indoor pens were closed and sprayed with the same formulation. After this initial treatment, the outdoor and indoor areas were retreated every 2 wk and 8-10 wk, respectively, for 6 mo. The initial on-host and off-host tick count of 301 ticks fell to 0 ticks after 6 mo. No adverse effects of the acaricide treatment were observed on the lizards during daily monitoring.
20096482|Feline herpesvirus type 1 infection affects domestic cats, causing mainly upper respiratory tract diseases. Although this infection has been described in captive and free-ranging wild felids from Europe, Asia, North America, and Africa, no information is available on its occurrence among wild felids of Brazil. In this study, 250 serum samples of six species of Brazilian captive wild felids (Leopardus tigrinus, Leopardus wiedii, Herpailurus yaguarondi, Puma concolor, Leopardus pardalis, and Panthera onca) were examined for neutralizing antibodies to feline herpesvirus type 1. Positive sera were found in 72% of L. tigrinus samples, 15% of L. wiedii, 6% of L. pardalis, 8% of H. yaguarondi, 18% of P. concolor, and 14% of P. onca. The relatively low percentages of seropositivity and low antibody titers found among the last five species suggest that feline herpesvirus type 1 does not circulate extensively among these animals. Nevertheless, quarantine, serologic screening, and vaccination of newly introduced felids is recommended in zoos in order to prevent virus transmission and outbreaks of the disease among wild felids kept in captivity.
20096279|Parenteral anesthetic protocols for short-term immobilization were evaluated in twenty 4-yr-old Gulf of Mexico sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrinchus de soti). An initial dose-response trial determined the efficacy of either propofol (3.5-7.5 mg/kg, i.v.) or combinations of medetomidine (0.03-0.07 mg/kg, i.m.)--ketamine (3-7 mg/kg, i.m.). A subsequent study evaluated the physiologic effects of propofol (6.5 mg/kg, i.v.)-induced anesthesia and anesthesia induced with a medetomidine (0.06 mg/kg, i.m.)--ketamine (6 mg/kg i.m.) combination. The effects of medetomidine were reversed at 30 min with atipamezole (0.30 mg/kg, i.m.). Both drug protocols provided adequate short-term immobilization for minor diagnostic procedures. Sturgeon receiving propofol were in a light plane of anesthesia within 5 min after drug administration, whereas only 30% of the medetomidine-ketamine group reached a light plane of anesthesia in the same time period. Both propofol and medetomidine-ketamine resulted in mild bradycardia and apparent respiratory depression, with propofol producing more profound effects. At the dosages used in this study, both propofol and the medetomidine-ketamine combination effectively induced a light plane of anesthesia. Induction times were shorter in the propofol group.
20460359|Two adult California sea lions (Zalophus californianus) were effectively anesthetized 13 times with medetomidine (0.010-0.013 mg/kg), midazolam (0.2-0.26 mg/kg), and butorphanol (0.2-0.4 mg/kg) by i.m. hand or pole syringe injection. For each anesthetic event, atropine (0.02 mg/kg, i.m.) was administered 6-20 min after initial injections, and oxygen administration via face mask or nasal insufflation began at the same time. Light anesthesia was induced in 8-22 min and lasted 13-78 min. During eight of the procedures, isoflurane (0.5-2.0%) was administered via face mask or endotracheal tube for an additional 30-120 min to facilitate longer procedures or surgery. Anesthesia was antagonized with atipamezole (0.05-0.06 mg/kg) and naltrexone (0.1 mg/kg) in seven events, with the addition of flumazenil (0.0002-0.002 mg/kg) in six events. The antagonists were administered by i.m. injection 42-149 min after administration of the induction agents. All sea lions recovered to mild sedation within 4-17 min after administration of the antagonists.
27751714|Thirty-three captive leopard cats, Leopardus tigrinus, were anesthetized with xylazine (12 mg/kg) and ketamine (10 mg/kg), and electrocardiograph (ECG) tests were recorded in all leads with 1 cm = 1 mV sensibility and 25 mm/sec speed repeating DII lead at 50 mm/sec speed with the same sensibility. Results expressed by mean and standard deviation were: heart rate (HR) = 107  17 (bpm); P-wave = 0.048  0.072 (s)  0.128  0.048 (mV); PR interval = 0.101  0.081 (s); QRS compound = 0.053  0.012 (s)  1.446  0.602 (mV); QT interval = 0.231  0.028 (s); R-wave (CV6LL) = 1.574  0.527 (mV); R-wave (CV6LU) = 1.583  0.818 (mV); heart rhythm: normal sinus rhythm (15.2%), sinus rhythm with wandering pacemaker (WPM) (60.6%), sinus arrhythmia with WPM (24.2%); electric axis: between +30 and +60 (6.1%), +60 (6.1%), between +60 and +90 (57.6%), +90 (9%), between +90 and +120 (21.2%); ST segment: normal (75.7%), elevation (18.2%), depression (6.1%); T-wave polarity (DII): positive (100%); T-wave (V10): absent (6.1%), negative (63.6%), positive (18.2%), and with interference (12.1%). Through ECG data comparison with other species, unique features of Leopardus tigrinus' (leopard cat) ECG parameters were detected. Some of the study animals presented with an R-wave amplitude that was indicative of left ventricle overload according to patterns for normal domestic cats (Felis cati). Echocardiographic exams revealed normal heart cavities' function and morphology. The aim of this study was to establish some electrocardiographic parameters of captive L. tigrinus.
20095194|Despite precautions to protect cranes, a 3-year-old endangered Mississippi sandhill crane (Grus canadensis pulla) was found caught in a leghold trap in Gautier, Mississippi, on 11 November 1987. The bird could have been in the trap for up to 16 hr and was standing and struggling to escape when it was discovered. Serum chemistries of the crane on 12 November revealed elevated lactic dehydrogenase (2,880 IU/L), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (152 IU/L), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (&gt1,000 IU/L) values. Following surgical amputation of a fractured toe, the bird never attempted to stand and was unable to stand even when manually supported. Radiographic and physical examination of both legs did not reveal any anatomical abnormalities. Despite medical care, including supportive therapy, no improvement was observed in the bird's ability to stand and to support itself, and the bird died on 19 November. Serum chemistries and the postmortem and histopathologic findings were compatible with capture myopathy described in other species. Because of the possible susceptibility of long-legged birds such as the Mississippi sandhill crane to capture myopathy, special care must be taken when trapping, handling, chemically immobilizing, and transporting these species. In addition, precautions must be taken when conducting a predator-control program to ensure that nontarget wildlife are unlikely to encounter traps. Capture myopathy has only rarely been observed in wild birds, and this case represents the first report in a Mississippi sandhill crane.
27751775|An 11-yr-old female hamadryas baboon (Papio hamadryas) that died with a history of diarrhea and anorexia was submitted for necropsy. Major pathologic changes were restricted to the gastrointestinal tract. The small intestinal contents were watery and sanguinous, with a deepening of the red color in the large intestines. The intestinal mucosa was hyperemic. Microscopically, lesions consisted of surface epithelial cell necrosis in association with numerous rod-shaped bacteria and high numbers of Trichuris cynocephalus nematodes. Culturing of the small intestine yielded Clostridium perfringens. No other pathogenic bacteria were cultured using routine bacteriologic techniques. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis classified the Clostridium perfringens as type A cpb2-positive. Immunohistochemical examination with anti-2-toxin antibodies revealed 2-toxin in close approximation with the intestinal lesions.
20460391|Envenomation by a spotted black snake (Pseudechis guttatus), following multiple bites on the buccal mucosa of a captive maned wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus), caused the animal's collapse, hemolysis, rhabdomyolysis, local tissue necrosis, hepatic and renal failure, and subsequent death. The wolf died despite intensive supportive care including antivenom administration, fluid support, and a blood transfusion. Gross necropsy findings included myocardial and intestinal hemorrhage, pulmonary congestion, hepatomegaly, and splenomegaly. Microscopic examination of formalin-fixed tissues demonstrated pulmonary and abdominal visceral hemorrhage, acute nephrosis with casts, multifocal hepatic necrosis, and splenic congestion.
20095264|Based on ultrastructural morphology, a herpesvirus was identified as the etiology of a fatal encephalitis in an adult male black and white ruffed lemur (Varecia variegatus). Clinical signs observed were chronic intermittent lameness and paresis progressing to convulsions with nystagmus, anisocoria, and profuse salivation. Multifocal, nonsuppurative meningoencephalitis with malacia, demyelination, and frequent eosinophilic intranuclear inclusion bodies were found in the brain. Electron microscopic examination revealed 100-m-diameter spherical virus particles in the intranuclear inclusions, ultrastructurally compatible with a herpesvirus. A herpesvirus has not been previously reported as a cause of encephalitis in lemurs.
20095285|Disease risks are an inherent part of captive breeding, translocation, and reintroduction programs and of research involving contact between researchers and animals. Thus, quantitative assessment of the risks of disease should be an important part of developing conservation strategies. Population viability analysis (PVA) and the use of computer modeling allows conservation planners to examine the potential effects of both the catastrophic and subcatastrophic effects of disease on long-term population viability, measured as probability of extinction, and to explore strategies to mitigate unacceptably high risks. The effects of diseases on the demographic, environmental, and genetic aspects of a population should be examined. Metapopulation management strategies that establish geographically separate populations are likely to provide protection against total population extinction due to single disease epidemics. However, to offset the genetic costs of smaller population size, movement of animals (under quarantined supervision) may be required.
20096665|Parasitism is common in wild and captive amphibians; however, pharmacologic data are lacking for anthelmintic drugs. This study was developed to determine the plasma pharmacokinetics of selamectin after topical administration in bullfrogs. Thirty-two adult American bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) were randomly assigned into eight groups of four with each group representing a different collection time point. Seven groups received selamectin (6 mg/kg) topically and the remaining group served as the untreated control group. One group of frogs was euthanized and blood samples immediately collected on days 0 (control), 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30. Plasma was analyzed for selamectin using high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. Individual samples were analyzed, then data were reported as the mean of the four frogs at each time point. A histologic evaluation of the lung, liver, kidney, and skin tissues was performed and none of the frogs showed histologic evidence of toxicity due to selamectin administration. The mean peak plasma concentration was 162.5  42.3 ng/ml, area under the curve was 2,856 ng day/ml, mean residence time was 12.2 days, and disappearance half-life was 1.87 days. Based on the plasma pharmacokinetics, bullfrogs appear to absorb selamectin very efficiently, concentrations reach high levels in the plasma, and there were no apparent histologic effects from single dose administration.
20096419|Multiple cestode cysts identified as Taenia serialis were present in the bodies of two wild-caught African giant pouched rats (Cricetomys gambianus) at necropsy. This rodent species can be an intermediate host for this parasite. Exotic rodents kept as pets in the United States may be affected.
20095736|One hundred twenty-two wild red howler monkeys (Alouatta seniculus) were translocated during flooding of the forest at a hydroelectric dam site in French Guiana. Blood samples from 103 animals were evaluated for 13 hematologic and/or 22 serum chemistry parameters. Significant age-specific variation was found for white blood cell (WBC), lymphocyte, and platelet counts and for alkaline phosphatase values. Adult males and females had significant differences in red blood cell count, packed cell volume, and hemoglobin, creatinine, cholesterol, and calcium values. In juveniles, amylase and cholesterol levels were significantly lower in males than in females. Significant differences associated with reproductive status were also observed; i.e., lower cholesterol level in pregnant females and higher packed cell volume in lactating females. Chronic stress due to habitat disappearance may have been responsible for significant differences between thin animals and those in good condition. Thin animals had lower WBC, eosinophil, basophil, and monocyte counts and higher platelet counts. Capture stress was probably responsible for high and variable levels of creatine kinase, aspartate aminotransferase, and lactate dehydrogenase.
20095644|A 40-yr-old female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) developed cellulitis and became lame in her left front leg. A draining tract behind the lateral nail of her left front foot was discovered. This lesion was treated by aggressive irrigation using a variety of disinfectant solutions. Radiographically, there was degeneration and fragmentation of the distal phalanx of the fifth digit and patterns suggestive of osteomyelitis of the second (middle) phalanx. The fragments of the distal phalanx and the affected portion of the second phalanx were removed surgically. Six months after surgery the incision had healed but a fistulous tract remained on the palmar surface of the foot. The tract extended to the second phalanx, and there was radiographic evidence of osteomyelitis in the second phalanx and the distal portion of the proximal phalanx. The remainder of the second phalanx and the distal portion of the proximal phalanx were surgically removed. Aggressive aftercare allowed complete wound closure by second intention.
20095019|An ultrastructural analysis was undertaken on glutaraldehyde/formaldehyde-fixed normal peripheral blood cells of the adult Japanese newt (Cynops pyrrhogaster). Blood cell counts were also made for newts at 3, 10, and 30 days after 50% tail amputation, during wound healing and early regeneration. Mean red cell counts of 22.8  10  2.95  10
20460502|A 15-year-old female ground cuscus (Phalanger gymnotis) was presented with an isolated ulcerated, nonhealing lesion on the lateral thorax. Histopathology and immunohistochemistry were diagnostic for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma with incomplete excision. Oral chemotherapy with CCNU (lomustine) resulted in clinical remission that lasted 255 days, with no appreciable toxicity. Tumor recurrence was treated with radiation therapy, which resulted in 120 additional days of clinical remission. Subsequently, the tumor developed at a distant site and the cuscus was humanely euthanized. A slight decrease in appetite early in disease progression was the only adverse effect noted throughout the treatment period. Oral, minimally invasive chemotherapy, and adjunct radiation therapy were viable treatment options for this ground cuscus and should be considered for treatment of neoplasia in other nontraditional species.
20096521|Serum samples from 63 clinically normal captive black and white ruffed lemurs (Varecia variegata variegata) were analyzed to survey serum iron, total iron binding capacity, transferrin saturation, and serum ferritin levels. Data analysis showed no differences in these analytes attributable to sex, but significantly higher levels of serum iron, transferrin saturation, and serum ferritin in older animals. The survey data were examined in light of two black and white ruffed lemurs that were treated for iron overload with serial phlebotomies. Prior to therapy, both phlebotomized lemurs had excess hepatic iron deposition, but had serum iron, transferrin saturation, and serum ferritin below the upper limits observed in the survey animals, suggesting that some clinically normal animals included in the survey may have accumulated excess systemic iron. Serial phlebotomy therapy reduced serum iron, transferrin saturation, and serum ferritin in both animals. Three years after the conclusion of therapy in the one remaining case, serum iron and transferrin saturation have risen substantially, whereas serum ferritin has risen slightly. Serum iron, transferrin saturation, and serum ferritin may be useful predictors of systemic iron stores in this species, though the correlation between these parameters and systemic iron stores needs to be determined.
20096545|Pharmacokinetics of marbofloxacin in two male and four female adult ball pythons (Python regius) was determined after i.v. and p.o. administration of a single dose. Using a crossover design, each snake was given a single 10 mg/kg dose of marbofloxacin i.v. and p.o. Blood samples were collected prior to and 0.5, 1, 1.5, 3, 6, 12, and 24 hr after marbofloxacin administration. Marbofloxacin was quantitated by use of liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Following p.o. administration, marbofloxacin had a peak plasma concentration (
20095661|Endoscopic techniques were used to ovariohysterectomize two hybrid Asian lions (Panthera leo) in order to reduce the risk of postoperative wound complications associated with standard surgical techniques. One of the lions was aged, overweight, and considered an anesthetic risk. The animals were anesthetized, intubated, catheterized intravenously, and placed in dorsal recumbency with the head lower (Trendelenburg position). Ventilation was assisted mechanically. Following abdominal insufflation, a surgical trocar was placed in the abdominal cavity. Two additional 12-mm surgical trocars were placed under direct visualization using a videoscope. The ovaries and uterus were removed endoscopically, and the abdominal cavity was inspected for hemorrhage under decreased insufflation pressure before closure. The surgery was complicated by obesity, by uterine enlargement from cystic endometrial hyperplasia and endometrial polyps, and by ovarian enlargement and fragility because of bilateral cystic rete ovarii. The procedure and anesthetic recovery were uneventful. Postsurgical recovery time and convalescence lasted less than 3 days, and the animals were reintroduced to an exhibit mate and placed on exhibit within 8 days. The technique is appropriate for use in lions, even those with pathologic reproductive changes, in zoos.
20095367|The cephalosporin antibiotic ceftriaxone was administered intramuscularly (100 mg/kg) and by nebulization (1 hr, with and without dimethyl sulfoxide [DMSO]) to five adult chickens (Gallus domesticus) and by nebulization (1 hr, with DMSO) to 15 1-day-old chicks. Serum samples collected from the adult chickens at 30, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, 360, 480 min and at 24 hr and from chicks at 60, 90, and 120 min posttreatment were assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography for ceftriaxone concentrations. Thirty minutes after intramuscular injection, adult chickens had a mean serum concentration of 18.03 g/ml, which declined to nondetectable levels at 4-6 hr posttreatment. No significant serum levels were obtained in adults or chicks after nebulization therapy, with or without DMSO. This project demonstrates that therapeutic levels of this antibiotic can be obtained in this species. It is likely that this regime would be effective in similar exotic bird species as well.
20095853|A Franklin-Silverman biopsy needle was used to obtain 2-5-  1-2-mm mandibular salivary gland tissue samples percutaneously from nine North American river otters (Lutra canadensis). The samples were suitable for fluorescent antibody or polymerase chain reaction rabies testing. Ninety-two percent (11/12) of the biopsy procedures yielded histologically confirmed salivary gland tissue, and the remaining biopsy yielded adipose tissue. No complications were noted after 5-21 days.
20095066|Six hundred forty-four nondomestic Equidae of six species were immobilized with etorphine. Following immobilization, antagonism of etorphine was accomplished with the use of diprenorphine, given i.v. at 2 the etorphine dose. Renarcotization was noted in four of 42 (9.5%) Grevy's zebra (Equus grevyi), two of 37 (5.4%) Persian onager (E. hemionus onager), and 10 of 192 (5.2%) Hartmann's mountain zebra (E. zebra hartmannae). No renarcotization occurred in eastern kiang (E. kiang holdereri), Transcaspian kulan (E. h. kulan), or Mongolian wild horses (E. przewalskii przewalskii).
20460438|An adult male Chinese box turtle (Cuora flavomarginata) presented to the Avian and Exotic Pet Service of the Animal Medical Center for periorbital swelling of the right eye. The swelling had failed to respond to nutritional supplementation and parenteral administration of vitamin A. What had initially presented as periorbital swelling developed into a growth ventral to the globe that impeded vision and was frequently traumatized by forelimb movements of the turtle. Twenty-six months after initial presentation, the turtle was anesthetized and the bulk of the mass was surgically removed. Histopathologic examination determined the mass to be a benign lacrimal cystadenoma.
27751749|A population of black-necked swans (Cygnus melanocoryphus) residing in a perturbed habitat revealed a low body mass, malnutrition, and hyperferremia during 2005; the swans main dietary item, Egeria densa, was lost during an environmental crisis which occurred in 2004. The objective of this study was to monitor the diet and nutritional status of this population during 2006, as well as to verify how the consumption of sediment, as part of their new diet, may explain the mineral disorders observed in these birds. Results revealed that swans increased their body mass and had an adequate protein, lipid, and iron metabolism, in spite of the fact that they maintained the same new diet (sediment and roots) during 20052006. In addition, transferrine saturation was indicative of the high endogenous iron load in birds which agrees with the high iron load of their environment. On the other hand, the consumption of the Cayumapu River sediment in the diet (25%) did not affect the body mass nor the nutritional and hepatic function in domestic geese over a 45-day period.
40962308|Loggerhead turtles (Caretta caretta) have been laying eggs in an indoor artificial beach since 1995, at the Port of Nagoya Public Aquarium (PNPA). Four individuals landed and laid eggs several times during the breeding period in 1996. Blood samples from these individuals were collected monthly throughout that year in order to investigate the changes in sex steroid hormones (testosterone, estradiol, and progesterone). In addition, detailed investigations were conducted daily during the breeding period on one particular individual that landed and laid eggs five times in 1998. Each steroid hormone changed periodically based on the laying cycle, and extraordinarily high levels of estradiol were noted even during the breeding period. In reports regarding the green turtle (Chelonia mydas), extremely different results were observed. Some of the obtained data suggest that progesterone induced ovulation. Data from a completely artificial environment such as the one at the PNPA provides elucidation of the reproductive physiology in these endangered species.
20460369|A 5-mo-old orphan beaver, Castor canadensis, died of severe systemic toxoplasmosis during rehabilitation. Histologic lesions included lymphohistiocytic encephalitis, myocarditis, and interstitial pneumonia with multinucleated cells. Intracytoplasmic cysts containing tachyzoites and bradyzoites identified as Toxoplasma gondii by immunohistochemistry were present in macrophages, type-II pneumocytes, and endothelial cells. Immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal morbillivirus antibody and transmission electron microscopy of lung revealed no evidence of concurrent paramyxoviral infection, as commonly found in carnivores with toxoplasmosis. Toxoplasmosis may affect young beavers in rehabilitation and zoological settings.
20460444|A Lesser Malayan mousedeer (Tragulus javanicus), persistently infected with noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1f, was experimentally superinfected with a cytopathogenic isolate of BVDV type 1c, which antigenically partially matched the endogenous strain. Within the observational period of 125 days after superinfection, the animal did not demonstrate any clinical signs of the disease and/or significant changes in blood values. Neutralizing antibodies were detected at 35 and 42 days postinfection. The isolate causing the superinfection was found in feces, nasal swabs, and saliva starting from day 29 and at various times postchallenge. Macroscopic or histologic examination did not reveal mucosal disease-like lesions, despite the detection of the cytopathogenic isolate in the salivary gland, rumen, abomasum, kidney, and superficial prescapular lymph node. Results indicate that the cytopathogenic BVDV strain, which was used in the superinfection, persisted in the viremic animal without causing disease within the observation period.
20096254|This study determined the disposition of sulfadimethoxine in six, healthy, adult, gelded male llamas (Llama glama) by using a nonrandomized crossover design with i.v. dosing (58.8  3.0 mg/kg based on metabolic scaling) followed by oral dosing (59.3 mg/kg  8.3). Blood samples were collected intermittently for a 72-hr period, and serum sulfadimethoxine concentrations were quantified using high-performance liquid chromatography. Serum sulfadimethoxine concentrations across time were subjected to standard pharmacokinetic analysis based on linear regression. Mean maximum serum concentration after oral dosing was 23.6  14.9 g/ml, and extrapolated peak concentration after i.v. administration was 246.6  15.8 g/ml. Total clearance of sulfadimethoxine was 45.4  13.9 L/kg. Half-lives after i.v. and oral administration were 541  111 min and 642.4  204.8 min, respectively. Oral bioavailability was 52.6  15%. These data suggest that the oral dose administered to llamas in this study, based on metabolic scaling from cattle, may be inadequate when compared with the reported minimum inhibitory concentration (512 g/ml) breakpoint for sulfadimethoxine.
41262614|Blood transfusions are a common therapeutic procedure in small animal medicine and have been investigated in some exotic species but little information is available about their safety and efficacy in reptiles. In human pediatrics and small animal practice, the Hemo-Nate 18- filter is used to prevent embolie clots and participate waste from entering the recipient during a transfusion. The goal of this study was to determine the hemolytic effect of an 18- Hemo-Nate filter for whole blood cell transfusions in reptiles using the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) as a reptilian model. Results revealed no significant difference in free plasma hemoglobin between the unaltered and filtered samples (P= 0.21). There was no difference in the prefiltration and postfiltration packed cell volume (PCV) (P = 0.41). Results suggest that an 18- Hemo-Nate filter does not cause hemolysis or decrease the PCV of small quantities of alligator blood.
40962257|An 8-yr-old male leopard (Panther a par dus) was presented with a 4-day history of lethargy, vomiting, and anorexia. Thoracic and abdominal radiographs revealed a soft-tissue mass cranial to the diaphragm and atypical appearance of the gastric fundus. Esophagoscopy revealed gastric mucosa in the lumen of the esophagus, which confirmed gastroesophageal intussusception. An exploratory celiotomy with manual reduction of the intussusception was performed. Reduction was verified by intraoperative esophagoscopy and gastroscopy. An incisional fundic gastropexy to the left abdominal wall was performed to reduce the chance of a recurrence of the intussusception. No postoperative complications related to the surgery were observed, and the animal resumed eating within 48 hr of surgery. A subsequent recurrence of clinical signs was not noted by the owner.
20095138|Serum collected from 33 nondomestic felids and from six domestic cats experimentally inoculated with Toxoplasma gondii were evaluated for evidence of toxoplasmosis using a latex agglutination (LA) kit, an indirect hemagglutination (IHA) kit, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) for IgM (IgM-ELISA), IgG (IgG-ELISA), and for antigen (AG-ELISA) to define optimal diagnostic procedures. The IgG-ELISA was positive earlier than the LA or IHA when used to assess domestic cat sera. More nondomestic felid sera were positive when evaluated by the IgG-ELISA than by the LA or IHA. No nondomestic felid had detectable IgM antibodies. Antigen was detected in 36.4% of the nondomestic felid sera. Seroprevalence of toxoplasmosis was 75.8% (IgG-ELISA), 60.6% (LA), or 57.6% (IHA) in the nondomestic felid sera. Although not statistically evaluated, the IgG-ELISA appears to be superior to LA or IHA for the detection of T. gondii-specific IgG.
20460364|Fifty-eight blue-fronted Amazon parrot (Amazona aestiva) nestlings, recovered from the illegal trade, became ill at a wildlife rehabilitation center in So Paulo State, Brazil. Clinical signs observed were nonspecific, and the mortality rate was 96.5% despite initial treatment with norfloxacin. Postmortem examinations were performed on 10 birds. Liver and spleen smears showed structures suggestive of Chlamydophila psittaci in four cases. Diagnosis was confirmed by seminested polymerase chain reaction on tissue samples. Other birds from the same location showed no clinical signs of the disease, although high complement fixation titers to C. psittaci were found in 10 adult psittacines. All birds in the facility were treated with doxycycline. The two surviving nestlings did not recover after two doxycycline treatments and were euthanatized. The high mortality rate observed in this outbreak was attributed to poor conditions of husbandry and delays in the diagnosis and treatment of the disease. After diagnosis, improved control measures for chlamydiosis were instituted.
40962263|A 2-yr-old female lesser kudu (Tragelaphus imberbis australis) was presented for lethargy. Empirical antibiotic treatment appeared to improve its clinical signs, although no etiology for the symptoms was determined. The kudu again presented with lethargy, diffusely swollen limbs, and subcutaneous ecchymoses of 1 day's duration after completion of the initial therapy. Vasculitis secondary to presumptive leptospirosis infection was diagnosed based on a skin biopsy and decreasing paired serologie titers for Leptospira grippotyphosa. The vasculitis was responsive to intramuscular antibiotic therapy and dexamethasone treatment. This case provides evidence that corticosteroids can be used in ruminants at moderate doses for chronic treatment without clinically relevant detrimental effects.
20094946|An 8-mo-old female gemsbok antelope (Oryx gazella gazella) exhibited vague and nonspecific clinical signs, including anorexia and lethargy. Laboratory abnormalities included anemia, hypoproteinemia, and a progressive increase in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine. Histopathological examination established a diagnosis of renal dysplasia, which is believed to be the first documented case of this condition in a wild ungulate.
40665131|The following tests were performed on a total of 20 eyes: Schirmer tear test, intraocular pressure (IOP), assessment of conjunctival flora, and pupillary diameter with application of topical tropicamide in 10 healthy captive red kangaroos (Macropus rufus) under manual restraint. The mean Schirmer tear test value was 22.6  6.07 mm/min. The mean intraocular pressure was 17.45  7.23 mm Hg. Values did not differ between eyes or gender for either test, but significant differences were identified for IOP values according to age. The most common bacteria isolated from the conjunctival fornix were Staphylococcus epidermidis (54.5%) and Corynebacterium sp. (18.2%). The mean onset of mydriasis after instillation of 1% tropicamide ophthalmic solution was 16.7  3.34 min and the mean duration of effect was 17.6  8.26 hr. The data obtained in this investigation will aid veterinary ophthalmologists and zoo veterinarians to diagnose ocular diseases in the red kangaroo accurately.
20095987|A captive 5-yr-old castrated male Rocky Mountain wapiti (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) developed stranguria. Rectal palpation and physical examination indicated urethral obstruction that was subsequently relieved by urethrostomy and required only minimal aftercare. The wapiti was able to urinate freely after surgery; however, the obstruction recurred 27 mo later. Urethral catheterization relieved the second obstruction, which was caused by a large calculus composed of calcium carbonate and magnesium carbonate. Urolithiasis may have been associated with a diet high in calcium, and urethral obstruction may have been associated with castration at an early age. The wapiti continued to urinate freely 9 mo after relief of the second obstruction and 3 yr after the initial surgery.
20095451|A Mycobacterium bovis culture-positive, skin test-negative, colobus monkey (Colobus guereza caudatus) was treated with three different dosage regimens of isoniazid (INH) and rifampin (RIF). Blood samples were collected over various time periods and serum INH and RIF concentrations were determined. Antituberculous treatment dosages for other nonprimates and for humans were inadequate to achieve therapeutic serum concentrations in this colobus monkey.
20095823|The effects of in vitro hemolysis on 23 biochemical analytes were assessed in sera from 14 clinically healthy Atlantic bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). Each serum sample was divided into three portions for analysis: 1) nonhemolyzed control; 2) moderate hemolysis, simulated by adding hemolyzed serum to a final concentration of approximately 150 mg/dl Hb; and 3) severe hemolysis, simulated by adding hemolyzed serum to a final concentration of approximately 500 mg/dl Hb. Moderate hemolysis resulted in statistically significant increases in the mean values of iron, lactate dehydrogenase, potassium, and uric acid and a decrease in creatinine (P &lt 0.001). Severe hemolysis resulted in statistically significant changes in the mean values of the above analytes in addition to the following increases: alanine aminotransferase, calcium, and serum globulins (P &lt 0.001) and albumin and total protein (P &lt 0.01). Total bilirubin and gamma glutamyl transferase levels were lower in the severely hemolyzed sample (P &lt 0.001). Differences in mean values for alkaline phosphatase between nonhemolyzed and hemolyzed serum were not significant but did show a downward trend in the hemolyzed sera. The presence and severity of hemolysis must be considered in the interpretation of the serum chemistry values.
41262623|A male yearling harp seal (Phoca groenlandica) stranded and was brought to Mystic Aquarium & Institute for Exploration's Seal Rescue and Rehabilitation Center. The seal presented with a bilateral pendular vertical nystagmus, negative menace response, and a positive palpebral response. Ophthalmological examination by slit lamp biomicroscopy revealed perilimbal corneal edema, excessive iridal surface structures, pupils that appeared to be shaped improperly (dyscoria), and suspected cataracts. Attempts to dilate the pupils with both dark-lighted conditions and repeated dosages of 10% phenylephrine and 1% atropine ophthalmic solution in each eye (OU) were unsuccessful. Ocular ultrasonography findings suggested bilateral cataracts with flattened anteriorposterior (A-P) diameter and possible persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous. It is possible that these structural congenital abnormalities could produce further ocular complications for this seal including uveitis, secondary glaucoma, retinal detachment, and/or vitreal hemorrhage in the future. This case demonstrates the importance of a thorough ophthalmological examination in stranded wild animals, especially if their symptoms appear neurological.
20095262|A 7-yr-old female Siberian tiger (Panthera tigris altaica) was treated with equine chorionic gonadotropin followed 80 hr later by human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) to stimulate follicular development and ovulation, respectively. Laparoscopy 46 hr after hCG revealed that the ovaries contained eight fresh corpora lutea and six preovulatory follicles. A 16-gauge catheter was inserted transabdominally into each uterine horn, and 16.8  10 motile spermatozoa (from a male designated by the Siberian Tiger Species Survival Plan [SSP]) were inseminated. Pregnancy was confirmed 45 days after insemination by ultrasound, and a single healthy male cub was born at 111 days of gestation. These results demonstrate for the first time that assisted reproductive technology can be used to produce genetically valuable offspring from parents identified and recommended by an SSP program.
20095332|Electrocardiograms (ECGs) were evaluated for time and amplitude characteristics and mean electrical axis (MEA) in 10 clinically healthy American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) in two separate recordings. The ECG characteristics evaluated (x  SD) were R-R intervals (1.56  0.18 sec, 1.71  0.30 sec), QRS complex duration (0.106  0.021 sec, 0.100  0.015 sec), Q-T intervals (1.19  0.13 sec, 1.18  0.19 sec), T wave duration (0.35  0.10 sec, 0.33  0.08 sec), and Q wave (0.08  0.03 mV, 0.09  0.04 mV), R wave (0.23  0.10 mV, 0.25  0.12 mV), S wave (0.12  0.07 mV, 0.16  0.07 mV), and T wave (0.12  0.03 mV, 0.13  0.03 mV) amplitudes. The P-R intervals and P wave duration and amplitude were inconsistently recorded and not evaluated. Core body temperatures (23.24  1.17C, 25.38  2.78C) and heart rates (38.6  4.01 bpm, 37.6  4.79 bpm) were measured during each recording. Statistical analysis revealed no significant difference (P &gt 0.05) in heart rates or R-R intervals between the two recordings. Mean electrical axis (83.83  9.72, 82.95  13.85) is reported for the first time in the American alligator.
20460556|Hematologic analyses are useful for the monitoring of animal health and diseases and for the differentiation of physiologic processes for clinicians and conservationists. In order to establish hematology reference values for the Asian yellow pond turtle (Ocadia sinensis) and to produce an accurate baseline of clinical laboratory data for O. sinensis with regard to sex and season, 50 (24 males and 26 females) adult captive individuals of O. sinensis were studied. Blood samples from the jugular veins of the turtles were collected in January, April, June, and November. Data were analyzed using repeated measures analysis of variance for significant (P &lt; 0.05) variation by sex, season, and the interaction between sex and season. Significant sex differences were observed for the parameters of packed cell volume, eosinophil count, heterophils and monocytes ratio, total protein, albumin, uric acid, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, triglycerides, cholesterol, and alkaline phosphatase. Marked seasonal variation was noted in all parameters except mean cell hemoglobin, monocytes and heterophils ratio, and creatinine. Differences between sexes and seasons were primarily associated with the reproductive cycle. Heterophils had a strong positive reaction and eosinophils had a moderate positive reaction to benzidine peroxidase stain. Thrombocytes had a positive reaction to periodic acid-Schiff stain. Surface morphologic study using scanning electron microscopy of blood cells showed that white blood cells of O. sinensis had no distinctive surface characteristics.
20096005|Mycobacterium tuberculosis has become an important agent of disease in the captive elephant population of the United States, although current detection methods appear to be inadequate for effective disease management. This investigation sought to validate a multiple-antigen enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for screening of M. tuberculosis infection in captive elephants and to document the elephant's serologic response over time using a cross-sectional observational study design. Serum samples were collected from 51 Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) and 26 African elephants (Loxodonta africana) from 16 zoos and circuses throughout the United States. Infection status of each animal was determined by mycobacterial culture of trunk washes. Reactivity of each serum sample against six antigens was determined, and the linear combination of antigens that accurately predicted the infection status of the greatest number of animals was determined by discriminant analysis. The resulting classification functions were used to calculate the percentage of animals that were correctly classified (i.e., specificity and sensitivity). Of the 77 elephants sampled, 47 fit the criteria for inclusion in discriminant analysis. Of these, seven Asian elephants were considered infected; 25 Asian elephants and 15 African elephants were considered noninfected. The remaining elephants had been exposed to one or more infected animals. The specificity and sensitivity of the multiple-antigen ELISA were both 100% (91.9-100% and 54.4-100%, respectively) with 95% confidence intervals. Mycobacterium bovis culture filtrate showed the highest individual antigen specificity (95%; 83.0-100%) and sensitivity (100%; 54.4-100%). Serum samples from 34 elephants were analyzed over time by the response to the culture filtrate antigen; four of these elephants were culture positive and had been used to calculate the discriminant function. Limitations such as sample size, compromised ability to ascertain each animal's true infection status, and absence of known-infected African elephants suggest that much additional research needs to be conducted regarding the use of this ELISA. However, the results indicate that this multiple-antigen ELISA would be a valuable screening test for detecting M. tuberculosis infection in elephant herds.
20095119|Semen and endocrine characteristics were analyzed in free-living white-bearded wildebeests (Connochaetes taurinus) and greater kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros). Adult bulls of both species were anesthetized for standardized electroejaculation and serial blood sampling. After assessment, each ejaculate was diluted under field conditions with seven cryoprotective diluents, cooled, pellet-frozen on dry ice, stored in liquid nitrogen, and later evaluated. Mean ejaculatory volume (11.7 vs. 4.4 ml), percent sperm motility (91.0 vs. 59.0), sperm concentration/ml (850  10 vs. 380  10), and number of motile sperm/ejaculate (6,750  10 vs. 1,090  10) were greater (P &lt 0.01) in wildebeests than in kudu, respectively. Wildebeests produced fewer (P &lt 0.01) pleiomorphic sperm (20%) and more (P &lt 0.05) sperm with normal acrosomes (95.9%) than kudu (42.7 and 87.8%, respectively). Based on postthaw percent sperm motility, the diluents ranked high to low were TRIL &gt BF5F &gt TRIS &gt EQ &gt PDV &gt TEST &gt HEPT for wildebeests and EQ &gt BF5F &gt TEST &gt PDV &gt HEPT &gt TRIL &gt TRIS for kudu. For acrosomal integrity, the diluents ranked BF5F &gt PDV &gt EQ &gt TEST &gt TRIL &gt HEPT &gt TRIS for wildebeests and BF5F &gt EQ &gt PDV &gt TEST &gt TRIL &gt HEPT &gt TRIS for kudu. Mean (SEM) and temporal serum luteinizing hormone concentrations did not differ (P &gt 0.05) between species; however, testosterone levels were sixfold greater (P &lt 0.01) in wildebeests than in kudu. Electroejaculation elicited a significant cortisol response in wildebeests but not in kudu. Mean circulating cortisol concentrations in electroejaculated and ACTH-treated wildebeests were similar (P &gt 0.05) but were half the maximal adrenal response measured in ACTH-treated kudu. Following ACTH treatment of wildebeests, mean testosterone level increased markedly (as much as 6.5 ng/ml in individual bulls). This study demonstrates striking variations in seminal/endocrine characteristics between two similar-sized bovids coexisting in the same native habitat. The results illustrate that postthaw sperm viability is highly dependent on species and cryoprotective diluent, an important consideration in formulating sperm banking strategies for wildlife species.
20460470|A 16-yr-old, captive-born, female California sea lion (Zalophus californianus) was evaluated for intermittent lethargy, partial anorexia, and polydipsia of 2 wk duration. The animal was immobilized for physical examination. It was in thin body condition, with multifocal mucosal ulcerations over the caudal and ventral tongue. Blood was collected for hematology, serum chemistry, and leptospirosis serology. Serum chemistry revealed severe azotemia, mild hyperglycemia, and severe hyperphosphatemia. The animal went into cardiac arrest during recovery from anesthesia and died. On histopathology, abundant amorphous, finely fibrillar, eosinophilic material was deposited in the kidneys, and smaller amounts of the same material were found in the splenic and pancreatic vessels; these findings are consistent with systemic secondary amyloidosis. The animal also had chronic nephritis, which, coupled with renal amyloidosis, resulted in renal failure and death. Systemic amyloidosis should be considered as an additional differential diagnosis for renal failure in California sea lions.
20095022|A female harbor seal (Phoca vitulina concolor) developed a progressive, severe, diffuse, cutaneous mycobacterial infection that was refractory to antibiotic treatment. Some improvement was noted with hyperbaric oxygen but a barotraumatic event necessitated euthanasia. At necropsy, a large amount of air was entrapped in the lung, mediastinum, and subcutaneous tissue; and a cavernous lesion was seen in the right lung lobe. Significant histopathological findings included a multifocal pyogranulomatous dermatitis, lymphadenitis, and interstitial pneumonia. Mycobacterium fortuitum was isolated from the skin and from the seal's pool.
20095985|Thirteen Chinese goral (Nemorhaedus goral arnouxianus) (five males and eight females) were each given 0.8 mg of melengestrol acetate orally in pelleted food for 224 days. The previous breeding season, six of the eight females calved (two were immature). No calf was born during the treatment season. The season after treatment, six females calved (one was immature prior to treatment). Two females were moved to other institutions, and the status of these is unknown. On the basis of this information, melengestrol acetate in feed was successful in preventing conception and was reversible. This treatment did not prevent the siring of offspring the following year and did not prevent a female that was subadult prior to the treatment from calving.
20095048|Urethral obstruction and perineal abscessation were diagnosed in a young male chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes). Two pieces of straw were removed from the urethra with the aid of a pediatric cystoscope. Urethral patency could only be reestablished by antegrade and retrograde catheterizations during urethrostomy and cystotomy surgical procedures. The urethral obstruction and subsequent abscessation were attributed to an abnormal behavior in which the chimpanzee introduced foreign bodies into his urethra. Postsurgical complications included dehiscence of the surgical sites, pitting edema of the adjacent skin, delayed wound healing, and anemia. Four and one-half mo after surgery, the chimpanzee's urethra had healed with small strictures that did not inhibit normal urination or require further reconstructive surgery.
27751687|Hematology and serum biochemistry blood values are tabulated for Australia's most critically endangered mammal, the Gilbert's potoroo (Potorous gilbertii). Significant differences were found between origin (captive or wild individuals) and age (subadult or adult) of animals. Sex, and presence or absence of Treponema infection, had minimal significance on blood values. Typical cell morphology is discussed, and hemoparasite examination identified Theileria spp. and Breinlia spp. Eighty samples were collected from a population of only 35 individuals, reflective of a population census rather than of a study reliant on statistical extrapolation. These reference ranges and findings will assist in the ongoing health management of this critically endangered species.
20096466|An 8-yr-old, male brush-tailed porcupine (Atherurus macrourus) presented for necropsy examination in good nutritional status. It had received treatment for Strongylus spp. infection 1 yr earlier, and it had a short episode of diarrhea 2 days before death. Postmortem examination revealed disseminated, variably discrete, soft to firm, whitegray nodules over the omentum, mesentery, intestinal serosa, and at the liver surface. Histologically, these tumors were mainly arranged as proliferating spindle cells growing in interlacing fascicles or in a storiform pattern associated with ropy collagenous stroma and vascularization. Inflammatory cells, consisting of lymphocytes, plasma cells, and macrophages, infiltrated between the tumor cells. Cytoplasmic immunoreactivity of antibodies to -smooth muscle actin and vimentin was observed in the tumor cells. Antidesmin immunoreactivity varied with area. The morphologic features, the presence of inflammatory infiltrates, and the immunohistochemical expression were consistent with a diagnosis of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor as reported in humans, horses, and cats.
27751748|The Cayumapu River's black-necked swan population in southern Chile lost its main dietary item, Egeria densa, during an environmental crisis which occurred in 2004 in the Carlos Andwanter Nature Sanctuary. The main goal of this study was to test the effect of diet on the physiologic response to this new ecologic challenge. The results revealed that the new diet of this population was composed primarily of roots and sedimentary microalgae, with chemical and energetic content similar to the diet of the control population. Nevertheless, the mean body mass of the Cayumapu River swans was 25% lower than that of control birds. In addition, the biochemical and hematologic profiles of the study population were indicative of malnutrition and a hyperferremic, hyperphosphatemic, and lymphopenic condition. Liver enzyme activities did not support that the malnutrition was a secondary consequence of liver dysfunction, as is expected under hemochromatosis or environmental toxics exposure.
20095894|Five cases of xanthomatosis in geckos were evaluated, one in a northern green gecko (Naultinus grayi) and the remaining four in three species of leaf-tailed geckos (two Uroplatus henkeli, one U. sikorae, one U. fimbriatus). All geckos were females 3-11 yr of age, were clinically ill on presentation, and either died or were euthanized. Necropsies showed emaciation in three geckos, with white nodular foci on coelomic surfaces in two of these geckos. The other two geckos had no gross abnormalities. Histopathologic examination revealed xanthomatosis involving the coelomic surfaces of four geckos and the ventricles of the brain in all geckos. Xanthomas in the brain were associated with various degrees of hydrocephalus. The lesions were comprised of stacks of clear clefts consistent with cholesterol crystals, and these structures were surrounded by epithelioid macrophages, multinucleated giant cells, and lymphocytes. Four geckos had active folliculogenesis, and two had foci of follicular degeneration and localized yolk coelomitis. In all cases, xanthomatosis was believed to have contributed significantly to morbidity and mortality.
20095711|Free-ranging Old World primates released on St. Catherine's Island, Georgia (USA), were tested for infection with Trypanosoma cruzi as part of a study of the epizootiology of sylvatic T. cruzi in the southeastern USA. The parasite was observed in liver infusion tryptose medium cultures of blood from seven of 11 lion-tailed macaques (Macaca silenus) and one of 19 ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta). Cultures of blood from 10 black and white ruffed lemurs (Varecia variegata) were all negative. Analysis of small subunit ribosomal RNA gene polymorphisms detected using polymerase chain reaction techniques indicates that the parasites isolated from both the lion-tailed macaques and the ring-tailed lemur are probably the same as T. cruzi parasites isolated from raccoons (Procyon lotor) trapped on St. Catherine's Island and other locations in the southeastern USA. Foraging lion-tailed macaques were observed to handle and partially consume specimens of Triatoma sanguisuga, the triatomine bug thought to be a vector of T. cruzi in the southeastern USA. Oral transmission of the parasite may have occurred as a result of this behavior.
41262596|Respiratory neoplasms are rare in birds. This report describes carcinoma of the bronchial epithelium in a red-shouldered hawk (Buteo lineatus) that presented with weakness and lethargy lasting 4 days that progressed to seizures. Grossly, the caudal air sac and coelomic cavity contained approximately 15 ml of dark brown cloudy fluid that displaced the intestines cranially. Nodular plaques were present on the viscera and air sacs. Microscopic examination of tissues revealed a mass that expanded the bronchial lumen and was composed of papillary proliferations of rows of small cuboidal epithelial cells that were small and uniform in size with a low mitotic index. Metastases were present on the surfaces of caudal air sac, kidney, and multifocal peritoneal surfaces of the coelomic cavity. Clinical signs were most likely the result of West Nile virus infection, which was confirmed by immunohistochemistry of brain tissue.
20460559|Traumatic wounds and access to outdoor enclosures containing soil contribute to development of tetanus in nonhuman primates. A retrospective, matched case-control study was conducted at a primate center to evaluate these factors by analysis of medical records of animals sustaining traumatic injuries during a 3-yr study period. Thirty-one macaques with traumatic injuries and a clinical diagnosis of tetanus were selected as cases, and 62 macaques with traumatic injuries and no diagnosis of tetanus were selected as controls. For an animal with injuries to the digits, the odds of developing tetanus were 9.6 times those of a similar animal without injuries to the digits (Odds Ratio [OR] = 9.55, 95% CI = 1.56-58.59); with injuries to the tail, the odds of developing tetanus were 8.0 times those of a similar animal without injuries to the tail (OR = 7.95, 95% CI = 0.82-77.04); and with injuries in more than one location, the odds of developing tetanus were 8.5 times those for a similar animal with injuries in just one location (OR = 8.45, 95% CI = 1.01-70.46). A nonhuman primate with injuries to the leg was less likely to develop tetanus than a similar nonhuman primate without injuries to the leg (OR = 0.19, 95% CI = 0.03-1.2). Results indicated that wound location is associated with development of tetanus infection in rhesus macaques. Identification of high-risk trauma cases will allow better allocation of wound management and tetanus prophylaxis in institutions, especially in those housing nonhuman primates outdoors.
40962242|Captive Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) are susceptible to lameness resulting from foot and joint pain, including chronic arthritis. In the past, opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, have been used clinically for pain management. However, dosages used in treating elephants were often extrapolated from data in horses, with no pharmacokinetic information on the specific agents used in elephant species. In this pharmacokinetic study, six adult captive Asian elephants (5 female, 1 male castrate) were administered a 0.015 mg/kg dose of butorphanol by both i.v. and i. m. routes. A complete crossover design was used with a 3-wk washout period between treatments. Serial blood samples were collected immediately prior to butorphanol administration and at 5, 10, 20, and 40 min and 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, and 24 h after administration. The butorphanol analysis was performed using a validated liquid chromatography-mass spectrophotometric assay with a limit of quantitation of 0.025 ng/ml. The mean C <sub>max</sub> after i.m. administration was 7.9 ng/ml, with a corresponding T <sub>max</sub> of 40 min and t <sub></sub> of 7.1 h. After i.v. administration, the mean Vd <sub>ss</sub> was 1.4 L/kg and the mean Cl <sub>p</sub> was 0.26 L/kg/h. Mean i.m. bioavailability was 37 <sub></sub> . The results indicate that butorphanol used at 0.015 mg/kg i.m. or i.v. could be useful in elephants when given for pain control.
20096296|Coccidioidomycosis is a rare, often subclinical infection in domestic animals caused by the fungus Coccidioides immitis. Because of an apparent high incidence of coccidioidomycosis in Przewalski's horses (Equus przewalskii) housed at a single facility, necropsy records and biomaterials from animals that died between 1984 and 2000 were reviewed (n = 30, 15 males, 15 females). Coccidioidomycosis was the leading cause of death (33%) in this population with lesions in the lungs and tracheobronchial lymph nodes of all animals and variable involvement of the skeletal muscle, heart, kidney, liver, skin, brain, spinal cord, spleen, as well as other regional lymph nodes. At the time of death, affected horses tended to be younger than unaffected animals, were from multiple lineages, and males were over represented. During the same time period, no other exotic equids (n = 76) housed at the same facility were diagnosed with coccidioidomycosis, suggesting that environmental factors are not the sole cause of the high incidence in E. przewalskii. Numbers of the lymphocyte subsets (CD3, CD4, CD5, CD8, CD21+ cells) quantified by flow cytometry were similar between Przewalski's horses and domestic horses (Equus caballus). Although responses of lymphocyte blastogenesis assays were similar between Przewalski's (n = 5) and domestic horses (n = 5) in response to the T cell mitogen concanavalin A, lymphocytes from two of the Przewalski's horses failed to proliferate in response to Coccidioides. One of these horses had systemic disease and the second developed coccidioidomycosis 2 yr later. These results suggest that the immune system of some Przewalski's horses fails to respond appropriately to Coccidioides.
41417183|An outbreak of coccidiosis by Isospora icterus (I. icterus, Upton & Whitaker, 2000) in captive Campo Troupial (Icterus jamacaii) (Gmelin, 1788) at the Wild Animals Triage Center (IBAMA, Belo Horizonte, Brazil) is described. Clinical history and the necropsy findings documented diarrhea with diffuse necrotic enteritis. Sporulated oocysts (n = 100) had a bilayered wall, were subspherical, and measured 30.1 (27.5-32.5) m in length and 28.5 (26.2-30.0) m in width. A polar body but no micropyle was present and the length/width ratio was 1.1 (1.00-1.2). Each oocyst contained two ellipsoidal sporocysts measuring 17.6 (15.0-20.0) m in length and 12.9 (12.5-15.0)  in width, with a length/width ratio of 1.4 (1.2-1.5), and with Stieda and sub-Stieda bodies. Each sporocyst contained four sporozoites with granular sporocyst residuum. Oocysts were compatible with those from I. icterus, previously described in Campo Troupial.
20096378|Seventeen Gulf of Mexico sturgeons (Acipenser oxyrinchus desotoi) underwent endoscopic sex determination, gonadal biopsy, and various reproductive surgeries as part of a conservation development plan. The fish were anesthetized with tricaine methanesulfonate (MS-222) buffered with sodium bicarbonate and maintained on a recirculating water anesthesia circuit. A 6-mm Ternamian EndoTip Cannula, placed through the ventral midline, midway between pectoral and pelvic fins, permitted the introduction of a 5-mm telescope. Swim bladder aspiration and CO insufflation of the coelomic cavity provided excellent observation. Second and third cannulae were placed under direct visual control, lateral and cranial or caudal to the telescope cannula. Sex determination was successfully performed in all fish; however, five of 17 sturgeons (29%) required endoscopic gonadal biopsy to confirm sex. Bilateral ovariectomy or orchidectomy was successfully performed in three males and four females. Unilateral ovariectomy and bilateral ligation of the mllerian ducts using an extracorporeal suturing technique was accomplished in an additional three females. No apparent morbidity was associated with the anesthesia or endoscopic surgery in any fish. The ability to safely perform minimally invasive reproductive surgery in fish may have important management and conservation benefits.
20095595|Pulmonary tuberculosis caused by Mycobacterium bovis was diagnosed in an adult male African lion (Panthera leo) by culture of tracheobronchial lymph node at necropsy. The main clinical signs included weight loss and dyspnea. Clinical pathology showed an inflammatory hemogram, mild anemia, persistent hypercalcemia, and mild azotemia. Sera from the affected animal, conspecifics at risk, and nine clinically normal lions were analyzed retrospectively for antimycobacterial antibody using a protein A-linked immunosorbent assay. The affected lion and one clinically normal long-term cage mate had relatively high titers compared with those of two other animals at risk and nine clinically normal lions. These results indicate that serology was useful in identifying lions with active tuberculosis caused by M. bovis, and/or lions that have been exposed to M. bovis.
20095432|Enzyme immunoassay (EIA) of urinary estrone conjugates (EC) and pregnanediolglucuronide (PdG) was used to monitor ovarian activity during puberty and to evaluate the use of EIA as compared with radioimmunoassay (RIA) for assessing normal menstrual cyclicity and pregnancy in lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla). Urinary hormone profiles revealed pubertal onset of ovarian activity beginning at 5.5 yr in one female, but regular ovarian cyclicity was not established until 7.5 yr. After the onset of puberty, distinct but irregularly spaced urinary EC peaks (21-38 days) were observed. Luteal phase durations at this time were short (5-9 days), and PdG concentrations were low (1.0-1.8 g/mg Cr) relative to normal adult cycles. During 13 menstrual cycles and four pregnancies in four adults, substantial interanimal variation in absolute concentrations of urinary steroid metabolites was detected, suggesting that "normal" population means for this species should be interpreted with caution. Metabolite excretion profiles for nonpregnant and pregnant females in the present study were similar to previously reported hormone excretion patterns, and EIA correlated well with RIA for both EC (r = 0.91, P &lt 0.005) and PdG (r = 0.89, P &lt 0.005), indicating that EIA provides a useful alternative to RIA for measuring urinary steroid metabolites.
20096473|As part of a reintroduction program, blood samples from free-ranging, recently captured Nearctic river otters (Lontra canadensis) in eastern New York state were collected and analyzed to determine baseline hematology and plasma biochemistry values for the source population, and to determine whether these values were significant predictors of trap-injury status. Based on physical exam, each otter was classified as uninjured, moderately injured, or severely injured. Clinical pathology parameters were compared across sex, age class, and injury classification. The increase in likelihood of a change in each parameter in injured versus uninjured otters was determined using logistic regression. Baseline hematology and plasma biochemistry values did not differ significantly from published values for captive otters in zoos or other reintroduction programs. Plasma aspartate aminotransferase levels increased as time from capture to venipuncture decreased. Some otters in this study showed clinical signs consistent with exertional myopathy, possibly altering our calculation of baseline values. Our results suggest that the hematology and plasma biochemistry values obtained in this recently captured population of otters are generally not good predictors of capture-related injury. This could be due to disease processes that are not readily visible upon physical examination or because changes in these values may be associated with factors independent of capture-related injury.
20095658|Twenty-four Siberian polecats (Mustela eversmanni) from 12 litters were anesthetized with either inhaled sevoflurane or isoflurane. With 7% delivered sevoflurane and 5% delivered isoflurane, time to loss of righting reflex (x  SE) with sevoflurane (1.9  0.1 min) was significantly shorter compared with isoflurane (2.6  0.1 min). During maintenance at a light plane of anesthesia, systolic arterial pressure was significantly higher with sevoflurane (83  2 mm Hg) compared with isoflurane (66  2 mm Hg), and heart rate was significantly lower with sevoflurane (191  3 beats/min) compared with isoflurane (204  3 beats/min). There was no difference in respiratory rate, jugular venous pH, pCO,
20096451|Arcanobacterium pyogenes was associated with necrotizing pneumonia; mandibular osteomyelitis; peritonitis; and hepatic, pulmonary, renal, and subcutaneous abscessation in a group of captive blackbuck (Antilope cervicapra). Males were more frequently (73.3%) affected than females. Infection with A. pyogenes was fatal or necessitated euthanasia in 15 of 16 (93.7%) cases. Deaths associated with A. pyogenes occurred most frequently (60%) during winter.
20095800|An approximately 37-yr-old female Atlantic bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) died after a 4-mo illness characterized by intermittent anorexia, lethargy, mild neutrophilic leukocytosis, and mild nonregenerative anemia. At necropsy, the lungs were diffusely consolidated, and histopathology of the lungs revealed severe pneumonia with macrophages containing clusters of numerous yeast cells. Inflammatory lesions and yeast also were found in pulmonary, mediastinal, prescapular, and duodenal lymph nodes, spleen, liver, kidneys, urinary bladder, pancreas, right adrenal gland, and the pyloric stomach. Histomorphology, fungal culture, and polymerase chain reaction analysis indicated that the fungus was Histoplasma capsulatum var. capsulatum. This is the first report of histoplasmosis in a cetacean.
40665088|A spinner dolphin (Stenella longirostris) was found stranded in Hawaii with cutaneous nodules and enlarged lymph nodes. Numerous Cryptococcus gattii VGI yeast were observed in multiple organs with minimal inflammation. This case represents the first reported infection of C. gattii in a dolphin from Hawaii.
20095471|Although resistance of trichostrongyloid nematodes to benzimidazole anthelmintics is common in domestic ungulates, only one case of benzimidazole resistance (BR) has been documented in captive exotic ungulates. In the present study, an in vitro thiabendazole egg hatch assay was used to detect BR in antelope collections in Florida. The purpose of this study was to measure the prevalence of BR in seven antelope collections in Florida and determine if the occurrence of BR was related to the frequency of anthelmintic usage. Six of the seven collections had evidence of BR. This study demonstrated that BR is common in antelope in Florida, and current parasite control practices used in these collections, particularly high treatment frequencies, were positively correlated with the development of BR. Because BR appears to be so prevalent in zoological collections in Florida, the use of these drugs should be reserved for collections where the efficacy of benzimidazoles has been confirmed.
27751765|Two cases of bifid ventricles and cardiac malformations in juvenile ball python (Python regius) were investigated by blood pressure measurements and macro- and microscopic sectioning. A study of a normal ball python was included for reference. In both cases, all cardiac chambers were enlarged and abnormally shaped. Internal assessment of the ventricles revealed a pronounced defect of the muscular ridge, which normally is responsible for separating the systemic and pulmonary circuits. Consistent with the small muscular ridge, systolic pressures were identical in the pulmonary and systemic arteries, but, the snakes, nevertheless, lived to reach body weights severalfold of their hatchling weight.
20095801|Seven wild-caught ball pythons (Python regius), including six gravid females and one male, were obtained from Africa and were housed in a government animal facility in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Upon arrival, the snakes were found to be infested with ticks (Aponomma latus), which were manually removed. Four weeks following arrival, vesicular skin lesions began to appear on the snakes. Despite treatment of all affected female snakes with amikacin (5 mg/kg i.m., every 3 days) and cefotaxime (25 mg/kg i.m., every 3 days), the condition progressed and five of the female snakes died 7 wk after arrival. The remaining male and one female improved after an increase in environmental temperature, with ecdysis followed by healing. Physiologic stress, ectoparasites, and shipping may have predisposed the snakes to sepsis.
41417173|Meloxicam is a commonly used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) in veterinary medicine, but its use in amphibians has not been reported in the literature. NSAIDs are known to act by providing anti-inflammatory and analgesic actions by inhibiting the synthesis of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). The objective of this study was to evaluate whether the intramuscular administration of meloxicam would decrease the circulating serum PGE2 levels in the North American bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) following tissue trauma induced by a punch biopsy. Eighteen adult North American bullfrogs were randomly assigned to two treatment groups: meloxicam (0.1 mg/kg i.m.) and control (0.9% saline i.m.). Blood was obtained via cardiocentesis immediately prior to administration of the two treatment regimes and serum was frozen. A 4-mm punch biopsy was taken from the right triceps femoris muscle to induce an inflammatory response. Twenty-four hours later, a second blood sample was collected and serum was harvested and frozen. Serum PGE2 concentrations were measured using a commercial PGE2 enzyme assay (EIA) kit. Twenty-four hours following the biopsy, the mean circulating PGE2 levels of animals treated with meloxicam was 57.79  12.35 pg/ml, which did not differ significantly from animals that were treated with saline (85.63  17.55 pg/ml,  > 0.05). The calculated means of the absolute change between the circulating baseline PGE2 levels and the postinjury circulating PGE2 levels were significantly lower in animals treated with meloxicam (13.11  17.31 pg/ml) than in control animals treated with saline (46.14  38.02 pg/ml) (P < 0.05). These results suggest that the systemic administration of meloxicam at a dosage of 0.1 mg/kg once daily suppresses circulating serum PGE2 levels postinjury in the North American bullfrog.
20096616|As part of a clinical workup of dental problems in a large crocodilian collection, mandibular nerve blocks were performed in the animals. A nerve locator was used to facilitate placement of the nerve blocks in American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis), Yacare caiman (Caiman yacare), and a dwarf crocodile (Osteolaemus tetraspis). Provision of analgesia is a frequently underused aspect of patient care in reptiles. Use of a nerve stimulator provides an objective measurement of nerve conduction blockade and may be useful in exotic species in which anatomic landmarks for nerve block placement are not well established.
20094973|Aspirates from the posterior segments of both buphthalmic globes of a black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus columbianus) yielded pure cultures of Yersinia pestis. Bilateral necrotizing panophthalmitis appeared to originate from the ocular vasculature and to be associated with gram-negative rods. An ocular manifestation of plague has not previously been reported.
27751727|Aspergillus spp. fungal infections are the most common cause of morbidity and mortality in captive penguins. Itraconazole has been the drug of choice for both therapeutic and prophylactic treatment; however, the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters can be highly variable in different species, and it has not been evaluated in penguins. In this study, four preliminary steady-state trials were performed to compare two oral formulations of itraconazole (commercial capsules compared with generic bulk compounded powder) at two different dosages (6 or 12 mg/kg once a day) administered in fish to small groups of captive Humboldt penguins (Spheniscus humboldti). Building on this data, a final steady-state trial was performed with the use of a 7 mg/kg oral dosage twice a day of commercial capsules given in fish to a group of 15 penguins. With sparse sampling, blood was drawn for testing from small subsets of each treatment group at 47 time points in the 24-hr period after the final dose of itraconazole on day 14. Steady-state plasma concentrations of itraconazole and hydroxyitraconazole, the major metabolite, were determined by reverse phase high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. Treatment with the generic bulk compounded product resulted in plasma levels of itraconazole that were undetectable for 26 out of 30 blood samples, compared with seven out of 20 blood samples for the commercial product at the same dosage. On the basis of study results, an estimated oral dosage of either 8.5 mg/kg twice a day or 20 mg/kg once a day of the commercial itraconazole capsules given in fish would produce adequate steady-state therapeutic blood levels in Humboldt penguins.
20095802|An adult female southern black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis minor) experienced intermittent periods of regurgitation while eating, suggesting an esophageal disorder. Endoscopy for evaluation of the trachea, esophagus, and stomach revealed a 30-mm nasopharyngeal orifice with associated recess located in the caudodorsal pharynx and a 10-cm dilated segment of the distal esophagus that was presumably the cause of regurgitation. Dietary management of esophageal dilation through short-term utilization of a "soft feed" program successfully eliminated the regurgitation. This is the first report of esophageal dysfunction in a rhinoceros.
20095747|Three red kangaroos (Megaleira rufus), an adult male, an adult female, and a yearling, were exposed in bedding and food to coastal bermuda hay that contained the toxic plant Lantana camara. The adult male exhibited signs of anorexia, depression, lethargy, and jaundice. The adult female was presented dead. After 1 wk, following exposure to sunlight, the adult male and a yearling joey developed exudative dermatitis of the ear margins, eyelids, muzzle, and scrotum and opacity of the corneas. The adult male had a leucocytosis, anemia, bilirubinemia, bilirubinuria, hyperproteinemia, and elevated alanine aminotransferase, gamma glutamyl transpeptidase, alkaline phosphatase, and bile acid serum levels. Postmortem examination of the adult male revealed jaundice, and the liver was swollen, mottled, and pale yellow to reddish yellow. The gall bladder was markedly distended. Histopathologically, there was hepatocellular enlargement with vesiculation of the nuclei and sporadic feathery degeneration of the cytoplasm. The yearling joey survived and was treated symptomatically with i.v. fluids and antibiotics. The history, clinical signs, diagnostic findings, necropsy findings, and exposure to the toxic plant Lantana camara support the diagnosis of secondary photosensitization and hepatoxicity.
20095724|An immature common stork (Ciconia ciconia) was referred from the Wildlife Recovering Center to the Department of Surgery for evaluation. Physical examination revealed a partially ulcerated, necrotic mass on the left surface of the upper beak. The mass was surgically removed and classified histologically as a squamous cell carcinoma. Postsurgically, the bird recovered uneventfully and proceeded to mature normally. During this growth period, no tumor recurrence or metastasis was detected, and no local bone alteration to the beak was found. The stork was ringed and released back into its natural environment.
20096083|Thirty randomly selected game bird feeders were sampled at 25-33-day intervals from November 1996 to March 1997 to quantitate ochratoxin A concentrations in supplemental feed. Monthly mean ochratoxin A concentration of grain in feeders was 8.3  0.8 ppb (n = 167). Ochratoxin A concentrations from individual feeders ranged from &lt5 to 109.9 ppb, levels that have not been demonstrated to negatively affect game birds in a laboratory environment. Stress may increase the chance of ochratoxin-induced mortality or morbidity for wild game birds. Only mean relative humidity was significantly correlated with monthly mean ochratoxin A concentration.
41262594|A 5-yr-old spayed female caracal (Caracal caracal) was presented with complaints of acute onset of mental dullness, ataxia, and ventroflexion of 24-hr duration. The animal's garden territory was sprayed a day earlier with an organophosphate (OP) insecticide (chlorpyriphos-methyl). The caracal was treated for OP toxicosis and mildly improved. It was discharged a day later at the owner's request, although clinical signs did not resolve. During the following week, the caracal was confined to prevent further toxin exposure but did not improve and was presented 8 days later with similar clinical signs. Serum butyril-cholinesterase activity was markedly low. The relatively long interval from OP exposure, along with the duration of clinical signs, suggested an intermediate syndrome of OP toxicity. The caracal was treated symptomatically and progressively improved. It was discharged after 8 days of hospitalization and made full recovery 30 days later. This is the first report of OP toxicity in a caracal, suspected to progress to an intermediate syndrome of OP poisoning.
20460565|A young male giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) recently acquired by the Lion Country Safari in Loxahatchee, Florida, was diagnosed and successfully treated for Haemonchus infection while in quarantine. Seven weeks after introduction into a group of resident giraffes, this giraffe presented with diarrhea. Fecal evaluation revealed an extremely high count of 16,700 eggs/g, with larval identification of the parasite as Haemonchus. A larval development assay showed resistance to the three classes of anthelmintics currently used to treat Haemonchus contortus: the benzimidazoles, imidazothiazoles, and macrocyclic lactones. The giraffe was treated with a combination of moxidectin topically and fenbendazole orally, and follow-up fecal examination 2 wk later showed a marked reduction in strongyle-type eggs. However, within 2 mo the giraffe had a packed cell volume of 22% and an eggs per gram count of 11,900. The animal was then treated with moxidectin topically and copper oxide wire particles orally and removed from the contaminated area. Because of the unusual host, molecular analysis of the parasite was employed, which confirmed the nematode as H. contortus. It is likely that the monthly rotational deworming schedule first implemented more than 5 yr earlier contributed to the development of multiple anthelmintic resistance in this H. contortus population. The proper use of anthelmintics and good pasture management are crucial to reducing the parasite burden in captive giraffe.
20095958|An Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) required general anesthesia for orthopedic foot surgery. The elephant was unable to lie down, so it was placed in a custom-made sling, administered i.m. etorphine hydrochloride in the standing position, and lowered to lateral recumbency. General anesthesia was maintained with isoflurane administered through an endotracheal tube. After surgery, the isoflurane anesthesia was terminated, with immobilization maintained with additional i.v. etorphine. The elephant was lifted to the vertical postion, and the immobilizing effects of etorphine were reversed with naltrexone. The suspension system and hoist for the sling were designed specifically for the elephant house.
20095099|Oocysts of Cryptosporidium serpentis (Apicomplexa: Cryptosporidiidae) were collected from a naturally infected yellow rat snake (Elaphe obsoleta quadrivittata) housed at the Houston Zoological Gardens. Oocysts of C. serpentis were 6.2  5.3 m (range: 5.6-6.6  4.8-5.6 m) with a shape index (length/width) of 1.16 (range 1.04-1.33); whereas those of a mammalian isolate (C. parvum) were 5.2  4.6 m (range 4.8-5.6  4.2-4.8 m) with a shape index of 1.15 (range: 1.04-1.22). Oral inoculation of oocysts into suckling mice (Mus musculus) resulted in successful infections of C. parvum but not C. serpentis. Purification of oocysts on cesium chloride gradients followed by
20096495|A captive adult female American badger (Taxidea taxus) suffered periodic episodes of agitation and self-mutilation over the course of its lifetime. Initially environmental enrichment curtailed the aberrant behavior; however, intensifying clinical signs periodically required the use of diazepam for amelioration of the problem. When diazepam treatment failed to effectively manage a series of escalating behavioral problems, alternative therapy with buspirone, an azaperone anxiolytic, was initiated. The badger was treated with 10 mg buspirone p.o. b.i.d. for over 18 mo, during which time no undesirable behaviors or noticeable side effects were observed.
20096298|Feces from 34 species of ruminants housed at the Lisbon Zoo was examined for Cryptosporidium spp. oocysts. Three hundred and eighty-eight samples were analyzed. Three hundred and eighty species-specific group fecal samples were collected monthly, from September 1998 until August 1999, along with eight individual specimens from eight neonates. All samples were examined by four different techniques: microscopic observation of direct and concentrated fecal smears, staining with modified Ziehl-Nielsen, immunofluorescent assay, and immunoenzymatic assay. The prevalence of infection was 3.6%. Five neonates with diarrhea were infected. Cryptosporidial oocysts were shed more frequently during winter months. Some facilities may have permitted oocysts to remain viable, possibly contributing to cryptosporidial transmission between animals.
20095462|Traditional Chinese medicine dates back more than 5,000 years and many animal products are included in recommended treatments. The use of wildlife in these medications is creating a drain on already declining free-ranging populations. In particular, wild populations of tigers, bears, rhinos, and swiftlets are under threat due to their use in traditional medications. Where possible, farming of some of these species has been attempted to provide a steady source of materials for medical use. Although substitutes and alternatives for these medicines are being sought, other solutions to this problem must be pursued, including improved protection of species in their habitats, strict legislation controlling domestic and international trade and enforcement of these laws, and increasing public awareness of the threats to wildlife.
20095386|Information on the reproductive status of the Sumatran rhinoceros (Dicerorhinus sumatrensis) can improve the captive management of this critically endangered species. Ultrasonography is an effective tool for gathering such information. This report details the successful application of ultrasonography to describe the reproductive anatomy of one male and four female Sumatran rhinoceroses at the Sungai Dusun Reserve in Selangor, Malaysia. These regularly handled and manageable animals were adequately controlled for reproductive ultrasonography by a cage facility at the reserve. In the male, rectal probe ultrasonography revealed the accessory sex glands. Imaging of the scrotum revealed fluid dilations of the testicular adnexa of both testicles. In the females, rectal probe ultrasonography revealed 1) a cervix containing a complex of luminal folds, 2) the uterus, and 3) the ovaries. The presence of several follicles on the ovaries of some females suggested normal reproductive activity. Several large cysts and tumors were evident in the uteri of three animals. Further analysis would be feasible and is necessary to confirm reproductive events and assess reproductive abnormalities.
40962258|This brief communication describes the successful treatment of acute systemic anaphylaxis in a wildborn but captive infant western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) in the Republic of Congo. The infant demonstrated signs of acute respiratory distress, lingual swelling, and reaction to intradermal tuberculin, given 55 hr earlier. Details of the treatment with steroids, anesthetic induction, and i. v. epinephrine are all reported, and potential antigens that may have initiated the anaphylactic shock are discussed.
20096584|A 4-yr-old male ferret (Mustela putorius furo) was presented with a 3-day history of pelvic limb ataxia and weakness. A cellulitis associated with a deep bite wound was identified and initially treated with antibiotics and anti-inflammatory medication. Two weeks later, a grade IV/VI cardiac murmur was identified on physical examination. Echocardiographic examination revealed irregular thickening of the aortic valve leaflets, with normal chamber dimensions and normal systolic function. The ferret's physical condition rapidly deteriorated and it was subsequently euthanatized. Myxomatous degeneration of the aortic valve leaflets, with ulceration and vegetative lesions, and multiorgan infarctions were identified during necropsy. A bacterial etiologic agent was not identified from blood culture or histopathology. Lesions present were consistent with nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis, a novel condition in the ferret.
20096240|Tuberculin test results from 214 animals in three Swedish zoos, tested between the years 1993 and 2000, were compiled from a questionnaire sent out to zoo veterinarians. Comparative testing with bovine and avian tuberculin was used on various sites of injection. A total of five skin test reactors were found: three cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) in one zoo and two tapirs (Tapirus terrestris) in another zoo. Postmortem culture from one of the tapirs revealed growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and a stamping out policy was adopted in the herd. Tuberculosis in the primates was ruled out by further investigations. Zoo veterinarians should try to adopt a common scheme for the regular testing of zoo animals to improve the diagnostic ability and comparison of results between institutions.
20095769|Various methods have been used to obtain blood samples from unrestrained rhinoceros. Without extensive prior training, the results are generally poor due to pain avoidance reactions. However a new dermal anesthesia technique previously used in humans, an eutectic mixture of lidocaine and prilocaine, made it possible to obtain blood samples from the ear veins of one male and two female white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum) and five full-thickness skin punch biopsies and subsequent suturing on unrestrained rhinoceros. In all animals, the procedures elucidated neither limb withdrawal nor head shake and were regarded as painless.
20096211|The epidemiology of neoplastic disease was studied retrospectively in the captive population of black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes). Postmortem reports were reviewed and archived tissues examined from 184 of the 227 adult (&gt1 yr old) black-footed ferrets that died from the beginning of the current captive propagation program in late 1985 to the end of 1996. A total of 185 neoplasms, of 28 distinct phenotypes, were seen in 102 (55.4%) of these ferrets. There was more than one tumor type present in 51 ferrets. Tumors of the apocrine glands (28.3%), renal tubular neoplasms (20.7%), and biliary cystadenoma or carcinoma (20.1%) were the most common neoplasms. The probability of developing most types of neoplasms increased with age. Neoplasms of the apocrine glands were more common in males and may be hormonally influenced. The unusually high prevalence of biliary cystadenocarcinoma may be secondary to the common occurrence of intrahepatic biliary cysts in this population. Although neoplasia is an important cause of mortality in captive adult black-footed ferrets, its impact on captive propagation of the species, and on the wild population, is probably limited because clinically significant tumors are encountered almost exclusively in postre-productive ferrets (&gt3 yr old) and because ferrets released into their natural habitat rarely reach susceptible age.
20095951|An 8-yr-old intact male Grant's zebra (Equus burchelli bohmi) was referred to the Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital of the University of California-Davis after being found in the owner's pasture obtunded and in lateral recumbency. The animal was hypothermic, weak, and unwilling to rise. There was no evidence of trauma, and the zebra had seemed normal the preceding evening. There was no extensor rigidity, and cranial nerve reflexes were normal. Flexor and extensor reflexes were weak upon initial examination. A complete blood count and serum biochemistry analysis revealed a mild leukocytosis, hyperfibrinogenemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, hypochloremia, hypocalcemia, and hypoalbuminemia. Urinalysis was normal, and a urine toxicology screen for alkaloids was negative. No toxic substance was found in the hay or pasture grasses although the owner reported the presence of yellow star thistle and mushrooms in the pasture. The cerebrospinal fluid cytologic and biochemical analyses were normal, but antibodies to Sarcocystis neurona were detected. The zebra died despite aggressive supportive therapy over a 4-day period. The necropsy demonstrated severe gastrointestinal nematodiasis that could account for hypoalbuminemia and electrolyte abnormalities. Histopathologic examination of the nervous system revealed focal areas of perivascular cuffing in the brainstem that were comprised mainly of lymphocytes, monocytes, and plasma cells. Immunohistochemical staining identified the presence of S. neurona merozoites associated with the lesions. This zebra probably died from severe endoparasitism that resulted in malabsorption, weakness, and recumbency rather than from encephalitis associated with S. neurona merozoites. Equine protozoal myeloencephalitis has not been reported previously in nondomestic equids.
27751716|The purpose of this study was to determine normal ocular surface bacterial flora, tear production, and intraocular pressure in a captive flock of Humboldt penguins, Spheniscus humboldti. Twenty-eight healthy penguins were studied and equally divided between fresh- and saltwater habitats. The population consisted of 15 female and 13 male penguins, ranging from 320 years of age. Following complete ophthalmic exam, 4 penguins with cataracts were removed from the study. Eight penguins from each habitat were randomly selected for ocular surface aerobic bacterial culture. Corynebacterium spp. and Staphylococcus spp. were the most common isolates. Twenty-five organisms consisting of 17 species, and 15 organisms consisting of 9 species, were identified in fresh-and saltwater groups, respectively. Tear production and intraocular pressures were evaluated on 24 penguins with normal ocular exams. The range and mean (standard deviation) tear production, measured with the Schirmer tear test, was 112 mm/min and 6.45 mm/min  2.9, respectively. The mean tear production for penguins housed in the freshwater habitat was greater (8.5 mm/min) than those in saltwater (4.8 mm/min). The range and mean (standard deviation) intraocular pressure, measured by applanation tonometry using a Tono-Pen XL tonometer, was 1027 mmHg and 20.36 mmHg  4.1, respectively. This data should be utilized as a reliable resource for those involved in avian and zoo medicine.
20096155|Six eggs from a captive African dwarf crocodile (Osteolaemus tetraspis) nest were artificially incubated. Two abnormal hatchlings with incomplete absorption of their yolk sacs died within 48 hr of hatching. No parasites were detected grossly or histologically in either hatchling. The remaining four apparently healthy hatchlings died without clinical signs at 3 wk of age, 1 wk after being fed live wild-caught fish and commercially raised goldfish. Necropsy revealed multiple white small wormlike organisms within the lungs, liver, and gastrointestinal tract of all four hatchlings. Histopathologic cross sections suggested that pentastomiasis was the cause of death, and whole parasites were identified as Sebekia mississippiensis. This infection was probably contracted by ingestion of live fish intermediate hosts infected with nymphal parasites. Avoiding the use of infected live fish or untreated fish products can prevent mortality of hatchling crocodilians caused by S. mississippiensis within zoological collections.
20460579|A group of approximately 370 Egyptian tortoises (Testudo kleinmanni) and 36 spur-thighed tortoises (Testudo graeca) were illegally imported into Italy from Libya. Within 6 mo of their entry into Italy, all but 40 of the Egyptian tortoises had died with signs of severe stomatitis. Herpesviruses were detected from the tongues of seven Egyptian tortoises by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and virus isolation. Sequencing of a portion of the UL39 homologue of the herpesviruses from three different tortoises demonstrated that the viruses were identical to one another and identical to a herpesvirus isolated from a Hermann's tortoise (Testudo hermanni) in Germany. This is the first description of the detection of a herpesvirus from diseased Egyptian tortoises. That these animals were imported into Europe from Libya provides circumstantial evidence for the presence of herpesviruses among tortoises in northern Africa.
20095854|A systolic heart murmur was auscultated in a 2-yr-old female Sumatran orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus sumatraensis) with a slower than expected growth rate. Cardiac ultrasound revealed an 11-mm atrial septal defect. Cardiac catheterization confirmed the diagnosis. Surgical repair was performed during cardiopulmonary bypass using a pericardial patch. The bypass pump was primed with human albumin and donor orangutan whole blood of a compatible type. Hematuria occurred shortly after the initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass. Successful repair was immediately confirmed with transesophageal ultrasonography. The animal was extubated shortly after returning to spontaneous ventilation but had to be reintubated 4 hr later due to tachypnea and decreased SpO. Additional extubation attempts failed, necessitating continuous positive pressure ventilation, monitoring, and intensive care environment. Thoracic radiographs suggested adult respiratory distress syndrome. The animal required 14 days of intensive care before extubation of the trachea was successful. After 4 wk of isolation, the orangutan was successfully reintroduced to its family group.
27751725|Heavy metal toxicosis is a well-known phenomenon in wild, captive-animal, and domestic animal medicine. However, the occurrence among reptiles is not well documented. One reason for this is the lack of information regarding reference blood and tissue levels of heavy metals in reptiles. To determine normal blood lead, plasma zinc, and liver lead and zinc concentrations, blood and liver samples were collected from 4 adult and 16 juvenile, healthy green iguanas (Iguana iguana). Lead and zinc levels were measured using atomic absorption spectroscopy. Using the mean  two SD as the normal reference range, the present study suggests the following for captive common green iguana: 1) whole blood lead level: 0.06  0.06 g/ml; 2) plasma zinc level: 2.68  1.66 g/ml; 3) liver lead level (wet-weight basis): &lt;1.0  0.0 g/g; 4) liver lead level (dry-weight basis): &lt;3.0  0.0 g/g; 5) liver zinc level (wet-weight basis): 24.9  11.6 g/g; and 6) liver zinc level (dry-weight basis): 83.4  44.6 g/g. These values are fairly consistent with published reference levels in other mammalian and avian species.
20460494|Proventriculitis and chronic respiratory disease were diagnosed in two flocks of gray partridges (Perdix perdix) on unrelated Swedish game bird farms. Affected birds showed loss of condition, respiratory signs, and flock mortality rates of 50 and 98%, respectively. The proventricular lesions were associated closely with fungal organisms that were microscopically indistinguishable from the ascomycetous yeast Macrorhabdus ornithogaster (former provisional name "megabacterium"). At necropsy, the proventriculi were swollen and hyperemic, and viscous mucus adhered to the mucosa. Proventricular hemorrhages were commonly detected, and one bird had proventricular rupture and peritonitis. Microscopically, mild to severe subacute to chronic lymphoplasmacytic proventriculitis, microbascesses, necrosis, epithelial metaplasia, disrupted koilin, ulcers, and hemorrhages were observed. Transmission electron microscopy of the proventricular microorganisms revealed a membrane-bound nucleus, vacuoles, ribosomes, microtubules in parallel arrays, and a two-layered cell wall but no mitochondria. Scanning electron microscopy of the proventricular epithelium demonstrated masses of organisms with occasional constrictions in parallel arrangement. Many of the birds also suffered from concurrent respiratory bacterial infections and/or gastrointestinal candidiasis. The clinical course and gross and microscopic proventricular lesions were similar to those described in psittacine and passerine pet birds colonized by M. ornithogaster--like microorganisms but differed from published case reports and experimental infections of chickens in which the clinical signs and lesions have been considerably milder. The findings presented in this paper suggest that mycotic proventriculitis, presumably associated with M. ornithogaster may be a serious but possibly opportunistic, although unusual, disease problem in gray partridges on game farms.
20095390|The pharmacokinetics of amikacin in the African elephant (Loxodonta africana) were determined after i.v. and i.m. administration. Two adult females were given single i.v. injections of amikacin at a dose of 8 mg/kg. Trials using 3 mg/kg and 6 mg/kg i.m. were conducted with three adult females. Serum concentrations of amikacin were measured serially over a 24-49-hr period. After i.v. administration of 8 mg/kg, the elimination half-lives (
20095805|Systemic candidiasis, with involvement of the spleen, liver, kidneys, and lymph nodes, was diagnosed in a geriatric captive cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus). The animal had a long clinical history of intermittent chronic gastritis associated with Helicobacter acinonyx and chronic renal failure, both of which were repeatedly treated with broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy. Following euthanasia, a postmortem examination showed numerous microabscesses and granulomas composed of degenerate eosinophils and containing asteroids or Splendore-Hoeppli material throughout the body. Yeast, pseudohyphae, and infrequently branching septate hyphae, demonstrated with special stains, were identified as a Candida sp. by fluorescent antibody testing. Low genetic variation in cheetahs may increase their susceptibility to infectious agents. Additional factors contributing to the overgrowth and dissemination of Candida sp. in this case may have included changes in the bacterial flora of the alimentary tract as a result of repeated antimicrobial therapy and alterations in the topography of the alimentary mucosa caused by chronic gastritis.
40665077|A 1.5-yr-old captive male Gambian giant pouched rat (Cricetomys gambianus) died after suffering from anorexia, weakness, and dyspnea for 3 wk. Thoracic radiographs of thorax and abdomen and computed tomography showed a severe biventricular enlargement of the heart and a moderate hepatomegaly. Necropsy revealed a severe, bilateral hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and dilation of the right ventricle due to multifocal bilateral, valvular endocardiosis of all atrioventricular valves and acute hepatic congestion. Histologically, the atrioventricular valves were multifocally thickened by a marked endocardiosis with stromal accumulation of Periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)-positive, mucinous material. Although common in dogs, endocardiosis has not been described in Nesomyidaes. As in other affected species, the pathogenesis of endocardiosis in this species remains unclear.
20096679|An imported 2.5-yr-old female green iguana (Iguana iguana rhinolopa) kept in Greece was presented with a history of anorexia and allotriophagy of 1 mo duration. Upon clinical examination, it was cachectic and had severe abdominal distension and fibrous osteodystrophy. Despite treatment, it died a month later. On necropsy, massive accumulations of threadlike nematode parasites were observed in the large intestine, identified as Ozolaimus megatyphlon, a member of the Oxyuridae family of Pharyngodonidae, a usually nonpathogenic intestinal parasite of iguanas. To the authors' knowledge, its presence has not been reported previously in Europe, although one pathogenic infection has been reported previously in Japan. The animal was presumably infected before importation. Although death was attributed to the heavy parasitic overload, the poor diet and terrarium hygiene, and absence of an anthelminthic regime further contributed to the deterioration of the animal's condition. Recognition of this condition, which may be recently introduced or underdiagnosed, may help improve medical and trade standards concerning this species in practice.
20095213|Six euphonias (Euphonia violaceas) and 10 amazilia emerald hummingbirds (Amazilia amazilias) were purchased from separate breeders and kept in quarantine after arrival. Within 2 days, one of the euphonias became ill and died. One of the hummingbirds was dead on arrival, and the other hummingbirds were unthrifty. Necropsy revealed hepatomegaly and splenomegaly. Histologic examination of tissues showed necrotic hepatic cells scattered throughout the liver and infiltration of histiocytes, lymphocytes, and plasma cells particularly in the periportal region. Kupffer cells were numerous and prominent and often contained granular basophilic organisms in the cytoplasm. The spleen had scattered individual cell necrosis and plasma cell hyperplasia. All six of the imported euphonias died within the subsequent 2 mo as did nine hummingbirds. Chlamydial infection was diagnosed by positive monoclonal fluorescent antibody and Gimenez stains of tissue impression smears in three euphonias and two hummingbirds, by isolation of Chlamydia psittaci (two euphonias), and by compatible histologic and gross lesions.
20095282|Programs for the captive breeding, introduction, reintroduction, or translocation of an animal can involve a chain of events including capture, captivity, propagation, movement, veterinary diagnosis and treatment, and scientific procedures. All such activities may be subject to legislation that may be applied at international, national, regional, or local levels. It can relate inter alia to conservation, animal health, welfare and research, administration, and to human safety. The diversity of the relevant law necessitates the planning and management of programs to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements in the course of achieving scientific objectives.
20096414|Induction and recovery from inhalation anesthesia of Dumeril's monitors (Varanus dumerili) using isoflurane, sevoflurane, and nitrous oxide (
27751695|Six cases of severe otitis media-interna, an uncommon problem in nondomestic ruminants, were diagnosed in five captive bongo (Tragelaphus eurycerus). The cases were geographically clustered at zoological facilities in Florida. A visible ear droop, head shaking, and otic discharge were common at clinical presentation. Medical management with prolonged systemic and topical antimicrobial therapy, combined with repeated manual removal of debris from the otic canal, was successful in resolving two cases and effectively controlled a third case. Two bongo with severe otitis did not respond to medical management and required surgical intervention. A bulla osteotomy and total ear canal ablation were performed on these animals (bilaterally in one bongo). Surgery was successful in providing complete clinical resolution of the otitis and is recommended for severe cases that fail to respond to less invasive management.
40962262|An 11-yr-old captive-born male Everglades ratsnake (Elaphe obsoleta rosalleni) presented with dysecdysis, hyperkeratosis, and inappetance. Two skin biopsies demonstrated a diffuse hyperkeratosis with both a bacterial and fungal epidermitis. Fusarium oxysporum was cultured from both biopsies and considered an opportunistic infection rather than a primary pathogen. Medical management was unsuccessful, and the snake was euthanized. Histologie findings included a pituitary cystadenoma arising from the pars intermedia, severe intestinal lipidosis, generalized epidermal hyperkeratosis, and lesions consistent with sepsis. It is hypothesized that endocrine derangements from the pituitary tumor may have caused the skin and intestinal lesions.
20096444|Coat damage has been reported frequently in captive rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), and it is a serious health problem because the hair coat functions as an anatomic and physiologic barrier between the animal and the environment. The purpose of this study was to identify the pathogenesis of coat damage in this species and to exclude the most frequent causes of alopecia. The investigation included clinical, hematologic, bacteriologic, mycologic, parasitologic, and histopathologic evaluations. A broad systematic dermatologic investigation was performed on 156 rhesus macaques, kept under variable environmental conditions, at the German Primate Center, Gttingen. In addition, 27 animals from other primate facilities were incorporated into the study. Clinically, 126 animals showed partial alopecia of varying severity, with complete alopecia in the worst cases. In 88% of the cases, the disorder was bilaterally symmetrical. The back and extremities were most commonly affected. No gross clinical changes of the skin surface were detected. Histologic changes consisted predominantly of mild epidermal hyperkeratosis and mild perivascular dermatitis. The presence and severity of histologic lesions were not correlated to coat damage. Parasitic, bacterial, and mycotic causes of alopecia were ruled out. Overviewing these results, disturbances in environment and behavior controlling or influencing hair growth may lead to hair loss in captive rhesus macaques. Future studies should try to identify disturbances in extrinsic or intrinsic factors influencing hair follicle activity in rhesus macaques.
20095255|A serosurvey of antibodies to canine parvovirus (CPV), canine distemper virus (CDV), and Ehrlichia canis (EC) in African (Lycaon pictus) and sympatric domestic canids was conducted in the Maasai Mara, Kenya, in 1989 and 1990. Samples were collected from about 20% of the sympatric and wild dog populations. Of the domestic dogs, 25.4%, 1.8%, and 15.5% were seropositive for CPV, CDV, and EC, respectively. The seroprevalences of these three diseases in African wild dogs were 6.7%, 0%, and 0%, respectively. The seroprevalence of CPV was higher (P = 0.12) in domestic dogs than in African wild dogs. In addition, significant differences in CPV prevalence in domestic dogs were noted between sampling sites (P = 0.001) and years (P &lt 0.001). Differences in seroprevalence of CDV between species were not significant (P = 0.76). The seroprevalence of EC was higher in domestic dogs than in African wild dogs (P = 0.13). The higher prevalence of antibodies to CPV and EC in domestic dogs indicates that domestic dogs may serve as sources of infection for African wild dogs.
27751773|Cyproterone acetate is a steroidal anti-androgen that has been used in human medicine for contraceptive purposes as well as treatment of medical conditions responsive to suppression of testosterone production. While serious side effects are considered to be rare, sporadic cases of severe hepatitis have been reported, including several fatal cases. This report describes a case of fatal fulminant hepatitis in one of four male chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) that were undergoing trial treatment with cyproterone acetate to decrease inter-male aggression.
40962253|One female and two male 4-mo-old, sibling rock hyraxes {Procavia capensis) presented with severe generalized dermatitis characterized by nonpruritic, nonalopecic, mildly encrusted, focally ulcerated pustular nodules. The dorsum, limbs, and dorsal cranium were most severely affected. Skin scrapings, histopathology, and scanning electron microscopy revealed the presence of various life stages of a novel Demodex sp. As a result of the generalized nature of infestation, treatment began with ivermectin and then changed to doramectin, at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg s. c. every 7 days. Weekly skin scrapings and intermittent blood work, including serum protein electrophoresis, were used to evaluate treatment response. Complete resolution, as determined by two consecutive negative skin scrapings, was noted in all three hyraxes within 10-14 wk.
20095779|Colonic adenocarcinoma was diagnosed by surgical biopsy in a domestically raised 3-yr-old male corn snake (Elaphe guttata guttata). The snake presented with a history of constipation. Several masses were palpated in the distal coelomic cavity. On proctoscopy, a nodular firm white mass encircled the distal colon proximal to the cloaca. The histologic diagnosis was transmural mucinous colonic adenocarcinoma with scirrhous reaction. Resection of the affected region alleviated intestinal obstruction for at least 4 mo, after which the snake was lost to follow-up.
20095414|This study involved the development and evaluation of a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based strategy for typing morphologically similar species and isolates of reptilian hemogregarines. This typing is important to zoological medicine because hemogregarines can be transmitted across reptile species and can produce clinically significant disease in unnatural host species. Several hemogregarine isolates obtained from different reptilian host species were molecularly characterized at the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) locus by PCR amplification and restriction enzyme analysis. Amplification of the rDNA from five different hemogregarine isolates resulted in the robust production of 590-bp DNA fragments. Restriction enzyme digestion and electrophoretic analysis of the amplified 590-bp fragments resulted in banding patterns specific for hemogregarines obtained from different host species. The fact that hemogregarines can be molecularly distinguished at the rDNA locus is significant. A PCR-based ribotyping assay system could be employed as a surveillance device for detecting interspecific transmission among reptile populations.
20095169|Streptococcus sanguis type-1 was isolated in pure culture from the lungs, spleen, liver, and stomach fluid and in mixed culture with Escherichia coli from placental tissues of an aborted llama (Lama glama) fetus. The fetus had lesions of bronchopneumonia in which many gram-positive coccoid bacterial colonies were evident.
20095185|The ultrasonographic anatomy of the abdominal organs of the Bosc monitor (Varanus exanthematicus) is described to provide a basis for the detection of pathologic processes that change the morphology and ultrasonographic appearance of organs. Two Bosc monitors were examined postmortem to determine the normal anatomy. The scanning technique necessary to produce useful images was developed by studying three live animals. Ultrasound images of each organ are described and compared with their counterparts in mammals. Ultrasound is a useful diagnostic technique in this species and in reptiles of similar conformation and deserves further attention to make full use of its potential.
20096043|Chorionic villus sampling was undertaken on an anesthetized gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) to determine the fetal sex in the first trimester of pregnancy. The tissue samples were subject to sex determination by polymerase chain reaction, fluorescent in situ hybridization, and cell culture with cytogenetic analysis. Polymerase chain reaction testing was found to be the most accurate and rapid method of sex determination on this tissue sample.
27751736|An adult, captive eastern spiny softshell turtle (Apalone spinifera spinifera) was examined for a 4-day history of lethargy and plastron discoloration. The turtle was obtunded and had pale mucous membranes, hemorrhagic nasal discharge, and petechiae on all limbs. The turtle was euthanized due to its grave condition. Necropsy revealed hemorrhagic coelomic effusion, petechiae on the serosal surfaces of the intestinal tract, and bilaterally hemorrhagic lungs. Histologic examination revealed numerous emboli of bacteria associated with fibrinocellular thrombi throughout the blood vessels of multiple tissues. The bacteria in the thrombi were slender bacilli that stained intensely acid fast. Culture of the coelomic fluid yielded Mycobacterium chelonae. Although mycobacteriosis in reptiles is typically a chronic, granulomatous disease, this case demonstrates that mycobacteriosis should be considered in reptiles presenting with acute, nongranulomatous disease. This case also describes clinically apparent hemorrhage due to disseminated intravascular coagulation, which is rarely described in chelonians.
20460449|Both the spotted fever and the typhus group rickettsioses are potential emerging arthropod-borne infectious disease complexes in Korea. Wild raccoon dogs (Nyctereutes procyonoides koreensis) sheltered at the Korean Society for the Protection of Wild Animals, Chonbuk Branch, Korea, were sampled for the presence of spotted fever and typhus group rickettsial pathogens. Thirty-six serum samples of wild raccoon dogs were examined by an indirect fluorescent antibody test using type-specific YH strain Rickettsia japonica (spotted fever group rickettsia) and Wilmington strain Rickettsia typhi (typhus group rickettsia). The prevalence of sera that were seropositive was 30.5% (11/36) for the spotted fever group and 41.6% (15/36) for the typhus group. Five samples were seropositive for both antigens. This study is first to demonstrate rickettsial antibodies in wild raccoon dogs, and it provides seroepidemiologic evidence of the endemic presence of rickettsial agents in Korea.
20095334|The health status of 24 free-ranging anacondas (Eunectes murinus) was evaluated as part of an investigation of their ecology and conservation in the Venezuelan llanos (seasonally flooded savanna). Evaluations included physical examination and blood sampling for biomedical analyses. Tests performed included complete blood counts, biochemical profiles, vitamins A and E and mineral analyses, screening for chlorinated pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls, and parasite identification. Statistically significant differences (P &lt 0.05) for biomedical measurements were determined by t-tests. Female anacondas were significantly heavier and longer and were more likely to have been injured than were males. Females also had significantly lower packed cell volumes and higher heterophil and lower lymphocyte counts. Male anacondas had significantly higher alkaline phosphatase, creatinine, and amylase values and higher gamma-tocopherol and copper levels. Anaconda zinc levels were elevated (13.8  2.5 ppm) as compared with normal values for mammals and birds. Other mineral values were within expected ranges. Injured anacondas had significantly higher heterophil counts and lower potassium and uric acid levels than did uninjured snakes. Blood samples collected from anacondas within 1 day of capture had significantly higher azurophil and lower lymphocyte counts and lower chloride values than did samples collected 2-10 days after capture. Blood samples processed within 12 hr of collection had significantly higher glucose, total CO, total bilirubin, and iron values and lower lactate dehydrogenase values than samples processed after storage on ice in a cooler or refrigerated for 1-2 days before processing. No toxins were identified. Parasites identified included the tick Amblyomma dissimile, tapeworm Crepidobothrium sp., subcutaneous nematode Dracunculus sp., an unidentified trematode, and an intraerythrocytic protozoal parasite, Hemoproteus sp.
20460540|A 14-yr-old male African warthog (Phacochoerus aethiopicus) with a chronic history of intermittent unilateral epistaxis, degenerative osteoarthritis, and intermittent weakness in the distal lumbar trunk was evaluated to determine the source of epistaxis. No obvious cause was determined, and in light of severe osteoarthritis and a holosystolic cardiac murmur, the animal was euthanized. A tumor of the right adrenal gland involving the medulla was found at gross necropsy. Immunohistochemical staining of the tumor was positive for chromogranin and negative for neurofilament protein, which was diagnostic for pheochromocytoma. No lesions were observed in either nasal cavity. Systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressures measured at the time of immobilization were elevated when compared with another African warthog immobilized with a similar anesthetic regimen. Additionally, the warthog had pronounced serum norepinephrine dominance with a norepinephrine:epinephrine ratio of 10.0, compared with 0.36 from clinically normal warthogs. Practitioners should consider pheochromocytoma when evaluating warthogs or swine for epistaxis.
20096169|Wild raptors brought into an ex situ environment often have poor semen quality that is further compromised by urine contamination. Generally, it is believed that in birds, artificial insemination into the cloaca or caudal vagina of females requires large doses of high-quality spermatozoa to maximize fertility. In an effort to define and overcome some of the challenges associated with reproduction in wild raptors, the objectives of this study were to 1) evaluate the frequency, impact, and remediation of urine contamination in fresh ejaculates for the purpose of maintaining sperm motility and viability in vitro, and 2) develop a deep insemination method that allows low numbers of washed sperm to be placed directly into the magnum to increase the probability of producing fertilized eggs. The species evaluated include golden eagle (Aquila chrysoetos), imperial eagle (A. adalberti), Bonelli's eagle (Hiernaetus fasciatus), and peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus). Semen samples were collected and pooled by species, and a minimum of 25 pooled ejaculates per species were evaluated for urine contamination, pH, sperm viability, and sperm motility; the samples were either unwashed or washed in neutral (pH 7.0) or alkaline (pH 8.0) modified Lake's diluent, Female golden eagles and peregrine falcons were inseminated via transjunctional, intramagnal insemination with washed spermatozoa from urine-contaminated samples. Urine contamination occurred in 36.8  12.8% (mean  SEM) golden eagle, 43.1  9.1% imperial eagle, 28.7  16.1% Bonelli's eagle, and 48.2  17.3% peregrine falcon ejaculates. The pH in urine-contaminated semen samples ranged from 6.48  0.3 to 6.86  0.2, and in noncontaminated samples it ranged from from 7.17  0.1 to 7.56  0.1. Sperm viability and motility were reduced (P &lt 0.05) in all species for unwashed vs. washed sperm after 30 min incubation at room temperature. Two peregrine falcon chicks and one golden eagle chick hatched after intramagnal insemination. This study demonstrates that urine contamination, a common and lethal acidifier in manually collected raptor ejaculates, can be circumvented by immediate, gentle seminal washing. Furthermore, these processed sperm, when deposited by transjunctional intramagnal insemination, can produce live young.
20095584|Lymphoid neoplasia is the most common form of neoplasia in the koala (Phascolarctos cinereus), but limited clinical, hematologic, and biochemical data have been recorded for this condition. A clinicopathologic survey was performed on 31 koalas with lymphoid neoplasia. Tumors were classified on the basis of anatomic distribution at necropsy, with the majority (18) being multicentric. Organs commonly affected by the multicentric type included superficial lymph nodes (always involved), liver, spleen, and bone marrow. Alimentary lymphosarcoma (six), primary lymphoid leukemia (three), and miscellaneous forms (four) were also found. Lymphoid neoplasia was most common in middle-aged animals, with no sex predilection. At presentation, body condition ranged from very poor to good, suggesting variability in either intensity of disease or duration of illness. Animals were often listless and appeared to have muscular weakness. Lymphadenomegaly was not always determined clinically in cases of multicentric lymphosarcoma. Abdominal pain was present in three of the six animals with alimentary lymphosarcoma. Concurrent disease was detected in six of the 31 animals. Based on blood smears or bone marrow aspirates of 15 leukemic animals (and supported by histologic examination), seven koalas in three anatomic categories had neoplastic cells with small to medium noncleaved nuclei. Four koalas had neoplastic cells with large cleaved nuclei. Fourteen of 14 koalas analyzed with multicentric forms were leukemic, as were three of three with primary lymphoid leukemia, although none of the four with alimentary lymphosarcoma that were analyzed were leukemic. Anemia was present in 14 of 22 koalas analyzed and across all anatomic categories. In 18 animals analyzed biochemically, hypoalbuminemia was detected in 12, increased lactate dehydrogenase in eight, and azotemia in eight. There was no correlation with a particular anatomic group. Cytologic or histologic examination of bone marrow confirmed all cases of primary lymphoid leukemia and detected secondary leukemia associated with the other anatomic forms. The anatomic classification used for lymphoid neoplasia in domestic animals appears to have applicability to the koala. However, further delineation will require examination of additional animals and correlation with immunophenotyping.
20096349|Twelve adult rhebok (Pelea capreolus) were immobilized using a combination of 0.4 mg/kg xylazine and either 0.01 mg/kg of carfentanil (n = 6) or 0.01 mg/kg etorphine (n = 6), delivered i.m. using a remote injection system. Induction and recovery times, heart rate, respiratory rate, rectal temperature, oxygen saturation, end-tidal CO (ETCO), anesthetic depth, indirect blood pressure, and arterial blood gases were recorded. Rhebok were not intubated but nasal oxygen was administered. Forty minutes after induction, anesthesia was antagonized with naltrexone and yohimbine. Mean initial heart rate was significantly higher in the carfentanil group than in the etorphine group. Mean initial oxygen saturation was consistent with hypoxia in both the carfentanil group and the etorphine group. In both groups, arterial pH decreased and partial pressure of carbon dioxide increased during the first 15 min of anesthesia, and values were similar in both groups. These findings were consistent with respiratory acidosis and decreased ventilation. Values for respiratory rate, temperature, oxygen saturation, ETCO, and blood pressure were similar for both groups at all time periods. During the first 5 min of anesthesia, rhebok in the carfentanil group were more responsive to stimuli than rhebok in the etorphine group. After administration of antagonists, time to first arousal was significantly shorter in the etorphine group than in the carfentanil group. Although cardiopulmonary values were similar for the two groups, rhebok in the carfentanil group were at a comparatively lighter plane of anesthesia, and some individuals in this group required additional manual and chemical restraint for medical procedures to be performed. In conclusion, for captive adult rhebok, 0.01 mg/kg of etorphine and 0.4 mg/kg of xylazine are recommended over 0.01 mg/kg carfentanil and 0.4 mg/kg xylazine because of qualitatively better anesthetic episodes and shorter recovery times.
20095825|Hematologic and serum chemistry values are reported for 105 brown boobies (Sula leucogaster) from Johnston Atoll, Central Pacific. Hematocrit, estimated total plasma solids, total and differential white cell counts, serum glucose, calcium, phosphorus, uric acid, total protein, albumin, globulin, aspartate aminotransferase, and creatinine phosphokinase were analyzed. Hematologic and serum chemistry values varied with age and sex. Values were compared with those of red-footed boobies and other tropical and temperate marine pelecaniforms.
20094921|The feeding of captive exotic ducks is complicated by unintended use of the diet by other wild animals and birds that increases cost and may introduce disease. A submersible diet for ducks was tested for stability in water as well as its palatability to ducks and their successful adaptation to an underwater feeding regimen. Three binders, sodium alginate, high-gluten flour, and a processed whole-grain sorghum product (Nutri-Binder), were tested for their ability to produce a stable pellet. Results showed that a submersible diet with Nutri-Binder at a 33% inclusion level remained stable in water longer than diets with the other binders. Water temperature affected the disintegration time of the pellet. The product lost its integrity more rapidly at higher water temperatures. When two groups of black ducks (Anas rubipes) were fed either the submersible diet or a conventional avian maintenance diet in crocks placed on the ground, both groups experienced overall weight gains. When the submersible diet was fed underwater, the ducks continued to respond positively and unintended use by other birds and mammals was reduced.
20460518|Vaccination has been an important component of preventative health care programs of North American zoologic institutions in their protection of valuable species against West Nile virus (WNV) infection since its detection in 1999. Although approved only for horses, commercial WNV vaccine has been used for the purpose of protection of nondomestic species, including avian, equid, and rhinoceros species. Currently, there are two commercial equine vaccines available, a killed vaccine and a recombinant viral-vectored vaccine. Both products have been used for the vaccination of Greater One-horned rhinoceroses (Rhinoceros unicornis) held in North American zoologic institutions. In this study, the efficacy of these vaccines was evaluated in Greater One-horned rhinoceroses based on the humoral immune response stimulated by vaccine administration. Five rhinoceroses were vaccinated in 2005 by using the killed equine vaccine and four received boosters in 2006 by using the recombinant vaccine. Rhinoceroses were evaluated for differences in pre- and postvaccination neutralizing antibody titer and gamma and beta globulins on serum protein electrophoresis. No changes were observed after administration of the killed vaccine; however, antibody titers were observed in two of four rhinoceroses after administration of the recombinant vaccine. No significant changes were observed in the serum protein electrophoresis after either vaccine. Based on these findings, the WNV recombinant vaccine appeared to induce a more measurable humoral immune response than the killed product in the Greater One-horned rhinoceros. However, further investigation of both vaccines is warranted to evaluate whether changes in the frequency of administration, dosage, or adjuvant might stimulate an improved humoral response in these animals.
20096276|Alpha agonists are commonly used in combination with other anesthetic agents to chemically immobilize wildlife and may cause potentially serious hypoxemia in wild ruminants. In some domestic ruminants, they are associated with significant changes to the pulmonary parenchyma, increased venous admixture, pulmonary edema, and hypoxemia. Effective and safe immobilization of these animals requires knowledge of the mechanisms behind these changes and the methods that offset their effects, including the use of supplemental oxygen.
20095389|Noting the common occurrence of arthritis in contemporary elephants, a skeletal study was undertaken to assess the frequency and nature of the affliction. Spondyloarthropathy was unequivocally diagnosed in mammoths (Mammuthus primigenius) and contemporary elephants on the basis of fusion of vertebral bodies with marginal syndesmophytes, zygoapophyseal joint fusion, and peripheral erosive arthritis and fusion and was easily distinguished from infectious spondylitis and diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis. Vertebral involvement was limited in distribution, in a pattern characteristic of human psoriatic arthritis and Reiter's syndrome, also referred to as reactive arthritis. Infectious diarrhea or sexually transmitted reactive arthritis are the most likely candidates for this phenomenon, as recognized in elephants and mammoths, which affords a unique opportunity for therapeutic intervention.
20096134|Two eastern barred bandicoots (Perameles gunnii), two eastern quolls (Dasyurus viverrinus), four fattailed dunnarts (Sminthopsis crassicaudata), a Leadbeater's possum (Gymnobelideus leadbeateri), a yellow-bellied glider (Petaurus australis), and a ring-tailed possum (Pseudocheirus peregrinus) were treated with imidacloprid (10.7  0.6 mg/kg topically, minimum dose 0.5 mg) after observation of fleas (Pygiopsylla hoplia) on animals and in their nest boxes. No live fleas or adverse reactions to imidacloprid were observed for 27 days following treatment. The ease of application, absence of toxicity, and long residual effect makes imidacloprid a useful drug for treating flea infestations in these marsupials.
20095475|Six of 22 adult cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus jubatus) in a private collection developed chronic, intermittent to continuous, bloody, mucoid diarrhea over a 3-yr period. Six other cheetahs in this same collection showed occasional blood and mucus drops in their stool during this period. The condition spread slowly and insidiously through the group. Abnormal stools ranged from fresh blood and mucus only, to cylindrical mucosal casts covered with blood and mucus, to soft stool with blood and mucus drops, to soft yellowish stool. The worst stools (only blood and mucus, bloody mucosal casts) were seen most frequently after a fast day. Occasionally, affected cheetahs would produce both normal and abnormal stools on the same day. Affected cheetahs showed no evidence of systemic illness or consistent weight loss during this time period. Occasional tenesmus was seen during episodes of diarrhea. Results of parasite screens, aerobic bacterial cultures, acid-fast stains, mycobacterial cultures, and electron microscopic examination for viruses on abnormal stools from affected cheetahs were negative for known pathogens. Endoscopic colon biopsies taken 10-40 cm anterior to the anus showed histologic changes ranging from mild multifocal suppurative colitis, through moderate plasmocytic mucinous colitis, to multifocal necrotizing colitis with the presence of spiral bacteria. Clostridium perfringens (CP) was isolated on anaerobic fecal cultures from five of six of the affected cheetahs. Fecal cytology on affected cheetahs showed one to three bacterial spores/high-power oil immersion field. Three of six affected cheetahs had CP enterotoxin present in fecal samples, suggesting CP as the etiology of the chronic diarrhea in this collection of cheetahs. Treatment of the affected cheetahs with tylosin, metronidazole, and psyllium fiber eliminated the problem.
20095231|The purpose of this article is to record the common necropsy findings in captive birds submitted to a diagnostic laboratory in Victoria, Australia, from 1978 to 1987. There were records for 5,458 birds from 16 families, and the results are partitioned into 20 groups. The most prevalent necropsy finding varied among groups: "no significant findings" was most prevalent for anseriforms (69/445 cases = 16%), canaries (57/282 = 20%), ploceids (139/519 = 29%), cacatuids (33/293 = 11%), and lovebirds (35/151 = 23%); "chronic respiratory disease" for racing pigeons (89/541 = 17%); "external trauma" for other columbiforms (133/504 = 26%), quail (41/160 = 26%), lorikeets (53/177 = 30%), other psittacids (79/1,006 = 18%), and raptors (12/70 = 17%); "osteodystrophy" for cracticids (8/53 = 15%); "neoplasia" for budgerigars (139/616 = 23%); "alimentary tract accidents" for ratites (21/104 = 20%); and "gastric nematodes" for little penguins (39/139 = 28%). These results indicate that records of necropsy findings and disease incidence data should be arranged by the most relevant groupings of birds, not lumped under "avian species".
41262575|Facial abscessation and osteomyelitis due to dental disease is commonly seen in the Malayan tapir (Tapirus indicus), but little is known about the prevalence or etiology of these lesions. To determine the prevalence of dental ailments, 56 skulls and mandibles of deceased Malayan tapirs were visually and radiographically evaluated. Dental lesions were scored according to severity, and individuals were classified according to their age (juvenile/young adult/adult) and origin (captive/free ranging). All of the lesions identified were of a resorptive nature, seemingly originating at the cementoenamel junction and burrowing towards the center of the tooth. Overall, 27% of the investigated skulls presented radiolucent dental lesions. The prevalence among captive animals was 52% (13/25), while only 6% (2/31) of the free-ranging tapirs had dental lesions. The second, third, and fourth premolars and first molar were the teeth most commonly affected, and the mandibular teeth were more often involved than the maxillary dentition. This study demonstrates a high prevalence of resorptive dental lesions in captive Malayan tapirs and provides a strong indication that age and captivity are significant risk factors in the development of these lesions.
20460313|Nine hundred ninety-three bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni, n = 719; O. c. cremnobates, n = 158; O. c. californiana, n = 116) from 50 herds in California were captured between 1978 and 1990 and tested for exposure to selected potential pathogens. Seropositive antibody responses were detected against bluetongue virus (13%), bovine herpesvirus 1 (&lt;1%), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (7%), bovine virus diarrhea--mucosal disease virus (7%), contagious ecthyma virus (34%), epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (18%), parainfluenza-3 virus (10%), Anaplasma spp. (24%), Leptospira interrogans serovars (4%), Chlamydia psittaci (31%), Toxoplasma gondii (22%), and Psoroptes spp. (18%). Because fewer than 10 samples were collected from most of the bighorn populations, the 50 herds were grouped into 14 clusters to facilitate analysis of pathogen distribution across the state. Analysis of clusters indicated that these 12 pathogens were equally distributed (presence vs. absence of seropositive individuals) between populations in northern and those in southern California. However, a ranking procedure based on pathogen prevalence among clusters indicated that the level of pathogen exposure was higher in bighorn sheep in southern California, an area where the decline of some populations has been attributed to infectious diseases.
20096694|Complete physical examinations and biomedical sample collection were performed on 70 free-ranging ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta) from three different habitats in the Beza Mahfaly Special Reserve (BMSR), in southern Madagascar, to assess the impact of humans and habitat on lemur health. Lemurs were chemically immobilized with ketamine and diazepam administered via blow darts for concurrent biomedical, morphometric, and behavioral studies. Subsets of the animals had blood analyzed for hematology, serum chemistry, micronutrients, fat-soluble vitamins (vitamins A, D, and E), measures of iron metabolism, and polymerase chain reaction assays (PCR) for Toxoplasma gondii, Hemoplasma spp., Bartonella spp., Ehrlichia spp., Anaplasma phagocytophilum, and Neorickettsia risticii. Results were compared on the basis of gender and the habitats at the study site: reserve (intact gallery forest), degraded (human inhabited and altered), and marginal (dry didieracea forest with heavy grazing and tree cutting). Levels of vitamin D, triglycerides, and cholesterol, and measures of iron metabolism for BMSR lemurs were greater than those previously reported for a free-ranging lemur population (Tsimanampetsotsa Strict Nature Reserve, Madagascar) with less access to foods of anthropogenic origin. BMSR ring-tailed lemurs from a habitat with less water (marginal) had higher sodium (P = 0.051), chloride (P = 0.045), osmolality (P = 0.010), and amylase (P = 0.05) levels than lemurs from other BMSR habitats, suggesting that these lemurs were less hydrated. Vitamin D levels of male lemurs were higher (P = 0.011) than those of females at BMSR, possibly because of differences in sunning behavior or differential selection of food items. The biological significance is uncertain for other parameters with statistically significant differences. All samples tested (n = 20) were negative for the pathogens tested using PCR assays. Continued concurrent biomedical and ecological research is needed at BMSR to confirm these results and determine their association with population mortality and fecundity rates.
20095692|Hyperlipidemia was identified in an 11-yr-old male cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) and three related 3-yr-old male cheetah littermates. Hyperlipidemia in these four cheetahs was characterized by hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia. The mean percentages of chylomicron and -lipoproteins were greater (P &lt 0.05) and the mean percent of -lipoproteins was lower (P &lt 0.05) than the respective means for a group of 20 nonhyperlipidemic and clinically normal cheetahs. The etiology of the hyperlipidemia in these four cheetahs was not determined. However, the older cheetah also had chronic renal insufficiency and a parathyroid adenoma, conditions that have been associated with hyperlipidemia.
41417162|Sodium chloride (salt; NaC1) has been used for freshwater fish to decrease stress and manage a variety of disease conditions. Recommendations for dose and duration vary greatly. The purpose of this study was to determine the potential adverse clinical and physiologic side effects of different concentrations of saltwater baths on goldfish. Eleven goldfish (Carassius auratus) were used in a cross-over study to assess the effects of three different salt concentrations (5, 10, and 20 g/L) on plasma biochemistries and clinical response. Baseline plasma chemistries were obtained and analyzed immediately prior to placing the goldfish into the saltwater bath and after the fish was removed. A 2-wk washout period was used in-between each treatment. Significant differences were found in fish in the sodium (10 g/L, P= 0.007; 20 g/L, P= 0.01), chloride (10 g/L, P= 0.006; 20 g/L, P= 0.001), and alanine aminotransferase (10 g/L, P = 0.002; 20 g/L, P = 0.004) after their exposure to 10 and 20 g/L saltwater. Glucose levels were found to differ significantly after exposure to all three NaC1 concentrations (5 g/L, P= 0.0009; 10 g/L, P = 0.0001; 20 g/L, P = 0.0005). Clinically, 5 g/L and 10 g/L saltwater baths were well tolerated by the fish for the duration of the intended 12-hr treatments, with only one goldfish being removed during the 10 g/L bath at 7 hr for listlessness. The average time goldfish spent in the 20 g/L salt bath was 43 min, with six (54%) of the fish remaining in the 20 g/L salt bath for the intended 60-min treatment period. The remaining 5 (46%) goldfish were removed because they became listless or dyspneic. All of the fish recovered from the treatments without complication. The results of this study suggest that goldfish tolerate saltwater baths but that physiologic disturbances can occur at the higher doses.
20094932|Medetomidine, an
20095950|A 6-yr-old female Grevy's zebra (Equus grevyi) with a disseminated rhabditiform nematode infection is described. Antemortem clinical signs were limited to blindness and abnormal behavior believed to be caused by a recurrent nematode-induced uveitis. Histologic examination of the kidneys, heart, eyes, uterus, and lymph nodes revealed granulomas containing multiple sections of rhabditiform nematodes. Most of the recovered nematodes were larval stages with only a few adult females noted. The adults measured 243-297 m  11-16 m (x = 269  14 m). The distinctive rhabditiform esophagi had corpus: isthmus: bulb proportions of 19:11:5. On the basis of adult morphology, the nematode was identified as Halicephalobus gingivalis. This is the first report of this parasite in a zebra and indicates that this parasitic granulomatous disease should be considered in zebras with neurologic disease.
20095767|Over a 2-yr period (1994-1995), the antimicrobial susceptibilities of 129 bacterial isolates recovered from live stranded California sea lions (Zalophus californianus), harbor seals (Phoca vitulina), and northern elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris) were studied. Nineteen genera of bacteria were isolated from various sites of inflammation; abscesses and umbilici were the most common sites. Seventy-two percent of the bacterial isolated were gram negative, and the Enterobacteriaceae (Escherichia coli, Proteus spp., Klebsiella spp., Salmonella spp.) accounted for 75% of the gram-negative isolates. All of the gram-positive isolates were either Enterococcus spp. or Staphylococcus aureus. Multiple drug resistance was present in all but one of the bacterial isolates. The gram-positive bacteria were most susceptible to amoxicillin--clavulanic acid (77% of 36 isolates) and least susceptible to lincomycin (18% of 11 isolates). The gram-negative bacteria were most susceptible to amikacin (91% of 91 isolates) and least susceptible to clindamycin (3% of 109 isolates).
20095320|Large open wounds on a distal extremity of two great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) were successfully treated with full-thickness mesh skin grafts. One owl had a wound extending from the left mid-tibiotarsal region to the top of the foot caused by a tissue slough secondary to self-mutilation and subsequent subcutaneous infection. The other owl had a large trauma-induced open wound on the left dorsal antebrachium. The wounds were managed medically with bandaging and topical medications until a tissue bed suitable for grafting was present. Mesh skin grafting was performed in both cases. The inguen and mid-propatagium were selected as donor sites. The mesh skin grafting technique was the same as that used in small animals. Postoperative care consisted of topical antibiotics and bandaging. Both grafts healed successfully, the second one healing in a shorter time than would have been expected in mammals. This technique provides the veterinarian with a means of treating large wounds on birds.
20095045|Wild mustelids have been observed devouring prey species in their entirety or selecting viscera, muscle, and brain and leaving the rest. In captivity, muscle may be a predominant item in mustelid diets. However, skeletal muscle is low in calcium (Ca) and moderately high in phosphorus (P), with a marked inverse Ca-P ratio. The effects of dietary Ca concentrations of 0.6, 0.7, or 0.8% and Ca-P ratios of 1.3:1 or 1:1.3 on growth and selected physical and chemical measures were investigated in 8-wk-old domestic European ferrets (Mustela putorius furo). Neither dietary Ca concentration nor Ca-P ratio affected body weight or length, and all ferrets grew normally. Dietary Ca-P ratios of 1.3:1 produced higher plasma Ca and lower plasma inorganic P concentrations than ratios of 1:1.3 (P &lt 0.01), but all values were within a normal range. There were no Ca-P ratio effects on plasma alkaline phosphatase activity or creatinine concentration nor on femur weight, length, diameter, maximum breaking force, or bending moment. Likewise, there were no differences among treatments in concentrations of Ca, P, magnesium, or sodium in femur ash. Potassium concentrations in femur ash were slightly higher (P &lt 0.05) when dietary Ca:P was 1:1.3. It is concluded that, for at least 42 days, an inverse Ca-P ratio of 1:1.3 produces no adverse effects when young ferrets are fed Ca concentrations of 0.6, 0.7, or 0.8% in dietary dry matter.
20095851|Data on blood parameters were obtained from 56 (32 female, 24 male) clinically healthy, captive bobcats (Felis rufus). The animals were housed under ambient conditions at the Mississippi State University Captive Bobcat Facility. Samples were collected opportunistically between 1982 and 1995. Differences (P  0.05) in blood parameters existed between sexes, among age classes (kitten, subadult, adult, and geriatric), and among stages in the reproductive cycle (breeding, parturition, recycling, and anestrus). Blood parameters for bobcats were similar to reported values for domestic cats (Felis catus). These results can be used as an reference to indicate when blood parameter aberrations exist in bobcats.
27751683|The Gran Chaco, Bolivia, has a total of seven species of armadillos with the three-banded (Tolypeutes matacus) and nine-banded (Dasypus novemcinctus) the most commonly hunted by the local Isoseo-Guaran people. Armadillos are known carriers of zoonotic pathogens, including Mycobacterium leprae, Toxoplasma gondii, and Trypanosoma cruzi; thus human handling and consumption of these species may have a significant public health impact. A health assessment that included physical examinations, hematology, plasma biochemical analyses, levels of exposure to selected infectious agents, and endoparasite and ectoparasite identification was performed on nine-banded and three-banded armadillos in the Gran Chaco, Bolivia. Based on clinical findings, the general health of these armadillos was rated as good. However, many of the nine-banded armadillos (64%) had abrasions and wounds, probably related to the capture method. The blood value results from a subset of these armadillos are presented as baseline values for free-ranging populations of both these species in Bolivia. Serologic antibody tests for M. leprae were negative in three-banded (n = 8) and nine-banded (n = 2) armadillos. Three-banded armadillos were antibody positive for Eastern equine encephalitis virus (8/8; 100%) and Saint Louis encephalitis virus (5/8; 62.5%). Two of 12 (16.7%) three-banded armadillos tested were antigen positive for Dirofilaria immitis. Nine-banded armadillos were antibody positive for T. gondii (3/9; 33.3%), Eastern equine encephalitis virus (5/8; 62.5%), and T. cruzi (2/9; 22.2%). Two of eight (25%) nine-banded armadillos were antigen positive for D. immitis. A number of endo- and ectoparasites were identified in/on both species of armadillos. Results from this study support the possibility that the handling and consumption of these species by the local Isoseo-Guarani people may have a public health impact.
20460413|During November 2006, two live and one dead mouflon (Ovis ammon musimon) were presented with a history of weakness, tremors, and paralysis. After a detailed gross and histologic examination and a bacteriologic, parasitologic, and rabies evaluation, a preliminary diagnosis of tick paralysis was established. A through field search revealed 13 affected mouflons found in the open hunting ground "Sveti Juraj" near the town of Senj (Croatia), along with an additional 35 mouflon carcasses. All 13 mouflons were placed in a quiet, semidark stable. All detectable ticks were removed manually, and the animals were topically treated with 250 ppm of Amitraz water emulsion (Taktic 12.5% EC, Intervet International, 5830 Boxmeer, Netherlands). The collected ticks were identified as Ixodes ricinus, Dermacentor marginatus, and Haemaphysalis punctata. In the following 24 hr, all treated animals recovered fully. This report describes a naturally occurring outbreak of tick paralysis in free-ranging mouflons from a karst habitat.
20094948|This report describes the location and use of a large medial foreleg vein (radial vein) for the collection of large (up to 1 L) volumes of blood from the black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis).
41262600|Two adult female elf owls (Micrathene whitneyi) were treated with leuprolide acetate depot injections to prevent egg laying. The birds were treated for several years without complications. Several years into the treatment regimen, both birds died immediately after receiving an injection of leuprolide acetate. Remaining drug was analyzed, revealing 95.7% potency. We suspect that either an immediate Type 1 hypersensitivity reaction occurred or a contaminant was present, resulting in the fatalities of these elf owls. No reports of anaphylaxis to leuprolide acetate in birds were identified in the literature. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of anaphylaxis when administering this medication to avian patients.
20095949|A 21-mo-old female southern black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis minor) developed acute upper respiratory dyspnea in association with lymphadenopathy and marked immature lymphocytosis. A diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia was reached on the basis of the morphologic and cytochemical characteristics of peripheral lymphoblasts. Antineoplastic chemotherapy included administration of cytarabine, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and doxorubicin, with clinical remission achieved 19 days after initiation of treatment. The rhinoceros died, however, of congestive heart failure, presumably secondary to doxorubicin cardiotoxicity and a particular sensitivity of rhinoceros myocardial tissue to free hydroxyl radicals. The pharmacologic effects of any therapeutic agent need to be carefully considered before use in the black rhinoceros, especially within the context of the unique physiology of this species.
20095685|Accurate estimates of body weight can be useful in the evaluations of feeding programs, nutritional status and general health, and in calculation of dose levels (such as for anesthesia)--thus providing a valuable tool for captive elephant management. We used body measurements of 75 Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) to predict body weight. Weight, heart girth, height at the withers, body length, and foot-pad circumference were measured. All possible linear regressions of weight on one, two, three, or four body measurements were calculated. The highest correlation with a single measurement was that between heart girth and weight (R = 0.90). The data were also divided into age groups (1-13, 18-28, 29-39, and 40-57 yr), and all possible linear regressions were calculated for each group (there were no elephants aged 14-17 yr). Adding body length or pad circumference to heart girth resulted in a slight increase in R. We conclude that body weight in Asian elephants can be predicted from body measurements and that heart girth is the best predictor. A second body measurement might improve predictive accuracy for some age groups.
20460576|The serum concentration of acute phase proteins (APPs) increases dramatically in response to inflammation and tissue injury. APPs are clinically useful in a range of domesticated mammals; however, knowledge is limited in nondomesticated mammals. The detective ability of two assays for each of three potential APPs--serum amyloid A (SAA), C-reactive protein (CRP), and haptoglobin (Hp)--was evaluated in eight species. For SAA, a turbidimetric immunoassay (TIA) demonstrated significant detective abilities in the Asian elephant (Elaphas maximus), impala (Aepyceros melampus), musk ox (Ovibos moschatus), and chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), as did an SAA enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in the impala. For CRP, both TIA and ELISA had significant detective abilities in the chimpanzee. For Hp, a colorimetric assay demonstrated significant detective abilities in impala, musk ox, sitatunga (Tragelaphus spekeii), and chimpanzee, as did the Hp ELISA in the impala, musk ox, and sitatunga. In conclusion, these results suggest that assays for detection of relevant APPs in several nondomesticated animals are available.
20095337|Twelve adult gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) were randomly allotted into two groups. Six tortoises received a single i.m. injection of enrofloxacin at a dose of 5 mg/kg body weight. Blood samples were collected via a jugular catheter, and plasma concentrations of enrofloxacin were measured at 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hr postinjection. The highest mean concentration of 2.43 g/ml was measured at 1 hr postinjection; thereafter, the mean plasma concentration decreased to &lt0.2 g/ml by 96 hr. The apparent terminal half-life was calculated to be 23.1 hr. A second group of tortoises received i.m. injections of enrofloxacin at 5 mg/kg body weight every 24 hr for five treatments. Blood was collected immediately before each injection and at 1 hr after each injection. Over the 5-day period of sampling, there was a stepwise increase in mean trough and peak plasma concentrations of enrofloxacin. In addition to the kinetics study, the minimum inhibitory concentrations of enrofloxacin for 17 Pasteurella testudinis isolates from the nasal cavity of tortoises were measured. Based upon the results of this study, enrofloxacin should be administered at 5 mg/kg body weight every 24-48 hr to maintain enrofloxacin concentrations above the MIC of P. testudinis.
20095882|A survey was mailed to 72 institutions in the USA requesting information on Salmonella spp. cultures in black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis), white rhinoceroses (Ceratotherium simum), and Indian rhinoceroses (Rhinoceros unicornis). Sixty-one institutions responded (85% return rate), with seven reporting positive cultures (11% prevalence rate; 10% if survey nonresponders had negative cultures). There were 17 positive cultures from 16 different animals, with nine different serotypes of Salmonella and 2 additional cultures identified to the group level.
20095416|Serum samples were taken from 65 nondomestic ungulate neonates (19 species) at 24-48 hr of age. Fifty-six animals (17 species) survived at least 6 mo, died of trauma or were euthanized for population control. Nine animals (seven species) had abbreviated life spans. Electrophoresis was used to fractionate the serum proteins as an estimate of the level of passive transfer of immunoglobulin from the dam. Reference data from the viable and nonviable neonates are presented. Although gamma-globulin levels were generally lower in samples from nonviable neonates, a consistent and clear difference in the populations was not present in data.
20096493|A 1-yr-old intact male African lion (Panthera leo) fed only beef muscle meat was evaluated for episodes of hypermetric ataxia, generalized weakness and tonic-clonic front limb movements. A hemogram, biochemical profile, blood lead, electrocardiogram, survey radiographs, and brain computed tomography were normal. Cerebral spinal fluid analyses suggested mild inflammation. Acetylcholine receptor antibody and serologic tests for all infectious agents tested were negative. Clinical signs resolved completely 9 days after instituting oral thiamine (3 mg/kg/day) and a completely nutritional diet. This lion's pretreatment thiamine blood value (11 nmol/L) was markedly lower than that of a healthy lion (191 nmol/L) and a proposed reference range for adult African lions (160-350 nmol/L). The lion remained clinically normal 2 yr later when his blood thiamine value was 340 nmol/L. African lions can develop clinical primary thiamine deficiency and may respond favorably when thiamine treatment and adequate diet are instituted prior to irreversible neuronal necrosis.
20460337|Gallbladder adenocarcinomas in two captive African lions (Panthera leo), an 18-yr-old male and a 17-yr-old female, are described in this report. Grossly, both lions had hemoperitoneum with thickened and sclerotic gallbladder walls. Histopathologically, the male's tumor was well differentiated and the female's was poorly differentiated with multinucleate giant cells. Both tumors were highly invasive and involved the gallbladder serosa. The male also had a tumor in the liver, and the female's tumor had disseminated to the serosal surfaces of abdominal organs. In both cases, neoplastic cell cytoplasm stained diffusely for cytokeratin AE-1/AE-3 and cytokeratin 7 and granularly for lysozyme on immunohistochemical staining.
20096233|Thirty-two anesthetic episodes used a combination of tiletamine-zolezepam (50 mg/ml each), ketamine (80 mg/ml), and xylazine (20 mg/ml) at various dosages for routine diagnostic and minor surgical procedures in 13 captive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus). The mean dosage (0.023  0.003 ml/kg) provided rapid induction with a single i.m. injection along with safe predictable working time, good muscle relaxation, and analgesia. Yohimbine administration subsequently accelerated smooth and rapid recovery.
20095479|A male and a female California condor (Gymnogyps californianus), one hatched at the Zoological Society of San Diego and the other at the Los Angeles Zoo, were released at approximately 9 mo of age in the Sespe Condor Sanctuary. Nine months after release, the male bird was found dead. Gross examination was unremarkable. Histopathologically, numerous tubules throughout the kidney contained clear to slightly yellow-brown, granular to irregular acicular, occasionally radiating, slightly refractile crystals. The crystals were highly birefringent in polarized light and caused mild to moderate disruption and necrosis of affected tubular epithelium. The crystals did not dissolve in formalin and were negative with urate staining. Renal calcium levels were markedly elevated (2,307 ppm; normally &lt500 ppm for most avian species), ethylene glycol was present at 502 ppm, and trace amounts of propylene glycol were also detected. Analyses of various tissues for heavy metals, trace elements, alkaloids, insecticides, and polychlorinated biphenyls revealed no remarkable abnormalities. Based on all findings, the kidney crystals were interpreted to be calcium oxalate, and a diagnosis of acute ethylene glycol toxicosis was made. The source of exposure was not determined.
27751772|In the wild, Alpine marmots (Marmota marmota) spend most of their time in underground burrows. Thus the observation of reproduction biology during mating season, gestation, and the early juvenile development is extremely challenging. An ultrasonographic follow-up of pregnancies in captive alpine marmots illustrates the characteristic findings of different gestational phases. The first ultrasonographic proof for a pregnancy was detected on day 25 (day 0 defined as partus). At day 18, first heartbeats were visualized, followed by spontaneous fetal movements on day 14. At day 7, the mineralization of the skeletal system was demonstrated. It was possible to evaluate and monitor the integrity of pregnancy. Ultrasonography is a noninvasive, alternative tool to the classical verification of pregnancy in marmots by progesterone measurement from serum samples.
20096297|The efficacy, safety, and reliability of two ketamine-medetomidine-butorphanol anesthetic combinations were evaluated in 34 adult binturongs (Arctictis binturong). The animals were randomly assigned to one of the two groups. On the basis of estimated body weights, group high ketamine (HK) received ketamine (8 mg/kg, i.m.), medetomidine (0.02 mg/kg, i.m.), and butorphanol (0.2 mg/kg, i.m.) combined in a single injection, and group low ketamine (LK) received ketamine (2 mg/kg, i.m), medetomidine (0.04 mg/kg, i.m.), and butorphanol (0.2 mg/kg, i.m.). Cardiopulmonary parameters were measured for approximately 45 min; the animals were then administered atipamezole (5 mg/mg medetomidine, i.m.). Individual responses varied greatly to the anesthetic combinations, but similar numbers of animals in each group needed supplemental anesthetic agents (seven in group HK and six in group LK). Mean heart rates were higher in the LK group throughout anesthesia. Animals in both groups were mildly to moderately hypoxemic, but oxygenation improved in both groups following supplemental oxygen administration. Respiratory rates, arterial blood pressures, body temperatures, and end-tidal CO values were similar in both groups. Both protocols were effective; however, the LK combination is preferable because the mean recovery time was shorter.
20096638|An adult female European cuttlefish (Sepia officinalis) from a public aquarium presented with an eruptive skin lesion of the dorsal mantle. Radiographs, hemolymph collection, and excisional biopsy were performed using anesthesia with ethanol 1.5-3% in seawater. Elastic and freely mobile skin permitted closure with minimal tension following wide excision around the lesions, which did not appear to penetrate deep to the underlying cuttlebone. Biopsy revealed hemocyte granulomas surrounding thin, septate, infrequently branching fungal hyphae, and culture yielded Cladosporium sp. Itraconazole was administered postoperatively in food items. The cuttlefish recovered to normal feeding and activity levels with complete surgical site healing. Two months following the procedure, the animal was found dead in exhibit. Histopathologic examination revealed multisystemic fungal infection.
20096256|We assessed the safety and efficacy of an experimental canarypox-vectored recombinant canine distemper virus (CDV) subunit vaccine in the Siberian polecat (Mustela eversmanni), a close relative of the black-footed ferret, (M. nigripes), an endangered species that is highly susceptible to the virus. Siberian polecats were randomized into six treatment groups. Recombinant canine distemper vaccine was administered s.c. at three dose levels (
40665144|In a clinical setting, it is important to differentiate abnormal values that may be a normal change resulting from feeding and those that may be disease related. Such postprandial changes have been identified in mammalian and avian species. In the current study, pre- and postvalues for several routine biochemical analytes from penguins (Spheniscus demersus) were examined. Significant increases were found in uric acid, triglycerides, and bile acids (P < 0.001). Uric acid levels increased more than threefold. These data indicate that postprandial changes should be considered when interpreting abnormal biochemistry values in penguins.
20095004|A myopathy of skeletal muscle was diagnosed in five Vietnamese potbellied piglets (Sus scrofa); it was acute in onset and fatal in three of the animals. The two surviving piglets responded to supportive therapy, which included i.m. injections of vitamin E (10 mg/kg) and selenium (0.4 mg/kg). Hyaline degeneration and necrosis of muscle fibers were the only pathologic findings. All affected piglets appeared to have been in otherwise good health. Blood vitamin E and selenium levels from unaffected littermates were adequate when compared to domestic swine, but requirements for Vietnamese potbellied pigs have not been established.
20095257|Although marsupials have been kept in the collection at the London Zoo for over a century, many of the findings on causes of disease and death have not been published. With the recent increase in research into the diseases of wild marsupials, such a large zoo data base can provide important information with implications for both captive and free-living populations. This report analyzes mortality in Australasian marsupials held at the London Zoo between 1872 and 1972. Of the 1,217 records analyzed, 763 were of macropods, 269 of possums and gliders, 113 of dasyurids, 38 of wombats, 19 of bandicoots and bilbies, nine of thylacines (Thylacinus cynocephalus), and six of koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus). Approximately 60% of the deaths occurred between 1892 and 1931. During this period, many animals died shortly after arrival due to poor conditions of transportation. Increased mortality also often followed periods of cold weather, when marsupials died from a variety of diseases, especially pneumonia. Cellulitis and osteomyelitis of the head and neck ("necrobacillosis" or "lumpy jaw") was the main disease problem in 137 macropods. Respiratory and gastrointestinal diseases were partly caused by the same organisms associated with lumpy jaw. In most groups of marsupials, pneumonia, gastroenteritis and gastric ulceration were common findings. Death due to trauma occurred in 51 macropods, 16 possums and gliders, and 10 dasyurids. Nineteen macropods had tuberculosis, and 11 had gastric neoplasia. Ten macropods and seven wombats had intestinal obstructions. Twelve of the possums and gliders had liver disease. Seven dasyurids had neoplasia. Five of the nine thylacines had peritonitis secondary to ulcerative gastroenteritis. Many of these disease conditions have been well documented in marsupials held at other zoos and in wildlife parks. This study suggests that the range of diseases detected in captive marsupials at the London Zoo has not changed greatly during the time records on causes of death have been kept, but the prevalence of these diseases has been influenced by changing management.
20095752|Morphologic, microbiologic, and polymerase chain reaction amplification techniques were used to evaluate an alpaca (Lama pacos) with splenitis and intestinal volvulus. The intestinal volvulus produced a severe necrosuppurative typhlocolitis associated with vascular thrombosis and was most likely the cause of death of this animal. In addition, this animal had multiple coalescing abscesses affecting most of the splenic tissue. The isolation of Actinomyces spp. from the spleen and the morphology of the colonies when stained with Gram and Steiner stains support a diagnosis of splenic actinomycosis.
20095164|A retrospective serologic survey for feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) antibodies was conducted using banked frozen sera from a captive population of Asian lions (Panthera leo persica). Sixty-five percent of the adult animals were tested for antibodies to FIV. Serologic evidence of exposure to FIV or an FIV-related virus was detected in 73% of the population. Seventy-one percent of the ELISA-positive, FIV antibody-positive serum samples were retested by the Western blot (immunoblot) and radioimmunoassay procedures for detection of FIV antibodies and were again positive. All animals surveyed were negative for feline leukemia virus. Latency and pathogenicity of FIV infection in Asian lions were not determined.
20460525|To investigate the serologic response of penguins to West Nile virus (WNV) vaccines, four species of exclusively indoor-housed penguins, negative for WNV by serology, were evaluated: Humboldt (Spheniscus humboldti), Magellanic (Spheniscus magellanicus), Gentoo (Pygoscelis papua), and Rockhopper (Eudyptes chrysoscome) penguins. Birds were inoculated with either a killed virus vaccine or a plasmid-mediated DNA WNV vaccine, and postinoculation serology was evaluated. Both vaccines induced seroconversion in all four species, and no adverse reactions were noted. Postvaccination serology results varied across species and vaccine types. However, in all four species, the killed virus vaccine resulted in a greater seroconversion rate than the DNA vaccine and in a significantly shorter time period. Additionally, the duration of the seropositive titer was significantly longer in those birds vaccinated with the killed virus vaccine compared with those vaccinated with the DNA vaccine. A subset of unvaccinated penguins serving as negative controls remained negative throughout the duration of the study despite the presence of WNV in the geographic locations of the study, suggesting that indoor housing may minimize exposure to the virus and may be an additional means of preventing WNV infection in penguins.
20096253|The pharmocodynamics of single injections of florfenicol in yearling loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) were determined. Eight juvenile loggerhead sea turtles weighing 1.25 (0.18) kg were divided into two groups. Four animals received 30 mg/kg of florfenicol i.v., and four received the same dose i.m. Plasma florfenicol concentrations were analyzed by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. After the i.v. dose, there was a biphasic decline in plasma florfenicol concentration. The initial steep phase from 3 min to 1 hr had a half-life of 3 min, and there was a longer slow phase of elimination, with a half-life that ranged from 2 to 7.8 hr among turtles. The volume of distribution varied greatly and ranged from 10.46 to -60 L/kg. Clearance after the i.v. dose was 3.6-6.3 L/kg/hr. After the i.m. injection, there was a peak within 30 min of 1.4-5.6 g/ml, and florfenicol was thereafter eliminated with a half-life of 3.2-4.3 hr. With either route, florfenicol plasma concentrations were below the minimum inhibitory concentrations for sensitive bacteria within 1 hr. Florfenicol does not appear to be a practical antibiotic in sea turtles when administered at these doses.
20095252|Seven cheetah cubs (Acinonyx jubatus) were inoculated with 1 ml of a killed feline rhinotracheitis/calicivirus/panleukopenia virus vaccine (Fel-O-Vax PCT, Fort Dodge Laboratories, Fort Dodge, Iowa 50501, USA) every 2 wk from 8 to 16 wk of age. Four cubs were vaccinated every 4 wk from 8 to 16 wk of age. Blood samples were drawn at 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 20, 28, 40, 52, and 64 wk. Serum neutralization titers were determined for feline herpesvirus, calicivirus, and panleukopenia. Six adult cheetahs were vaccinated, and blood was sampled at 0, 3, 6, 9, and 12 mo postvaccination. Cubs should be vaccinated every 2 wk from 8 to 16 wk of age, receive a booster at 28 wk of age, and begin annual vaccination at 52 wk of age. Adult cheetahs at high risk should be vaccinated twice yearly.
20095609|Subpopulations of large felids in southern Africa exhibit a range of lentivirus prevalence, with some subpopulations showing no evidence of infection. Botswana lions (Panthera leo), leopards (Panthera pardus), and cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) were evaluated for evidence of feline lentivirus infection by assaying for antibodies against test antigens derived from a puma lentivirus isolate (
40962249|The aim of this study was to evaluate the seroprevalence of Coxiella burnetii in different red deer populations and to investigate role of red deer densities, livestock, and habitat on seroprevalence. The serosurvey revealed 5 positive cases out of 137 sera (3.64%) that occurred in two of the three study areas. This study documents the first cases of Coxiella burnetii in red deer in the southwest Iberian peninsula. A relationship between deer density and Coxiella seroprevalence was not found. Results revealed that indirect transmission through ticks between livestock and red deer might be associated with higher prevalence. The timing of shelter area usage may influence the contact between ticks and red deer by favoring transmission. Coxiella burnetii in red deer may be associated with infertility or early abortions with reabsorption. Further research is needed to evaluate its epidemiology and effect on the disease dynamics of red deer in the southwest Iberian peninsula.
20095093|Sixty-four free-living black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) were chemically immobilized in the Zam bezi Valley and Midlands of Zimbabwe in 1988. Animals were transported under sedation 1-200 km to holding bomas and maintained 1-80 days before being translocated. Physiological parameters (temperature, respiration, pulse) were measured at capture, during transport from the capture site to holding bomas, and before anesthetic reversal. Serial blood samples were collected at capture (sampling period 1, n = 50), after transport from capture site to holding bomas (sampling period 2, n = 52), and following various periods of boma confinement (sampling period 3, n = 32). Hematologic parameters, including red blood cell count (RBC), hemoglobin (Hb), packed cell volume (PCV), white blood cell count (WBC), and differential WBC counts were determined for the three sampling periods. Red blood cell indices were measured for sampling periods 1 and 3 only. Biochemical parameters were determined for sampling periods 1 and 3 and included cortisol, creatine phosphokinase (CPK), lactic dehydrogenase (LDH), aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase, total protein, albumin, globulin, albumin: globulin ratio, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, glucose, magnesium, phosphorus, calcium, sodium, potassium, chloride, total bilirubin, and cholesterol. Selected biochemical parameters were determined during sampling period 2 and included cortisol, CPK, LDH, AST, ALT, BUN, creatinine, glucose, sodium, potassium, and chloride. Individual rhinoceroses were placed into normal or stressed outcome classifications at capture. Measurements of selected biological parameters revealed differences (P &lt 0.05) in cortisol and glucose values related to capture stress. Comparisons of biological parameters over sampling periods 1-3 revealed differences (P &lt 0.05) in cortisol, CPK, LDH, AST, glucose, total bilirubin, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, chloride, creatinine, BUN, albumin, globulin, cholesterol, Hb, PCV, and WBC counts and differentials. These differences reflected the physiologic response of the black rhinoceros to acute and chronic stressors. Although no animals died at capture, there was an indirect mortality rate of 14% (9/64) at 1 wk-2 mo postcapture.
20460379|Between May and September 2004, fecal samples from various wildlife species admitted to two rehabilitation centers in Ohio were cultured for Salmonella enterica and Escherichia coli O157:H7. Eight of 71 (11%) samples, including specimens from three opossums (Didelphis virginiana), two gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis), a wood-chuck (Marmota monax), a Harris hawk (Parabuteo unicinctus), and a screech owl (Otus asio) tested positive for Salmonella serovars Braenderup, Senftenberg, Oranienburg, and Kentucky. The Salmonella Oranienburg isolates were indistinguishable by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. Most isolates were susceptible to commonly used antibiotics; however, the Salmonella Kentucky isolate was resistant to multiple beta-lactam antibiotics (amoxicillin/clavulanic acid and ampicillin), cefoxitin, and ceftiofur, a third-generation cephalosporin. Escherichia coli O157:H7 was not isolated from any sample. Transmission of Salmonella from wildlife may occur between animals at rehabilitation centers.
20095120|A practical method for enzyme immunoassay using microtiter plates has been developed for the quantitative measurement of fecal estrogens. Estrogen concentrations in the feces from a pregnant female gorilla (Gorilla gorilla), orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus abeli), Mhorr gazelle (Gazella dama mhorr), Przewalski's mare (Equus przewalskii), and Malaysian tapir (Tapirus indicus) were substantially higher than values from nonpregnant animals. These preliminary findings suggest that this procedure may be useful for diagnosing pregnancy in these and possibly in related species. Because restraint is unnecessary for collecting feces, this methodology has widespread potential for confined and free-ranging wild animals.
41417177|A female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) developed vaginal and trunk discharge. Cultures were positive for pan-susceptible Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Isoniazid and pyrazinamide were given rectally and monitored by serum levels. After being trained at 10 mo to accept oral dosing, treatment was changed and rifampin was added. Oral medications were administered for another 10 mo. A year after completion of therapy, the vaginal discharge increased and cultures yielded M. tuberculosis, resistant to isoniazid and rifampin. Treatment with oral ethambutol, pyrazinamide, and enrofloxacin and intramuscular amikacin was initiated. Although followup cultures became negative, adverse reactions to medications precluded treatment completion. Due to public health concerns related to multidrug resistant M. tuberculosis (MDR-TB), the elephant was euthanized. Postmortem smears from the lung, peribronchial, and abdominal lymph nodes yielded acid-fast bacteria, although cultures were negative. This case highlights important considerations in the treatment of M. tuberculosis in animals and the need for a consistent approach to diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up.
20095944|This study characterized and compared the pharmacokinetics of piperacillin after single 100 mg/kg i.m. injections in nine red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and five great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) over 48 hr by a modified agar well diffusion microbial inhibition assay. The mean maximum plasma piperacillin concentrations were 204 g/ml and 221 g/ml for the hawks and owls, respectively, and times of maximum concentrations were 15 min and 30 min, respectively. The calculated mean terminal elimination half-lives were 77 min in the hawks and 118 min in the owls. Area-under-the-curve values were 218  52 ghr/ml in the hawks and 444  104 ghr/ml in the owls. On the basis of the most common minimal inhibitory concentration (90%) for various bacterial isolates from clinical samples of 8 g/ml, analysis of the data suggests that the maximum dosing interval for piperacillin at 100 mg/kg in medium sized raptors should be 4-6 hr.
20096639|An adult hybrid orangutan (Pongo abelii/pygmaeus) was presented to a veterinary teaching hospital for laparoscopic tubal ligation. The orangutan was immobilized with the use of injectable anesthetic agents, then orotracheally intubated. Anesthesia was maintained with the use of isoflurane in oxygen, and positive-pressure ventilation was used to ensure adequate gas exchange. Parameters monitored included arterial blood pressure, ECG, capnometry, and arterial blood gases. Anesthesia was uneventful, and recovery was smooth.
41262618|A 24-yr-old, male western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) was diagnosed with congestive heart failure using transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiology. New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III was assigned to the severity of the condition. Over 16 mo, this progressed to NYHA Class IV despite increasing medical therapy. Repeated evaluations suggested that implantation of a cardiac resynchronization therapy device with a defibrillator (CRT-D) could benefit this animal based on clinical signs and underlying evidence of dyssynchrony and suspected fibrotic myocardial disease. Surgical implantation of leads into the right atrium, right ventricle, and left ventricle was accomplished. The CRT-D device was placed under the thoracic pectoral muscles during an initial surgical procedure. Improvement in the gorilla's clinical condition after implantation of the CRTD device was immediate and dramatic. Subsequent scanning of the device was accomplished through oprant conditioning. The data from these device interrogations included stored and real-time cardiac data, which were used to minimize recognized environmental Stressors and change device settings. Over 4 yr, case management was critical to successful device use in treatment of the clinical disease. This involved medications, training for device interrogation, exercise to increase activity and improve body condition, and phlebotomy attempts. Dietary management was necessary to manipulate caloric and sodium intake and encourage medication compliance. Cardiac resynchronization therapy device implantation, although requiring specialized equipment and surgical skill, appears to be a viable option for treatment of fibrosing cardiomyopathy with systolic dysfunction in gorillas refractory to medical management. In addition to treatment, this device provides cardiovascular data at rest that could allow for early diagnosis and treatment of gorillas with this and other cardiac conditions in the future. This describes the comprehensive medical, husbandry, and training techniques necessary to successfully manage this intense clinical case in conjunction with intracardiac device therapy.
20095667|A bicephalic Honduran milk snake (Lampropeltis hondurensis) with tracheal duplication and malformation and Salmonella arizonae infection is described. There were atypically wide collapsed tracheal rings with necrotizing tracheitis and abundant necrotic epithelial debris and inflammatory cells obstructing the lumen in one of the duplicate tracheae. Salmonella arizonae was cultured from the malformed duplicate trachea and was considered to be the etiologic agent causing necrosis.
20460340|Wild-caught starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were fed an iron-enriched diet, with or without supplemental black tea leaves, to determine whether tea-derived tannins would prevent intestinal iron absorption. Hepatic biopsies were obtained to determine hepatic iron concentrations by atomic absorption spectroscopy. Hepatic iron concentrations increased significantly (P = 0.04) in 21 birds that consumed only the iron-enriched diet for 6 mo but not in the 20 birds that consumed the iron-enriched diet with tea leaf supplementation for the same time period.
20095374|Four of 20 black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) became lethargic, anorectic, anemic, and jaundiced, with elevations in serum bilirubin, after being moved into creosote-treated holding pens (bomas). One of these animals died, and a second became moribund and was euthanized. Both had oral and gastric ulcers, widespread hemorrhages and hematomata, and uniformly swollen, intensely green livers, containing excessive intrahepatic bilirubin. The remaining two animals made full clinical recoveries, and additional cases were not seen in Zimbabwe, although three of these animals died with similar liver lesions after final translocation to the USA, and two with similar liver lesions died after translocation to Australia. This report describes clinical, hematologic, and pathological findings in two black rhinoceroses that were confined in wooden pens that had been treated with creosote, noting similarities described in creosote toxicosis in other animals.
20095073|Hematologic and serum chemistry values were determined for the radiated tortoise (Testudo radiata). The hematologic data included erythrocyte count, hematocrit, hemoglobin concentration, leukocyte count, and percent lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, basophils, and heterophils. The serum chemical data included albumin, alkaline phosphatase, calcium, cholesterol, glucose, aspartate aminotransferase (AST, SGOT), lactic dehydrogenase, inorganic phosphate, total protein, uric acid, sodium, potassium, chloride, and carbon dioxide. With one exception, blood chemistry and hematologic data for the radiated tortoise were similar to values reported in other tortoise species. The exception was total calcium values, which were consistently higher.
20096408|Twelve healthy approximately 3-yr-old captive-born 4.5-9 kg American alligators (Alligator mississipiensis) each had bronchoscopy and tracheal washes performed four times during a 10-mo period to evaluate seasonal respiratory microbiology and cytology. Cytologic evaluation of most samples showed a small amount of mucus and low numbers of ciliated columnar epithelium, cubodial epithelium, and keratinized squamous cells. No bacteria or parasites were observed, and there was no seasonal variation in the cytology. No significant bacterial or fungal growth was identified in any season. Hematology performed in the spring and fall evaluations showed seasonal variation in the red blood cell count, hemoglobin concentration, mean corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, eosinophil count, and thrombocyte count. The lower respiratory tract (at the tracheal level) of healthy subadult alligators appears to be sterile, and cytology is similar to that described in domestic mammals.
40962325|Radiography is a valuable tool for assessment of pulmonary disease. Specifically, radiographs utilizing positive pressure ventilation can distinguish between anesthesia-induced atelectasis and pulmonary disease when survey radiographs are ambiguous. Positive pressure ventilation can be used to radiographically prove or disprove pulmonary disease. This is of particular clinical importance when working with exotic, zoo, or wildlife species because the majority of these patients require general anesthesia to perform physical examinations and diagnostics such as radiography safely and efficiently. This report is a case example of pulmonary disease in a red panda (Ailurus fulgens) and demonstrates how positive pressure ventilation verified both the presence of pulmonary disease and the eventual resolution of the disease. Anesthetized patients on gas anesthesia will rapidly become atelectic. Through the use of positive pressure ventilation, anesthesia-induced atelectasis and true pulmonary disease can readily be distinguished. This is a technique that should not be overlooked when performing thoracic radiography in zoo species.
20095574|Acute neurologic signs were observed in a 3-wk-old female black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) born at the Denver Zoological Gardens. The neonate's condition deteriorated after the first 24 hr. Following physical examination, the calf was separated from its mother and transferred to the zoo hospital for intensive care, additional diagnostics, and hand raising. Standard hematologic tests, serologic tests (including bile acids), urinalyses, and Leptospira titers failed to establish a diagnosis. There was no detectable serum vitamin E at the neonatal examination, but 3 wk later at the onset of illness the levels were normal. After consultation with a veterinary neurologist, the rhinoceros was transported to the Colorado State University Veterinary Teaching Hospital for diagnostic tests, including computed tomography of the brain, lumbar spinal taps, and portal venography. Hypodense areas compatible with edema, ischemia, necrosis, or malacia were seen in each cerebral hemisphere. Hemorrhage was seen in each caudate nucleus. No portosystemic shunt was observed. After hospitalization for 15 mo, the animal's condition deteriorated and it was euthanized. Gross necropsy and histopathologic evaluation confirmed a diagnosis of leukoencephalomalacia. This is the fourth female black rhinoceros to be diagnosed with this condition.
20095773|One laboratory-hatched and -reared inland bearded dragon (Pogona vitticeps) (No. 1) and two privately owned inland bearded dragons (Nos. 2 and 3) died, showing nonspecific signs of illness. Light microscopic examination of hematoxylin and eosin-stained tissue sections from lizard No. 1 revealed severe hepatic necrosis with clusters of light basophilic intracytoplasmic microorganisms packing and distending hepatocytes and free in areas of necrosis. Similar microorganisms were within cytoplasmic vacuoles in distended renal epithelial cells, pulmonary epithelial cells, gastric mucosal epithelial cells, enterocytes, and capillary endothelial cells and ventricular ependymal cells in the brain. In lizard Nos. 2 and 3, microorganisms of similar appearance were in macrophages in granulomatous inflammation in the colon, adrenal glands, and ovaries. The microorganism was gram positive and acid fast and had a small polar granule that stained using the periodic acid--Schiff reaction. Electron microscopic examination of deparaffinized liver of lizard No. 1 revealed merogonic and sporogonic stages of a protozoan compatible with members of the phylum Microspora. This report provides the first description of microsporidiosis in bearded dragons and is only the second report of this infection in a lizard.
20095015|Surveys were sent to North American zoos to determine the employment patterns of zoo veterinarians. Eighty-nine zoos responded. Forty of these (45%) employed at least one full-time veterinarian. Demographics of full- and part-time zoo veterinarians are discussed.
20095364|Twelve Hartmann's mountain zebras (Equus zebra hartmannae) were immobilized with carfentanil. Immobilizations were performed with a rifle and plastic projectile darts containing a mean dose of 0.011 mg/kg (SD = 0.001) carfentanil. Dart placement was into the muscles of the neck, shoulder, or lower rear leg. Antagonism was accomplished with naltrexone (in seven zebras) or nalmefene (in five zebras) administered i.v. at 50 times the carfentanil dose. The mean restraint time (the time from dart injection until a person could safely handle the standing zebra) was 6.7 min (SD = 1.8). The mean recumbency time (the time from dart injection until lateral recumbency) was 8.6 min (SD = 1.9). The mean standing time (the time from i.v. injection of antagonist until the zebra stood without assistance) was 2.6 min (SD = 0.95) for naltrexone and 1.5 min (SD = 0.45) for nalmefene. Renarcotization did not occur. An additional 33 successful carfentanil immobilizations on 23 different Hartmann's mountain zebras were done with the same protocol. These zebras are not included in the study because accurate body weights were not obtained at the time of the immobilization.
20460298|A female white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum) had repeated episodes of vaginal hemorrhage beginning in February 1981 and continuing until January 1991 with no apparent clinical effects. The vaginal hemorrhage became a daily event in January 1991; therefore, the rhinoceros was immobilized and examined. A nodular mass was palpated and biopsied in the cranioventral vagina. A second immobilization and endoscopic exam was performed on 23 January 1991. Although no clinical effects of the hemangioma were evident, the reproductive effects of the hemangioma are unknown.
20095016|Portable B-mode real-time ultrasound scanners provided a noninvasive technique for studying the seasonal and cyclic ovarian events in sea turtles. Vitellogenic follicles from 10 to 30 mm in diameter were identified and accurately measured in Kemp's ridley sea turtles (Lepidochelys kempi). Eggs with developing shells (mean diameter  SD = 38.8  1.5 mm, mean yolk diameter  SD = 29.6  2.6 mm, n = 8) were observed in the oviducts of two turtles. These observations were verified laparoscopically and with in vitro ultrasonography of fresh tissues. Ovarian follicles were also detected in two other sea turtle species (green turtle [Chelonia mydas] and hawksbill [Eretmochelys imbricata]). Ultrasound imaging required no anesthesia and significantly reduced risk of trauma and infection that frequent laparoscopic examinations might induce.
20460430|Vessel-whale collision events represented the ultimate cause of death for 21 (52.5%) of the 40 North Atlantic right whales (Eubalaena glacialis) necropsied between 1970 and December 2006. Injuries seen in vessel-struck whales fall into two distinct categories: 1) sharp trauma, often resulting from contact with the propeller, and 2) blunt trauma, presumably resulting from contact with a vessel's hull. This study analyzes four trauma cases that resulted from vessel-whale collisions, which together provide a framework for a more critical understanding of lethal blunt and sharp trauma resulting from vessel collisions with right whales. In case no. 1, contact with a propeller resulted in three deep lacerations. The animal survived acute trauma only to succumb nearly 14 years later when the lesions reopened and became infected. In case no. 2, anecdotal reports linked the laceration of large arteries of the peduncle and histologic evidence of perimortem trauma at a bone fracture site to vessel-whale collision trauma. Case no. 3 had a laceration of the oral rete and a fracture of the rostrum. Both of the areas displayed histologic evidence of perimortem blunt trauma. Finally, in case no. 4, an antemortem mandibular fracture, two additional skull fractures, and widespread hemorrhage were consistent with severe blunt trauma. Evidence from each case, including the timing of trauma relative to the time of death and identifying characteristics of both trauma types, are presented. Before this study, no detailed comparative analysis of trauma pathology that resulted from lethal interactions between vessels and right whales had been conducted. This study demonstrates the importance of detailed gross and histologic examination in determining the significance and timing of traumatic events. This work represents a new paradigm for the differential diagnosis of lethal sharp and blunt trauma in right whales hit by ships and will enhance the present understanding of the impact of anthropogenic mortality on this critically endangered species.
20096376|Cellular immune function in four rhinoceros species was evaluated by way of in vitro lymphocyte proliferation responses to mitogenic and antigenic stimuli to establish normative data on white blood cell activity for each species and to identify species-specific differences that might help explain the predisposition of black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) to disease. A cross section of the U.S. rhinoceros population encompassing all four captive species was sampled, including the Sumatran rhinoceros (Dicerorhinus sumatrensis) (n = 3); Indian rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis) (n = 4); African black rhinoceros (n = 16); and African white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum) (n = 10). Of the four species evaluated, African black rhinoceroses exhibited the weakest (P &lt 0.05) lymphocyte proliferative responses to the mitogens: pokeweed (0.1 g/ml), phytohemagglutinin (0.3 g/ml), and concanavalin A (5.0 g/ml). Total cell density at the end of culture was only 70% of that achieved with lymphocytes isolated from African white rhinoceroses, Indian rhinoceroses, and Sumatran rhinoceroses. However, lymphocyte response to bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide was similar (P &gt 0.05) across species. Antigenic stimulation produced much weaker responses than mitogenic stimulation. No differences (P &gt 0.05) were observed among rhinoceros species in response to 1 and 10 g/ml of Leptospira icterohemorrhagiae or Leptospira gryppotyphosa. Lymphocytes from African white rhinoceroses proliferated weakly in the presence of Aspergillus fumigatus filtrate, whereas lymphocytes from the southern black rhinoceros subspecies appeared slightly suppressed in the presence of increasing doses (0.1, 1, and 10 g/ml) of Aspergillus filtrate. This comparative data set characterizing lymphocyte proliferation in the rhinoceros reveals several differences in immune cell responses among rhinoceros species and provides some evidence that lymphocytes of captive African black rhinoceroses are less vigorous than those of the other rhinoceros species.
20460435|Since 1956, when the Basle Zoo (Switzerland) initiated the breeding of lesser kudu (Tragelaphus imberbis), 43% of the lesser kudu juveniles died before reaching an age of 6 mo. In this study, the objective was to obtain the pathological findings, nutritional history, and family tree information in order to evaluate the influence of husbandry on juvenile mortality in these animals. The main cause of death was white muscle disease (WMD), diagnosed in 14 cases (26%) of the deceased juveniles. Although enclosure size had remained constant and animal accessibility to the public was constantly high, both herd size and juvenile mortality had increased from 1956-2004. The diet consumed by the whole group in 2004 had deficient levels of vitamin E and selenium. The increasing linear trend of the mortality rate since the 1960s was significant, and there was a significant correlation between herd size and overall juvenile mortality. In contrast, there was no correlation between herd size and the occurrence of juvenile mortality associated specifically with WMD. Other investigated factors (sex, inbreeding, and season) had no significant effect on overall mortality up to 6 mo of age or on mortality associated with WMD. These results characterize both a dietary and a husbandry problem, and are supported by a lack of similar juvenile mortality in another facility where the diet was supplemented with vitamin E, animal numbers were kept low, and the enclosure structure offered more retreat options for the animals.
20096614|A 47-yr-old female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) developed a corneal stromal abscess in her right eye. The elephant was trained to open her eye for topical ophthalmic therapy, and was treated six times daily with antibiotics and an antifungal solution for almost 2 mo. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were used to control pain, and atropine was applied topically to dilate the pupil and provide additional comfort. Vascularization of the abscess began shortly after initiating therapy, and complete resolution was obtained by 7 wk.
20096697|An increase in the proportion of cases with neoplasia observed in a collection of captive red kangaroos (Macropus rufus) when compared with historical records and the paucity of reported neoplasms in kangaroos in the literature prompted a 10-yr review of all red kangaroo necropsies. Individual necropsy, medical, and inventory records for all kangaroos at the Kansas City Zoo were reviewed for the period 1 January 1992 to 31 December 2002. Two squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity, two mammary gland adenocarcinomas, a multicentric T-cell lymphosarcoma, and one submucosal pyloric lipoma were diagnosed in six of 28 kangaroo deaths. Three neoplasms were diagnosed antemortem. Four of the six neoplasms were considered malignant, and all four had metastasized. The mean age at death was 11 yr. All six animals with neoplasms were female; however, the exhibit population was composed solely of females. Only 11 cases of neoplasia in red kangaroos have been reported in the literature. On the basis of these cases and a review of the literature, the most commonly observed neoplasms in red kangaroos are mammary gland adenocarcinomas and oral squamous cell carcinomas. Common denominators were not identified in these cases, although chronic gingivitis could have been a contributing factor in the development of the oral squamous cell carcinomas.
41417180|A study was conducted opportunistically to evaluate the potential of rescuing immature oocytes from the ovaries of the Sumatran rhinoceros postmortem. Recovered oocytes (n = 30) were placed in maturation culture for 36 hr and inseminated with frozen-thawed homologous spermatozoa. After culture, evaluation of nuclear maturation status revealed that a large number of oocytes were degenerated (n = 21), but nine oocytes were assessed at the germinal vesicle (n = 3), metaphase I (w = 3), and metaphase II (n = 3) stages. Frozen-thawed Sumatran rhinoceros spermatozoa were capable of binding to the zona pellucida of in vitro matured oocytes, but no fertilization or cleavage resulted. In conclusion, relatively large numbers of oocytes can be obtained by ovarian follicular aspiration postmortem in the Sumatran rhinoceros, and some of these oocytes are capable of achieving nuclear maturation in vitro. However, additional studies are required to improve maturation success and achieve fertilization in culture.
20096070|This study evaluated the immune response of 47 (22 males, 25 females) captive maned wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus) to modified-live canine parvovirus and canine distemper virus (Onderstepoort and Rockborn strains) vaccines. Sera were collected from 33 adults and 14 pups, including five free-ranging pups captured at 1 yr of age or younger. All the adults and four captive-born pups had been vaccinated prior to this first blood collection. Virus neutralization and hemagglutination-inhibition assays were performed for quantitating antibodies against canine distemper and canine parvovirus, respectively. Distemper antibody titers 100 were present in 57% of adults and 14% of pups. All adults and 29% of pups had parvovirus antibody titers 80. After vaccination, 72% of the wolves developed antibody titers 100 against distemper and 98% developed titers 80 against parvovirus. Both vaccines used were safe and immunogenic to juvenile and adult maned wolves, regardless of prior vaccination history.
20096691|Black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) mortality was investigated retrospectively based on the pathology records of 107 captive animals held at Smithsonian's National Zoological Park from 1989 to 2004. The majority of deaths in neonates were due to cannibalism (n = 42; 64.6%) and maternal trauma (n = 11; 16.9%); both of these causes of mortality decreased during the study period. Prior to 2001, juvenile mortality was most often caused by gastrointestinal disease (n = 11; 52.4%), including coccidiosis, salmonellosis, and clostridium infection. In 2001, improvements in husbandry, hygiene, and medical treatment led to decreases in juvenile mortality associated with gastrointestinal disease. The most common causes of death in adult ferrets were renal or neoplastic disease. The etiology of the high prevalence of renal disease in the last 4 yr of the study is unknown; it was not associated with increasing age or inbreeding. Improved hygiene and vigilant monitoring for signs of gastrointestinal and renal disease will continue to improve the success of the captive propagation of this species.
20096497|We document three examples of fibropapillomatosis by histology, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and sequence analysis from three different geographic areas. Tumors compatible in morphology with fibropapillomatosis were seen in green turtles from Puerto Rico and San Diego (California) and in a hybrid loggerhead/hawksbill turtle from Florida Bay (Florida). Tumors were confirmed as fibropapillomas on histology, although severity of disease varied between cases. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analyses revealed infection with the fibropapilloma-associated turtle herpesvirus (FPTHV) in all cases, albeit at highly variable copy numbers per cell. Alignment of a portion of the polymerase gene from each fibropapilloma-associated turtle herpesvirus isolate demonstrated geographic variation in sequence. These cases illustrate geographic variation in both the pathology and the virology of fibropapillomatosis.
20095075|A 3-yr-old snow leopard (Felis uncia) was presented for respiratory distress that led to respiratory arrest. Laryngoscopy revealed an edematous larynx, and an emergency tracheotomy was performed. A Cuterebra larva was found in a lesion on the ventral cervical region. Three days following surgery, radiography revealed a soft-tissue dense mass. Laryngoscopy was repeated at that time and indicated that the mass was resolving. A Cuterebra larva, assumed to be the cause of the laryngeal obstruction, is described in this report.
20095770|The paca (Agouti paca) is a neotropical rodent that requires chemical restraint for handling due to its aggressive nature and susceptibility to stress. Eighteen adult pacas (seven males and 11 females) weighing 6.25  2.22 (mean  SD) kg were given ketamine hydrochloride (25.0 mg/kg), acetylpromazine maleate (0.125 mg/kg), and atropine sulfate (0.05 mg/kg) combined by i.m. injection during field procedures that included sexing, marking, translocations, physical examinations, and minor surgeries. In all individuals, the induction of anesthesia was rapid and uneventful. Righting reflexes were abolished after 5.95  3.56 min, and all animals ceased to react to manipulation after 9.55  3.48 min. Response to interdigital and pinnal painful stimuli disappeared after 10.67  3.46 min and 11.11  3.83 min, respectively. Analgesia and depth of anesthesia were excellent in 61.0% of the animals and good in 39.0%. Muscle relaxation was excellent in 77.8% and good in 22.2%. Duration of anesthesia was 57.33  31.10 min. Recovery occurred without psychomotor disturbances, and every animal remained calm until normal ambulation resumed 115.00  37.00 min postinjection. The anesthetic protocol was safe for both the animal and the human personnel and is recommended for routine management and medical procedures, including minor surgeries, in A. paca.
20096464|This report describes the morphologic and histologic features of a case of esophageal Gongylonema pulchrum infection and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in a 17-yr-old, female vari (Lemur macaco variegates). The lemur had lived in a German zoo and had a clinical history of dyspnea, vomiting, and anorexia. At necropsy, a whitish, soft, nodular, centrally necrotic mass was found in the caudal third of the esophagus. In addition, numerous intraepithelial nematodes (G. pulchrum) were observed in the entire esophagus. Results suggest a relation between infection with G. pulchrum and development of an esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
41417157|External skeletal fixation is generally considered the best stabilization technique for immobilizing avian long bone fractures, but one of its major complications is the failure of bone-fixation pin interface or the loss of holding power. Consequently, this study is aimed at elucidating which pin design offers more pull-out strength in certain bones of the common buzzard (Buteo buteo). To achieve this objective, three pin designs (a smooth design and two negative profile threaded designs, with different thread pitch) were placed in five positions along the femur and ulna of the common buzzard. The pin pull-out strength was measured with the purpose of comparing medullary and pneumatic bones, insertion sites, and pin designs. Threaded pins with negative profile showed greater holding power than smooth pins (P < 0.05). When comparing holding power between the ulna and femur, no differences were found for smooth pins, whereas threaded pins showed more pull-out strength in the ulna than in the femur (P < 0.05). There were no differences observed related to pin location along the same bone when considering the same pin type. These results suggest that negative profile threaded pins have more holding power than smooth pins and that pneumatic bones provide less pull-out strength to negative profile threaded pins than medullary bones.
20095304|This study was conducted to further strengthen knowledge of hematology and blood chemistry of Asian elephants (Elephas maximus ceylonicus). Blood samples collected from 108 healthy, domesticated elephants, without chemical immobilization and with a male: female ratio of 1.16, were analyzed for cellular and biochemical measures using standard hematologic techniques. The mean values obtained for these measures were comparable to those reported for domesticated Asian elephants in other countries. The ranges of erythrocyte measures were: packed cell volume, 25-45%; erythrocyte count, 1.7-5.0 
20096243|A captive adult male Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris tigris) was treated for chronic footpad ulcers associated with pacing on concrete cage surfaces. Combination therapy of oral fluoxetine and acepromazine administration to eliminate pacing behavior, daily application of moisturizing ointment, and oral vitamin E supplementation resulted in complete resolution of all footpad lesions. Subsequent clinical episodes completely resolved with similar treatments.
20095707|Transabdominal ultrasonography and serum steroid concentrations were used to evaluate the effects of exogenous gonadotropin administration on ovarian activity of two anestrous bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). The gonadotropin used for follicular recruitment was PG600, which has 400 IU equine chorionic gonadotropin (eCG) and 200 IU human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) activity per 5 ml. Ovulation induction was attempted with hCG. PG600 was administered in two doses of 20 ml (1,600 IU eCG and 800 IU hCG) and 12.5 ml (1,000 IU eCG and 500 IU hCG), respectively, 48 hr apart on days 0 and 2. On day 6, 1,500 IU of hCG was administered. Progesterone and total immunoreactive estrogens were determined before and after the gonadotropin administration. Bilateral ovarian ultrasonographic exams were performed daily on days 4-9 and on day 22. Serum immunoreactive estrogen concentrations were greater than the pretreatment concentrations after day 4 for both dolphins and remained elevated for the rest of the study. Serum progesterone concentrations rose above 1 ng/ml 2 days after hCG treatment and remained elevated for the rest of the study. Small antral follicles (&lt0.5 cm) were initially observed bilaterally in both dolphins on day 4. In both animals on day 9, there were &gt12 follicles/ovary, ranging from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. By day 22, the multiple follicles ranged from 0.5 to 4.5 cm in diameter. No ultrasonographic evidence of luteal formation was observed. The results indicate that 1) transabdominal ultrasonography can be used to detect and follow follicle growth in bottlenose dolphins; 2) bottlenose dolphins are sensitive to exogenous gonadotropins (multiple follicular recruitment of follicles occurred); and 3) until further ultrasonographic studies can be conducted to evaluate the effects of titrated doses of exogenous gonadotropins, these protocols should be considered unsuitable for ovulation induction.
20095434|Fibrosing cardiomyopathy defined as myocardial replacement fibrosis with atrophy and hypertrophy of cardiac myocytes, absent to mild myocardial inflammation, and no apparent etiology or associated disease condition was identified in 11 captive western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) in the United States. All 11 were male and ranged from 11 to 37 yr of age (x  SD = 26  8 yr). In eight cases involving gorillas 16-37 yr of age (x  SD = 28  7 yr), cardiac scarring was considered fatal. Seven of these eight gorillas died suddenly. Histologically, all eight hearts had multifocal to coalescing, moderate to marked myocardial fibrosis with atrophic and hypertrophied cardiac myocytes. Six gorillas exhibited minimal to mild inflammation, and three had vascular disease. Atherosclerosis was considered contributory in only one case. The deaths of three gorillas with fibrosing cardiomyopathy could not be directly attributed to myocardial fibrosis. Their hearts exhibited similar but less severe myocardial fibrosis than that seen in hearts considered fatally scarred. All three had mild myocardial inflammation, but notable vascular disease was not seen in any gorilla. Fibrosing cardiomyopathy was a significant (P = 0.007) cause of sudden death in adult male gorillas in this study. Additional research is necessary to identify the underlying cause(s) of this syndrome and improve the management of the captive gorilla population.
20095861|A dead elk (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) calf was diagnosed with bacillary hemoglobinuria, a toxemia caused by the bacterium Clostridium haemolyticum. The mortality occurred in southwest Washington, USA (4613N, 12322W), in an area in which several previous mortalities, suspected but not conclusively diagnosed to be either bacillary hemoglobinuria, enterotoxemia, or leptospirosis, occurred. This is the first reported incidence of mortality attributable to bacillary hemoglobinuria in free-ranging elk. Similar deaths of young elk in the area suggest that mortality from this disease may be common locally.
20095547|The antler cycle in deer is hormonally controlled, primarily by testosterone. Growth of antlers and velvet occurs when the plasma testosterone concentration is low. Antlers harden during peak secretion testosterone (rut) and are cast when it precipitously declines at the end of the breeding season. At the San Diego Wild Animal Park, Indian hog deer (Cervus porcinus) shed velvet in October or November and cast antlers in May, with some variation. An 11-yr-old male was noted in December to have failed to shed an abnormal-appearing velvet. The animal did not cast antlers the following spring, and a distinct shrinkage and hardening of one testis was noted on palpation. A small volume of aspermic semen was produced by electroejaculation. When the antlers had not cast by the next spring, the male was treated with testosterone implants to raise the plasma testosterone concentration. It was hoped that implant removal would mimic the postbreeding-season decline in testosterone secretion and cause casting of the antlers. At the initiation of treatment, serum testosterone concentration was 78 pg/ml, and both testes were indurated. High levels of testosterone (652 pg/ml) were achieved with 2 wk of treatment, with a maximal level of 1,000 pg/ml attained by 10 wk. Velvet was shed, and the antlers became a "hard rack" within 8 wk. However, a small area at the base of one antler retained blood supply, and treatment with testosterone for 11 wk did not result in complete regression of the blood supply. Implant removal was followed within 1 wk by a return to pretreatment serum testosterone level, but the antlers were not cast. The male did not exhibit elevated testosterone in response to gonadotropin-releasing-hormone challenge. The hog deer was euthanized due to severe, chronic carpal arthritis. Necropsy did not reveal the cause of testicular demise, and it was assumed that traumatic injury to the testes during antler growth interrupted the normal antler cycle in this animal by ablating testosterone support.
20095908|A radioimmunoassay was validated for quantifying excreted cortisol metabolites in cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) feces. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis indicated that immunoreactivity was associated with a water-soluble metabolite in fecal extracts from males and females. None of the immunoreactivity corresponded with free cortisol or corticosterone but rather was associated with a more polar, unidentified metabolite. To determine the biologic relevance of excreted immunoreactive cortisol metabolites, cheetahs were exposed to a variety of situations anticipated to increase cortisol secretion. First, to assess acute changes in adrenal activity, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH; 400 IU i.m.) was administered to two adult males and two adult females. Pre-ACTH baseline serum cortisol and fecal cortisol metabolite concentrations varied among individuals. Serum cortisol concentrations were elevated above baseline within 10 min of ACTH injection, followed by corresponding increases in fecal cortisol metabolite concentrations (690-4,194% above baseline) 48 hr later in three of four cheetahs. In the fourth cheetah, a smaller increase (334% above baseline) in fecal cortisol metabolite excretion was observed 96 hr after ACTH injection. Seven cheetah females also were subjected to a variety of potentially stressful manipulations, including immobilization, translocation, and introduction to a male to assess the ability of this technique to detect physiologic changes in adrenal activity. Increased fecal corticoid metabolite excretion was observed 24-72 hr after exposure to these exogenous stressors. Results indicate that adrenocortical activity can be monitored noninvasively in the cheetah through analysis of these metabolites. This technique could be valuable for evaluating, and thus optimizing, environmental and management conditions and for investigating the role of stress in disease pathogenesis and the usually poor reproductive performance of this species in captivity.
20096262|Twenty-three leopard geckos (Eublepharis macularius) with various clinical histories of weight loss, anorexia, lethargy, and diarrhea were submitted either intact or as biopsy specimens to the University of Florida Anatomic Pathology Service. Gross necropsy findings in the intact geckos included marked reduction of subcutaneous adipose tissue stores at the tail base and mild thickening and reddening of the small intestine. Histologic examination revealed Cryptosporidium sp. infection associated with hyperplasia and mononuclear inflammation of the small intestine in all geckos. Parasites and lesions were only rarely observed in the stomach and large intestine of geckos. The histologic and ultrastructural lesions in the small intestine of leopard geckos infected with Cryptosporidium sp. have not been well characterized previously. This report implicates Cryptosporidium sp. as the cause of disease in the geckos and describes the range of histologic lesions observed.
20095612|A porcine zonae pellucidae (PZP) vaccine was tested in 45 animals of six species of captive exotic ungulates, including Formosan sika deer (Cervus nippon taiouanus), axis deer (Cervus axis), sambar deer (Cervus unicolor), Roosevelt elk (Cervus elaphus roosevelti), Reeves' muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi), and Himalayan tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus). All animals except muntjac and tahr were inoculated with an initial series of two or three i.m. injections of 65 g PZP with either muramyl dipeptide or Freund's incomplete adjuvant over a 6-wk period, followed by annual booster inoculations. Muntjac received doses of 43 g PZP and Himalayan tahr received doses of 48-65 g PZP. There were significant differences in pre- and posttreatment fertility rates, and contraception was effective in Formosan sika deer, Himalayan tahr, and Roosevelt elk, moderately effective in axis deer, not effective in sambar deer, and of inconclusive effectiveness in Reeves' muntjac. Immunization with PZP produced progressively elevated anti-PZP antibody titers in most animals. Two Formosan sika deer fawns, two axis deer fawns, one Roosevelt elk calf, and two sambar deer fawns whose mothers became pregnant after inoculation with PZP were born healthy. Animals pregnant when inoculations began included one Formosan sika, one axis deer, and three sambar deer. The sika deer delivered a healthy fawn, the axis deer delivered a stillborn fawn, one of the three sambar fawns was stillborn, and a second sambar fawn was abnormal. Six of 13 sambar deer fawns that were conceived after inoculation and were exposed to the PZP vaccine, adjuvants, and anti-PZP antibodies during gestation were born with a variety of weaknesses and health problems or were stillborn. Reversibility of contraceptive action after 1 yr of treatment with PZP was demonstrated among muntjac but has not been fully evaluated in the other species. Inoculation of pregnant sambar deer with PZP and either muramyl dipeptide or Freund's incomplete adjuvant may lead to congenital abnormalities or stillbirths.
20079488|The pharmacokinetic parameters of amikacin were determined in red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) following the i.m. administration of a single 20 mg/kg dose. After a rapid absorption phase, mean amikacin serum concentrations peaked at 65  12 g/ml 30-45 min following injection. The serum amikacin concentrations decreased to 2.3  2 g/ml at 12 hr postinjection. Amikacin was eliminated with first-order kinetics characteristic of a single-compartment model with a half-life of 2.02  0.63 hr. The volume of distribution was estimated to be 0.28  0.03 L/kg. Forty-two isolates of gram-negative bacteria and coagulase-positive Staphylococcus species were cultured from birds of prey presented to the Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital at the University of California-Davis. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MICs) of amikacin ranged from 0.5 to 8.0 g/ml (x = 2.5 g/ml). The 20 mg/kg dose used in this study resulted in serum concentrations at or above the MICs for &gt 12 hr for most of the isolates examined. The heaviest birds had the lowest peak serum amikacin concentrations, and the lightest birds had the highest, despite exact volume replacement for each sample drawn. This observation suggests that doses should be based on factors other than weight alone. Amikacin administered at 15-20 mg/kg/day, either as a single dose or divided into two or three doses, is effective in treating sensitive pathogens of the red-tailed hawk.
20095678|The anatomy of the renal portal system of the red-eared slider (Trachemys scripta elegans) is described, based on dissection of six double latex-injected specimens (three males, three females). The anatomy of these vessels, which had not previously been described in this species, was found not to differ significantly from the fundamental chelonian pattern. Fluoroscopic radioangiography revealed that venous blood returning from the hindlimbs flowed predominantly to the liver and bypassed the kidneys. Blood from the tail either flowed to the kidneys or bypassed them and flowed directly to the liver. A putative valve is described that governs venous blood flow from the caudal body to or around the kidneys.
27751738|A free-ranging gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) presented for trauma and blindness. Fibrinous exudate obscured visualization of the globes. This exudative crust extended from the conjunctival fornices through the palpebral fissure and was manually removed. Ophthalmic examination revealed bilateral corneal ulcerations and scarring and phthisis bulbi of the left globe. Histology of the crust revealed a necrotic conjunctivitis with intralesional fungal hyphae. Culture of the corneal ulcer of the left eye isolated moderate growth of a mixed fungal flora consisting of Curvularia sp. and Aspergillus sp. Miconazole ophthalmic solution was administered and the ulcers in both eyes healed, but corneal edema continued. After 2 mo of treatment with miconazole, tramadol, acetylcysteine, hypertonic saline ointment, artificial tears, and hypertonic saline flushes, the right eye was normal with only a small scar. The left eye remained phthisical. This is the first report of fungal keratitis in a wild reptile and a gopher tortoise.
27751730|A 20-yr-old male pygmy hippopotamus (Hexaprotodon liberiensis), weighing 250 kg, arrived at Zoological Society London Whipsnade Zoo (United Kingdom) from a captive collection in Portugal. A quarantine health check was performed including a comparative intradermal tuberculosis (IDTB) test. Assessment of the comparative IDTB test at 72 hr revealed a strong positive reaction at the bovine site. Serum was tested with a rapid immunochromatographic assay (TB STAT-PAK) and was positive for tuberculosis antibodies. The tuberculosis tests were repeated 6 wk later with the same positive test outcome. In addition, a broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL) was submitted for mycobacterial culture. The positive IDTB test and TB STAT-PAK results were supported by multiantigen print immunoassay (MAPIA). Based on these results, the animal was suspected to be infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex organisms and was euthanized. No gross or histologic signs of tuberculosis were found at postmortem examination. Mycobacterium interjectum was cultured from the BAL but not from necropsy samples. The antigens used in the TB STAT-PAK and MAPIA tests are reportedly specific for the M. tuberculosis complex, and so it is possible this animal presented with a latent case of tuberculosis or had a previous tuberculosis infection that resolved prior to testing. Cross-reactions with nontuberculous mycobacteria have been described with TB STAT-PAK and MAPIA tests. However, Western blotting analysis using serum from this animal did not recognize M. interjectum proteins of equivalent size to the M. tuberculosis-Mycobacterium bovis proteins recognized in the MAPIA. Thus, antigenic cross-reactivity with M. interjectum can be deemed less likely, but other nontuberculous mycobacterial proteins cannot be ruled out. It is therefore possible that false-positive reactions were obtained. These results highlight the difficulty of diagnosing tuberculosis in the absence of pathology and the presence of nontuberculous mycobacteria.
20095464|One hundred forty-one free-ranging white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum) of various ages were immobilized in 1991 (n = 71) and 1992 (n = 70), and the majority were dehorned as part of a conservation program to prevent poaching. Twenty-three animals were darted by personnel on foot and 118 were darted from a helicopter. Fifty-six adult animals were immobilized using a mean (SEM) dose per animal of 4.2  0.11 mg etorphine combined with 123  4.7 mg xylazine, 13 adult animals were immobilized using a mean dose of 2.03  0.06 mg etorphine and 29.2  0.8 mg fentanyl, 60 adult animals were immobilized with a mean dose of 3.9  0.15 mg etorphine and 13.1  0.43 mg detomidine, and 12 animals (subadults and calves) were immobilized with a mean dose of 1.16  0.28 mg etorphine alone. Hyaluronidase (1,500 IU) was mixed with all drug combinations. The mean induction time for all combinations was 6.4  0.37 min (median = 5 min), with no significant differences in induction times among animals injected with the various drug combinations. The mean duration of immobilization was 38  1.7 min. In 1991, mean reversal time following the administration of naloxone (i.v., 64  4 mg, n = 56) and diprenorphine (i.m., 12.4  0.7 mg, n = 54) was 93  7 sec, and when naltrexone became available in 1992, mean reversal time was 92  5 sec (i.v., 70  2 mg, n = 68). The etorphine/detomidine combination produced significantly less muscle damage, based on creatine phosphokinase (IU/L) measurements, than did the other drug combinations. Serum cortisol (g/dl) values for subadults and calves immobilized were significantly higher than those in adults, indicating increased stress. Pulse rates for those animals immobilized with etorphine/detomidine were significantly lower than those of animals immobilized with the other drug combinations. Prolonged recumbency was associated with hypoxemia, pulse oximetry revealed a saturated blood oxygen (Sao) of 40-60% in recumbent rhinoceros, which was improved by 20% using 10-20 mg nalorphine or 20-40 mg nalbuphine, administered i.v. Of the 71 animals immobilized in 1991, five animals died (mortality rate = 7%); three of these deaths were most likely associated with hypoxemia and cardiovascular system collapse. There were no direct capture-related mortalities recorded in the immobilization of 70 animals in 1992 (overall mortality rate for 1991/1992 = 3.4%).
20095563|Six adult (three female and three male) leopard tortoises (Testudo pardalis) were studied to document the radiographic anatomy of the gastrointestinal tract and the transit time of barium sulfate. Tortoises were chemically immobilized with succinylcholine and dosed orally with barium contrast suspension. Both dorsoventral and lateral radiographs were taken. The lateral radiographs were extremely difficult to interpret becuase of the overlapping of the gastrointestinal tract and other soft tissue organs. Complete gastric emptying occurred between 5 and 9 hr after barium administration. Barium entered the small intestine at 0.2-1 hr and the large intestine between 5 and 8 hr. The contrast material began to exit the colon between 144 and 166 hr.
20095990|Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoites were seen in the placenta of a late-term aborted Greenland muskox (Ovibos moschatus wardi) fetus in a captive herd at the San Francisco Zoo. The organism stained with anti-T. gondii polyclonal rabbit serum but not with anti-Neospora caninum serum. The dam had a Toxoplasma titer of 1:3,200 at the time of abortion and in each of the previous 3 yr (modified agglutination test). The muskox is a new host record for T. gondii.
41417182|An outbreak of necrotic enteritis caused by Clostridium perfringens type C was diagnosed in captive collared (Pecari tajacu) and white-lipped (Tayassu pecarl) peccaries housed in the Laboratory of Applied Ethology of Universidade Estadual de Santa Cruz located in Ilhus, State of Bahia, Brazil. Four collared peccaries and three white-lipped peccaries, all juveniles (25-105 days old), were affected. For all affected animals, lethargy and inappetance were followed by sudden death within 24 hours. Histopathology of intestinal wall, culture of C. perfringens type C, and the identification of beta-toxin from intestinal content confirmed the diagnosis.
20095165|Four newly captured Pacific bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus gilli) were housed in coastal seapens in Oahu, Hawaii. One of the dolphins died 9 days postcapture, and another died 46 days postcapture. Staphylococcus aureus was recovered in pure culture from internal organs from both dolphins and apparently caused their deaths. Dolphin pen water, other resident dolphins, and human handlers were analyzed to determine the source of the infection. Staphylococcus aureus was recovered from dolphin pen water in concentrations of 12 colony-forming units (CFU)/100 ml. One animal handler was a nasal carrier of S. aureus. Two resident dolphins had S. aureus in their blowholes. Antibiograms, enterotoxin production, and phage typing were performed on S. aureus recovered from dolphins, water, and humans to determine if the strains were the same. Antibiograms and enterotoxin production were not useful in establishing the source of S. aureus. Phage typing, however, was useful for determining the different isolates of S. aureus. One newly captured dolphin was infected with strain 55/3A. The second newly captured dolphin was infected with strain 6/29/47/52/54/75/77/79. One of the resident dolphins and another newly captured dolphin had S. aureus strains in their blowholes similar to those recovered from one of the dead dolphins. The nasal isolates from human handlers were not typeable. Staphylococcus aureus isolates recovered from seapen water were phage type 29/54/71/80/96 or 29/52/83A but were not the same strains as the dolphin isolates.
20095315|The purpose of this study was to determine the pharmacokinetics of ampicillin in Asian elephants (Elaphus maximus) and to relate this information to the in vitro activity of ampicillin against two pathogens isolated from one elephant. A single oral dose of ampicillin trihydrate (8 mg/kg) was given to three elephants; body weights were estimated. Capsules containing the drug were hidden in oranges that were offered to the elephants, and ingestion was complete. The ampicillin minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for a streptococcal and staphylococcal elephant isolate was 0.06 g/ml. Mean peak serum ampicillin concentration (0.86 g/ml) was reached 90 min after administration of the drug. The mean area under the concentration--time curve (AUC) was 208.6  106.4 gmin/ml. The mean terminal half-life (
20095208|A 28-yr-old female white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum) was immobilized with etorphine twice for reproductive examination and manipulation prior to euthanasia for bilateral blindness. Prolonged etorphine immobilization and recumbency were associated with hypoxemia, hypercapnia, and apparent hypertension. Although the hypoxemia was probably due to hypoventilation, left lung atelectasis after prolonged lateral recumbency suggests that pulmonary shunting and ventilation/perfusion mismatching may also contribute to hypoxemia in the recumbent rhinoceros.
20096438|Calcidiol (25-hydroxyvitamin D) values are reported for 22 wild Ricord's iguanas (Cyclura ricordii) and seven wild rhinoceros iguanas (Cyclura cornuta cornuta). Calcitriol (1,25-hydroxyvitamin D) values are reported for 12 wild Ricord's iguanas and seven wild rhinoceros iguanas. These animals were captured as part of a larger health assessment study being conducted on Ricord's iguanas in Isla Cabritos National Park, Dominican Republic. A total of 13 captive rhinoceros iguanas held outdoors at Parque Zoolgico Nacional were also sampled for comparison. Mean concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D were 554 nmol/L (222 ng/ml) with a range of 250-1,118 nmol/L (100-448 ng/ml) for wild Ricord's iguanas, 332 nmol/L (133 ng/ml) with a range of 260-369 nmol/L (104-148 ng/ml) for wild rhinoceros iguanas, and 317 nmol/L (127 ng/ml) with a range of 220-519 nmol/L (88-208 ng/ml) for captive rhinoceros iguanas. On the basis of these results, serum concentrations of at least 325 nmol/L (130 ng/ml) for 25-hydroxyvitamin D should be considered normal for healthy Ricord's and rhinoceros iguanas.
20095069|Thirteen of 24 captive gray wolves (Canis lupus) were infected with the heartworm, Dirofilaria immitis. Wolves were treated with 2.2 mg/kg sodium thiacetarsamide i.v. b.i.d. for 2 days to eliminate adult heartworms, given 5.0 mg/kg acetylsalicylic acid orally for 2 wk to reduce myointimal proliferation and thromboemboli, and given 0.2 mg/kg ivermectin s.c. 4 wk after beginning therapy to eliminate microfilariae. All animals survived the treatment. Four wolves developed coughing episodes after adulticide administration. Thiacetarsamide did not eliminate adult D. immitis in one wolf, but ivermectin was completely effective in eliminating microfilariae. Seven of 11 adult wolves without heartworm and three pups were diagnosed as being infected with Ancylostoma caninum and/or Toxocara canis. All animals, whether infected or not, were treated with 0.2 mg/kg ivermectin given s.c. Blood samples were taken from adult wolves for hematologic analyses before and 35 days after treatment. No ova were detected upon fecal reexamination 35 days posttreatment. Prior to treatment, wolves with ancylostomiasis had hypochromic anemia when compared with noninfected animals. After treatment for either heartworm or hookworm, 12 of 24 wolves were given 0.05 mg/kg ivermectin once monthly for the next 18 mo. The other 12 wolves were untreated for the same period of time to serve as control animals. At the end of this period, no treated wolf had heartworm, whereas one of the 12 control wolves was infected (P = 0.31). No ova were found in any of the treated wolves, whereas seven of 12 were positive for A. caninum (P = 0.002) and one of 12 was positive for Toxocara canis (P = 0.31). In these wolves, ivermectin was effective in the elimination of D. immitis microfilariae, A. caninum, and T. canis, did not cause any adverse tissue reactions, and was an effective heartworm and hookworm prophylactic when administered at 0.05 mg/kg monthly.
20096328|An umbrella cockatoo (Cacatua alba) and two cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) were presented with rapidly enlarging masses of the head or wing joints. Historic trauma to these areas was confirmed in two cases. All birds were &gt2 yr of age, and two were female. Cytologic examination of fluid aspirated from masses in two cases was described as serosanguineous cytologically but failed to reveal inflammation, neoplasia, or microorganisms. Radiographic evaluation of these masses included proliferation and lysis of bone, suggestive of a neoplastic process. Histopathologic examination of surgically excised tissues revealed proliferative new bone and an absence of neoplastic tissue in all cases, consistent with aneurysmal bone cyst formation. Despite the guarded prognosis reported for other companion animals, these case results suggest a good prognosis for aneurysmal bone cyst in psittaciformes. Complete surgical excision and histopathologic examination is recommended for definitive diagnoses of aneurysmal bone cyst. Postoperative bandaging and rational antibiotic use are indicated to prevent excessive motion and secondary infection of affected sites, respectively.
20096474|Wild common loons (Gavia immer) were captured across much of their southern North American range. Hematologic and physiologic data were collected to establish reference ranges for adults and chicks from four geographic areas: New England, Canadian Maritimes, south-central Quebec, and the Upper Great Lakes. Mean body mass and blood-glucose levels of adult loons varied among geographic regions. Chicks had lower PCV and total solids than adult loons, and also had faster heart rates and higher blood glucose levels. Although mean body mass in males was consistently greater than in females, hematologic and physiologic reference ranges between sexes were not significantly different. Geographic and age-related differences exist in common loon hematologic and physiologic reference ranges and should be considered when assessing such parameters.
27751697|Anesthesia is used in theraphosid spiders to facilitate medical procedures (e.g., physical examination, sample collection, surgery); however, most information on this subject is anecdotal. This study was conducted to systematically determine the anesthetic parameters of wild-caught, subadult goliath birdeater spiders (Theraphosa blondi) (n = 11) and Chilean rose spiders (Grammostola rosea) (n = 12). Each spider was placed in a 3-L gas anesthetic chamber and subjected to an induction of 5% isoflurane at a rate of 1 L/min oxygen. Anesthetic depth was monitored by evaluating the righting reflex every 5 min. Animals were recovered in 100% oxygen. Induction, recovery, and overall anesthetic times were determined. After an 8-wk washout period, the procedure was repeated. For both species, median induction time was 10 min. Median recovery time was 30 min for T. blondi and 12.5 min for G. rosea.
20095691|The rectal anaerobic and aerobic bacterial flora of four species of flying foxes were determined and compared. Four bacterial species were found in 1 individual from each bat species at a significant (10%) level of the bacterial population: -hemolytic Streptococcus sp. (41 of 56 bats), Enterococcus sp. (25/26), Escherichia coli (21/56), and group D Streptococcus sp., not Enterococcus sp. (9/56). Five other microbial species were also found in all four flying fox species, but at less significant percentages (found in at least one bat species, 5% and 10% of the recovered microbial population). These were nonhemolytic Streptococcus sp. (30/56), yeast (26/56), Corynebacterium sp. (25/56), Staphylococcus sp. (25/56), and Staphylococcus aureus (22/56). The majority of the species found were gram-positive, and only two obligate anaerobes, a Lactobacillus and a Bacteroides sp., were recovered from one bat.
20096698|West Nile virus has been associated with numerous bird mortalities in the United States since 1999. Five avian species at three zoological parks were selected to assess the antibody response to vaccination for West Nile virus: black-footed penguins (Spheniscus demersus), little blue penguins (Eudyptula minor), American flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber), Chilean flamingos (Phoenicopterus chilensis), and Attwater's prairie chickens (Tympanuchus cupido attwateri). All birds were vaccinated intramuscularly at least twice with a commercially available inactivated whole virus vaccine (Innovator). Significant differences in antibody titer over time were detected for black-footed penguins and both flamingo species.
20095523|A 5-mo-old male snow leopard (Panthera uncia) was presented for mild rear leg lameness. Osteomyelitis was suspected on the basis of radiographic changes and confirmed by histopathology of a biopsy sample from the affected bone. Aerobic cultures of the biopsies repeatedly grew Klebsiella oxytoca. Repeated anaerobic and fungal cultures did not result in growth. The leopard was treated unsuccessfully with cefadroxil, chloramphenicol, and trimethoprim/sulfadiazine despite apparent in vitro sensitivity to these antibiotics. Successful resolution was eventually achieved with enrofloxacin, 7.5 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d. for 60 days. The number of bones involved (right humerus, right and left ulna, right and left radius, right and left femur, right and left tibia, mandible, right metatarsus) made this an unusual presentation of osteomyelitis.
20096282|Pharmacokinetic studies of antifungal agents in reptiles are uncommon. Itraconazole, which has been used prophylactically in juvenile sea turtles suffering from hypothermia (cold stunning) on a regular basis, was evaluated for steady-state plasma concentrations. Five Kemp's ridley sea turtles (Lepidochelys kempi) receiving itraconazole at several dosages in a rehabilitation program had blood collected within 24 hr to estimate dosing frequency. Subsequently, serial blood samples of Kemp's ridley sea turtles that were given itraconazole at several dosages for 30 days to treat cold stunning were collected at various intervals to evaluate itraconazole plasma concentrations. Tissue samples were collected from one Kemp's ridley that died during rehabilitation. Plasma concentrations of itraconazole (and of hydroxyitraconazole [OH-ITRA], one of its major bioactive metabolites) were determined using a modified, validated reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography technique. Itraconazole concentrations in tissues were deter-mined by bioassay to be far greater than the plasma concentrations measured in any of the turtles. At a 15-mg/kg dosage, the half-life (
20095049|A 1-yr-old wood bison (Bison bison athabascae) from a zoo and a 2-yr-old plains bison (B. b. bison) from a commercial bison herd had abnormal stance and movement of the hind limbs. Clinically, this condition was similar to anecdotal reports of a congenital hind limb abnormality in commercial bison herds. Based on pathological examination, the limb deformity was compatible with arthrogryposis (congenital articular rigidity). Secondary degeneration of articular cartilage, primarily in the tibiotarsal joint, likely resulted from the abnormal angulation and weight-bearing on the joints. The etiology of arthrogryposis in bison is unknown.
20095946|Fecal samples from 33 lions (Panthera leo) in Serengeti National Park and Ngorongoro Crater Conservation Area in northern Tanzania contained 19 different parasites, 12 of which, including Aelurostrongylus sp., a species of Acanthocephala, a species of Anoplocephalidae, Capillaria sp., Demodex sp., Eimeria sp., Habronema sp., Isospora felis, Isospora rivolta, one species of Isospora that was previously undescribed from lions, one species of Trematoda that was previously undescribed from lions, and Trichuris sp., were new reports for lions. Seven other species had been previously reported from lions.
40665139|Nine blue duikers (Cephalophus monticola), purchased in the Malabo bushmeat market, were necropsied. Eight of the nine animals were found to have dysplastic tracheas, characterized by lateral apposition of tracheal rings, entrapment of the trachealis muscle and annular ligaments, and bunching of the tracheal epithelium. Communications with zoologic pathologists and a thorough search of the veterinary literature have not uncovered a single case of this pathologic finding. As such, this finding may represent an evolutionary marker indicative of a bottleneck that may have occurred in the history of this species of duiker, endemic to the island of Bioko, in the Gulf of Benin.
20096487|Wild and feral medium-sized mammals were live trapped at two natural protected areas within the Mexico City limits to determine antibody prevalence for the most common infectious diseases (rabies, toxoplasmosis, and canine parvovirus) in dogs and cats. Mammals were trapped during the dry (March-April) and rainy seasons (July-August) of 1996 and 1997. A total of 68 individuals were captured, representing 8 species: opossums (Didelphis virginiana), ringtails (Bassariscus astutus), spotted skunks (Spilogale gracilis), weasels (Mustela frenata), rock squirrels (Spermophilus variegatus), Mexican gray squirrels (Sciurus aureogaster), feral cats (Felis catus), and feral dogs (Canis familiaris). There was marked seroprevalence for parvovirus (86.6%) and lower seroprevalences for both toxoplasma (23.9%) and rabies (17.9%). There were no significant prevalence differences among mammals in both protected areas, which were of contrasting size and isolation (i.e., small and isolated versus large and nonisolated). We suggest that high seroprevalence of these three infectious agents in wild mammals is a result of the high densities of feral dogs and cats in the two areas sampled. Feral dogs are able to maintain the infectious agents in these localities regardless of the protected area size and isolation. However, the native mammals of the small and isolated reserve are more vulnerable to infectious diseases because of small population size and genetic bottlenecks. Our results indicate that natural areas in and around Mexico City are a refugium for latent infectious agents, several of which are zoonotic. These findings suggest that conservation measures, such as eradication of feral mammals and vaccination programs, in the protected areas and surrounding areas could be beneficial.
20095121|Radioimmunoassay of urinary pregnanediol-3-glucuronide (PdG) and estrogen conjugates was used to assess estrous cyclicity and pregnancy in captive Pre David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus). Longitudinal urinary estrogen conjugate measurements were not useful for monitoring estrous cyclicity; however, PdG profiles were effective for identifying distinct reproductive cycles, which began between late June and August (coincident with a decreasing light: dark cycle). The temporal PdG excretion profile from a single multiparous nonpregnant Pre David's hind sampled from April to January revealed a mean estrous cycle of 19.9  2.0 days (n = 7 cycles; range, 16-31 days). However, when one extreme 31-day cycle was deleted from the data set, the mean estrous cycle duration was 17.3  0.9 days (n = 6 cycles; range, 16-21 days). Concentrations of PdG during the seasonal anestrus (April-August) averaged 15.5  0.7 ng/mg creatinine (Cr) (range, 4.1-51.5 ng/mg Cr). During pregnancy (n = 4), PdG increased rapidly during the first 50 days postconception from &lt50 ng/mg Cr to between 800 and 1,350 ng/mg Cr. Although individual PdG profiles fluctuated markedly throughout gestation (180-1,700 ng/mg Cr), PdG excretion was effective for detecting pregnancy. However, definitive pregnancy diagnoses could not be made until 26 wk postmating. Ten to 20 days before parturition, PdG excretion fell precipitously concurrent with a sharp surge in estrogen conjugate excretion, which reached a peak concentration (&gt5,500 ng/mg Cr) 1-2 wk before birth. During the early stages of gestation, urinary PdG profiles from two hinds that aborted were similar to those of hinds experiencing normal term pregnancies. However, PdG excretion declined to nadir concentrations (&lt20 ng/mg Cr) between 1 and 2 wk before abortion, which occurred either at 50% or 70% of gestation. Overall, these data confirm previous assertions (based on behavioral data) that this species is seasonally polyestrous with estrous cycles commencing during midsummer. Longitudinal profiles of urinary PdG are useful for tracking estrous cyclicity, seasonality, pregnancy, and parturition. The simultaneous evaluation of urinary estrogen conjugates was also effective for estimating the stage of pregnancy during the last 60 days of gestation.
20095909|Endoscopic biopsy specimens were obtained from the cardiac, fundic, and pyloric stomach regions of 28 semicaptive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) to look for signs of helicobacteriosis and gastritis. Impression smear cytology and urease tests were positive in 23 and 26 of the cheetahs, respectively. Histopathology showed mild or no lesions in 27 cheetahs; only one cheetah had moderate gastritis. Gastritis was uncommon in these semicaptive cheetahs, and stress could play a major role in the development of helicobacteriosis-associated gastritis in the captive cheetah.
20460383|Captive giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) mostly do not attain the longevity possible for this species and frequently have problems associated with low energy intake and fat storage mobilization. Abnormal tooth wear has been among the causes suggested as an underlying problem. This study utilizes a tooth wear scoring method ("mesowear") primarily used in paleobiology. This scoring method was applied to museum specimens of free-ranging (n = 20) and captive (n = 41) giraffes. The scoring system allows for the differentiation between attrition- (typical for browsers, as browse contains little abrasive silica) and abrasion- (typical for grazers, as grass contains abrasive silica) dominated tooth wear. The dental wear pattern of the free-ranging population is dominated by attrition, resembles that previously published for free-ranging giraffe, and clusters within browsing herbivores in comparative analysis. In contrast, the wear pattern of the captive population is dominated by abrasion and clusters among grazing herbivores in comparative analyses. A potential explanation for this difference in tooth wear is likely related to the content of abrasive elements in zoo diets. Silica content (measured as acid insoluble ash) is low in browse and alfalfa. However, grass hay and the majority of pelleted compound feeds contain higher amounts of silica. It can be speculated that the abnormal wear pattern in captivity compromises tooth function in captive giraffe, with deleterious long-term consequences.
20096035|Blood samples were obtained from 155 North American river otters (Lontra canadensis; 94 adult males, 38 adult females, 10 juvenile males, and 13 juvenile females) to establish baseline hematology and from 50 adult river otters (40 males and 10 females) for baseline serum biochemistry parameters for the species. The otters were livetrapped from eastern North Carolina (USA) during a 4-yr period. Data for 14 routine hematologic parameters and 22 serum chemistry assays showed significant differences in total leukocyte count and absolute neutrophil and monocyte numbers for adults versus juveniles, red blood cell counts and hemoglobin between adult and juvenile males, and calcium and alkaline phosphatase values for adult males between years of the study and an increase in leukocyte counts and absolute neutrophils with increased degree of trap injury sustained.
20094907|Clinical signs associated with vitamin E deficiency in zoo animals are reviewed. Additionally, dietary factors (unsaturated fats, selenium, and antioxidants) and environmental variables (pollution, stress, exhibit design, and seasonality) that may alter vitamin E requirements or status are discussed. Circulating levels of -tocopherol as a measure of vitamin E status were examined for 11 reptile, 46 avian, and 61 ungulate species. Means ranged from 3.29 g/ml (Testudinata) to 8.23 g/ml (Crocodylia) in reptiles, 7.60 g/ml (Gruiformes) to 37.23 g/ml (Falconiformes) in birds, and 0.12 g/ml (Rhinocerotidae) to 3.56 g/ml (Tapiridae) in mammals. Plasma lipids are associated with vitamin E status; cholesterol levels (mg/dl) divided by 100 appear to provide a direct estimate of plasma -tocopherol (g/ml) correlated with a lack of clinical deficiency signs in hoofstock (n = 764). Although more baseline data and controlled studies are needed, it may be possible to monitor vitamin E status in zoo animals from blood samples prior to development of clinical or pathological disease.
20460333|A 11.5-yr-old female Przewalski's wild horse (Equus caballus przewalskii) presented for unilateral blepharitis and drainage from the left eye. The left cornea was not ulcerated, and intraocular evaluation was hampered by severe corneal edema. The left eye appeared to respond positively to treatment with anti-inflammatories and a topical mydriatic agent. During the ensuing 2 yr, there were minor episodes of epiphora from the left eye. The discharge then increased, and a luxated lens was noted during an examination by a veterinary ophthalmologist as part of the preshipment examination. Initially, the lens was located in the anterior compartment but was in the vitreal compartment at the time of surgery, complicating the intracapsular extraction. After successful removal of the lens, the horse was transferred to a new institution without incident, where it appears to have adapted well to its probable loss of vision in the left eye. No further episodes of uveitis, corneal edema, or epiphora have been reported, and the horse has successfully foaled at the new institution.
27751764|A loggerhead, Caretta caretta, and a Kemp's ridley, Lepidochelys kempii, sea turtle were presented to the North Carolina State University, College of Veterinary Medicine for evaluation of distal flipper injuries. The goal for both animals at presentation was to preserve limb function and avoid complete amputation. A severe full-thickness flipper laceration was successfully reapposed in the first case, and a rotational flap was used to cover exposed tissue in the second case. Limb function was improved and complete amputations were avoided in both turtles.
27751720|The Amazonian manatee (Trichechus inunguis) is endemic in the Amazonian basin and is the only exclusively fresh water sirenian. Historically hunted on a large scale, this species is now considered endangered, and studies on the reproductive physiology are critical for the improvement of reproductive management of captive and wild populations of manatees. The aim of this study was to verify the viability of androgen measurement in saliva, lacrimal, urine, and fecal samples of the Amazonian manatee by conducting a hormone challenge. Two adult male manatees (A-1 and A-2) were submitted to an experimentation protocol of 12 day (D1 to D10). On D0, the animals received an intramuscular injection of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-analogue. Salivary, lacrimal, urinary, and fecal samples were collected daily (between 0800 hours and 0900 hours) and frozen at 20C until assayed. Fecal samples were lyophilized, extracted with 80% methanol, and diluted in buffer before the radioimmunoassay (RIA). Urine samples underwent acid hydrolysis and were diluted in depleted bovine serum. Salivary and lacrimal samples were assayed without the extraction step. Hormonal assays were conducted with a commercial testosterone RIA kit. An androgen peak (&gt;median + 2 interquartile range [IQR]) was observed in all matrices of both animals, although it was less prominent in the lacrimal samples of A-2. However, the fecal androgen peak (A-1 peak = 293.78 ng/g dry feces, median [IQR] = 143.58 [32.38] ng/g dry feces; A-2 peak = 686.72 ng/g dry feces, median [IQR] = 243.82 [193.16] ng/g dry feces) occurred later than urinary (A-1 peak = 648.16 ng/mg creatinine [Cr], median [IQR] = 23.88 [30.44] ng/mg Cr; A-2 peak = 370.44 ng/mg Cr, median [IQR] = 113.87 [117.73] ng/mg Cr) and salivary (A-1 peak = 678.89 pg/ml, median [IQR] = 103.69 [119.86] pg/ml; A-2 peak = 733.71 pg/ml, median [IQR] = 262.92 [211.44] pg/ml) androgen peaks. These intervals appear to be correlated with the long digesta passage time in this species. The salivary and urinary peaks were closely associated. These results demonstrate that androgen concentrations in saliva, urine, or feces samples reflect reliably physiologic events and are a powerful tool for noninvasive reproductive monitoring of Amazonian manatees.
20095940|Fifteen snakes representing seven species with segmental, proliferative osteoarthritis and osteoarthrosis of the spine were presented for examination. All the snakes were captive, privately owned, and fed domestic rodents. Physical examination, radiography, blood culture, bone culture, necropsy, and histopathology were performed on each snake. All the snakes had similar physical examination, radiologic, and necropsy findings. There were three histologic types of lesions: active bacterial osteoarthritis, predominantly noninflammatory osteoarthrosis with multifocal inflammation suggestive of chronic bacterial osteoarthritis, and noninflammatory lesions consistent with osteoarthrosis without evidence of inflammation or bacteria. These findings suggest that all these snakes represent a single disease process, bacterial infection of the vertebrae. The different histologic lesions observed in these snakes may be a continuum of lesions, from acute to chronic. Gram-negative bacteria were isolated from the blood or bone lesions of 8 of the 15 snakes. In six of these eight snakes, Salmonella species were isolated. Gram-positive bacteria (Streptococcus sp.) were isolated from two other snakes. Blood and bone culture results were well correlated, so blood culture may be effective for detecting active bacterial osteoarthritis.
20095544|The long-acting tranquilizers zuclopenthixol decanoate and pipothiazine palmitate were used to calm recently captured red-necked wallabies (Macropus rufogriseus). The two drugs were administered in combination at dose rates of 7.5, 10, and 15 mg/kg, and the response of the wallabies was monitored and compared with an untreated group. Giving both drugs at a dose rate of 10 mg/kg produced the most consistent levels of tranquilization. Tranquilization at all dose rates declined after 10 days. No side effects were observed, although elevated plasma fibrinogen and alkaline phosphatase levels occurred in all animals.
40962243|The aim of this study was to describe the normal electrocardiographic patterns and values in conscious golden eagles (Aquila chrysaetos). The standard bipolar and augmented unipolar limb leads' electrocardiograms were recorded in the golden eagles. The waveforms were analyzed in all leads at 50 mm/sec and at 10 mm = 1 mV to determine P, PR (segment and interval), QRS, ST, and QT durations and P, net QRS complex, and T amplitudes. The polarity of each waveform was tabulated in all leads. The mean electrical axis for the frontal plane was calculated using standard bipolar leads II and III. The mean heart rate was 346.7  14.29 beats/min. The P wave was predominantly positive in standard bipolar leads I and II and augmented unipolar limb leads aVL and aVF. The dominant pattern of waveforms of the QRS complexes were QS in leads I, II, III, and aVF, whereas in leads aVR and aVL, the pattern was always R. The T wave was slightly positive in leads I, II, and aVF. The average value of the heart mean electrical axis was  85.9  7.50. Establishment of normal electrocardiogram values will facilitate a better understanding of electrocardiographic changes seen in many avian diseases.
20096440|Retrospective analyses of banked serum samples and medical records from captive western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) at Lincoln Park Zoo showed that vaccination of gorillas with a human vaccine induced antibody production. No significant relationship was found between the groups that received one, two, or three vaccinations and the probability of seroconversion. These data also suggested that antibodies in western lowland gorillas persist for at least 11 yr. This information is useful in the assessment of vaccination protocols for captive gorillas and in the implementation of preventive care in wild gorilla populations.
20095236|Toxoplasma gondii was identified in an adult male Cuvier's gazelle (Gazella cuvieri). Predominant lesions were hepatic necrosis, pneumonia, and necrosis in adrenal glands and lymph nodes. Numerous tachyzoites were identified in lesions. The diagnosis was confirmed by staining of organisms in tissue sections with anti-T. gondii serum in an immunohistochemical test.
20079494|From May 1987 to September 1994, 19 eastern box turtles (Terrapene carolina carolina) originating from scattered locations on Long Island, New York (USA) were presented with one or more of the following signs: listlessness, ocular and nasal discharge, conjunctivitis, blepharitis, and otitis media. Numerous species of bacteria and yeast were isolated by aerobic culture. Histopathologic findings confirmed chronic active bacterial infections. Toxicologic analyses of livers revealed elevated concentrations of chlordane metabolites in two diseased turtles. A third turtle liver contained residues of endosulfan sulfate. Immunosuppressive effects of low-level exposure to organochlorines, including chlordane and endosulfan, could be involved in the pathogenesis of the observed infections.
41262662|In September 2008, two ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta), comprising a mother-daughter pair, at the Greenville Zoo, Greenville, South Carolina, USA, were diagnosed with cuterebrid myiasis (Diptera: Oestridae) subsequent to sudden death of the adult lemur. On necropsy, a single bot warble was discovered in the subcutis of the axillary region. Histopathology revealed a severe eosinophilic bronchopneumonia. The juvenile lemur was inspected and found to have warbles on three separate dates in late September. One representative bot fly larva was identified as a Cuterebra sp. that normally infests lagomorphs in the southeastern United States. Cuterebrid myiasis is rarely reported in lemurs and has not been previously associated with pneumonia or death in these animals.
20095891|An 11-yr-old captive-born female striped hyena (Hyaena hyaena) acutely developed lameness and swelling of the left front foot with anorexia, depression, and lethargy. Hematologic evaluation revealed regenerative anemia, azotemia, and other mild serum electrolyte and mineral abnormalities. Twenty radiographically visible coins and 10 coin fragments were removed by laparotomy and gastrotomy following unsuccessful medical therapy. The animal died during anesthetic recovery. Zinc serum levels were 41.0 ppm at first presentation and 36.0 ppm at the time of surgery, compared with concentrations of 1.78 ppm and 2.82 ppm for serum taken from this female and a male hyena 3 mo previously. Zinc toxicosis was diagnosed based on the similarity of clinical signs to those described in dogs, presence in the stomach of pennies minted after 1982 (when the zinc content of U.S. pennies was increased substantially), necropsy findings, and elevated serum and liver zinc values. The case highlights the risk posed by penny ingestion for subsequent zinc toxicosis in captive omnivores.
20096394|Two dead, captive green anacondas (Eunectes murinus), including one male and one female, submitted for necropsy were in poor body condition, having multiple, scattered, dark red foci on the scales and mottled lungs. Both snakes had severe mycotic dermatitis. In addition, the male snake had mycotic stomatitis, and the female snake had mycotic pneumonia. Trichophyton sp., Verticillium sp., and Alternaria sp. were isolated from the dermal lesions. The pulmonary lesions were morphologically consistent with Aspergillus sp. Bacterial organisms isolated from skin and internal organs included Chryseobacterium meningosepticum, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Aeromonas hydrophila, and Providencia rettgeri. Mycotic diseases can be devastating to reptiles, and suboptimal husbandry and captivity were likely the predisposing factors that led to opportunistic invasion in these snakes.
20095238|Insular and secondary systemic amyloidosis associated with suspect diabetes mellitus occurred in a mature male De Brazza's guenon (Cercopithecus neglectus). Cholangiohepatitis, cholecystitis, and renal nodular glomerulosclerosis were also observed.
27751698|A 38-yr-old orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus) presented with chronic lethargy and difficulty in locomotion that progressed to weakness, anorexia, and permanent dorsal and/or lateral recumbency. The orangutan was immobilized with ketamine. Abdominal ultrasonography revealed a mass in the caudal portion of the abdomen. Exploratory surgery was performed, but the mass could not be resected. Instead, the mass was drained and omentalized in an attempt to establish continuous drainage after surgery. The only complication was a wound infection that was treated locally with a disinfectant and installation of a drain that was changed every 2 days under anesthesia. Omentalization was successful in providing continuous fluid drainage for this retroperitoneal abscess and required minimal postoperative handling of the animal.
20096717|An adult male black-necked swan (Cygnus melanocoryphus) was evaluated for a routine physical examination and West Nile virus vaccination. Nine days later, the swan was hospitalized for weakness, dehydration, tremors, and leukocytosis. Gradual clinical improvement was seen over a 2-wk course of supportive care. However, the animal became acutely weak and was found dead. Histopathology revealed severe granulomatous pneumonia and air sacculitis with dissemination to the liver, spleen, intestine, and coelom. Mycobacterial infection was confirmed by identification of acid-fast bacilli within tissue sections and by polymerase chain reaction. Concurrent West Nile virus infection was identified in sections of brain by using immunohistochemistry.
20095493|Hematology and serum biochemistry and vitamin levels were studied in 17 captive giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) held at the China Conservation and Research Center for the Giant Panda. Values were similar to those reported from giant pandas at the London Zoo and the National Zoological Park. There were no statistically significant differences (P &gt 0.05) between samples from males and females except for higher total red blood cell counts in males and higher serum triglyceride levels in females. Red blood cell counts and blood urea nitrogen values were linearly correlated with age. Serum values for retinol and -tocopherol in healthy giant pandas are reported for the first time.
20460526|Buprenorphine, a  opioid receptor agonist, is expected to be a suitable analgesic drug for use in reptiles. However, to date, dosage recommendations have been based on anecdotal observations. The aim of this study was to provide baseline pharmacokinetic data in red-eared sliders (Trachemys scripta elegans) targeting a plasma level of 1 ng/ml reported effective for analgesia in humans. Serial blood samples were taken after subcutaneous injection of buprenorphine, and plasma buprenorphine levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Pharmacokinetic parameters of a lower dose (0.02 mg/kg) injected into the forelimb were compared with a higher dose (0.05 mg/kg) given in the same forelimb as well as a lower dose (0.02 mg/kg) given in the hind limb of the same animals with 2 wk between studies. After administration of 0.05 mg/kg in the front limb, 85% of animals maintained the minimum effective plasma level for 24 hr, while only 43% of animals maintained this level after 0.02 mg/kg. After hind limb injection at 0.02 mg/kg, maximum plasma concentrations and areas under the buprenorphine concentration-time curve were less than 20% and 70%, respectively, of values after forelimb injection, consistent with substantial first pass extraction by the liver. Furthermore, a secondary rise in the buprenorphine level was found after having only a hind limb injection, probably from enterohepatic recirculation of glucuronidated drug. In conclusion, buprenorphine dosages of at least 0.075 mg/kg s.i.d. should be appropriate for evaluation of analgesia efficacy, and front limb administration may be preferable to hind limb administration for optimal drug exposure.
20096489|Exertional myopathy developed in three whooping cranes (Grus americana) secondary to routine capture, handling, and trauma. Presumptive diagnosis of exertional myopathy was based on history of recent capture or trauma, clinical signs, and elevation of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, and serum potassium. Treatments were attempted in each case, but ultimately were not successful. Gross and microscopic lesions at necropsy confirmed the diagnosis in each case, with the leg musculature most severely affected. Guidelines for determining prognosis of exertional myopathy in cranes have been included based on the analysis of these cases and others in the literature. As treatment is largely unrewarding, prevention remains the key in controlling exertional myopathy. Identification of predisposing factors and proper handling, immobilization, and transportation techniques can help prevent development of exertional myopathy in cranes.
20096105|Eight African hedgehogs (Atelerix albiventris) were presented with unilateral proptosis. Six animals presented specifically for an ocular problem, whereas two had concurrent neurologic disease. Enucleation and light microscopic examination of tissues was performed in five animals, and euthanasia followed by complete postmortem examination was performed in three animals. Histopathologic findings in all hedgehogs included orbital cellulitis, panophthalmitis, and corneal ulceration, with perforation in seven of eight eyes. The etiology of the orbital cellulitis was not determined, but it appeared to precede proptosis. Orbits in hedgehogs are shallow and the palpebral fissures are large, which may predispose them to proptosis, similar to brachycephalic dogs. This clinical presentation was seen in 15% (8/54) of African hedgehogs presented to the Western College of Veterinary Medicine over a 2-yr period from January 1995 to December 1996 and warrants further investigation.
20095103|An adult male rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) received isoniazid and ethambutol prophylactically for 9 yr and had 120 consecutive negative tuberculin tests, including those at 1, 3, and 6 mo prior to death. Miliary tuberculosis was diagnosed at necropsy. This case illustrates that monkeys that have received anti-tuberculosis chemoprophylaxis may still have tuberculosis and suggests that multidrug chemotherapy may not result in disease resolution.
20095319|An 8-mo-old intact female Western cougar (Felis concolor) was examined for vomiting, periodic regurgitation, and failure to thrive. Physical examination revealed a thin but otherwise normal animal. Survey radiographs revealed a large, saccular dilatation of the esophagus in the cranial thorax. Nonselective angiography identified a vascular ring anomaly constricting the esophagus at the heart base compatible with persistent right aortic arch (PRAA). The ligamentum arteriosum was ligated and divided through a left fourth intercostal thoracotomy. Recovery was uneventful. Two months after surgery the cougar had gained 9 kg and had experienced no further episodes of regurgitation. Persistent right aortic arch is the most common vascular ring anomaly reported in domestic cats; however, PRAA has not been reported in nondomestic felids. The presentation of the disorder in this cougar and its management were identical to that reported for domestic dogs and cats.
40665136|The objective of this study was to determine the pharmacokinetic parameters of orally administered terbinafine hydrochloride based on 3, 7, and 15 mg/kg single-as well as multiple-dosage trials in order to calculate dosing requirements for potential treatment of aspergillosis in African penguins (Spheniscus demersus). Ten adult African penguins were used in each of these trials, with a 2-wk washout period between trials. Mean plasma concentrations of terbinafine peaked in approximately 4 hrs at 0.11  0.017 g/ml (mean  SD) following administration of 3 mg/kg terbinafine, while 7 mg/kg and 15 mg/kg dosages resulted in peak plasma concentrations of 0.37  0.105 and 0.33  0.054 g/ml, respectively. The volume of distribution increased with increasing dosages, being 37  28.5, 40  28.1, and 52  18.6 mg/L for 3, 7, and 15 mg/kg doses, respectively. The mean half-life was biphasic with initial terminal half-life (t  ) values of 9.9  4.5, 17.2  4.9 and 16.9  5.4 hrs, for 3, 7, and 15 mg/kg doses, respectively. A rapid first elimination phase was followed by a slower second phase, and final elimination was estimated to be 136  9.7 and 131  9.9 hrs, for 7 and 15 mg/kg doses, respectively. Linearity was demonstrated for area under the curve but not for peak plasma concentrations for the three dosages used. Calculations based on pharmacokinetic parameter values indicate that a 15 mg/kg terbinafine q24h dosage regimen would result in steady-state trough plasma concentrations above the minimum inhibitory concentration (0.8-1.6 g/ml), and this dosage is recommended as a potential treatment option for aspergillosis in penguins. However, additional research is required to determine both treatment efficacy and safety.
20095277|Many organisms, from viruses to metazoan parasites, can be spread when domesticated or nondomesticated birds are moved from one locality to another. Theoretically, potential pathogens might establish themselves in released wild birds or be spread from them to other species. There are very few fully substantiated accounts of disease problems associated with translocation or releases of wild birds, and much of the "evidence" has been circumstantial. Serious study of the subject has been confined to Hawaii, Mauritius, and a few other locations. Although such research has added weight to the thesis that infectious disease may contribute to a decline in free-living populations, dissemination of organisms by released birds has generally not been confirmed. The paucity of sound data on this subject is probably attributable to the failure to adequately monitor pathogens and disease in birds prior to and following release. More rigorous research is needed to evaluate the true role of released birds in the introduction and dissemination of pathogenic organisms.
40962305|Several different strains of elephant endotheliotropic herpes virus-1 (EEHV-1) have been identified via polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques in both African and Asian elephants. EEHV-1 has been identified in both cutaneous lesions in healthy African elephants and fatal cases of hemorrhagic syndrome in Asian elephants. However, until now, no EEHV-1 strain has been identified or associated with otherwise healthy Asian elephants. This article describes recurrent nonendothelial lesions associated with EEHV-1 infection in a herd of Asian elephants not exhibiting fatal hemorrhagic syndrome. Genotypes of EEHV-1 strains, based on viral DNA polymerase and glycoprotein B, associated with fatal hemorrhagic syndrome, were compared to those identified in nonendothelial lesions. The same EEHV-1 genotypes were identified in fatal cases and mucosal lesions in otherwise healthy Asian elephants in this herd. Further studies of the Asian elephant immune system and virologie studies to determine the triggers of tissue tropism are needed before any conclusion can be reached.
20096122|Two frozen, raw horse meat-based diets fed to captive exotic felids at Brookfield Zoo were irradiated to determine the extent of microbial destruction and whether radiation treatment would affect consumption and/or fecal consistency in exotic cats. Fifteen cats, two African lions (Panthera leo), two Amur tigers (Panthera tigris altaica), one Amur leopard (Panthera pardus orientalis), two clouded leopards (Neofelis nebulosa), two caracals (Felis caracal), one bobcat (Felis rufus), and five fishing cats (Felis viverrinus), housed at Brookfield Zoo were fed nonirradiated and irradiated raw diets containing horse meat with cereal products and fortified with nutrients: Nebraska Brand Feline and/or Canine Diet (Animal Spectrum, North Platte, Nebraska 69103, USA). Baseline data were obtained during a 2-wk control period (nonirradiated diets), which was followed by a 4-wk period of feeding comparable irradiated diets. Feed intake and fecal consistency data were collected. An estimated radiation dose range of 0.5-3.9 kilograys reduced most microbial populations, depending on specific diet and microbe type. Irradiation had no overall effect on either feed consumption or fecal consistency in captive exotic cats, regardless of species, age, sex, or body mass. Data indicate that irradiation of frozen horse meat-based diets (packaged in 2.2-kg portions) result in microbial destruction in these products but that product storage time between irradiation and sampling may also affect microbial reduction. However, irradiation would be an appropriate method for reducing potentially pathologic bacteria in raw meat fed to exotic cats.
20096010|Information on incidences of camel (Camelus dromedarius) diseases in Jordan is scarce. In this survey, 369 live and 156 slaughtered camels were examined in four Jordanian geographic regions and the proportion of diseased camels was calculated. Intestinal parasite ova were detected in 98% of camels; one or more species of external parasites were found on the skin of all camels; 33% had nasal myiasis; and hydatid cysts were identified in 44% of the slaughtered animals. Sarcoptic mange (Sarcoptes scabiei var. cameli) and trypanasomiasis, two diseases of economic importance, were also diagnosed in 83% and 33% of the 32 and 257 examined camels, respectively. Rabies virus was detected in eight camels by use of fluorescent antibody examination of brain tissues. Foreign-body accumulation within the first and second stomach compartments was the predominant gastrointestinal disease of slaughtered adult camels (22%). Ten percent of slaughtered camels had bacterial pneumonia, with Pasteurella hemolytica most often isolated (56% of pneumonic lungs). Further investigation into the relationship between parasite burden and health in camels is required to assess the significance of the high prevalence of parasites.
20095265|An adult dusky leaf monkey (Presbytis obscurus) died after having intermittent watery diarrhea for 1 wk. Multiple gastric ulcers of various sizes and discrete to coalescing hepatic necrosis were observed. Trophozoites of Entamoeba histolytica were seen at the periphery of the lesions.
20095820|Aspergillosis is a common cause of mortality in captive birds, particularly in recently imported birds or captive chicks and their parents. Use of the Andersen N-6 single-stage viable air sampler in the North Carolina Zoological Park (NCZP) R.J.R. Nabisco Rocky Coast Alcid Exhibit before and after the introduction of birds allowed a unique study of the mycological content of the air in a developing self-contained ecosystem. The Alcid Exhibit had a median count of 17 colony-forming-units (CFU)/m of air in comparison to 200-500 CFU/m and 1,000-3,500 CFU/m reported in human dwellings and the NCZP R.J. Reynolds Forest Aviary, respectively. Cladosporium and Penicillium represented 21.3% and Aspergillus 1.08% of the fungi collected. During the study, no respiratory mycoses were reported in any of the alcids. Continuous high-efficiency particulate air filtration, maintenance of low exhibit air temperatures, and an environment with little residual organic material capable of supporting fungal growth were important factors contributing to low colony counts. All colony counts &gt100 CFU/m in the exhibit were related to the apparent introduction of fungi from outside the facility. A reduction in the number of fungi transported from an external source into enclosed cool-temperature aviaries may be sufficient to avoid outbreaks of aspergillosis.
20095422|Two unrelated domestic ferrets (Mustela putorius furo) were presented with a complaint of abdominal distention. At surgery in one case and at necropsy in the other, proliferative neoplasms involving the peritoneum were identified. The neoplasms in both cases were composed of a biphasic population of cells that appeared both epithelial and mesenchymal in various areas of the tumors. Ultrastructural examination revealed long microvilli, interdigitating cytoplasmic membranes, desmosomes, and tonofilaments. Neoplastic cells expressed immunohistochemical reactivity for both cytokeratin and vimentin intermediate filaments. This is the first description of the histologic, ultrastructural, and immunohistochemical appearance of mesothelioma in the ferret.
20096460|Fennec foxes (Vulpes zerda) and meerkats (Suricata suricatta) are considered to be susceptible to canine distemper virus (CDV) infection. Although no definitive clinical cases of natural CDV infections have been reported, mortalities due to CDV have been suspected and are reported in other closely related species. A commercially available monovalent, live, canarypox-vectored CDV vaccine induced neutralizing antibody titers that were maintained for at least a year in both fennec foxes and meerkats.
20096182|Second-generation anticoagulant rodenticides can give rise to unexpected casualties in nontarget species in zoos. The first two offspring of a pair of turkey vultures (Cathartes aura) died of brodifacoum toxicosis. The adult birds fed rodenticide-killed mice to their offspring. There are previous case reports of small carnivorous birds (Dacelo novae-guinae and Tockus deckeni) killed eating poisoned (difenacoum and brodifacoum) mice. Even a granivorous species (Rollulus roulroul) died, probably by contamination of its food by cockroaches that transported the rodenticide.
20095538|An anatomic study of the gross internal viscera of the octopus is presented, based on dissections of 12 animals of two species, Octopus bimaculoides and Octopus digueti. In situ visceral anatomy of the digestive, reproductive, circulatory, and excretory systems from six specimens of each species was examined to provide a guide for clinicians performing diagnostic or surgical proceedures and for pathologists performing necropsy examinations. The internal visceral anatomy of O. bimaculoides is very similar to that of O. digueti, with subtle variations between and within the two species, and it serves as a good general model for the genus Octopus. The determination of the gender of an octopus by external examination is difficult. A more reliable means is through internal examination. The free edge of the ventral mantle musculature can be opened, revealing a penis on the left side of the midline in males or paired oviducts, one on each side of the midline, in females. This procedure can facilitate captive breeding programs.
20094909|Struvite uroliths predominate among urinary calculi reported in mink (Mustela vison), ferrets (Mustela putorius furo), and other weasels of the Mustelidae. The main constituent of struvite (
20096174|We chemically restrained fishers (Martes pennanti) as part of a captive-management protocol designed to facilitate veterinary evaluation and treatment, and conditioning on a high-calorie diet before reintroduction in Pennsylvania. We compared the safety and efficacy of ketamine (KET) and medetomidine-ketamine (MED-KET) by monitoring immobilization intervals (induction time, down time, alert time, and recovery time) and physiologic responses (pluse rate, respiration rate, rectal temperature, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, and mean arterial pressure) during restraint. We administered MED-KET at 0.4 mg MED combined with 20.0 mg KET to males and at 0.2 mg MED combined with 10.0 mg KET to females. The x  SD dosages were MED 0.07  0.008 mg/kg + KET 3.7  0.5 mg/kg for males and MED 0.07  0.007 mg/kg + KET 3.6  0.3 mg/kg for females. KET alone was administered at 100.0 mg to males and at 50.0 mg to females, resulting in x  SD dosages of 18.7  1.8 mg/kg for males and 19.2  2.2 mg/kg for females. Mean induction time did not differ between fishers restrained with MED-KET (4.6 min) and KET (4.5 min). However, compared with KET, MED-KET resulted in longer mean down time (36.2 vs. 142.2 min), alert time (40.8 vs. 146.8), and recovery time (81.1 vs. 199.4 min). Fishers that received MED-KET were mildly bradycardic and hypertensive compared with those that received KET. Although KET resulted in increased muscle tension and labored respiration, it would be effective for performing brief, noninvasive procedures for fishers because induction was rapid, recovery was short and calm, anesthesia was not profound, and physiologic response was generally expected on the basis of known drug pharmacology. Medetomidine-ketamine also immobilized fishers effectively, providing rapid induction, physiologic response typical to  agonism, calm recovery, and possibly a plane of anesthesia adequate for invasive procedures such as tooth removal or surgery.
20095855|Chronic severe subclinical systemic hypertension was diagnosed in a 28-yr-old male western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla). Thoracic radiography, electrocardiography, and echocardiography revealed an enlarged heart with a hypertrophied left ventricle, mitral regurgitation, and a persistent left bundle branch block. Enalapril, later combined with nifedipine, was of some value in reducing the hypertension, with partial reversal of cardiac enlargement and resolution of the bundle branch block. Two years after initiation of treatment, the gorilla developed lethargy and dyspnea. The diagnosis of heart failure was confirmed under anesthesia; the gorilla did not recover and was euthanized. Postmortem examination confirmed congestive heart failure with chronic, fibrosing cardiomyopathy similar to that in other gorillas.
20095850|Digital subtraction angiography was used to map the venous blood flow from the pelvic limb and the tail in the common green iguana (Iguana iguana). The majority of blood returning from the pelvic limb bypassed the kidney and entered the general circulation, whereas venous blood flow from the tail entered the renal portal circulation. No evidence was found of a renal portal valve.
20460433|Tooth wear is often suggested as an important factor limiting the life span of free-ranging wildlife. Given the frequent occurrence of poor dental health in captive animals reported in the literature, one would expect tooth health to be a limiting factor in captivity as well. Additionally, it could be assumed that brachydont (browsing) animals are more susceptible to dental health problems than are hypsodont (grazing) animals, given current indications for systematic increased tooth wear in some browsing species. A pilot survey of necropsy reports of adult captive wild ruminants (n = 294, 12 species) in one facility was performed in order to test these hypotheses and to calculate the incidence of irregular tooth wear. The overall incidence of irregular tooth wear was 20%, with a very high proportion of reports that did not mention the teeth at all. In contrast to this study's hypotheses, animals with irregular tooth wear were older than animals that died from other causes, indicating that reaching above-average age was a prerequisite for the development of reported abnormalities in this data set. A grazing species (blackbuck, Antilope cervicapra) was most affected, whereas two browsing species were not affected. Affected species had been regularly fed on sandy soil, whereas browsers had received feeds from racks, indicating that husbandry practices are most important for dental health. There was a high proportion of reported serous fat atrophy in animals with irregular tooth wear, indicating the clinical relevance of the problem. On average, adult individuals of the species investigated reached 41% of the maximum reported life span. Although this number appears low, the lack of comparative data from other facilities does not allow for conclusions on the adequacy of the husbandry practices used.
20460427|North American river otters (Lontra canadensis) were trapped in a managed marsh in northern California between July and November of 1998. Five trap types using several set configurations were utilized in this study. Otters were successfully captured with minimal injury and a relatively high trap rate (1 capture per 48 trap nights), with the use of No. 1.5 and No. 1.75 double-coil spring traps, and No. 11 double long spring traps on short chains in blind land sets, or in bank sets on one-way cables leading to land-buried stakes. Only 3 of 14 captures incurred more than minimal injuries, and all 3 of these were exacerbated by complications from traps attached to long chains. Otters were captured at any time of day, although activity appeared lowered between 0900 and 1900 hours. Otters were anesthetized for handling. Monitoring results and anesthetic complications are reported for 14 captures. Ketamine (15 mg/kg) and midazolam (0.5 mg/kg) provided a wide margin of safety, rapid induction at low injection volume, good anesthetic quality, handling time of about 30 min, and few complications. White blood cell counts were taken and appeared high relative to reported values in other studies. This trend is likely attributable to blood draws immediately after the animal had been held in a trap for several hours, in contrast to most other studies, in which blood was drawn days to weeks after being held in captivity.
20096067|Eimeria gruis and Eimeria reichenowi are common coccidial parasites of a number of species of cranes. Until recently, little was known about either the site for invasion or the dynamics of early development of the crane coccidia because of the difficulty of identifying sporozoites and early developmental stages of these parasites by conventional staining methods. In the present study, monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) elicited against Eimeria spp. of chickens and turkeys were found to cross-react with sporozoites and developmental stages of E. reichenowi in the tissues of Florida sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis). With these Mabs, E. reichenowi sporozoites were found in specimens taken at 6 hr postinoculation (PI) from just proximal to Meckel's diverticulum in the jejunum to the ileocecal juncture. Fewer were found in the ceca and rectum and none in the duodenal loop. At 24 hr PI, there were markedly fewer sporozoites and their location had shifted to the duodenum. No stages were seen in intestinal cells at 5 days PI (DPI), but trophozoites had developed in the liver and spleen. At 10 DPI, sexual stages were detected in the intestine from the duodenal loop through Meckel's diverticulum but not in other organs. By 14 DPI, numerous developmental stages were detected in the intestine (ceca and jejunum), liver, and lungs but not in the heart, kidney, or brain. The number, location, and maturity of the stages in the ceca differed markedly from those in the jejunum.
20095218|Four cases of nodular typhlitis caused by Heterakis isolonche were observed in a mixed flock of pheasants (Crossoptilon aritum, C. mantchuricum, and Syrmaticus soemmerringii) from the Santillana del Mar Zoo. Some of the nodules presented a sarcomatous appearance, and special staining procedures, including immunoperoxidase to S-100 protein and desmin, were performed. The whorllike pattern formed by pleomorphic spindle-shaped cells, the absence of cross striations, collagen, and elastic fibers, and a negative immunostaining for S-100 protein and positive immunostaining for desmin are evidence of a benign neoplasm of smooth muscle origin (leiomyoma).
20095611|Starting about 4 mo before parturition, repeated ultrasonographic examinations were performed on a pregnant 27-yr-old bonobo (Pan paniscus). The bonobo was operant conditioned to allow all examinations to be performed while awake and unrestrained. To assess fetal growth and health, attempts were made to obtain biparietal diameter, head circumference, abdominal circumference, and femur length measurements at each examination. Once parturition had occurred, these measurements were plotted against time to produce fetal growth curves for the last 4 mo of bonobo gestation.
20095876|As part of an ongoing study to determine the basis for high prevalences of veno-occlusive disease, glomerulosclerosis, and chronic lymphoplasmacytic gastritis in cheetahs, a retrospective pathology survey of captive cheetahs in the Republic of South Africa (RSA) was conducted. The RSA population was selected because its genetic composition and captive management were similar to those of the cheetah population in U.S. zoos, in which these diseases are common. For this study, archived pathology materials at the University of Pretoria Faculty of Veterinary Sciences in Onderstepoort and the Faculty of Veterinary Science, MEDUNSA, from 69 cheetahs that died between 1975 and 1995 were reviewed, and prevalences of common lesions were compared with those in the U.S. population. Gastritis associated with Helicobacter-like organisms was the most prevalent disease, accounting for close to 40% of the mortalities, including several cheetahs &lt3 yr old. Glomerulosclerosis and veno-occlusive disease also were major causes of mortality in RSA cheetahs. RSA cheetahs also had adrenal cortical hyperplasia, cardiac fibrosis, lymphocytic depletion of the spleen, systemic amyloidosis, and splenic myelolipomas. The presence in the captive RSA cheetah population of the same unusual diseases that are common in U.S. cheetahs suggests a species predilection to develop these diseases in captivity.
20460577|In this report, we describe a simple, safe, and efficacious technique for orchiectomy and scrotal ablation with the use of a carbon dioxide light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation (laser) in sugar gliders (Petaurus breviceps). The study population included nine sugar gliders, ages 2-24 mo, presented for orchiectomy. After induction of general anesthesia, orchiectomy and scrotal ablation were performed by severing the scrotal stalk with the laser. All sugar gliders were discharged the same day. Mean anesthesia time was 6.09  0.94 min. Mean surgery time was 15.11  8.39 sec, and mean recovery time was 4.11  3.60 min. With an outlier removed, mean recovery time was 2.95  1.03 min. No serious postoperative surgical complications were observed. The technique described is a simple procedure with rapid surgical and recovery times that has the potential to become the standard procedure for orchiectomy and scrotal ablation in sugar gliders.
20095254|Between May 1989 and July 1991, a total of nine spotted pacas (Cuniculus paca) and two orange-rumped agoutis (Dasyprocta aguti) died at the Denver Zoological Gardens, the Cleveland Metropark Zoo, and the Roger Williams Park Zoo. At each institution, the deaths were a consequence of extensive mineralization of soft tissues, including the kidneys, which led to renal failure. Each of the rodents had been displayed in mixed-species exhibits that included New World primates and had had access in these exhibits to all food items. Some New World primates in captivity appear to have a high requirement for dietary vitamin D when denied access to ultraviolet irradiation of the appropriate wavelengths. Commercial formulations for marmoset and primate diets contain levels of vitamin D that might be toxic to other species. After the loss of the first paca and agouti at the Denver Zoo, physical examinations were conducted on the remaining pacas. The effect of lowering dietary vitamin D content on serum calcium, phosphorus, and the calcium-phosphorus ion product was evaluated in one juvenile female paca at the Denver Zoo. The deaths of these 11 New World rodents were suspected to have been caused by consumption of foods with an excessive amount of vitamin D.
20096201|Thirteen wild-caught white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) from two different holding sites were chemically immobilized to facilitate capture, processing, and translocation to a new facility. The deer were divided into two treatment groups on the basis of age and received i.m. injections of the immobilizing agents via remote drug delivery systems. Group 1 (&lt1 yr old; n = 6) animals were immobilized with a combination of xylazine 1 mg/kg i.m. and azaperone 0.3 mg/kg i.m. At the end of the procedure the deer received zuclopenthixol acetate 1 mg/kg i.m. and (to antagonize the xylazine) tolazoline 2 mg/kg i.m. Group 2 (&gt1 yr old; n = 7) deer were administered xylazine 1 mg/kg i.m., tiletamine-zolazepam 1 mg/kg i.m., and ketamine 1 mg/kg i.m. The deer in this group received a combination of azaperone 0.3 mg/kg i.m. and zuclopenthixol acetate 1 mg/kg i.m. before reversal with tolazoline 2 mg/kg i.m. All deer were recovered in a trailer before being moved in small groups to the new facility and released into the new enclosures. Azaperone and zuclopenthixol acetate provided short- and long-term relief from anxiety and allowed the animals to gradually become familiar with their new surroundings without excitement, injuries, or mortalities. Two deer exhibited mild signs of extrapyramidal side effects, which suggests that they may have received a relative overdose of the tranquilizers.
20095522|A 2-mo-old island flying fox (Pteropus hypomelanus) died from toxemia secondary to a small intestinal volvulus associated with severe toxocariasis. The stomach, duodenum, and anterior half of the jejunum were markedly distended by 20 nematodes (12-14 cm in length) identified as Toxocara pteropodis.
20096680|A 10-yr-old binturong (Arctictis binturong) developed an acute onset of hind limb paralysis. Neurological examination revealed sensorimotor paraplegia. Myelography and computed tomography demonstrated a ventrolateral extradural compression of the spinal cord centered over the L3-L4 intervertebral disc space. Spinal decompression was performed via hemilaminectomy and excision of degenerate nucleus pulposus, confirmed by histopathologic examination. The binturong regained slight motor function by day 8 postoperatively but succumbed to pancreatitis 19 days postoperatively.
20096323|Captive juvenile African black-footed penguins (Spheniscus demersus) housed in an outdoor enclosure at the Baltimore Zoo have an average 50% mortality from avian malarial (Plasmodium sp.) infection each year without intense monitoring for disease and chemotherapeutic intervention. During the 1996 malaria transmission season, the safety and efficacy of an anti-circumsporozoite (CSP) DNA vaccine encoding the Plasmodium gallinaceum CSP protein against P. relictum were studied. The goal was to reduce clinical disease and death without initiating sterile immunity after release into an area with stable, endemic avian malaria. The birds were monitored for adverse clinical signs associated with vaccination, the stimulation of an anti-CSP antibody response, and protection afforded by the vaccine. The presence of P. relictum in trapped culicine mosquitoes within the penguin enclosure was monitored to assess parasite pressure. Among the vaccinated penguins, the parasitemia rate dropped from approximately 50% to approximately 17% despite intense parasite pressure, as determined by mosquito infection rate. During the year of the vaccine trial, no mortalities due to malaria occurred and no undesirable vaccination side effects occurred. This is the first trial of an antimalarial vaccine in a captive penguin colony.
20096104|The timing of the onset of puberty, duration of seasonal ovulatory activity, and length of postpartum anestrus were studied by means of blood plasma progesterone concentrations in a flock of European female mouflons (Ovis gmelini musimon) maintained in captivity under natural photoperiod (4025N). Concentrations of progesterone in the peripheral blood were determined by radioimmunoassay in samples collected from the jugular vein twice a week. First ovulations in the breeding season were highly synchronized and occurred in mid-October. In contrast, the cessation of ovulatory cycles showed significant variation among females and extended from February to May, depending on age, with 2-yr-old animals exhibiting the longest anovulatory period (P &lt 0.01). When lambing occurred within the breeding season (February-April), 12 out of 26 animals had their first ovulation 25  1.8 days after parturition. The 14 late-lambing females had the first postpartum ovulation delayed until the next breeding season. March/April-born mouflon lambs that reached a minimum threshold body weight (23.8  0.6 kg) in their first breeding season reached puberty at 8 mo of age. In those with slower growth rates, however, the prepubertal period was extended throughout the first breeding and nonbreeding seasons, reaching puberty during the breeding season of the following year at 19 mo of age and 27  0.3 kg body weight. Further, attainment of puberty in ewe lambs born in June/July was also delayed until the breeding season of the following year, when animals had reached a threshold body weight at 17 mo of age.
20095166|Two adult female llamas (Lama glama) were inoculated orally with meningeal worm (Parelaphostrongylus tenuis) larvae to determine the effects of infection. One llama given 48 larvae developed paralysis 51 days after inoculation and was euthanized. A second llama given six larvae developed incoordination and hypermetria 51-57 days after inoculation and died during transport 65 days after inoculation. Infection in both llamas was characterized by incoordination, hypermetria, reluctance to stand, eosinophilia of cerebrospinal fluid, and severe meningoencephalomyelitis associated with migrating P. tenuis larvae. Based on these experimental infections, signs and lesions occur within 2 mo of infection and can be fatal in llamas.
20460582|This is a case report of natural infection with Besnoitia darlingi in a Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana) in Louisiana. Clinical pathologic data included a severe nonregenerative anemia, inflammatory leukogram, increased hepatocellular leakage enzymes, renal azotemia, hyperkalemia, hypoglycemia, hypoalbuminemia, and proteinuria. Tissue cysts containing bradyzoites were found in the majority of organs, especially the skin, mucous membranes, kidneys, adrenals, lungs, and heart. Images of the bradyzoites obtained by transmission electron microscopy were consistent with the previously described ultrastructure of Besnoitia darlingi. This opossum also suffered from an open phalangeal fracture and concurrent gastrointestinal parasites. Histopathologic findings included a glomerulonephritis and hepatic necrosis.
20460354|Serum lipid levels were measured in healthy captive wild canids and ursids, and the values were compared with previously published data. Serum lipid levels were evaluated in blood samples collected from eight African wild dogs (Lycaon pictus), three arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus), nine gray wolves (Canis lupus), four maned wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus), two Mexican wolves (Canis lupus baleiyi), nine red wolves (Canis rufus), two brown bears (Ursus arctos), six polar bears (Ursus maritimus), six spectacled bears (Tremarctos ornatus), and five sun bears (Ursus malayanus). Samples were analyzed for total cholesterol, triacylglycerides, high-density lipoprotein--cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein--cholesterol. Although the results showed a great variation among species, circulating lipids appeared especially high, sometimes extremely so, in the spectacled bears, polar bears, sun bears, and maned wolves compared with all other species sampled. The study provides a substantial basis for comparing lipid levels in presumed healthy animals and indicates a need for controlled study of the effects of diet on circulating lipid levels.
40962269|In this study, serum samples of 203 animals from different locations, from zoos and breeding facilities from the north and northeast regions of Brazil, were analyzed for the presence of anti-Toxoplasma gondii antibodies by the modified agglutination test (MAT) with a cutoff of 1: 25. Of the sampled animals, 184 were adult mammals of both sexes and 19 were birds. Antibodies were found in 61 of 184 mammals, and no association between sex and age of the animals and the presence of T. gondii antibodies was observed (P < 0.05). Anti-T. gondii antibodies were not found in birds. Toxoplasma gondii was detected in Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris) for the first time.
20460291|To determine exposure of wild and captive black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) to Leptospira interrogans and to investigate the role of leptospirosis in cases of hemolytic anemia seen in captive black rhinoceroses, serum samples from 63 free-ranging and 29 captive black rhinoceroses were tested for antibodies against L. interrogans. A microscopic agglutination test was used to detect antibodies against eight serovars. Free-ranging black rhinoceroses had low levels of antibody against various serovars of L. interrogans tested. The incidence of antibodies and the serovars involved varied in rhinoceroses captured in different geographic and ecological areas. Serum was tested from nonvaccinated captive rhinoceroses and from those that had been vaccinated with a pentavalent leptospiral vaccine. Leptospiral titers in nonvaccinated captive rhinoceroses were generally low, even in rhinoceroses that had survived or been exposed to mild episodes of hemolytic anemia. Postvaccination titer responses were similar to those expected in domestic species. Biannual vaccination with a leptospiral vaccine is recommended. To further investigate the role of leptospirosis in hemolytic anemia, a fluorescent antibody test was done on frozen liver tissue from eight captive black rhinoceroses (four of eight animals died of acute hemolytic anemia) to detect the presence of L. interrogans. Leptospires were detected in the liver of three of four black rhinoceroses that died of hemolytic anemia and in another rhinoceros that died of complications of ulcerative skin disease.
20096012|The effectiveness of anthelmintics was evaluated in four herds of captive ruminants, wapiti (Cervus elaphus), Armenian red sheep (Ovis orientalis), giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis), and pronghorn (Antilocapra americana), by the use of fecal egg reduction tests (FERTs) and a commercial larval development assay (LDA) designed to evaluate susceptibility or resistance of nematodes to anthelmintics. Haemonchus sp. was the predominant nematode in the red sheep, giraffe, and pronghorn herds, whereas Ostertagia sp. and Trichostrongylus sp. were predominant in the wapiti. The LDA data indicated susceptibility by the worms to benzimidazoles except in the red sheep flock, which showed a high level of resistance. High levels of resistance to levamisole were seen in the worm populations from the wapiti and red sheep, moderate resistance in the pronghorn herd, and susceptibility in the giraffe herd. Worms were susceptible in all four herds to a combination of benzimidazole/levamisole. There was suspected avermectin resistance by Trichostrongylus sp. in the wapiti herd and by Haemonchus sp. in the giraffe. The FERTs agreed with the LDA in showing the Haemonchus in the giraffe was susceptible to fenbendazole and had suspected resistance to ivermectin, whereas Haemonchus in the red sheep and pronghorn were susceptible to ivermectin. There was correlation between the tests evaluating anthelmintics. The LDA is useful as a screening test in the selection of an anthelmintic for use in grazing ruminants, but the effectiveness of a drug in a host species may depend as much on the dose used, and the method of administration, as it does on the parasite's sensitivity to the anthelmintic.
20460404|Captive brown brocket deer (Mazama gouazoubira) were manually restrained to assess tear production by the Schirmer tear test I to measure intraocular pressure by applanation tonometry, to examine ocular conjunctival epithelial cells via cytologic and histologic samples, and to survey ocular conjunctival microflora by microbiologic culture. The mean value for the Schirmer tear test I was 8.9  1.8 mm/min, and the mean intraocular pressure was 15.3  3.1 mm Hg. Conjunctival epithelium contained stratified pavimentous layers of cells, and the microflora consisted of predominantly gram-positive bacteria.
20460368|Ophthalmic examination under anesthesia of a 5-yr-old, captive, male New Zealand fur seal (Arctocephalus forsteri) with reduced visual capacity revealed bilateral cataracts. Surgical extraction of the lenses was performed by phacofragmentation. Preoperative mydriasis was unsuccessful using common topical mydriatic agents. Intraoperative intracameral epinephrine 1:10,000 produced minimal pupillary dilation, but excellent dilation was achieved with intracameral epinephrine at 1:1,000. Postoperative uveitis was controlled with oral prednisolone. Postoperative complications included generalized corneal edema persisting for approximately 1 wk and corneal ulceration caused by the lateral canthotomy sutures. Vision was restored in both eyes.
20460339|A 14-wk-old female llama (Lama glama) developed progressive neurologic disease characterized by stiff gait, circling, decreased mentation, and seizures. At necropsy, lesions were limited to the brain and consisted of bilateral necrosis of the cortical gray matter of the occipital lobes of the cerebral cortex. The primary microscopic alteration was bilateral laminar cerebrocortical necrosis, affecting mainly the deep laminae. Clinical disease, and gross and microscopic lesions were consistent with those of polioencephalomalacia.
20460571|On 2 December 2006, a heavy infestation of the parasitic hyperiid amphipods Hyperia medusarum and Lestrigonus shoemakeri was discovered in the sea nettles (Chrysaora fuscescens) exhibit at the Tennessee Aquarium. Pretreatment trials that exposed moon jellyfish (Aurelia aurita) and sea nettles to therapeutic levels of diflubenzuron confirmed that the treatment would be tolerated by these species of jellyfish. The exhibit tank was dosed with a 0.03 mg/L concentration of diflubenzuron for 7 days, after which the medication was removed by filtration. An arbitrarily chosen subset from the sea nettle exhibit was sampled regularly over the next 8 wk to monitor the parasite population. The average number of amphipods per jellyfish sampled decreased throughout the treatment and sampling period. No live amphipods were observed 6 wk after the start of treatment, and no negative side effects were observed in the sea nettles. The use of diflubenzuron to eradicate hyperiid parasites from scyphomedusae is a safe and useful option when properly applied in a controlled environment.
20460356|Glossal stomatitis was observed in a Sudan plated lizard (Gerrhosaurus major) with severe dyspnea. On necropsy, intranuclear inclusion bodies were seen in the periglottal lingual epithelium. Labial stomatitis was seen in a second Sudan plated lizard and a black-lined plated lizard (G. nigrolineatus). Degenerate polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers targeting a conserved region of herpesvirus DNA--dependent DNA polymerase gene were used to amplify products from lesions from each lizard. Nucleotide sequencing of the PCR products showed that the sequence from each lizard was unique. Phylogenetic and comparative sequence analyses suggest that these viruses are novel members of the subfamily Alphaherpesvirinae, and they are here termed gerrhosaurid herpesviruses 1-3. Results of our analyses suggest that the genus Gerrhosaurus can be infected by these novel herpesviruses.
20094935|Ten pigeons (Columba livia) were used to determine the usefulness of packed cell volume (PCV), total solids (TS), serum sodium (Na), serum potassium (K), and osmolality for monitoring dehydration and rehydration. Birds were deprived of water for 24 or 48 hr following baseline blood value determinations. Water deprivation decreased (P &lt 0.05) body weight and increased total solids and serum osmolality. No changes (P &gt 0.05) were observed in PCV, Na, or K. When birds were not treated with any fluids following water deprivation (controls), TS and osmolality decreased (P &lt 0.05). When birds were treated with lactated Ringer's solution given orally or s.c., no differences (P &gt 0.05) were noted with respect to controls. Those treated with 5% dextrose given orally had decreased (P &lt 0.05) serum osmolality and Na. When treated with s.c. 5% dextrose, PCV and TS increased (P &lt 0.05), while serum Na and osmolality decreased (P &lt 0.05). Total solids and osmolality were useful in monitoring hydration status; however, an accurate interpretation of TS requires a knowledge of individual baseline values, which appear to vary considerably. Oral administration of 5% dextrose appears to be the most effective treatment studied for restoring fluid deficits rapidly, whereas administering 5% dextrose s.c. is contraindicated in dehydrated birds.
20095187|Fecal samples were collected from a breeding group of red lechwe (Kobus leche leche) at Edinburgh Zoo between August 1986 and February 1987 and were examined for the presence of coccidia and other intestinal parasites. Coccidial oocysts were seen in samples from a 5-day-old calf suffering from dysentery, although Escherichia coli was also present. Coccidia were not detected again until calves were &gt3 wk of age, at which point all samples were positive and oocyst counts reached a maximum of 7.4 
27751690|Seventy-two serum samples were collected from 14 healthy African elephants (Loxodonta africana), including three calves, to test for 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] as well as for performing biochemical panels. Samples were collected between July 1997 and January 2008 to establish normal 25(OH)D values for the species and to examine the relationship of season and time on these values. Although the number of samples from the calves was small (n = 7), there was no statistically significant difference in the mean 25(OH)D levels between adults and calves (15.7  7.7 ng/ml versus 17.1  5.8 ng/ml, P &gt; 0.05, respectively). The comparison of mean and individual values among seasons showed some variation, but was not statistically different; therefore, all values were combined for further analyses. The mean value of 25(OH)D for all samples was 15.8  7.5 ng/ml (n = 72), with a 95% confidence interval of 14.017.6 ng/ml. There did not appear to be a direct correlation between 25(OH)D levels and calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P), or calcium:phosphorus ratio (Ca:P) based on regression analyses (P &lt; 0.05). Values measured approximated normal distributions. Mean calcium value was 10.5  0.6 mg/dl (n = 61); mean phosphorus value was 5.2  0.8 mg/dl (n = 50); and mean Ca:P was 2.06  0.34. Since all animals appeared healthy during the course of sample collection, and bone density on foot radiographs was assessed as good, the results are considered to be normal for this herd. With the incidence of joint disease in older elephants, and metabolic bone disease in hand-reared calves, these values will provide a basis for further studies of calcium metabolism in elephants.
27751728|Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a public health problem worldwide, and apart from infecting humans, HBV has been found in nonhuman primates. This study investigated the prevalence and phylogenetic analysis of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis D virus (HDV) among nonhuman primates in Taiwan, an area where human HBV remains endemic. Serum samples from 286 captive nonhuman primates (i.e., 32 great apes [Pan troglodytes and Pongo pygmaeus], 42 gibbons [Hylobates sp. and Nomascus sp.], and 212 Cercopithecidae monkeys) were collected and tested for the presence of HBV- and HDV-specific serologic markers. None of the Cercopithecidae monkeys were reactive against serologic markers of HBV. In contrast, 21.9% (7/32) of great apes and 40.5% (17/42) of gibbons tested positive for at least one serologic marker of HBV. Of these, five gibbons were chronic HBV carriers, characterized by presence of HBV DNA and hepatitis B surface antigen in the serum. HBV DNA was also detected in the saliva of three of the chronic carries. None of these HBV carrier gibbons exhibited symptoms or significant change in serum clinical chemistry related to HBV infection. Phylogenetic analysis of the complete HBV genome revealed that gibbon viruses clustered with other HBV isolates of great apes and gibbons from Southeast Asia and separately from human-specific HBV. None of the HBV-infected animals were reactive against HDV. These findings indicate that HBV found in these animals is indigenous to their respective hosts and might have been introduced into Taiwan via the direct import of infected animals from Southeast Asia. To reduce the horizontal and vertical transmission of HBV in captive animals, the HBV carriers should be kept apart from uninfected animals.
20095694|A captive king cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) was evaluated for a subacute onset of ataxia in all four limbs. The ataxia appeared to be spinal in origin, evidenced by apparent conscious proprioceptive deficits in all limbs, and there was no evidence of cerebellar involvement. Anesthesia was performed and survey spinal radiographs were normal. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed an apparently sterile meningitis of unknown etiology. Although transient improvement was noted with glucocorticoid and antimicrobial therapy, the condition deteriorated subsequently and the animal became quadriparetic and paraplegic. Follow-up cerebrospinal fluid analysis and culture revealed the presence of Cryptococcus neoformans. Myelography demonstrated obstruction of the subarachnoid space at the level of the seventh cervical vertebra. Pathological examination following euthanasia revealed a solitary pulmonary cryptococcoma and confirmed cryptococcal meningoencephalomyelitis.
20096280|Individuals of two porcupine species (Coendou prehensilis and Coendou melanurus) were translocated during the flooding of a forest at a hydroelectric dam site in French Guiana. Blood samples were collected for 11 mo to determine hematologic and serum chemistry reference mean values and ranges and to look for blood parasites. Male C. prehensilis had significantly higher hemoglobin levels, packed cell volumes, and creatinine and potassium values than did females of the same species. Coendou prehensilis had significantly lower amylase levels but higher creatinine, calcium, lactate dehydrogenase, and gamma glutamyl transferase levels than C. melanurus.
20095476|An adult castrated male California sea lion, Zalophus californianus, developed a pattern of intermittent vomiting of fish that progressed and was unresponsive to medical and behavioral intervention. The animal had been collected from the wild in 1985 and was utilized in the U.S. Navy's marine mammal program until March 1993. Necropsy findings included a ruptured saccular diverticulum of the distal colon and a peritoneal effusion. Campylobacter sputorum, Clostridium perfringens, Escherichia coli, and Streptococcus canis were isolated from the peritoneal effusion. Large numbers of gram-positive bacilli, consistent with Clostridium spp., were observed within the affected tissues on histologic sections. The cause of the gross lesion in the affected section of gut was not evident. A long-standing ulcerative or possibly obstructive lesion responsible for local stasis and conditions favorable for clostridial overgrowth was suspected. Gastrointestinal clostridial infections have not been previously reported in a California sea lion. Additionally, there have been no reports of vomiting associated with large colonic disease in marine mammals.
20096130|Presumptive copper deficiency was diagnosed in hand-reared captive pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) at the Los Angeles Zoo. Clinical signs, which were manifested in growing fawns, included anemia, anorexia, diarrhea, progressive paresis/recumbency, and aortic rupture. The range of serum copper concentrations in fawns born during the 1989 season (0.08-0.67 ppm) was below levels considered normal for domestic sheep and goats (0.7-2.0 ppm) and below concentrations measured in adult pronghorn (0.4-1.43 ppm). Copper sulfate supplementation of the hand-rearing formula, which was initiated in 1989, resulted in a significant increase in mean (SD) serum copper levels from 0.45  0.18 ppm before supplementation to 0.68  0.05 ppm after supplementation (P &lt 0.05). Fawns born in subsequent seasons (April 1990-August 1993) continued to be supplemented with copper in the hand-rearing formula. Mean serum copper concentration from these fawns (0.68  0.22 ppm) was similar to the mean values from supplemented 1989 fawns and adult pronghorn in this herd (0.85  0.34 ppm; P &gt 0.05). No clinical signs of copper deficiency were detected in any fawns after supplementation was started. Analyses of the herd's diet revealed marginal dietary copper levels. Suspected dietary deficiency was confirmed by marginal tissue and serum copper concentrations in some of the herd's adult animals. Dietary copper levels were corrected to prevent future cases of clinical copper deficiency.
20095445|A case of systemic trichosporonosis caused by Trichosporon beigelii in a 27-yr-old, female, white-handed gibbon, Hylobates lar, is reported. The animal was presented for necropsy after a 5-wk history of lethargy, depression, and severe azotemia. Necropsy results consisted of a systemic mycosis with numerous hyphae, arthroconidia, and blastospores. A severe, chronic interstitial nephritis was also present. Fungal and bacterial cultures revealed Trichosporon beigelii and Enterobacter sp. A definitive cause of immunosuppression was not evident in this case.
20095261|Blood and plasma chemistry values for captive populations of Cuvier's gazelles (Gazella cuvieri) and dama gazelles (G. dama mhorr) and differences related to age, gender, and reproductive status were examined. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate and alanine aminotransferase levels were higher for male Cuvier's gazelles. Female dama gazelles had higher plasma sodium levels. Cholesterol and plasma aspartate aminotransferase levels were higher for young Cuvier's gazelles under 3 mo of age. Significant age-specific variations in mean cell volume, chloride, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, albumin, gamma globulin, total protein, and albumin: globulin ratio were observed in dama gazelles. Changes associated with reproductive status in Cuvier's gazelles were found in red blood cell count, packed cell volume, hemoglobin, plasma glucose, and Kunkel and Maclagan reactions. The highest values for total white blood cell count, monocyte count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and plasma sodium, potassium, and gamma globulin concentrations were found in lactating dama gazelles. Pregnant females showed the highest values for creatinine, albumin, and total protein.
20095668|An adult female Bornean orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus) had a pruritic, vesicular skin disease, particularly of the extremities, trunk, and face. Over a 2-yr course, symptoms resolved only transiently after corticosteroid treatment. Antibiotic treatment and withdrawal of all corticosteroids resulted in complete recovery of the animal and return to normal activity patterns. On the basis of the dermal histopathologic lesions, Dermatophilus congolensis was suspected as the causative organism, although subsequent cultivation was not attempted because of the stress additional procedures would have caused to the orangutan.
20096583|A 5-yr-old female Egyptian fruit bat (Rousettus aegyptiacus) had a small raised pigmented mass removed from the lateral canthus of the left eye. Six additional variably sized, raised, smooth to cauliflower-like skin masses were observed randomly distributed throughout the left wing membranes. Four masses were removed and diagnosed microscopically as basosquamous carcinomas and papillomas. Additional masses, removed 6 mo and 1 yr later, showed bony invasion and squamous differentiation. Immunohistochemistry detected positive intranuclear staining for bovine papillomavirus antibody in all samples. Polymerase chain reaction done on DNA extracts from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissue amplified a 450 base-pair segment analogous to the L1 region of human papillomavirus types 96 and 5. Basic Local Alignment Search Tool analysis of sequenced amplicons suggests a novel chiropteran papillomavirus. To our knowledge, this is the first report of papillomavirus-associated carcinoma in a chiropteran species.
27751769|Many wildlife species including rhinos are susceptible to infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis or M. bovis. Antemortem diagnostic testing in large exotic hoof stock species has been limited by challenges associated with test administration, sample collection, and interpretation. Hence, a simple, rapid, blood-based test is needed. Two confirmed M. tuberculosis-infected black rhinoceros and one exposed suspect were evaluated for antibody responses using a lateral-flow rapid test (ElephantTB STAT-PAK) and multi-antigen print immunoassay (MAPIA). All three animals were seropositive by both tests. MAPIA detected antibodies to ESAT-6, CFP10, and MPB83 antigens. When the rhinos were treated with antitubercular therapeutics, their antibody responses gradually declined. One rhinoceros died approximately 9 mo after initiation of treatment and showed an increase in antibody titer shortly before death. The other two rhinoceros, which were treated for 1 and 2 yr, respectively, had no clinical signs or positive culture for M. tuberculosis at the time of necropsy performed 2 or 6 yr later for unrelated reasons. The antibody levels in these rhinos continued to be significantly decreased. The findings suggest that the ElephantTB STAT-PAK and MAPIA may be useful tools to detect M. tuberculosis infection and monitor treatment in black rhinoceros.
40665060|Ulcerative oral and skin lesions have become an issue of concern for the health of the managed black rhinoceros (rhino) (Diceros bicornis) populations. Lesions exhibited by the black rhino are clinically similar to those observed in other species with superficial necrolytic dermatitis (SND). One biochemical alteration in dogs with SND is severe hypoaminoacidemia, and nearly all cases are fatal. The objective of this study was to determine if black rhinos with analogous lesions exhibit a similar hypoaminoacidemia. Amino acid concentrations were measured in monthly plasma samples collected for 1 yr from black rhinos with (n = 4) and without (n = 34) lesions clinically consistent with SND. The rhinos with skin and/or oral lesions were zoo born males, ages 2, 6, 17, and 23 yr, from four different facilities. Three rhinos recovered from skin (n = 2) and oral lesions (n = 1). However, the one male with both skin and oral lesions died with the disease. None of the affected black rhinos exhibited a decrease in any of the amino acids evaluated or for total amino acid concentrations (P > 0.05). Based on the absence of hypoaminoacidemia and the comparatively low mortality rate in rhinos with lesions, it appears that this syndrome is not entirely consistent with SND observed in other species. These data will be useful for future assessments of rhino nutritional status and other potential metabolic diseases.
20460528|Cryptosporidiosis is an emerging problem in reptile medicine and has been associated with a wasting syndrome in leopard geckos (Eublepharis macularius). This study determined the prevalence of infection in a breeding colony of leopard geckos to be 9.8%. Two groups of 20 geckos, one that was fecal positive for oocysts of Cryptosporidium sp., and one, whose individuals were fecal negative at the inception of the study, were followed for 2 mo. Fecal samples were tested for oocysts every 2 wk, body weights were measured, and a body condition score was assigned for each gecko. Selected geckos from these two groups were euthanized and necropsied. There were statistically significant differences (P &lt; 0.05) between the two groups for mean body weight, mean body condition score, and prevalence of infection. Cryptosporidium sp. infection is endemic in this breeding colony, and there were a large number of geckos with a subclinical or carrier state of infection. These animals continued to be infected with Cryptosporidium sp. but gained weight and remained in good body condition. Only one gecko in the entire group of 40 was confirmed to be negative for oocysts or developmental stages by repeated fecal exams and histopathology. An additional 37 severely emaciated geckos from the breeding colony were euthanized, and all were positive for Cryptosporidium sp. on histopathologic examination of the gastrointestinal tract. The results of this study indicate that although some animals can recover from a clinical infection, if a gecko is severely wasted, it should be euthanized because of the poor prognosis and possible source of infection to other geckos.
40665083|This study assessed whether arterial oxygenation could be increased by treatment with intranasal oxygen supplementation in brown bears (Ursus arctos) with hypoxemia during anesthesia with medetomidinezolazepam-tiletamine. Arterial blood samples were collected anaerobically from the femoral artery before and during oxygen supplementation. An oxygen flow rate of 2-5 L/min administered intranasally to brown bears weighing 12-120 kg markedly increased arterial oxygenation. Intranasal oxygen supplementation proved to be a simple and efficient method for treatment of hypoxemia in anesthetized bears.
20095616|Biotelemetry transmitters were implanted in adult female gaur (Bos gaurus) at the Bronx Zoo/Wildlife Conservation Park to establish baseline heart rate and body temperature value ranges in unrestrained animals and to document changes in these physiological functions when animals were exposed to different environmental conditions. Heart rate and body temperature were monitored using similar, but distinct, telemetry systems. Mean heart rates for five gaur ranged from 49.3 to 57.7 beats/min, and the mean body temperatures for two animals were 38.2C and 38.8C. Short-duration adversive stimuli caused brief three-fold increases in heart rate, but baseline rates returned once the stressors were removed. Moving gaur to novel environments or pairing them with nonaffiliates also resulted in heart rate increases. Body temperature was not affected by short-term stressors but was positively correlated with ambient temperature. The onset of ovulation may be predictable based on temperature spikes exhibited by the gaur at 19-22 day intervals.
20095481|An adult male llama (Lama glama) was euthanized because of severe chronic hematuria and accompanying anemia. Pathology was limited to the urinary system and consisted of multicentric bilateral transitional cell carcinoma of the renal calyces, ureteral transitional cell papilloma, and diffuse urothelial hyperplasia. This animal had been pastured for years in an area contaminated with the carcinogen-containing plant bracken fern (Pteridium aquilinum). The lesions in this animal resembled those seen in cattle consuming bracken fern, and it appears that llamas may be susceptible to the urinary carcinogenic effects of bracken fern.
20096024|A severe poxvirus infection occurred in three pudu (Pudu puda), resulting in two fatalities. Cutaneous ulcers with mucopurulent exudate were present around the eyes and nose, at the lip margins, coronary bands, and teats. Mucosal ulcers were present in the oral cavity, esophagus, and forestomachs. In the two fatalities, a secondary disseminated fungal infection also occurred. Affected animals were leukopenic, hypocalcemic, and hyperphosphatemic and had elevated serum alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, and aspartate aminotransferase levels. Electron microscopic examination of affected skin confirmed the presence of a poxvirus. Neutralizing antibody titers to this virus were present in the two pudu tested. One case was treated with cidofovir, 5 mg/kg i.v. q7d for four treatments. Complete recovery occurred in the treated animal. This is the second report of poxvirus infection in pudu and the first report describing clinical presentation, presence of secondary disseminated fungal infection, and successful treatment.
20096345|Methods of contraception are necessary for management of zoo felids; however, the most commonly used contraceptive (melengestrol acetate implant) is associated with serious adverse reactions with long-term use. Porcine zona pellucida (pZP) vaccines are promising as contraceptives, but their safety in zoo felids has not been tested. pZP vaccine was administered to 27 female felids representing 10 species, including African lion (Panthera leo), Asian leopard (P. pardus), jaguar (P. onca), tiger (P. tigris), snow leopard (P. uncia), cougar (Felis concolor), Siberian lynx (F. lynx), Canada lynx (F. canadensis), serval (F. serval), and bobcat (F. rufus), in 15 facilities. Over 6 wk, each animal received three i.m. injections of 65 g pZP with Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA), Freund's incomplete adjuvant, or carbopol as the adjuvant. Behavioral signs of estrus were seen in 14 of the vaccinated felids. An unacceptably high incidence of adverse reactions was seen including injection site swelling, lameness, limb swelling, or abscessation (or all) in five felids after injection with FCA as the initial adjuvant. Adverse behavioral signs, including increased irritability and aggression, were seen in four felids. Six of the felids were assayed for antibodies against pZP during the 12 mo after vaccination; all showed antibody production. Antibody levels appeared to peak 1-4 mo after vaccination began, although elevated antibody levels persisted in two animals for &gt12 mo after the first injection. All vaccinated felids were ovariohysterectomized 3-13 mo after vaccination. Folliculogenesis was present in all treated animals, and there was no histopathologic evidence of inflammatory damage to ovaries. Contraceptive efficacy was not specifically evaluated in this study; however, two of the three felids housed with an intact male became pregnant during the study, one of which gave birth to healthy cubs.
20095897|An adult female hard-ground swamp deer (Barasingha), Cervus duvauceli branderi, was found dead of unknown cause in Kanha National Park. A necropsy of this animal failed to reveal any significant gross lesions. However, histopathologic examination revealed mature sarcocysts of Sarcocystic in the cardiac muscles. The morphology of the sarcocysts was similar to that of different species of Sarcocystis from wild and domestic animals. Final identification of Sarcocystis in this case could not be made. This is the first recorded case of Sarcocystic infection in hard-ground Barasingha deer.
20096244|A 3-yr-old African pygmy hedgehog (Atelerix albiventris) was submitted with dysphagia, weight loss, and tetraparesis. A palpable mass was found on the ventral neck. Histologic examination revealed replacement of the thyroid gland by a highly cellular, expansile, and infiltrative mass composed of lobules of polygonal cells separated by fine fibrovascular septa. Examination of ultrathin sections revealed tumor cells with few to many dense-core neuroendocrine granules, approximately 100-200 nm in diameter, and stromal amyloid. Immunohistochemical stains were positive for neuron-specific enolase. Only rare cells had positive immunohistochemical staining for calcitonin. Findings are consistent with a neuroendocrine tumor of C-cell origin. This is the first report of a C-cell carcinoma in a hedgehog.
20095000|A 3-yr-old female red lory (Eos bornea) was examined after an acute onset of weakness and ataxia. The bird had been housed with a male red lory in an outdoor aviary for 2 yr; neither animal had a previous history of disease. Clinical signs were limited to blood around the glottis and severe incoordination. The bird died while supportive therapy was being administered. Significant gross necropsy lesions included clotted blood around the glottis, free blood in the air sacs, consolidation of the lungs, and enlargement of the liver, spleen, and kidneys. Microscopic lesions were confined to the heart, lungs, liver, and spleen. There was a diffuse mild myocarditis present, and cystic structures containing protozoal organisms were observed within many of the myocardial fibers. Electron microscopy characterized the protozoal organism as a Sarcocystis sp.
20095195|Three male black and white ruffed lemurs (Varecia variegata variegata) were introduced into a newly constructed island-concept exhibit at the Micke Grove Zoo, Lodi, California. Twelve days after introduction, one of the lemurs was found dead and the remaining two were depressed, lethargic, and ataxic, and had diarrhea and slow pupillary reflexes. Symptomatic treatment was instituted, but only one animal survived. The poisoning incident was attributed to the ingestion of hairy nightshade (Solanum sarrachoides), which was growing in the exhibit.
20460496|Four species (Dendrobates auratus, Phyllobates terribilis, Pyxicephalus adspersus, and Rhacophorus dennysi) of captive anurans with a clinical history of lethargy and inappetence were found dead and were submitted for necropsy. Gross lesions included irregular patches of sloughed skin and rare dermal ulcerations. Histologic findings included epidermal proliferation that was most pronounced on the digits and that included intracytoplasmic chytrid organisms. Bacteria were often associated with the epidermal lesions. Intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies were observed in hepatocytes. Real-time polymerase chain reaction yielded positive results for both Ranavirus and Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd). Bacterial culture of internal organs yielded Aeromonas hydrophila. This is the first report of concurrent infections in anurans by Ranavirus and Bd and A. hydrophila.
20096570|Basic characteristics of European bison (Bison bonasus) semen were described and the efficacies of two extenders--Triladyl, containing egg yolk, and a synthetic extender, containing soybean lipids--were tested for semen cryopreservation. Seven ejaculates were collected by electroejaculation from a 10-yr-old, European bison bull. Each ejaculate was diluted at 37C to a final concentration of 200  10 sperm/ml with Triladyl or the synthetic extender. Extended semen samples were frozen according to a standard bull semen freezing protocol. After 2 wk of storage, one straw from each extender and ejaculate was thawed, and postthaw quality was evaluated by individual sperm motility and movement rate, numbers of sperm morphologic abnormalities and intact acrosomes, functional integrity of the sperm membranes determined by hypoosmotic swelling test (HOST), viability (live-dead, eosin-nigrosin stain), and a heterologous in vitro sperm penetration assay (SPA). A total of 600 in vitro-matured bovine oocytes were inseminated with 1  10 spermatozoa of Holstein semen frozen-thawed in Triladyl (control) or of European bison semen frozen in Triladyl or the synthetic extender. Nuclear status of the oocytes was determined after 18 h of sperm-oocyte coincubation. Extender had no effect on any evaluated parameters of semen after dilution and cooling (4 hr at 5C) or in postthaw individual motility, quality of movement, and sperm morphology. However, significantly (P &lt 0.05) higher numbers of spermatozoa with intact acrosomes, intact membranes (HOST), and viable sperm (P &lt 0.01) were in semen frozen in Triladyl than in the synthetic extender. Mean values for heterologous SPA for bull (control) and for bison semen frozen in the synthetic extender were very much alike--63.3  10.6% and 63.1  15.9%, respectively; bison semen frozen in Triladyl was lower, 43.0  24.2% but not significantly different. Cumulative results from a variety of viability assays of diluted/cooled and frozen-thawed semen, including the heterologous SPA, suggest that European bison semen can be successfully frozen in both extenders tested in this study.
27751703|A blue-billed curassow (Crax alberti) was anesthetized for a preshipment physical exam. Sixteen days later, the curassow presented with acute onset of dyspnea and respiratory stridor. The bird was stabilized by placement of an air sac canula. Tracheal stenosis was diagnosed with radiographs. It was suspected that the tracheal stenosis was due to trauma from a previous endotracheal tube placement. A tracheal resection and anastomosis was performed. Three days postoperatively the air sac canula was removed. Although there were increased respiratory sounds, the trachea had not completely restrictured. Ten months later, the currasow presented for dyspnea and died shortly thereafter. There was mycotic airsacculitis with Aspergillus organisms present. Tracheal stenosis in birds after tracheal intubation is a frequently discussed condition with very little published material available. This report describes a case of tracheal stenosis postintubation and the surgical treatment and subsequent complications that followed.
40665145|Subcutaneous and intraperitoneal cysticercosis due to Taenia crassiceps was diagnosed in a 5-yr-old male ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta) in the Madrid Zoo-Aquarium (Madrid, Spain). Under laparoscopic examination, several septated fibrous cystic structures and numerous masses of small transparent vesicles (ca. 3 mm in diameter) were observed subcutaneously and inside the peritoneal cavity. Most of the structures were extirpated but, after 2 days of postsurgical intensive care, the animal died. The loss of body weight of the animal after surgical extirpation (566 g) represented 22% of the total weight (body weight before mass removal, 2,582 g). The vesicles were identified under light microscopic examination as cysticerci and by molecular diagnosis as Cysticercus longicollis, the larval form of T. crassiceps. The present report represents the first detection of T. crassiceps in the prosimian genus Lemur.
41262652|The objective of this study was to determine the pharmacokinetics of a long-acting formulation of ceftiofur crystalline-free acid (CCFA) following intramuscular injection in ball pythons (Python regius). Six adult ball pythons received an injection of CCFA (15 mg/kg) in the epaxial muscles. Blood samples were collected by cardiocentesis immediately prior to and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, 72, 96, 144, 192, 240, 288, 384, 480, 576, 720, and 864 hr after CCFA administration. Plasma ceftiofur concentrations were determined by highperformance liquid chromatography. A noncompartmental pharmacokinetic analysis was applied to the data. Maximum plasma concentration (C max ) was 7.096  1.95 g/ml and occurred at (T max ) 2.17  0.98 hr. The area under the curve (0 to infinity) for ceftiofur was 74.59  13.05 g*h/ml and the elimination half-life associated with the terminal slope of the concentration-time curve was 64.31  14.2 hr. Mean residence time (0 to infinity) was 46.85  13.53 hr. CCFA at 15 mg/kg was well tolerated in all the pythons. Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) data for bacterial isolates from snakes are not well established. For MIC values of  0.1 g/ml, a single dose of CCFA (15 mg/kg) provides adequate plasma concentrations for at least 5 days in the ball python. For MICs  0.5 g/ml, more frequent dosing or a higher dosage may be required.
20095002|A desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni), transplanted from the Marble Mountains to the Whipple Mountains in California, developed a widely disseminated and fatal case of coccidioidomycosis 10 mo after relocation. Coccidioides immitis was recovered from the lung and liver. This is the first report of coccidioidomycosis in a bighorn sheep.
20460488|Tuberculosis due to Mycobacterium africanum was diagnosed in an adult female hyrax (Procavia capensis). Pathologic examination revealed disseminated tuberculous lesions. The same pathologic changes were also found in a male hyrax that died a year later. Both animals were imported from the United Arab Emirates and were held in captivity at the Zagreb Zoo in Croatia. The source of infection remains unknown. The acid-fast bacteria isolated from the lungs of the female hyrax were identifyed by polymerase chain reaction as Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex and Geno Type MTBC test confirmed the strain to be M. africanum I.
20095780|During a postmortem examination of a western spiny softshell turtle (Apalone [Trionyx] spiniferus hartwegi), a calculus (24  21  12-mm) with a dry weight of approximately 5 g was discovered in the urinary bladder. Chemically, the calculus was a mixture of apatite (basic calcium phosphate), struvite (magnesium ammonium phosphate hexahydrate), and unidentifiable crystals. This is the first report of a cystic calculus in a wild chelonian.
20095991|Two nonrelated but paired red-handed tamarins (Saguinus midas) presented with diffuse, multifocal, raised, nonpruritic, hyperkeratotic lesions on the appendages and face. Skin biopsies identified acarids and skin scrapings confirmed demodex-like mites. The animals were treated with ivermectin, at the endoparasite dose, which initially resulted in resolution of clinical signs; however, signs recurred after numerous treatments. After four treatments with amitraz dips, demodicosis lesions resolved.
20095527|A 14-yr-old male woolly monkey (Lagothrix lagotricha) was presented for lethargy and intermittent dyspnea. Initial examination revealed generalized pulmonary edema and severe cardiomegaly on thoracic radiographs. Symptomatic therapy was instituted pending further diagnostic testing. A diagnosis of systemic hypertension and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy was made based on subsequent indirect blood pressure measurements and echocardiographic findings. Therapy included periodic pericardiocentesis to alleviate cardiac tamponade, and a diuretic (furosemide) and a calcium-channel blocking agent (diltiazem) for hypertension. Findings from a follow-up exam 1 yr after initiating therapy showed subjective improvement in clinical signs, including weight gain, increased activity level, decreased volume of pericardial effusion, decreased indirect blood pressure measurements, and decreased thickness of ventricular walls (assessed by echocardiography).
20095517|This report describes the course of wound healing in five long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis) that received temporary composite grafts composed of human keratinocytes on bovine type 1 dermal collagen sheets. Successful resolution of these cases suggests that cultured human epidermal xenografts can serve as an effective temporary dressing and may facilitate re-epithelialization of large full-thickness skin defects in captive primates.
20096580|Two adult Wied's marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii) presented with jaundice, anemia, and weight loss. Death of one individual was attributed to renal tubular necrosis; liver and kidney were positive for Leptospira antigen by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. The second animal was negative for antigen by IHC staining, but serologically positive for Leptospira borgpetersenii serovar ballum with an eightfold titer increase in paired samples, and was euthanized because of unresponsiveness to treatment. Environmental contamination by mice was suspected as the Leptospira source.
40665057|Toxoplasmosis is a well-described disease entity that causes significant morbidity and mortality in both captive and free-ranging macropodids. The clinical presentation of toxoplasmosis in macropodids is variable, which reflects the multiple body systems affected by this disease. Animals may die without exhibiting premonitory signs or after the acute development of nonspecific signs of illness. In more chronic cases, clinical signs include neurologic deficits, blindness, respiratory signs, and, in some cases, diarrhea. Histologic lesions can be extensive and affect the pulmonary parenchyma, cardiac and skeletal muscle, lymph nodes, spleen, gastrointestinal tract, adrenal glands, pancreas, central nervous system, liver, and kidney. An antemortem diagnosis can be challenging, although a range of serologic tests are available. Treatment is frequently unrewarding, although recent evidence suggests that the anti-protozoal drug atovaquone may be effective in treating acute cases and eliminating infection. Attempts to vaccinate macropodids against toxoplasmosis have been unsuccessful, and preventive measures are limited to preventing exposure to sporulated oocysts in the environment.
20096667|Medical records from 111 threatened bald eagles (86%, Haliaeetus leucocephalus) and peregrine falcons (14%, Falco peregrinus) admitted to the Wildlife Center of Virginia from 1993 to 2003 were reviewed to identify submitters, causes of morbidity and mortality, and final disposition. Half of all patients admitted were submitted by the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries personnel. Trauma was the most common reason for presentation in bald eagles (70%) and peregrine falcons (81%). Additional causes of morbidity and mortality in bald eagles included toxicoses (10%), infectious diseases (8%), and orphaned young (1%). Neoplasia was confirmed in two trauma cases, suggesting underlying disease might have increased susceptibility to acute traumatic injuries. Peregrine falcons were also admitted for infectious disease (19%). The most frequent infectious disease for both species was West Nile virus. Thirty-nine percent of patients were released back into the wild, 28% were euthanized, 20% died, and 13% were placed in captivity. Postrelease monitoring that would determine whether rehabilitated animals survived to contribute to threatened populations was not performed in this study.
20095051|Cutaneous poxvirus infection is reported in a 163-g 30-cm tegu lizard (Tupinambis teguixin) of unknown age and sex. This is the first report of poxviral dermatitis in a lizard. Skin lesions were first noticed by the owner 5 wk after purchase of the lizard from a pet store and 3 wk prior to clinic admission. Lesions consisted of 10 brown-colored papules 1-2 mm in diameter on the shoulder and neck, as well as shallow erosions on the rostrum, one digit, and the right lower eyelid. Diagnosis was based on histologic and electron microscopic examinations of skin biopsies. Pox lesions healed without treatment in 3-4 mo, and the lizard remained asymptomatic 30 mo after the initial biopsy diagnosis.
20096678|A wild-caught subadult eastern yellowbelly racer (Coluber constrictor flaviventris) presented with three raised, circumscribed, freely moveable subcutaneous masses over the dorsal and right epaxial musculature. Microscopic examination and special staining of surgically excised masses were diagnostic for chromatophoroma. No metastases were apparent on whole-body plain film radiographs and computed tomography. Additional excisional biopsies of previously affected sites performed 13 wk later demonstrated normal skin and subcutis. The snake recovered uneventfully and continued to do well 18 mo later. Surgical excision of chromatophoromas remains the treatment of choice in snakes. Subcutaneous masses in snakes should be thoroughly investigated.
20095391|Eight healthy Suffolk sheep (Ovis ovis) were used in a crossover study to determine the cardiovascular and respiratory effects of i.m. carfentanil-xylazine and i.m. medetomidine-ketamine combinations. Anesthesia was induced and maintained for 1 hr with medetomidine (125 g/kg) and ketamine (2.5 mg/kg) or with carfentanil (10 g/kg) and xylazine (0.2 mg/kg). Reversal of immobilization in the carfentanil/xylazine (CX) group was achieved with i.v. naltrexone at 100 times the carfentanil dose. Reversal of immobilization in the medetomidine/ketamine (MK) group was achieved with i.v. atipamezole at five times the medetomidine dose. Induction was rapid (&lt3 min) with both combinations. There were significant differences (P &lt 0.05) in heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate, minute volume, Pco, and arterial pH between treatments. Significant differences were not found between groups for Po or base excess. Immobilization with MK was characterized by hypertension, bradycardia, hypercarbia, hypoxemia, and decreased pH. No significant change occurred in respiratory rate or minute volume. All animals in the MK group had electrocardiogram (EKG) changes indicative of myocardial hypoxia. Hypoxemia in this group was severe and sustained until reversal with atipamezole. Hypoxemia was not related to respiratory depression and was probably due to changes in hemodynamics and positioning of the sheep in lateral recumbency. Immobilization with CX was characterized by hypotension, tachycardia, hypoxemia, decreased pH, and hypoventilation as evidenced by decreased respiratory rate, decreased minute volume, and increased Pco. All animals in this group also developed EKG changes suggestive of myocardial hypoxia. Hypoxemia was most pronounced early in the immobilization period, with several animals developing apnea. Po increased gradually over the hour but remained significantly lower than baseline throughout the immobilization period. Three animals in the CX group and one in the MK group developed severe hypotension. One animal in the CX group required reversal at 25 min postadministration because of sustained hypotension. Reversal was rapid. Within 3 min, animals of both treatment groups were attempting to attain sternal recumbency. The results of this study demonstrate that both combinations at the given doses have deleterious effects (hypoxemia) on the patient. Further studies are needed to better characterize the cardiovascular effects of these agents.
20096176|Intraocular pressure (IOP) reflects a balance between aqueous humor production and outflow and is often an essential ophthalmic diagnostic procedure in animals. The objective of this study was to estimate IOP in clinically normal red-footed tortoises (Geochelone carbonaria) of various sizes by using applanation tonometry. Intraocular pressures were estimated for 25 captive red-footed tortoises (10 males, 10 females, and 5 animals of unknown sex) by using an applanation tonometer after topical anesthesia. Body length ranged from 5.1 to 54.9 cm, measured from nuchal to anal scutes. Five measurements from each eye were obtained by a single observer in an ambient temperature of approximately 30C. Observer's reliability was good (intraclass r = 0.75), and IOP did not change over the ordered sequence of five replicate measurements. For individual tortoises the correlation for IOP between the left and right eyes was low (r = 0.20). The paired t-test did not show any statistical effect (P = 0.426) for the difference in IOP between the left and right eyes. Mean IOP determined for 10 confirmed males and 10 confirmed females did not differ between sexes (P = 0.244). The mean IOP of five small tortoises (&lt10 cm long) was not significantly different (P = 0.244) from that of 20 large tortoises (&gt10 cm long). In red-footed tortoises there does not appear to be any relation between carapace length and IOP.
20095478|An American woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou) housed at the Minnesota Zoological Garden developed signs consistent with acute babesiosis, including hemoglobinuria, anemia, and fever. Stained blood smears revealed numerous Babesia parasites infecting the erythrocytes. Immunofluorescent antibody tests showed cross-reactivity between the caribou Babesia isolate and specific antisera to B. bovis and B. divergens. Weaker cross-reactions were observed with B. bigemina, B. odocoilei, and a Babesia species from bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni). Gross and microscopic lesions, including hemoglobinuric nephropathy, hepatic centrilobular degeneration, and cardiac and adrenocortical hemorrhage, were consistent with a diagnosis of babesiosis. This diagnosis was further supported by electron microscopic demonstration of intraerythrocytic Babesia organisms in tissues from the animal.
20096326|Glomerular filtration rate (GFR), renal plasma flow (RPF), and the endogenous creatinine clearance (CCr) rate were determined in 13 captive cheetahs, Acinonyx jubatus jubatus (seven females and six males, 1.5-7.5 yr of age, x = 5.02 yr), during general anesthesia with Telazol and isoflurane by measuring the urinary clearances of inulin, para-aminohipppuric acid, and endogenous creatinine, respectively. Methods to determine GFR, RPF, and endogenous CCr in captive cheetahs were evaluated, and the relationship between GFR and CCr for this species was determined. The GFR and the RPF were stable during the procedure, with mean values of 1.59  0.17 ml/min/kg body weight and 5.12  1.15 ml/min/kg body weight, respectively. Although the mean value for CCr (1.47  0.20 ml/min/kg body weight) was significantly less than the corresponding value for GFR, the mean difference (0.11  0.02 ml/min/kg weight) between the two measurements was slight, and the values were highly correlated (R = 0.928; P &lt 0.0001). The measurement of CCr in cheetahs should provide a reliable estimate of GFR, facilitating the early detection of renal disease in this species.
20096648|Prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas are one of the most common causes of infertility in women. Prolactin plays an important role in lactation and is involved in producing some of the normal mammalian breeding and maternal behaviors. Elevated serum prolactin concentrations can adversely affect the reproductive cycle in females by inhibiting the normal lutenizing hormone surge that stimulates ovulation. A 17-year-old western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) presented with low fertility and hyperprolactinemia. An MRI confirmed a pituitary mass and treatment was initiated with cabergoline. Following 8 mo of treatment, mass size decreased and serum prolactin was within normal limits. The gorilla began to engage in normal breeding behavior, and within 6 mo of completing treatment, was pregnant. Hyperprolactinemia, secondary to presumed microprolactinoma, may be more common among breedingage gorillas than is currently diagnosed and in humans is an easily diagnosed and treatable condition.
20094977|A fatal case of salmonellosis in a captive crocodile (Crocodylus niloticus) is reported. Salmonella choleraesuis was isolated from the lung, liver, intestine, and heart blood of the animal. This is the first report of isolation of this organism from a crocodile in Nigeria.
20096478|Declines in greater sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) productivity and population numbers throughout their range demand a better understanding of how nutrition influences sage grouse populations. During March and April 1999-2001, blood samples were collected from 158 female (73 adult, 85 yearling), free-ranging, prelaying, greater sage grouse from an area in northwestern Nevada, USA, and southeastern Oregon, USA. These blood samples were evaluated to establish normal blood values for sage grouse and ascertain if certain blood parameters, as indices of nutrition, are useful for predicting if sage grouse hens would raise at least one chick to 1 August. Results of logistic regression indicated that three of six blood parameters analyzed-glucose, total plasma protein, and calcium: phosphorus ratio--affected the probability of a female sage grouse raising at least one chick to late summer. Ranking of the standardized estimates revealed that glucose and total plasma protein had the greatest impact on the likelihood of a female successfully raising chicks. Odds ratios indicated that a 1-unit increase in glucose (1 mg/dl) and plasma protein (0.1 g/dl) would result in a 4% and 113% positive increase, respectively, in the predicted odds of at least one chick surviving until 1 August. Odds ratios for calcium: phosphorus ratio revealed a 70% decline in the predicted odds of at least one chick surviving until 1 August if the level of this parameter increased one unit (e.g., 3:1 to 4:1). Based on these analyses, values of some blood parameters used as indices of nutrition, especially glucose, total plasma protein, and calcium: phosphorus ratio, can be successfully used to predict reproductive success of sage grouse. These parameters are not only indicative of the nutritional status of prelaying hens but may be associated with nutritional quality of the habitat and therefore have important management significance.
20460499|Turtle populations are decreasing dramatically due to habitat loss and collection for the food and pet market. This study sought to determine hematologic values in two species of turtles to help assess health status of captive and wild populations. Blood samples were collected from 12 individuals of the Pascagoula map turtle (Graptemys gibbonsi) and seven individuals of the southeast Asian box turtle (Cuora amboinensis) from the Savannah River Ecology Laboratory (South Carolina, USA). The hematologic data included hematocrit, total solids, erythrocyte count, leukocyte count, and differential and percentage leukocyte counts. Low hematocrit values and high basophil counts were found in both species. The basophil was the most abundant leukocyte in the Pascagoula map turtle (median = 0.80  10/L), whereas in the Southeast Asian box turtle the most abundant leukocyte was the heterophil (median = 2.06  10/L).
20095492|Real-time ultrasonography was used to detect the oviductal structures in 33 birds of prey of seven different species. The oviducts were visualized in unanesthetized birds with an ultrasonographic scanning probe placed into the cloaca. The left oviduct appeared as an elongated hypoechoic structure with sharply demarcated echogenic borders and an inconsistently detectable luminal echo. The morphologic identification and regular topologic localization of the vaginal portion of the avian oviduct was confirmed with correlative dissection of the reproductive tracts. Ultrasonography is atraumatic and accurate and is a valuable procedure for noninvasive gonadal sex diagnosis in monomorphic species of raptors.
20096170|Outbreaks of morbidity and mortality in double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) along Florida's Gulf Coast have occurred sporadically for at least 30 yr. During these outbreaks, the Clinic for the Rehabilitation of Wildlife, located on Sanibel Island in Florida, has admitted a substantial number of cormorants with consistent presentation of primarily neurologic clinical signs. In order to investigate the association of these outbreaks in cormorants with exposure to brevetoxin, we compared the timing of admittance of cormorants with outbreak-specific clinical signs to blooms of the brevetoxin-producing marine algae, Karenia brevis (formerly Gymnodinium breve), around Sanibel Island from 1995 through 1999. The clinic admitted 360 out of 613 cormorants with the common clinical sign of severe cerebellar ataxia in six outbreaks occurring during this period. The ataxia was characterized by a broad-based stance, truncal incoordination, hypermetric gait, and intention tremors of the head. The histopathologic findings in 10 cormorants euthanized in 1997 were mild and nonspecific. An immunohistochemical staining technique for the detection of brevetoxin in cormorants documented the uptake of brevetoxin in tissues from four cormorants admitted during an outbreak in 1997, but a modified technique used on samples from 11 cormorants admitted during a K. brevis bloom in 2000 produced indeterminate results. Admittance of cormorants with outbreak-specific clinical signs was positively correlated (P &lt 0.05) with concurrent concentrations of K. brevis in local water. The cross-correlation coefficient was also significant when increased K. brevis levels preceded cormorant admittances by 2, 4, 6, and 8 wk. This delay in time between K. brevis blooms and cormorant admittance and our clinical finding of neurologic abnormalities in cormorants without overt histopathologic features suggest an association between K. brevis blooms and local cormorant morbidity.
20460266|This study was designed to provide a reference of tomographic anatomy of the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos). Two adult golden eagles were scanned following the administration of contrast material i.v. and by gavage. Representative slices of the cranial mediastinum, thorax, and abdomen are presented and structures are identified to illustrate the normal tomographic anatomy of this avian species.
20095041|Fifty-two free-ranging black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) of various ages were immobilized. Eleven rhinoceroses were darted on foot and 41 were darted from a helicopter. Twenty-eight animals were immobilized using 3 mg etorphine and 100 mg xylazine per animal. Twenty-four animals were immobilized using a mean dose per animal (x  SE) of 1.8  0.13 mg etorphine and 30.9  1.1 mg of fentanyl combined with a standard dose of 100 mg xylazine. Induction time for both of the etorphine combinations (n = 52) was 20.0  2.5 min (median, 13.5 min), with no significant difference in induction time between the two combinations. The mean duration of immobilization was 184  10.6 min. The mean reversal time following the administration of a narcotic antagonist was 3.0  0.2 min (median, 2.5 min). Individual animals were placed into an outcome classification at capture: 29 were classified as normal, 23 as stressed. Of the rhinoceroses darted from a helicopter, 19 were classified as stressed, and of those animals darted on foot, four were classified as stressed. No direct capture-related fatalities occurred.
20095145|A golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) had a slight head tilt for several months. After 18 mo in captivity, the eagle died and was necropsied. The main lesion was meningoencephalitis, characterized by necrosis of neuropil, vasculitis, and mononuclear cell infiltration. The parasite divided by schizogony. Numerous schizonts were associated with blood vessels, were approximately 10-20  6-15 m, and contained up to 20 merozoites. The parasites stained positively with Sarcocystis cruzi antiserum but not with Toxoplasma gondii and Neospora caninum antisera. This is apparently the first report of Sarcocystis encephalitis in a raptorial bird.
27751726|The disposition kinetics of marbofloxacin at a single dose of 2 mg/kg bodyweight were determined in a crossover trial with five clinically healthy loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) after i.v. and i.m. administration. Marbofloxacin plasma concentrations were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (LOD/LOQ 0.05 g/ml). Data were subjected to noncompartmental analysis. The integrated pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic variables showed that optimal area under the curve (AUC0 24 h): minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) (&gt;125) and Cmax: MIC (&gt;8) ratios, as reported for concentration-dependent bactericidal antimicrobials (e.g., fluoroquinolones), were achievable with both a once daily i.v. or i.m. dose for microorganisms with MIC  0.5 g/ml, while a Cmax: MIC &gt; 8 for MIC  1 g/ml was achievable only after the i.v. administration. The absence of adverse reactions in the animals after i.v. or i.m. administration of marbofloxacin and the favorable pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic properties after a single dose of 2 mg/kg suggest the possibility of its safe and effective clinical use in loggerhead sea turtles.
41262572|The objective of this prospective observational cohort study in free-ranging female white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) was to compare the physiologic effects of two methods of anesthetic drug administration: hand-injection in Clover traps and remote injection by dart after ground-stalking. Six trapped and 14 darted female deer were injected with a median (minimum, maximum) of 590 g/kg butorphanol (401, 1070 g/kg), plus 235 g/kg medetomidine (160, 429 g/kg) intramuscularly. In the trap, the deer struggled when approached and were restrained for injection. Darted deer sprinted away after injection. Once immobilized, deer were transported to a veterinary hospital where blood was collected and vital signs were measured on admission. Admission data from a subset of deer in which measurements were taken within 40 min of trapping (n = 6) or darting (n = 5) were analyzed. After salpingectomy under isoflurane and while still anesthetized, another blood sample was collected from all 20 deer. Body weight and immobilization drug doses were not different between groups. On admission, most deer from both groups were hypoxemic, although the darted deer were significantly more hypoxemic. The median rectal temperature in trapped deer was higher than in darted deer, and temperatures higher than 39C only occurred in trapped deer. The median heart rate in trapped deer was more than twice that in darted deer. Trapped deer had lower median pH and base excess; in trapped deer, the median plasma lactate concentration was more than fivefold higher than in darted deer. After surgery, the median serum creatine kinase concentration was nearly 10-fold higher in trapped deer, and the median cardiac troponin I concentration was higher in trapped deer but undetectable in 10 of 14 darted deer. The white-tailed deer immobilized by hand-injection in Clover traps experienced more severe physiologic perturbations than deer remotely injected by dart after ground-stalking. These perturbations might be sufficient to cause myocardial damage.
20096695|Plasma biochemical values are routinely used in the medical management of ill reptiles, and for monitoring the health of clinically normal animals. Laboratory tests, including clinical biochemical values, are subject to biological and analytical variation, the magnitude of which determines the utility of population-based reference ranges for the detection of abnormal results in the individual animal. Nested analysis of variance of repeated measurements allows the variance to be broken into within-individual, between-individual, and analytical variation. When the within-individual variation is large and the interindividual variation is low, a sample may be accurately classified as normal or abnormal based on a population-based reference interval. However, if the intraindividual variation is low and the interindividual variation high, population-based reference intervals are of limited value as the ranges for an individual encompass only a part of the conventional reference interval. Between-lizard, within-lizard, and analytical components of variance were assessed by nested analysis of variance for 16 commonly measured plasma biochemical parameters in eight healthy adult Dumeril's monitors (Varanus dumerili). Albumin, cholesterol, phosphate, calcium, sodium, and total protein demonstrated levels of individuality suggesting that comparison of a single measurement to a conventional population-based reference range may be too insensitive to detect small but significant alterations in the value for that animal. Only for potassium and AST did the index of individuality suggest that the use of reference values may be warranted. Uric acid, globulin, glucose, and amylase fell in a gray zone, where population-based ranges should be used with caution. The critical difference indicates the difference between two consecutive analytical results that may be safely ascribed to natural variation. In the present study critical difference varied from 7 and 11%, respectively, for sodium and chloride to 75 and 125% for uric acid and AST.
20095974|Blood samples were collected from 64 wild North American river otters (Lontra [Lutra] canadensis) from northern and eastern New York State and analyzed for serologic evidence of exposure to selected viral agents during a 1995-1996 translocation program. No clinical signs of disease nor lesions suggestive of prior viral exposure were seen. Titers were detected for antibodies against canine distemper virus, canine herpesvirus-1, and canine parvovirus-2 but not for antibodies against canine adenovirus-1, canine coronavirus, canine parainfluenza virus, rabies virus, feline herpesvirus-1, feline calicivirus, or feline coronavirus. This is the first report of titers for antibodies against canine herpesvirus-1 in North American river otters, and it suggests a low prevalence of antibody titers against most canine viruses in otter populations in northern and eastern New York. Confounding variables in this study could include exposure to domestic dogs associated with the project, prolonged time spent in captivity, and concurrent bacterial or parasitic infection. Stress-associated humoral immune suppression could have altered serologic profiles, especially in otters exposed to dogs after trapping but before venipuncture.
20096571|Published serum cholesterol values in captive western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) are much higher than human ranges, with a national mean of 7.36 mmol/L (284 mg/dl, n = 863). Complete blood lipid profiles were examined in 15 captive gorillas. High-density lipoprotein (HDL) was found to decrease more rapidly with age than total cholesterol, resulting in an increasing ratio of cholesterol HDL with age. The ratio of apolipoprotein B to apolipoprotein A1 also increased with age. Establishment of a database of blood lipid values for captive gorillas with correlative analysis of animals with known atherosclerosis status may help to identify sensitive predictors of coronary heart disease risk.
20096218|A 24-day-old, 2.2-kg, female Reeves' muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi) acutely developed left hind limb lameness that resolved with rest and anti-inflammatory drugs but recurred at 8 mo of age. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal spine revealed a fluid-filled dilatation of the central canal of the spinal cord, which was interpreted as a hydromyelic cyst. Surgical exploration and drainage of the cyst were attempted. Despite initially improved mobility, severe plantar ulceration of both hocks developed. The animal was euthanatized. Gross necropsy of the central nervous system revealed a 1.5-cm-long, mild depression with associated yellowing of the dorsal spinal cord in the lumbosacral region, dilatation of the central spinal canal that extended from the cranial thoracic spinal cord with diameter increasing caudally, and mild herniation of the brainstem at the foramen magnum. Histopathologic lesions of the central nervous system were restricted to the spinal cord, with equivocal enlargement of the fourth ventricle. Pathologic changes included irregular dilatation of the central canal, flattening to the absence of the ependymal cells, spongiosis of the gray matter neuropil, and dystrophic calcification. The gross and histologic findings confirmed the diagnosis of hydromyelia.
20095444|Cryptococcosis involving the respiratory tract and central nervous system was diagnosed in an 8-yr-old Allen's swamp monkey (Allenopithecus nigroviridis). Radiography, computed tomography, lung biopsy, and cerebrospinal fluid tap were employed in the diagnostic workup. Treatment was initiated with amphotericin B (0.5 mg/kg, i.v. three times per week) and flucytosine (143 mg/kg/day p.o.). The amphotericin B dose was increased to 1.7 mg/kg but discontinued after 16 wk (total amphotericin B dose 119 mg) when nephrotoxicity developed. Fluconazole was begun at 6 mg/kg/day p.o. and gradually increased to 18 mg/kg/day, while flucytosine was continued. Treatment was discontinued 6 wk after cerebrospinal fluid titers became negative. The monkey has remained well after 2 yr of follow-ups. In a nonhuman primate, fluconazole at 18 mg/kg/day in combination with flucytosine is effective and safe for the treatment of pulmonary and central nervous system cryptococcosis.
20460541|Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed on an adult, male Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) with a history of nonspecific neurologic signs and acute discharge from the left ear. MRI revealed findings consistent with otitis and possible osteomyelitis of the temporal and mastoid bones. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of otitis and MRI findings in a kangaroo.
20095375|Marsupials are known to be susceptible to atypical mycobacterial infections. Disseminated and localized systemic forms commonly end in the death of the animal. Here, a case of mycobacterial osteomyelitis in a Matschie's tree kangaroo (Dendrolagus matschiei) was successfully treated with a three-drug regimen of isoniazid, ethambutol, and amikacin. Accurate diagnosis, culture of the organism, and treatment based on in vitro bacterial sensitivity can make treatment of mycobacterial infections in marsupials a viable option.
20460522|West Nile virus (WNV) is known to affect captive populations of alligators and, in some instances, cause significant mortalities. Alligators have been shown to amplify the virus, serve as a reservoir host, and even represent a source of infection for humans. This study describes a cutaneous manifestation of WNV in captive-reared American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis), previously described as lymphohistiocytic proliferative syndrome of alligators (LPSA), based on the findings of gross examination, histopathologic evaluation, WNV antibody testing, and WNV reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Forty alligators with LPSA and 41 controls were examined. There was a significant difference (P = 0.01) in the WNV serostatus between the treatment group (100%) and the control group (0%, 95% CI: 0-7.3%). In the treatment group, 97.5% (39/40) (95% CI: 92.7-102.3%) of the LPSA skin lesions were positive for WNV via RT-PCR. Of the skin sections within the treatment group that had no LPSA lesions, 7.5% (3/40) (95% CI: 0-15.7%) were positive for WNV. In the control group, all of the skin samples were negative for WNV (41/41) (0%; 95% CI: 0-7.3%). The LPSA skin lesions were significantly more likely to be WNV positive by RT-PCR when compared to control animals (P = 0.07) and normal skin sections from affected animals (P = 0.08). There was no significant difference in the WNV RT-PCR results between control animals and normal skin sections from affected animals (P = 0.24). These findings suggest that LPSA is a cutaneous manifestation of WNV in alligators.
20095878|A 1:1 combination (by weight) of zolazepam and tiletamine is the drug of choice for anesthetizing polar bears (Ursus maritimus), but recovery time is prolonged when additional doses are administered. Recoveries may last 24 hr and may threaten the health of the bears. We compared the anesthetic effects of zolazepam-tiletamine (ZT) with those of medetomidine-ketamine (MK) and medetomidine-zolazepam-tiletamine (MZT) in 93 free-ranging polar bears. The MZT combination was administered in smaller dose and volume, resulted in more rapid, safer, and more predictable induction, provided more reliable anesthesia, and was safely reversed with atipamezole. Frequent occurrence of sudden recoveries during anesthesia with MK limited our use of this combination. MK and MZT sometimes caused apnea and bradycardia initially and hyperthermia at increased ambient temperatures. Hypoxemia occurred transiently with all combinations. When anesthesia with ZT and MK exceeded 1 hr, frequent necessary top-up doses caused irregular physiologic function. ZT is recommended for short duration anesthesia (1 hr), but MZT is better for anesthesia of longer duration and under circumstances where reversibility is desirable.
27751756|Calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P), and magnesium (Mg) are important elements for body homeostasis in several diseases associated with imbalances in the plasma concentration of these ions. This is the first published report of reference intervals for Mg in association with Ca and P levels for psittacine species. One milliliter of blood was collected from 26 Hispaniolan parrots (Amazona ventralis) and 24 African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus). The plasma concentrations of Ca, P, and Mg were determined for each sample. Statistical analyses were performed including all data (analysis 1) and after exclusion of the subjects with Ca  14.00 mg/dl (3.5 mmol) (analysis 2). The data from analysis 1 have a narrower interval than that observed in analysis 2. Following the normality test (Shapiro-Wilk,  = 0.05), the univariate and mean procedures were run. For the reference intervals, the lower and upper values were used, after elimination of the outliers calculated by Blom scores from the ranked variables. The analysis 1 references for the Hispaniolans were Ca = 8.8010.40 mg/dl (2.202.60 mmol/L), P = 1.804.40 mg/dl (0.581.42 mmol/L), Mg = 1.803.10 mg/dl (0.741.27 mmol/L), and Ca:P ratio = 2.625.39; for the African greys analysis 1 references were Ca = 8.2020.20 mg/dl (2.055.05 mmol/L), P = 2.505.90 mg/dl (0.811.91 mmol/L), Mg = 2.103.40 mg/dl (0.821.4 mmol/L), and Ca:P ratio = 1.813.77. The analysis 2 references for the Hispaniolans were Ca = 8.8010.30 mg/dl (2.202.58 mmol/L), P = 1.803.80 mg/dl (0.581.23 mmol/L), Mg = 1.903.00 mg/dl (0.821.07 mmol/L), Ca:P ratio = 2.625.39; for the African greys analysis 2 references were Ca = 8.1010.80 mg/dl (2.032.7 mmol/L), P = 2.405.30 mg/dl (0.781.71 mmol/L), Mg = 2.002.60 mg/dl (0.821.07 mmol/L), Ca:P ratio = 1.673.50. The results of this study are important for evaluating Mg concentrations in relation to the Ca and P parameters in psittacines. This information will be particularly helpful for veterinarians evaluating the hypocalcemic syndrome in African grey parrots and other disease processes associated with Ca, P, and Mg physiologic imbalances.
20095431|The close phylogenetic relationship of humans to nonhuman primates makes the nonhuman primate a popular exhibit animal in zoological gardens. That same close relationship can also result in the unintentional transmission of infectious agents between these animals and humans. This hazard can pose a threat both to animal care personnel and to the animal care personnel and to the animal collection. Occupational health and safety has become an increasingly regulated area of society over the past decade. To ensure the safety and health of humans and nonhuman primates and to ensure regulatory compliance, it is essential that every zoological institution develop an occupational health program. This program should include hazard identification, risk assessment, work practices, personnel protective equipment, education and training, emergency action plan, occupational medicine, and program documentation. The goal of an occupational health program is to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for zoo employees, who then have the responsibility of providing a safe and healthy environment for the animals in their care.
20096196|A 25-yr-old male captive walrus (Odobenus rosmarus divergens Illiger) died after suffering from periods of inactivity, anorexia, and weight loss for 8 wk. Necropsy revealed prominent, generalized atherosclerosis of cardiac arteries with widespread chronic myocardial infarction. Severe disseminated myocardial fibrosis most likely resulted in insidious cardiac failure that was ultimately the cause of death. Bouts of abdominal pain and disseminated cutaneous ulcers that had been observed 3 and 4 days before death, respectively, were attributed to circulatory failure and thrombosis. The cause of the vascular lesions remains unknown. When compared with humans, atherosclerosis is rare in animals and has not been described in a walrus.
20095242|Microscopic examination of the brain of a harbor porpoise (Phocoena phocoena) found stranded on the coast of Sweden in 1988 revaled neuronal degeneration and necrosis, neurophagia, and diffuse microglial infiltration in the cerebral cortex. Many neurons contained intranuclear acidophilic inclusions. Herpesviral antigen was demonstrated in affected cells by immunoperoxidase staining. Herpeslike viral particles were seen in nuclei of many neurons by transmission electron microscopy. This is the first report of herpesviral encephalitis in cetaceans.
20095504|A mature female koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) with a history of depression, anorexia, and purulent urogenital discharge was examined. Using abdominal ultrasonography, a presumptive diagnosis of a polycystic uterine or vaginal mass was made. Exploratory abdominal surgery revealed distended uteri and multiple cysts involving the uteri, cervices, and vaginal cul-de-sac. Ovariohysterectomy and partial vaginectomy resulted in the resolution of clinical disease. Histologic examination of the reproductive tract revealed the presence of vaginitis, cervicitis, endometritis, pyometra, and salpingitis. Streptococci were identified within both uteri. Antibodies to Chlamydia psittaci were detected in serum using a recently developed immuno-dot-blot screening test. This is the first reported ultrasonographic diagnosis of reproductive tract disease in a female koala and the first detailed description of ovariohysterectomy in the koala.
20096011|Comprehensive hematologic and biochemical analyses were conducted on blood from 23 male and 31 female clinically stable captive mugger crocodiles (Crocodylus palustris). Erythrocyte mean corpuscular volume (MCV), potassium, cholesterol, and calcium concentrations were significantly greater in juvenile males than in juvenile females, but no significant differences were determined between parameters of subadult males and subadult females. The mean WBC count and mean heterophil count were significantly higher in adult males than in adult females. Mean uric acid concentration was significantly greater in adult females than in males. Mean erythrocyte count was significantly higher in adults than in juveniles. Adult mean WBC and lymphocyte counts were significantly lower than those of both juveniles and subadults. Subadults had significantly lower mean eosinophil counts than both adults and juveniles. Subadults had significantly lower mean alkaline phosphatase activities than juveniles, whereas the adults had significantly lower aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase activities than other groups. Lactate dehydrogenase activities were significantly lower for subadults than for juveniles and adults. Cholesterol concentrations were significantly higher for subadults and juveniles compared with adults. Triglyceride concentration was significantly lower for subadults and highest for juveniles. Glucose concentrations were significantly higher for adults. Blood urea nitrogen was significantly lower for subadults than for both adults and juveniles. Uric acid concentrations were significantly higher for juveniles than for the subadults and adults. The subadult animals also had a significantly lower potassium concentration. The results obtained were then compared with known values for other crocodilian species.
27751717|An unusually high prevalence of uterine changes was observed on necropsy in a group of 169 female Seba's short-tailed bats (Carollia perspicillata). In this case study, 27 animals were affected from 1997 to 2007, representing 16% of the group population. All bats were of an indeterminate age and originated from the same facility, but were housed in three different zoological institutions. Deaths occurred year round. Most animals were found dead, with no previous clinical signs. Clinical signs, when present, included a markedly distended abdomen, extended periods of time perched on the exhibit floor, lethargy, and anorexia. Histologic changes included florid segmental to diffuse endometrial hyperplasia and occasional hemorrhage and adenomyosis. The cause for this condition has not been determined.
20460440|A 4-mo-old, juvenile roan antelope (Hippotragus equinus) presented for an acute and progressive lameness of the left hind limb, which was non-responsive to anti-inflammatory medication. The antelope was anesthetized for examination, radiography, and lab work. The left stifle joint had limited range of motion and was markedly swollen on physical examination. Radiography revealed thin cortices of the left distal femur and proximal tibia, as well as multiple lytic areas in the condyles. Euthanasia was performed due to the severity of the lesions and the animal's overall physical condition. Postmortem findings included a parasitic infection of the gastrointestinal tract. Cartilaginous erosions, associated with fibrotic connective tissue and viscous joint fluid, were identified in all appendicular joints. Perimortem lab work demonstrated anemia and hypoproteinemia. Joint fluid was inflammatory but non-infectious, and aerobic culture of the joint was negative for pathogens. Histologic examination identified focal, transmural necrosis of the articular cartilage with clefting. Osteochondrosis dissecans was diagnosed, which initiated an evaluation of the nutritional status and management of the herd. This is the first documented case of osteochondrosis dissecans in a roan antelope.
20079491|The serum concentration of amikacin following intracardiac and i.m. administration of amikacin (3.48 mg/kg) in 12 ball pythons (Python regius) housed at 25C and 37C was studied. Blood samples were collected by cardiocentesis at intervals up to 144 hr after administration of amikacin. Drug concentration-versus-time curves following intracardiac administration at both temperatures best fit a two-compartment open model. For snakes housed at 37C, the extrapolated time 0 concentration (x  SD) was 17.64  3.52 g/ml with a median elimination half-life of 4.5 days. The maximum concentrations were 11.98  1.67 g/ml and 13.87  2.61 g/ml for snakes housed at 25C and 37C respectively. There were no significant pharmacokinetic differences among the snakes housed at 25C and 37C. Model-independent parameters were area under the curve, 69,900  0.011 gmin/ml, apparent volume of distribution at steady state, 410  106 ml/kg, clearance, 0.036  0.009 ml/min/kg, and mean residence time, 3,530  273.7 minutes. Mean serum amikacin concentrations did not reach the recommended therapeutic peak concentrations for mammals (25 g/ml). In addition, the amikacin serum concentration did not fall below the recommended therapeutic trough concentrations (2 g/ml) by 6 days. The serum amikacin concentrations were efficacious based on the area under the curve. Therefore, amikacin (3.48 mg/kg) administered i.m. to ball pythons should produce maximum serum concentrations against most pathogenic bacteria. In this study, it would have taken another half-life, or 4.5 days, before trough concentrations of 2 g/ml were achieved. To prevent accumulation, a one-time administration of amikacin may be appropriate.
20096200|An adult, 23 yr-old, male greater one-horned rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis) was repeatedly immobilized with combinations of etorphine, detomidine, and ketamine to provide medical and surgical care to chronic, bilateral, soft tissue lesions on the hind feet and to collect semen by electroejaculation. The rhinoceros was successfully immobilized on 24 occasions over a 55 mo period at approximately 8-10 wk intervals, 17 times with a combination of etorphine and detomidine (M99-D, i.m.) by projectile dart and seven times with a combination of etorphine, ketamine, and detomidine (M99-K-D, i.m.) by pole syringe. The combination of etorphine, detomidine, and ketamine repeatedly and safely induced prolonged anesthesia, and a suitable drug combination includes 3.5-3.8 mg etorphine, 14 mg detomidine, and 400 mg ketamine (M99-K-D) administered i.m. into the neck.
20096708|A free-ranging, adult male Florida panther (Puma concolor coryi) was immobilized and evaluated for hematuria following routine capture. Prior to anesthetic recovery, the panther was fitted with a telemetry collar. After an initially quiet recovery, the panther began thrashing in the transport cage, and was again immobilized. Pink foam was evident from the nostrils, and crackles were ausculted over the chest, indicating pulmonary edema. Postobstructive pulmonary edema was diagnosed based on history, clinical signs, radiographic evaluation, and blood gas analysis. The animal was treated intensively for several hours with diuretics, oxygen, and manual ventilation. The panther responded rapidly to therapy and was released back into the wild 48 hr after presentation. Postobstructive pulmonary edema, also called negative-pressure pulmonary edema, may be underrecognized in veterinary medicine. In this case, the telemetry collar, in conjunction with anesthetic recovery in a small transport crate, may have contributed to tracheal obstruction. Wildlife veterinarians and biologists should be aware of the risk of airway obstruction when placing tracking collars, and animals should be continuously monitored during anesthetic recovery to ensure the presence of a patent airway.
20079495|An adult Celebes ape (Macaca nigra) was presented for a routine yearly evaluation. Abdominal radiographs revealed four radiodense metallic foreign objects resembling coins within the gastrointestinal tract. Hematologic abnormalities included a mild nonregenerative anemia and a mild leukocytosis, and the biochemical profile reflected renal dysfunction. Serum zinc levels were elevated. The animal was denied food for 24 hr in preparation for the endoscopic removal of the foreign objects. During this period, two partially eroded pennies were passed in the feces. Endoscopy was temporarily postponed, and the animal was offered food. Two days later a third penny was passed. When the fourth coin did not pass within the next 2 days, the animal was once again denied food, and the fourth coin was passed within 24 hr. Because of the temporal association between the fasting cycles and the passage of the coins, a causal relationship is suggested. Following the passage of all coins, serum zinc levels decreased, and hematologic and serum biochemical abnormalities improved. Six months later, all abnormalities had resolved.
20095168|Toxoplasma gondii was found in the heart, brain, liver, spleen, lymph nodes, urinary bladder, kidney, and adrenal glands of a captive adult female koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) that died at the San Francisco Zoo. Predominant lesions were encephalitis, myocarditis, and necrosis of the pancreas and adrenal glands. Organisms were identified as T. gondii on the basis of tissue cyst morphology.
20096479|This study examined the captive western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) eye as compared and contrasted with the human eye. Bilateral ophthalmic examinations of western lowland gorillas (n = 5) while under general anesthesia were performed opportunistically, including slit-lamp biomicroscopy, dilated fundus examination, cycloplegic retinoscopy, Schiotz tonometry, corneal diameter and thickness measurements, A-scan and B-scan ultrasonography, keratometry, and cultures of the eyelid margins and bulbar conjunctiva. Mean spherical equivalent refractive error by cycloplegic retinoscopy was + 1.20  0.59 diopters. Mean intraocular pressure by Schiotz tonometry was 12.0  4.3 mm Hg. Mean optic nerve head cup to disc ratio was 0.42  0.11. Mean horizontal corneal diameter was 13.4  0.8 mm, and mean vertical cornea diameter was 12.7  0.8 mm. Mean central corneal thickness by ultrasound pachymetry was 489  52 m. Mean axial length of the eye by A-scan was 22.75  0.71 mm. Mean lens thickness by A-scan was 4.23  0.34 mm. Mean anterior chamber depth by A-scan was 4.00  0.26 mm. Mean keratometry reading was 44.38  1.64 diopters. Eyelid margin and bulbar conjunctival cultures isolated Candida sp. (n = 5), Staphylococcus aureus (n = 4), Staphylococcus epidermidis (n = 3), Staphylococcus saccharolyticus (n = 3), and Micrococcus sp. (n = 3). This study suggests important similarities between western lowland gorilla and human eyes. These similarities may allow diagnostics, techniques, and equipment for human eye surgery, such as those used for cataract extraction and intraocular lens implantation, to be successfully utilized for gorillas.
40962310|Fertile eggs of Podocnemis expansa and Podocnemis unifllis were investigated for the presence of enterobacteria, as these two endangered species have the potential for conservation measures that include egg transfer. Knowledge of normal microflora associated with turtles and turtle eggs would help effectively manage the transfer of these eggs among institutions. Thirty eggs of each species were collected, aseptically transferred, cracked inside plastic bags containing tetrathionate broth, and spread on selective media plates. Ten samples of sand and water were also examined for the presence of fecal coliforms using Colilert Quanti-Tray kits. Enterobacteriaceae were identified using an API 20E biochemical test kit. A majority of the bacteria isolated were potential pathogens. All egg samples were positive for Enterobacteriaceae, among which 15 eggs of P. expansa were positive for Shigella flexneri. Other isolates included Chromobacterium violaceum, Escherichia coli, and Aeromonas salmonicida subsp. salmonicida. Eggs of P. unifilis were most frequently positive for Shigella flexneri and C. violaceum, and less frequently positive for A. salmonicida subsp. salmonicida and Salmonella choleraesuis subsp. arizonae. The source of the bacteria in these eggs is unknown, but the nesting beaches were considered a source as water samples had low total coliform counts and E. coli was isolated from only one sand sample. This study demonstrated that Enterobacteriaceae are part of the indigenous microflora of chelonians.
27751751|Serum and whole blood samples from 64 clinically normal captive black and white ruffed lemurs (Varecia variegata), aged 6 mo to 32 yr, were analyzed to survey mineral and fat-soluble vitamin concentrations. All animals were fed a commercial primate food and a wide range of fruits and vegetables. Specific commercial diet information was available for 52 animals that were fed one of 10 different diets. Data analysis showed no differences in the analytes attributable to sex or access to natural ultraviolet light. Serum phosphorus (range: 1.43.1 mmol/L) was significantly higher and retinol (range: 0.381.23 mol/L) was significantly lower in young animals (4 yr). Iron (range: 17.277.0 mol/L) and copper (range: 10.753.3 mol/L) were much higher than concentrations reported in other free-ranging lemur species, and in some animals were at levels considered potentially toxic in domestic animals. Magnesium (range: 0.662.04 mmol/L), sodium (range: 111201 mmol/L), and potassium (range: 2.06.8 mmol/L) ranged both lower and higher than concentrations considered adequate for a mammal, but were similar to concentrations reported in wild red ruffed lemurs (Varecia rubra), a closely related species. Selenium (range: 3.57.7 mol/L) was within the range expected for a mammal, but higher than concentrations reported in wild V. rubra. Zinc (range: 9.262.7 mol/L) was similar to concentrations reported in V. rubra. Calcidiol (range: &lt;12.5144.8 nmol/L) and retinol (range: 0.382.95 mol/L) were both lower and higher than concentrations reported in V. rubra. Lower serum calcidiol concentration correlated with lower commercial dictary vitamin D3, -tocopherol (range: 1.2 17.6 mol/L) and -tocopherol (range: 0.33.9 mol/L) were within a range expected in a captive frugivorous primate but higher than concentrations found in wild V. rubra.
20096558|A tiletamine hydrochloride-zolazepam hydrochloride combination was used successfully to immobilize 27 free-ranging maned wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus) at a mean dose of 2.77  0.56 (mean  SD) mg/kg. The induction time ranged from 3-15 min. Animals remained immobilized for periods of 48.56  12.65 min. Compulsive licking, excessive salivation, muscle twitching, muscle tremors, tachypnea, and bradycardia were observed associated with the induction of the anesthesia in 13 of 27 maned wolves. Muscle twitching, pedal withdrawal reflex, muscle tremors, and ataxia were observed during recovery in three (11%) maned wolves. There were no significant differences in heart rates (P = 0.44), respiratory rates (P = 0.82), and rectal temperatures (P = 0.54) recorded at 5, 15, and 25 min after induction at these dosages. The tiletamine hydrochloride-zolazepam hydrochloride combination was shown to be an effective and safe immobilizing agent for free-ranging maned wolves.
20096284|Two male Florida manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) died at the marine aquarium in Inagi City, Tokyo, Japan. Acid-fast bacteria were demonstrated in tuberculoid nodules in the lungs from both manatees. Mycobacterium marinum and M. fortuitum were isolated from one manatee; M. marinum and M. kansasii were cultured from the second animal. This report confirms the pathogenicity and potentially fatal outcome of mycobacterial infection in manatees. In addition, the pathologic response to infection with these mycobacteria in manatees is similar to that associated with Mycobacterium spp. in other animals.
20460557|Sloths may serve as host to a wide range of parasites. However, there is little information available on the types of parasites that affect Costa Rica's sloth population. During a 1-yr period, 65 specimens of Costa Rican sloth species (Choloepus hoffmanni; n = 56) and Bradypus variegates; n = 9) from a local zoo were sampled. Fecal samples were evaluated using two different diagnostic techniques, Sheather's flotation and sedimentation. Concurrently, these sloths were examined for ectoparasites. Gastrointestinal parasites were found in 14 sloths (21.5%), from which 13 animals were C. hoffmanni and one was B. variegatus. Gastrointestinal parasites were recognized as Coccidia 71.4% (10/14), Cestoda 21.4% (3/14), and Spiruroidea 7.1% (1/14). Coccidia and cestodes were seen in C. hoffmanni, and spirurids were identified in B. variegatus. Among 27 sloths examined, only six had dermal problems (five C. hoffmanni and two B. variegatus). Ectoparasites recovered were Sarcoptes scabiei (Acari, Sarcoptidae) mites and Amblyomma varium (Acari, Ixodidae) ticks. This is the first time that cestode strobilae and nematode eggs are reported in sloth feces and that Monezia benedeni and L. leptocephalus were found in captive sloths.
20096189|Safe, effective, and reversible immobilization protocols are essential for the management of free-ranging red wolves (Canis rufus). Combinations using an
20096412|Three captive loggerhead sea turtles, Caretta caretta, were used in four trials, one i.v. and three i.m., to determine the pharmacokinetic properties of a single dose of ticarcillin. For the i.v. study, each turtle received a single 50 mg/kg dose and blood samples were collected at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 12 hr and at 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 14 days after administration. For the i.m. study, each turtle received one of three dosages (25, 50, or 100 mg/kg) in a randomized complete block design and blood samples were collected at the same time intervals. Each trial was separated by a minimum of 28 days to allow for complete drug clearance. Drug concentration in plasma was determined by a validated liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry assay. For the i.v. study, the elimination half-life was 5.0 hr. The apparent volume of distribution and plasma clearance were 0.17 L/kg and 0.0218 L/hr/kg, respectively. For the i.m. study, mean time to maximum plasma concentrations ranged from 1.7 (0.58) hr in the 50 mg/kg group to 3.7 (2.5) hr in the 100 mg/kg group. Mean bioavailability ranged from 45% (15%) in the 50 mg/kg group to 58% (12%) in the 100 mg/kg group, and the mean residence time ranged from 7.5 (2.6) hr in the 25 mg/kg group to 16 (6.8) hr in the 100 mg/kg group. Two turtles had slight alanine aminotransferase elevations that were not clinically apparent at two different dosages, but otherwise, blood chemistries were unaffected. Possible i.m. dosage regimens for loggerhead sea turtles are 50 mg/kg q24 hr or 100 mg/kg q48 hr. Liver enzymes should be monitored during treatment.
40665150|This communication reports a partially reversible chemical immobilization protocol used for translocation and veterinary care in giant otter (Pteronura brasiliensis; GO). Six GOs (three males and three females) weighing 24.8  4.0 kg (mean  SD) and ranging in age from 16 to 42 mo old were anesthetized with an i.m. combination of medetomidine (29  3 g/kg) and ketamine (3.9  0.4 mg/kg). To perform all procedures, two otters required an additional dose of ketamine (1.5 mg/kg). Anesthesia was reversed with atipamezole i.m. (147  14 mg/kg). The mean induction time and recovery times were 12  5 and 4 min (range, 0-9 min), respectively, with an anesthesia time of 47  16 min. According to these results, the combination of medetomidine (30 g/kg i.m.) and ketamine (4 mg/kg i.m.) is a reasonable choice for inducing anesthesia in GOs.
20095955|A 12-yr-old male koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) in a zoo collection developed bilateral, noninflammatory, periocular alopecia. Deep periocular skin scrapings yielded multiple adult, nymphal, and larval mites of a previously undescribed Demodex species. Skin biopsies from affected areas revealed multiple mites in superficial keratin and within hair follicles, associated with a mild intramural lymphocytic folliculitis. Treatment with daily oral ivermectin was safe and effective. Although Demodex sp. are previously reported from skin scrapings in another koala with periocular alopecia, this is the first confirmed case of koala demodicosis.
20095575|An 8-yr-old intact female Goeldi's monkey (Callimico goeldii) was diagnosed by ultrasonography and needle aspirate cytology as having hepatomegaly secondary to multiple benign myelolipomas. Antemortem diagnosis was confounded by the cytologic similarity of the liver aspirate to extramedullary hematopoiesis. Although the myelolipomas slowly increased in size over a 12-mo period, the tumors had little effect on the plasma biochemical indicators of hepatic disease. The gradual deterioration of this monkey may have been due in part to these space-occupying lesions.
20095832|Two polar bear (Ursus maritimus) cubs born at the Denver Zoological Gardens were abandoned by a primiparous mother. Lethargic and extremely chilled, the cubs were transported to the zoo hospital for intensive care and hand rearing. Both cubs developed rickets. Dietary changes were instituted, and both cubs completely recovered with the exception of a bowed right femur (genu varum) in the female cub.
20096232|Hematologic and serum chemistry values were determined for chicks, juveniles, and adult farmed lesser rheas (Pterocnemia pennata). Blood samples were taken during March-April 1998 from the brachial veins of lesser rhea, including 64 chicks, 24 juveniles, and 36 adults, raised in Patagonian farms (Argentina). Lesser rhea chicks had significantly lower erythrocyte counts, hematocrit, hemoglobin, red cell indices, and copper than did the juveniles and adult individuals. No significant differences were observed between females and males. Most values were similar to those reported for other ratites. The data obtained provide hematologic and serum chemistry values for lesser rhea from farms.
20095975|A survey of gastrointestinal parasites of nonhuman primates in Gombe National Park, Tanzania, was conducted during July and August 1989. Fresh fecal samples collected from 35 baboons (Papio cynocephalus anubis) and 20 chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) were analyzed for intestinal parasites. Parasite identifications were based upon the size and appearance of eggs and larvae on both direct and fecal flotation examinations. Seven species of helminths and three species of protozoa were noted in the chimpanzees, and seven species of helminths, two species of trematodes, and one species of protozoa were noted in baboons. An unidentified parasite, with a thick egg shell similar to that of ascarids, was noted in both the chimpanzee and baboon population. Unfortunately a definitive identification of this parasite could not be made based upon egg size and morphology alone and insufficient numbers of larva were present to aid identification. One previously unreported parasite, Schistosoma mansoni, was identified in the baboon population. This is the first report of a schistosome in Gombe's nonhuman primate population.
20095542|Ketamine and a combination of ketamine and xylazine were evaluated for short-term restraint of adult island flying foxes (Pteropus hypomelanus). Although both regimens provided effective immobilization, the ketamine: xylazine combinations produced better-quality induction, immobilization, and recovery with less struggling and biting than ketamine alone. Induction times were similar for several regimens and dosages. The effective dosages (
41262612|In the last 7 yr, three different species of terrestrial mammals were diagnosed with Mycobacterium pinnipedii either within one collection or through the introduction of an infected animal from another zoo. The affected species included the Malayan tapir (Tapirus indicus), Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus bactrianus), and crested porcupine (Hystrix cristata). In the first zoo, all of these were living in exhibits adjacent to a group of South American sea lions (Otaria flavescens) and were cared for by the same keeper. One infected tapir was transferred to a different zoo and transmitted M. pinnipedii infection to three other Malayan tapirs. The tapirs were tested with various diagnostic methods, including comparative intradermal tuberculin test, PCR and culture of sputum samples, Rapid Test (RT), and multiantigen print immunoassay (MAPIA). The M. pinnipedii infection was confirmed at postmortem examination in all animals. RT and MAPIA showed the diagnostic potential for rapid antemortem detection of this important zoonotic disease.
41262638|Whole blood from 33 healthy captive Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) was analyzed for 12 trace elements: aluminum, chromium, manganese, cobalt, nickel, copper, zinc, arsenic, selenium, cadmium, mercury, and lead for the purpose of estimating preliminary baseline population parameters for these minerals. Metals were quantified by inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy. Baseline ranges for all animals and for all trace elements were comparable to normal concentrations reported in other species. This is the first report of normal trace element levels in the blood of captive elephants.
20096158|Two juvenile scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx dammah) at the Wild Animal Park Planckendael died from acute septicemia caused by Listeria monocytogenes serovar 4b. Subsequently, Listeria spp. were isolated from the feces, food, and environment of seven antelope species and examined using a two-stage enrichment procedure in Fraser Broth, followed by isolation on PALCAM agar. A total of 40/170 samples (23.5%) was positive for Listeria spp. No organisms were cultured in 83/170 samples (48.8%), and 47 samples (27.6%) were overgrown with Bacillus spp. Nonpathogenic Listeria spp. were isolated from 16/70 fecal samples, 22/40 soil samples, and 2/60 feed samples. Listeria monocytogenes serovar 1/2b was isolated from two soil samples collected in the enclosure of the scimitar-horned oryx.
20095258|A combination of detomidine (40-55 g/kg i.m.), ketamine (2.0-4.3 mg/kg i.m.), and isoflurane in oxygen provided effective chemical restraint and surgical anesthesia in four California sea lions (Zalophus californianus). Although this combination produced hypoventilation, relative hemoglobin saturation appeared adequate during all procedures. Pulse oximetry and capnography appear useful for indirect cardiopulmonary monitoring in anesthetized pinnipeds.
20096300|Between 1991 and 2001 a total of 12 cases of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in eight different species were recorded in the National Zoological Gardens of South Africa in Pretoria (Tshwane). The genetic relatedness between seven of the M. tuberculosis isolates was determined by IS6110 restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. For the majority of isolates that were analyzed, a high degree of polymorphism suggested different sources of infection. Evidence of M. tuberculosis transmission between animals is reported in two chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) housed together, from which samples were collected for analysis 29 mo apart.
20096462|Likely because of trauma, an adult alpaca (Lama pacos) sustained a corneal perforation with a prolapsed iris. Because of the severity of the lesion, a pedicle conjunctival graft was performed. The structural integrity of the cornea was reestablished, and 10 mo postoperatively, the affected eye appeared to have good vision and only a small corneal scar remained.
20095594|An adult 68-kg male Hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata) with clinical signs of lethargy and anorexia was presented to the Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital, University of Florida, for evaluation and treatment of a possible intestinal obstruction. Whole-body radiographs revealed an obstruction of the distal colon and gas-distended loops of the small intestine and colon proximal to the obstruction site. The turtle died on the day of presentation during evaluation. At necropsy, all parietal and visceral coelomic surfaces were covered with a thick layer of fibrinous exudate. The coelomic cavity contained approximately 2 L of red fluid. The distal colon contained multiple foreign bodies, including a rubber band and multiple pieces of thin wire that were incorporated in 40 cm of firm fecal material coated with mucus and fibrin. A 360 volvulus incorporating approximately 60 cm of colon just proximal to the chronic obstruction was present. Anaerobic culture of coelom yielded heavy growth of Clostridium sp. The death of this turtle was associated with clostridial toxemia secondary to devitalization of the section of colon involved in the volvulus.
20095859|Three free-ranging Florida panthers (Felis concolor coryi) were diagnosed with clinical dermatophytosis; two were infected with Trichophyton mentagrophytes, and one was infected with Microsporum gypseum. Two of these panthers were juvenile males that were diagnosed with focal to focally coalescing dermatophytosis; one caused by M. gypseum and the other by T. mentagrophytes. These animals were not treated, and clinical signs resolved spontaneously over 6 mo. The third panther, an adult male from southern Florida, presented with a diffuse dermatophytosis due to T. mentagrophytes infection. Initially, the panther had alopecia, excoriations, ulcerations, and multifocal pyoderma of the head, ears, neck, rear limbs, and abdominal region that progressed to lichenification of the skin and loss of nails from two digits. When topical therapy applied in the field at 45-day intervals was ineffective in clearing the infection, the animal was placed in captivity for intensive oral therapy to prevent further development of dermal mycosis, loss of additional nails, and spread of infection to other panthers. The panther was treated orally with intraconazole (9.5 mg/kg) in the food s.i.d. for 6 wk. After treatment, nail regrowth occurred but the multifocal areas of alopecia remained. The panther was released back into the wild after two skin biopsy cultures were negative for fungal growth. Temporary removal of a free-ranging animal of an endangered species from its habitat for systemic treatment of dermatophytosis requires consideration of factors such as age, reproductive potential, holding facilities, treatment regimen, and the potential for successful reintroduction of the animal.
20095348|Multiple necrotizing oral lesions were observed in an Indian rock python (Python molurus molurus). A biopsy of a lesion was obtained and by light microscopic evaluation was consistent with pyogranulomatous inflammation. Subsequently, multiple nodules developed throughout the integument. The clinical condition of the snake declined and eventually it was euthanized. At necropsy, numerous large gray nodules in multiple tissue sites were found. Histologic examination of skin and visceral nodules revealed a monomorphic population of round cells. Immunohistochemical and cytochemical staining of the cutaneous nodules failed to identify the specific lineage of the neoplastic cells. The final diagnosis was disseminated undifferentiated sarcoma.
20096037|Plasma proteins of 139 healthy adult birds of prey from 10 species were separated by electrophoresis to characterize and document normal reference ranges and species-specific electrophoretic patterns and to evaluate the value of this technique for health screening, disease diagnosis, and prognostic indication. Species studied included bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis), barn owl (Tyto alba), great horned owl (Bubo virginianus), turkey vulture (Cathartes aura), Harris' hawk (Parabuteo unicinctus), Stellar's sea eagle (Haliaeetus pelagicus), barred owl (Strix varia), screech owl (Otus asio), and black vulture (Coragyps atratus). Several clinical cases show the diagnostic/therapeutic value of protein electrophoresis in raptors. This study establishes species-specific reference ranges for several birds of prey and discusses the benefit of electrophoresis as a diagnostic technique in health screens, as a diagnostic aid in conjunction with other tests, and as a prognostic indicator in clinical evaluation of raptors.
20096145|Serum protein and immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels were measured from 16 healthy mouflons (Ovis orientalis musimon) and from 28 roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) in French and Catalonian populations. Electrophoretic patterns were described for each species. The only significant gender-related difference was increased -globulins in French roe deer males. Significantly increased
20095980|Transrectal ultrasonography of a 35-yr-old captive female southern white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum) with a history of chronic mucohemorrhagic vulvar discharge revealed right transmural uterine horn enlargement. Abdominal laparoscopic surgery, although extremely difficult because of inadequate instrumentation, permitted uterine visualization and biopsy. Standing anesthesia, incorporating butorphanol and azaperone together with local anesthetic infiltration, facilitated the laparoscopy. A leiomyoma was suspected on the basis of history, physical examination, ultrasonographic appearance, and histopathology. Prior rhinoceros laparoscopies have failed, primarily from limitations imposed by recumbency.
20096120|To evaluate the association between corneal lipid infiltration (corneal arcus) and dietary cholesterol in Cuban tree frogs (Osteopilus septentrionalis), 47 wild-caught frogs were fed diets of either regular or high-cholesterol crickets containing 0.7% and 1.7% cholesterol dry matter, respectively. Serum total cholesterol and triglycerides were measured when the frogs were euthanized after 17 mo. In a subsample of frogs, serum lipoproteins were characterized using high-performance liquid chromatography. The first case of corneal lipid deposition occurred in a female frog after 13 mo on the high-cholesterol diet. In the subsequent 4 mo, 5/11 males and 11/35 females developed the disease. Four of these affected frogs were females on the regular diet. Frogs with corneal lipid deposition had elevated serum total cholesterol (27.3  19.8 mmol/L) and low-density lipoproteins (LDL, 17.8  18.9 mmol/L) compared with unaffected captive frogs (16.5  20.4 and 9.0  7.6 mmol/L, respectively). Corneal lipid deposition was more prevalent in frogs on the high-cholesterol diet, and this group had higher serum total cholesterol (34.1  15.2 mmol/L in females, 22.8  14.8 mmol/L in males) than did frogs on the diet of regular crickets (12.3  8.7 mmol/L in females, 10.4  3.1 mmol/L in males). Captive frogs on both diets had higher serum total cholesterol than did wild frogs (3.1  2.1 mmol/L in females, 5.3  2.6 mmol/L in males). This additional serum cholesterol was primarily carried on very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and LDL rather than high-density lipoproteins (HDL), as indicated by the significantly higher ratio of VLDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol over HDL cholesterol in captive frogs compared with wild frogs. Elevation in this ratio was significantly higher in captive females than in captive males. There was no evidence that increased serum cholesterol in captive females was directly related to the process of vitellogenesis.
20096388|Three captive female nilgais (Boselaphus tragocamelus) either showed late-term abortion or their newborn calves died within 2 days of birth. Toxoplasma gondii DNA was demonstrated in the brain and liver of each fetus and in one of the two neonates by single-stage polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with TGR1E and by seminested PCR with B1 gene. Retrospectively, antibodies titers 640 to T. gondii by indirect fluorescence were found in the sera of all three female and one male nilgais. No other cause of abortion was detected. Fatal toxoplasmosis was also diagnosed in one captive, adult female saiga antelope (Saiga tatarica), which died suddenly. Toxoplasma gondii was detected in the liver, lung, spleen, kidney, and intestine. An unusual finding was the presence of numerous tissue cysts in the liver of this animal. Toxoplasmosis was confirmed by PCR with TGR1E and immunohistochemically. Toxoplasmic hepatitis and pneumonia were considered to be the primary causes of death.
20095182|Reversible fertility control is a potentially powerful management tool for both captive exotic and free-roaming wildlife. This approach to wildlife management represents an effective and humane alternative to current control methods, which are largely lethal. A number of new contraceptive technologies, designed primarily for use in humans or domestic animals, can be applied to wildlife populations. Reversible contraceptive agents examined here include nonhormonal compounds, nonsteroidal hormones, steroid hormones, barrier methods, and immunocontraception. A brief history of their use in wildlife is examined, along with directions for future research and the benefits of wildlife contraception.
20096094|This investigation evaluated the cardiopulmonary effects of medetomidine, ketamine, and butorphanol anesthesia in captive juvenile Thomson's gazelles (Gazella thomsoni). Butorphanol was incorporated to reduce the dose of medetomidine necessary for immobilization and minimize medetomidine-induced adverse cardiovascular side effects. Medetomidine 40.1  3.6 g/kg, ketamine 4.9  0.6 mg/kg, and butorphanol 0.40  0.04 mg/kg were administered intramuscularly by hand injection to nine gazelles. Times to initial effect and recumbency were within 8 min postinjection. Cardiopulmonary status was monitored every 5 min by measuring heart rate, respiratory rate, indirect blood pressure, end-tidal CO, and indirect oxygen-hemoglobin saturation by pulse oximetry. Venous blood gases were collected every 15 min postinjection. Oxygen saturations less than 90% in three gazelles suggested hypoxemia. Subsequent immobilized gazelles were supplemented with intranasal oxygen throughout the anesthetic period. Sustained bradycardia (&lt60 beats per minute, as compared with anesthetized domestic calves, sheep, and goats) was noted in eight of nine gazelles. Heart and respiratory rates and rectal temperatures decreased slightly, whereas systolic, mean, and diastolic blood pressure values were consistent over the anesthetic period. Mild elevations in end tidal CO and PCO suggested hypoventilation. Local lidocaine blocks were necessary to perform castrations in all seven of the gazelles undergoing the procedure. Return to sternal recumbency occurred within 7 min and return to standing occurred within 12 min after reversal with atipamezole (0.2  0.03 mg/kg) and naloxone (0.02  0.001 mg/kg). Medetomidine, ketamine, and butorphanol can be used to safely anesthetize Thomson's gazelles for routine, noninvasive procedures. More invasive procedures, such as castration, can be readily performed with the additional use of local anesthetics.
20096110|A 14.5-yr-old, male black-and-white ruffed lemur (Varecia variegatus variegatus) presented for acute enlargement of the left testicle and hemiscrotum. Physical examination also revealed poor pelage quality with short guard hairs, sparse undercoat, and areas of alopecia. Increased aggression was also reported. A unilateral, open orchiectomy was performed, with the left testicle, epidydymis, associated vaginal tunic, and attached spermatic cord removed. Microscopic evaluation was consistent with an interstitial cell tumor, with many morphologic features similar to this neoplasm in people. No overt histopathologic criteria of malignancy were present. Following orchiectomy, gradual improvement in pelage quality was noted and was considered almost normal by 5 mo postoperative. In contrast with the aggressive preoperative behavior, the lemur was extremely submissive for 3 mo following the surgery. Gradual return to normal behavior and social status occurred over the next 2 mo. Multiple follow-up examinations and radiographs revealed no evidence of metastasis, and biopsy of the remaining testicle 4 mo later revealed no evidence of neoplasia. Serial measurements of testosterone and estradiol revealed levels within the range of those for other ruffed lemurs, as were repeated measurements taken of the remaining testicle. At 19 mo postoperative, the lemur had a coat quality considered nearly normal and maintained its historical social position in the lemur group without abnormal aggressive behavior.
20096549|A surrogacy program to increase the reproductive rate of the critically endangered Victorian brush-tailed rock wallaby (Petrogale penicillata), initially developed in semicaptive conditions, was established in close captivity at Adelaide Zoological Gardens in 1998. Pouch young were removed from their mothers on days 8-20 or 40-45 after parturition and placed onto the teat of a tammar wallaby (Macropus eugenii) or yellow-footed rock wallaby (Petrogale xanthopus xanthopus) surrogate mother. During the early years of the program, mortality of brush-tail pouch young was high (12/16, 75%), both before transfer while still on their mother (5/16) and after transfer to a surrogate mother (7/11). Changing pouch young transfer methodology and improving the health status of the surrogate animals during the later years of the program significantly reduced the mortality of brush-tail pouch young (8/29). Under the new methodology, no mortality of brush-tail pouch young was observed between birth and the time of transfer, (0/29), and after transfer, pouch young mortality rate was eight of 29 (28%). Factors implicated in the improved success of the program included 1) the early transfer (between days 8 and 20) of brush-tail pouch young from mother to surrogate mother, 2) review of the veterinary history and health of the animals selected to act as surrogate mothers, and 3) increased access to grazing pasture for foster mothers. The reproductive rate of the brush-tail females in the later years of the breeding program was sixfold above natural birthing rates. These and other factors important in establishing a breeding program of this nature are discussed.
20094934|Three white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and three mule deer (O. hemionus) were each immobilized three times with i.m. doses of xylazine hydrochloride at 1.3 mg/kg body weight. All six deer were given one of three dosage rates (0.5, 1.0, 1.5 mg/kg) of yohimbine hydrochloride administered i.m. during the three trials using a Latin Square experimental design. All deer received each dosage once 15-30 min after xylazine administration. The arousal time ranged from 2 to 10 min, and all deer were standing, regardless of which yohimbine dosage was used, within 4-15 min. The deer remained calm but alert during 1-2 hr of remote observation.
41262585|A spotted seal harvested by subsistence hunters in Kotzebue Sound, Alaska (USA), showed a grossly enlarged uterus and associated lymph nodes. Streptococcus phocae was isolated from the purulent uterine discharge. Histopathologic examination revealed inflammation that was limited to the uterine mucosa. Lymph nodes draining the affected organ were reactive but no evidence of active infection was found in the lymph nodes. This report is the first Streptococcus phocae isolated from spotted seals as well as the first report of pyometra as the main pathologic finding associated with this pathogen. Isolation of this pathogen from Alaska expands the reported range to arctic pinnipeds. Zoonotic potential remains unknown.
20096582|A male polar bear (Ursus maritimus) was diagnosed with tracheitis associated with Bordetella bronchiseptica that was cultured from an endotracheal sample of thick mucopurulent exudate. The condition responded to oral amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, and clinical signs of inappetence, depression, dysphagia, and tussis were resolved. One week after this presentation, a female conspecific presented with similar clinical signs, suggesting a transmissible nature of the disease or the same source of infection. The source of infection remains unknown.
20095885|Oxidative metabolic burst activity by Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) heterophils and Holstein cattle (Bos taurus) neutrophils was indirectly evaluated by measuring the oxidation of nonfluorescent intracellular 2,7-dichlorofluorescin (DCFH) to fluorescent 2,7-dichlorofluorescein (DCF) with flow cytometry. The results were recorded as mean channel fluorescence intensity. Phorbol myristate acetate at 50 ng/ml was used to activate the cells. Elephant heterophils and bovine neutrophils exhibited similar abilities to oxidize intracellular DCFH to DCF, a fluorescent product. A wide range of mean channel fluorescence intensity (1,803-7,393) was observed among individual elephants, and the range of intensities was similar to that observed in bovine neutrophils, supporting the concept of functional heterogeneity of heterophils among elephants.
20096221|Two laparoscopic ovariohysterectomies and three laparoscopic hysterectomies were performed on normal, healthy, adult African lions (Panthera leo) in dorsal recumbency, with the body tilted at 25 with the head down. One 12-mm trocar and two 5-mm trocars were used to access the uterus and ovaries, and the UltraCision(Harmonic Scalpel clamp or coagulation shears was used to coagulate and divide the ovarian- and the uterine-supporting structures and the uterine body. The animals recovered uneventfully from anesthesia and were released to their exhibits within 5-10 days of surgery. Such procedures can be performed safely on large felids and can reduce postoperative recovery time and postoperative complications. The scalpel facilitated the procedure by coagulating and dividing tissue in a continuous sequence and reducing the number of instruments required.
20095505|Pyogranulomatous endophthalmitis, secondary glaucoma, and osteomyelitis were diagnosed in a great horned owl (Bubo virginianus). The bird was found moribund, nonambulatory, and bilaterally blind. Ocular examination revealed uveitis, glaucoma, and a posteriorly luxated lens in the left eye and a ruptured, collapsed right eye. Radiographic abnormalities included osteolysis of the scleral ossicles in both eyes and ossicle separation in the left eye. Because of severe debilitation and a poor prognosis for rehabilitation, the bird was euthanized. Pathologic diagnoses included pyogranulomatous endophthalmitis, scleral ossicle osteomyelitis, splenic lymphoid depletion, and long bone osteomyelitis. Corynebacterium sp. was cultured from both the uveal tract and the bone marrow. The radiographic and pathologic changes in the scleral ossicles have not been previously described in raptors.
20096436|The anesthetic and cardiopulmonary effects of butorphanol followed by sevoflurane or isoflurane were compared in 23 male green iguanas (Iguana iguana). Heart and respiratory rates were recorded before administration of butorphanol (2 mg/kg i.m.) and at 30 min after premedication. Anesthesia was induced in 12 iguanas (group 1) with isoflurane (5%) and in 11 iguanas (group 2) with sevoflurane (7%). Heart rate, relative arterial oxygen hemoglobin saturation (SpO), and end-tidal CO concentrations (EtCO) were measured every minute for the first 5 min and every 5 min thereafter. Arterial blood gas parameters were determined at 10 and 40 min after induction. Thirty minutes after butorphanol administration, no significant changes in heart and respiratory rate were seen as compared with baseline values. Quality and time to induction were superior with butorphanol-sevoflurane (6  3 min) than with butorphanol-isoflurane (9  4 min). Vaporizer settings during maintenance ranged between 1-3% and 2-4%, respectively. No significant differences in heart rate were noted between groups. In the sevoflurane group, SpO values were &gt90% throughout. Although SpO values were &lt90% at 20, 25, and 30 min in the isoflurane group, no significant differences in SpO values were seen over time and between groups. A significant decrease in EtCO with time was present in both groups, with no significant differences between the groups. At 10 and 40 min, arterial blood oxygen saturation values were &gt90% in both groups and no significant differences were noted with time and between groups. Recovery time was significantly longer in the butorphanol-isoflurane group (35  27 min) than in the butorphanol-sevoflurane group (7  4 min). The cardiopulmonary effects of butorphanol-isoflurane and butorphanol-sevoflurane assessed in this study are similar, and both inhalants appear to be safe and effective for induction and maintenance in the green iguana.
20095866|Two Atlantic bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) were given 0.11 mg/kg dexamethasone p.o., and complete blood count and serum chemistry analyses, including insulin, thyroxine (T) adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), and cortisol level determinations, were performed at 0 hr, 24 hr, 36 hr, 48 hr, 7 days, and 17 days. Significant changes included neutrophilia, eosinopenia, lymphopenia, elevated insulin, and depressed ACTH and cortisol levels within 24 hr of dexamethasone administration. These effects were rapid, and values returned to normal within 48 hr.
20096501|A 10-yr-old female black bear (Ursus americanus) at the North Carolina Zoological Park presented with a 2-wk history of intermittent coughing and stertor. The animal was anesthetized for examination, and at intubation, a large mass associated with the tonsils and larynx was observed obstructing the airway. Cardiopulmonary collapse occurred during the procedure, and efforts at resuscitation were ineffective. At necropsy, an 8 cm times 6 cm times 5 cm mass was present in the larynx, infiltrating the epiglottis and obstructing the airway. Regional lymph nodes were mildly enlarged and contained tan inspissated substance. Histologically, the neoplasm was composed of nests of keratinizing squamous epithelial cells with evidence of lymphatic invasion and metastases to regional lymph nodes.
20460462|An 8-yr-old female paca (Agouti paca) was admitted at the Veterinary Hospital of the Belo Horizonte Zoo (Brazil) with an ulcerated cutaneous nodule of approximately 1.5 cm in diameter in the left ear. One week later, other cutaneous nodules were detected in various body locations. The animal died during a surgical procedure to remove the tumors. All cutaneous nodules were histologically similar with features of squamous cell carcinoma. Considering the predominant in situ nature of the lesion as well as its multicentric localization, the disease reported here closely resembles Bowen's disease, which has been described in humans and which has been identified as a rare neoplastic disease of cats, with one single report in a dog. This is the first report of a neoplastic disease in Agouti paca.
20079497|An adult male snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina) was presented to the Tufts Wildlife Clinic with generalized weakness and limited ability to walk. A fishing hook was lodged in the corner of its mouth, monofilament line trailed from its cloaca, and radiography revealed that the turtle had ingested two additional hooks and a large sinker. The hemogram showed leukocytosis. At exploratory celiotomy, the fishing line was seen to have acted as a linear foreign body and had perforated the intestines. Multiple enterotomies were performed to remove the sinker and line, and perforations were repaired. Two of the hooks could not be surgically or endoscopically retrieved. Blood lead concentration was 3.6 ppm prior to the start of chelation therapy with calcium disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and declined to undetectable levels within 6 wk. The turtle recovered and was released.
20095588|Diaphragmatic defects of suspected familial origin have been documented in captive golden lion tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia). This defect was of concern to a multidisciplinary reintroduction program. Plain radiographs taken prior to reintroduction failed to identify an individual with a hernia. A radiographic technique using an inverted contrast peritonealogram was developed using an i.p. injection of radiopaque contrast medium to outline the abdominal contour of the diaphragm when the anesthetized tamarin was in an inverted (head down) position. The inverted contrast peritonealogram was used to evaluate the diaphragmatic contours of 260 golden lion tamarins (155 from the National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C., 10 from the Rio de Janeiro Primate Center, and 95 free-living in the Poo das Antas Reserve, Brazil). The diaphragmatic contours ranged from smooth and symmetrical to variations of a wavy appearance, out-pocketing, and/or differential elevations of the hemidiaphragm. No true diaphragmatic hernias were detected, but the more severe abnormalities in the diaphragmatic contour were consistent with eventration of the diaphragm. The diaphragmatic contours were graded from 0 to 5 based on the type and degree of irregularity present. The highest grade observed in the 95 free-living golden lion tamarins was 3, seen in only two individuals (3%) compared with 55 individuals (35%) with a grade 3 at the National Zoological Park. This comparison precipitated the decision that no golden lion tamarin with a diaphragmatic contour of grade 4 or 5 (considered a major defect) would be reintroduced. This decision was made in an attempt to minimize the effect of the potential deleterious diaphragmatic defect on survival of this species in the wild.
41262617|A twenty-one-year-old male sandbar shark (Carcharhinus plumbeus) demonstrated signs of chronic weight loss even though its appetite remained unchanged. In addition, the gradual development of a red, circular lesion on its ventral body was noted. After months without any significant changes, a ventral fistula appeared revealing the tip of a wire exposed within its center. The shark was immobilized via intramuscular remote injection through dartgun with etomidate; removed from its exhibit tank; and clinically examined with radiographie imaging, a cell blood count/serum chemistry evaluation, and the use of a metal detector along the body wall. A metallic hook was identified in the coelom about 10 cm cranial to the external fistula. The shark was transferred to an isolation pool for 1 mo. A second immobilization via immersion in eugenol was conducted in order to perform a celiotomy. The hook was located in a liver lobe and was surgically removed. After a prolonged recovery from anesthesia, the shark was released into its primary tank and recovered uneventfully, although some of the skin sutures sloughed prematurely.
20094940|A female western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) with a suspected ventricular septal defect underwent right heart catheterization with an oximeter catheter that measured real time hemoglobin oxygen saturation in vivo. The animal had a history of congestive heart failure, a systolic murmur, and poor weight gain. An initial echocardiogram was normal. At the time of catheterization, a repeat echocardiogram suggested a ventricular septal defect that was confirmed by an oxygen saturation step-up from 81% in the right atrium to 95-97% in the right ventricle. The oximeter catheter is accurate, easy to use, and less cumbersome than equipment conventionally used for diagnosis of ventricular septal defect.
20095528|Otiditaenia macqueeni, Raillietina sp., Paronchocerca tonkinensis, and Allodapa sp. were recovered from a group of rufous-crested bustards (Eupoditis ruficrista) which died after importation into the United Arab Emirates. Associated findings at postmortem examination included cardiac rupture, weight loss, trichomoniasis, and enteritis. Histologic examinations revealed Paronchocerca sp. microfilariae in sections of liver, kidney, lung, and myocardium. Haemoproteus telfordi and H. tenderoi were identified in blood smears from two birds. These parasites may be a contributing factor in the high mortality of rufous-crested bustards in captivity.
20096321|Black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) are highly susceptible to sylvatic plague, caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis, and this disease has severely hampered efforts to restore ferrets to their historic range. A study was conducted to assess the efficacy of vaccination of black-footed ferrets against plague using a recombinant protein vaccine, designated F1-V, developed by personnel at the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases. Seven postreproductive black-footed ferrets were immunized with the vaccine, followed by two booster immunizations on days 23 and 154; three control black-footed ferrets received a placebo. After the second immunization, antibody titers to both F1 and V antigen were found to be significantly higher in vaccinates than controls. On challenge with 7,800 colony-forming units of virulent plague by s.c. injection, the three control animals died within 3 days, but six of seven vaccinates survived with no ill effects. The seventh vaccinate died on day 8. These results indicate that black-footed ferrets can be immunized against plague induced by the s.c. route, similar to fleabite injection.
20095643|During September and October 1992, two black-and-white ruffed lemurs (Varecia variegata variegata) were housed in an outdoor wire enclosure at the Tulsa Zoological Park. The following February and April, both lemurs developed head tilt and ataxia, and they were euthanized. Necropsy revealed multifocal malacia of the white matter of the pons, cerebellum, internal capsule, and cerebral and cerebellar peduncles. Nematode larvae consistent with Baylisascaris spp. were observed in the brain of one lemur. A retrospective study revealed three cases of ataxia in emus (Dromaius novaeholloandiae) that were previously housed in the same enclosure. Archival paraffin-embedded tissue from one emu revealed tractlike foci of malacia within the white matter of the cerebellum. Circumstantial evidence, including the observation of numerous raccoons (Procyon lotor) in the vicinity, and the presence of numerous Baylisascaris procyonis in the intestine of a single trapped raccoon implicate this roundworm as the pathologic agent in the lemurs.
20095687|Urine samples and behavioral data were collected from nine adult female Guenther's dik-dik (Madoqua guentheri) from September 1989-November 1992. The durations of predefined individual behaviors were recorded during focal sampling periods and ad libitum. Immunoreactive pregnanediol-3-glucuronide (PdG) concentration in dik-dik urine was determined by radioimmunoassay. The immunoreactive PdG radioimmunoassay was validated for use with dik-dik by determining parallelism (
20095114|In the past decade, there has been growing public, scientific, and political concern about the loss of genetic diversity in wildlife taxa. Certain biotechniques, such as artificial insemination and in vitro fertilization, could be instrumental in conserving and managing many wildlife species. One key to using these techniques to sustain genetic diversity is the science of germ plasm cryobiology, or our ability to successfully freeze, store, thaw, and use sperm and embryos. This review focuses on the historical and current perspectives of embryo cryobiology, particularly pertaining to hoofed species. In addition to describing current mechanisms on how and why embryos can survive a cryostress, issues relating to the benefits of this technology and areas for future research are also addressed.
20095469|Twenty-five free-ranging European hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus) were immobilized on 33 occasions with various sedative and anesthetic agents. Eleven animals injected with a combination of medetomidine hydrochloride (0.2 mg/kg), ketamine (2.0 mg/kg), and fentanyl (0.1 mg/kg) s.c. were completely immobilized after 8.2  2.5 (mean  SD) min. The immobilizations were characterized by good muscle relaxation, abolition of the rolling-up, pedal withdrawal, and corneal reflexes, and minimal reaction to eartagging. Twenty to 25 min after administration of the immobilizing agents, six animals received a combination of atipamezole hydrochloride (1.0 mg/kg) and naloxone hydrochloride (0.16 mg/kg) i.m., and five animals were given saline (0.6 ml/kg) i.m. The mean times from administration of reversal agents (group 1) or saline (group 2) to when the animals regained the rolling-up reflex and were able to walk, were 6.6  2.0 and 7.4  2.1 min in group 1 and 66  19 and 135  15 min in group 2, respectively. No side effects were seen in animals given reversal agents; animals given saline remained immobilized for up to 2.5 hr. The other drug doses or combinations that were tested, medetomidine hydrochloride (0.32-2.1 mg/kg), medetomidine hydrochloride (0.2 mg/kg) + ketamine (5.0 mg/kg), tiletamine--zolazepam (10.0-35.2 mg/kg), and etorphine (0.062-0.170 mg/kg) + methotrimeprazine (16.4-45.0 mg/kg), were either not effective or had certain disadvantages at the dosages used in this study. In conclusion, a combination of medetomidine-ketamine-fentanyl can be recommended for reversible immobilization of free-ranging European hedgehogs.
20096156|A full-term ectopic pregnancy was diagnosed in a multiparous, captive gerenuk (Litocranius walleri walleri) following prolonged gestation without parturition. Until 213 days of gestation, fetal viability was determined by transabdominal ultrasound of fetal heartbeat, physical palpation, and visual observations of fetal movements. Survey abdominal radiographs obtained at day 229 of gestation revealed a fully mineralized fetal skeleton in an inappropriate position for parturition. Surgical exploration revealed a full-term, nonviable, male calf contained within fetal membranes attached to the omentum. Histologic examination of the fetal membranes identified lesions compatible with placentacotyledon separation occurring prior to surgical removal. No congenital fetal abnormalities or infectious processes were identified. Visual observation of the reproductive tract at the time of surgery revealed no abnormalities or evidence of concurrent pregnancy.
20094938|In a study of the anatomy of the brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis), the internal organs of 14 birds dying of natural causes were examined with particular interest in clinically relevant topology. The trachea did not bifurcate prior to the syrinx. The heart lay in the midline between ribs #3 and #6. The ventriculus assumed a tubular shape, constricting slightly before the bulbous pyloric region with its very small pyloric opening. At the junction of the small intestine and colon, there were two ceca. Seven of 14 birds showed evidence of injury to the gastrointestinal tract including structures in two birds that resembled diverticulae proventriculare which were abscesses caused by fish bone penetrations of the wall of the ventriculus. Male birds could be distinguished from female birds on the basis of genital papillae present in the urodeum of male birds although inexperienced observers might be prone to misdiagnose some males as females.
41262665|An African spurred tortoise (Centrochelys sulcata) that had been housed with a conspecific was presented for tenesmus, diarrhea, and hematochezia of 48 hr duration. Husbandry was considered substandard. Hematology and plasma biochemical analysis revealed dehydration. Urinalysis was considered normal and fecal examination was negative for parasitic ova and protozoa. Radiography demonstrated moderate constipation. Initial treatment consisted of fluid therapy, enrofloxacin, metoclopramide, and improvement of husbandry practices. Recurrence of hematochezia developed 2 wk after initial presentation. Cloacoscopy followed by manual exteriorization of the penis revealed a puncture wound on the dorsal surface of the corpus cavernosum proximal to the glans penis. The wound was sutured using an absorbable monofilament material. The tortoise recovered uneventfully and was asymptomatic for the following 6 mo.
20095129|Ovarian neoplasms were identified at necropsy or surgery in four of nine adult female maned wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus) from the Conservation and Research Center of the National Zoological Park. All affected wolves had produced pups 4-9 yr previously. Three of four wolves had dysgerminomas, tumors of primordial germ cell origin that are rare in other mammals. Two of these three wolves were related, and one of the three had extensive metastatic disease. Two of the dysgerminomas were in the ovarian stalk, an atypical location for primordial germ cells. The high prevalence of dysgerminomas in this population may be due to environmental or genetic factors. Another maned wolf had a granulosa cell tumor (Sertoli pattern) and an ovarian papillary adenoma, which are common in domestic dogs. These tumors were accompanied by endometrial carcinoma, endometrial hyperplasia, and pyometra, suggesting an endocrine function of the granulosa cell tumor. The high prevalence of ovarian neoplasia represents another major health problem in this endangered species.
20095336|High mortality rates and a shell disease originally described as shell necrosis were observed in the population of desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) in the Colorado Desert on the Chuckwalla Bench Area of Critical Environmental Concern, Riverside County, California, USA. In a retrospective review of photographic slides of desert tortoises from the Chuckwalla Bench, the disease was evident in 1979 when tortoises on a permanent study site were first photographed. Lesions were present in both sexes and all size classes of tortoises in all years in which tortoises were photographed. In those tortoises where sequential photographs were taken, the most severe lesions were seen in 1988. Although the disease was present on the carapace, plastron, and thickened forelimb scutes, the plastron was more severely affected than other areas of the integument. The affected portions of the shell were gray-white and sometimes orange and had a roughened flaky appearance. The lesion commenced at seams between scutes and spread toward the middle of each scute in an irregular pattern. Shell biopsies of nine affected tortoises were evaluated by light microscopy. No inflammatory infiltrates were present in the lesions, and although bacterial organisms were identified in tissue sections, they were superficially located and were considered to be secondary invaders. Special staining indicated a loss of the normal integrity of the horny material covering affected scutes. For the most part, the epithelial cells that formed a pseudostratified layer under affected portions of each scute remained intact. Although the location and histologic appearance of the lesion were compatible with a dyskeratosis and were suggestive of either a deficiency disease or toxicosis, the exact cause of the disease could not be determined.
41262656|Archey's frogs (Leiopelma archeyi) are first on the list of evolutionarily distinct and globally endangered (EDGE) amphibians. Captive breeding is an important strategy for protection of the species, but programs are hampered by a lack of information on diseases present in wild and captive populations. Two novel nematodes (Koerneria sp. and Rhabditis sp.) were found separately in four captive Archey's frogs showing clinical signs of hemorrhagic purulent nasal discharge and weight loss. One of these frogs also had a novel protozoal infection (Tetrahymena) in the nasal cavity. Koerneria, Rhabditis, and Tetrahymena have not previously been reported in amphibians in New Zealand. One frog was treated successfully with oral moxidectin at 0.4 mg/kg for the nematode infection and topical metronidazole at 10 mg/kg for the protozoal infection. The clinical signs abated only after both infections were cleared. The second frog died before treatment could be established. The third and fourth frogs were found dead.
20095411|An inclusion body disease (IBD) in boid snakes (family Boidae) has been seen for over 20 yr in private and zoological collections of snakes in the United States, Africa, and Europe. In both a retrospective and prospective study, 70 members of the subfamily Boinae and 34 members of the subfamily Pythoninae were evaluated. Clinical signs in affected snakes included chronic regurgitation and neurologic disorders. Central nervous system disease was more apparent in members of the subfamily Pythoninae than in members of the Boinae and included the inability of animals to right themselves when placed in dorsal recumbency, head tremors, disorientation, incoordination, and paresis. Histologic examination of tissues demonstrated numerous eosinophilic intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies in epithelial cells of all major organs, including neurons in the brain and spinal cord. In all snakes with central nervous system disease, a nonsuppurative meningoencephalitis with neuron degeneration and perivascular cuffing was seen. Electron microscopic examination revealed viral particles in thin sections of the brain, pancreas, and kidney, as well as in primary kidney cells cultured from affected snakes. The enveloped particles were an average of 110 nm in diameter and morphologically resembled C-type particles of the family Retroviridae. Inoculation of young Burmese pythons (Python molurus bivittatus) with supernatant of primary cultured kidney cells from an infected boa constrictor (Boa constrictor) resulted in the development of clinical signs and microscopic lesions seen in IBD.
20095256|Hematologic and serum chemistry data were collected over a 6-yr period for three species of pinnipeds, the California sea lion (Zalophus californianus), the northern elephant seal (Mirounga angustirostris), and the Pacific harbor seal (Phoca vitulina richardsi). Blood samples from both clinically healthy and diseased animals were evaluated. The common health problems assessed for the sea lions were parasites, verminous pneumonia, pneumonia and gastrointestinal tract infections, and peritonitis and septicemia. The health problems for elephant seals were emaciation, parasites, skin disease and parasites, and enteritis and liver failure, and for harbor seals were emaciation, respiratory and heart failure, and enteritis and liver failure. As compared with clinically healthy sea lions, diseased sea lions had higher (P &lt 0.05) white blood cell counts (WBC), percentages of neutrophils and band neutrophils, sodium, potassium, chloride, CO, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), total protein, total bilirubin, and aspartate aminotransferase (SGOT) levels and lower (P &lt 0.05) red blood cell counts (RBC), hemoglobin values (HGB), hematocrits (HCT), mean corpuscular hemoglobin values (MCH), mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentrations (MCHC), percentages of lymphocytes and eosinophils, potassium, calcium, BUN, total protein, albumin, glucose, triglycerides, and alkaline phosphatase levels. As compared with clinically healthy elephant seals, diseased elephant seals had higher (P &lt 0.05) RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, WBC, neutrophils, band neutrophils, creatinine, total protein, and glucose levels and lower (P &lt 0.05) MCV, MCHC, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium, CO, BUN, total protein, albumin, triglycerides, alkaline phosphatase, and SGOT levels. As compared with clinically healthy harbor seals, diseased harbor seals had higher (P &lt 0.05) RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, neutrophils, band neutrophils, sodium, CO, creatinine, BUN, total bilirubin, albumin, alkaline phosphatase, and lactic dehydrogenase levels and lower (P &lt 0.05) MCV, MCH, MCHC, WBC, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, potassium, calcium, total protein, and glucose levels.
20460416|A 12-yr-old female Victoria crowned pigeon (Goura victoria), acquired from a private aviculturalist, was diagnosed with a flea infestation during a quarantine examination. The fleas were embedded around the face and throat and were identified as sticktight fleas (Echidnophaga gallinacea). Despite the sticktight fleas' worldwide distribution and broad host range, there is a paucity of reports on flea infestations and their treatment in zoo and exotic pet birds. Although this parasite has the potential to induce morbidity and mortality, no feather loss, localized dermatitis, or anemia was noted in response to the ectoparasitism. The infestation was treated with manual removal of fleas combined with topical malathion dusting and environmental treatment. Subsequent recheck exams did not reveal any fleas on this pigeon or on any of the other birds housed in the same room. This case illustrates the importance of quarantine procedures for newly acquired birds as part of responsible captive management of large, multispecies bird collection.
20096259|Snakes from temperate climates are often made to hibernate in zoos to stimulate reproduction. Unfortunately, deaths have occurred during and after hibernation. This study evaluated the health status, pre- and posthibernation, of 31 adult viperid snakes. It included morphometric measurements, hematology, and blood chemistry. No differences were seen in body weights and weight to length ratios between pre- and posthibernation examinations, suggesting that the overall condition of the snakes did not change. No differences were seen in hematologic and blood chemistry parameters, except that bile acids (3-hydroxybile acids) decreased, the implications of which are unknown. Three individuals had markedly high plasma uric acid levels posthibernation; of these, two individuals died from extensive visceral gout and one recovered with fluid therapy. Viperid snakes should be clinically healthy, well hydrated, and in good body condition when they are put into hibernation. They should be maintained in an environment with sufficient humidity and should have access to water. Blood samples should be collected on arousal for measuring plasma uric acid levels. Changes in morphometry, hematology, and blood chemistry appear to be abnormal and should be investigated thoroughly.
20460489|Little information is available about diseases and pathology of species within the family Tenrecidae, including the greater hedgehog tenrec (Setifer setosus), a Madagascan insectivore. This report summarizes necropsy and histopathologic findings of neoplasia in four captive greater hedgehog tenrecs. Although only four animals are included in this report, neoplasia seems to be a common and significant source of morbidity and mortality in greater hedgehog tenrecs. Types of neoplasia identified include a thyroid follicular-solid carcinoma, two urinary bladder transitional cell carcinomas, uterine endometrial polyps, and multicentric B-cell lymphoma. Due to small sample size, no etiology could be determined, but genetics, viral infection, pesticide treatment, nutrition, or other environmental factors might contribute to the development of neoplasia in this species. This is the first report of neoplasia in greater hedgehog tenrecs.
40665127|Hemolymph gas parameters were evaluated using a point-of-care analyzer in healthy American horseshoe crabs (Limulus polyphemus) at rest and after short-and long-term removal from water. Baseline vascular pH, partial pressure of oxygen (PO), partial pressure of carbon dioxide, bicarbonate, base excess, total carbon dioxide, and lactate concentrations were determined from hemolymph samples collected from 10 horseshoe crabs (group 1) submerged in water and were compared with values after removal from water for 5 min, and after recovery in water for 10 min and for longer than 60 min (range, 61-221 min). Hemolymph gas parameters were also determined in 12 horseshoe crabs (group 2) after shipment out of water for 24 hr and were compared with values obtained from group 1 animals. Baseline hemolymph gas values of the American horseshoe crab are within range for other aquatic vertebrates. After removal from water for 5 min, all group 1 crabs developed severe hypoxia, with PO levels falling below the detectable limit of the analyzer. Group 2 crabs had pronounced respiratory acidosis, and their PO values were significantly below baseline values of group 1 animals.
20095887|Hemolysis of serum and plasma samples is a common problem in veterinary diagnostic laboratories. We measured the effects of hemolysis on nine plasma analytes in 10 clinically normal common green iguanas (Iguana iguana). Blood samples with moderate and marked hemolysis were produced from each iguana by freezing, centrifuging, and decanting plasma from a portion of each blood sample, and combining the nonhemolyzed plasma with different amounts of hemolyzed plasma from the same individual. Moderate hemolysis significantly increased plasma phosphorus levels. Marked hemolysis significantly increased plasma values of potassium, phosphorus, total protein, and aspartate aminotransferase. The severity of hemolysis must be considered when interpreting values for these analytes in iguana plasma.
20095852|Sera from 68 nondomestic captive and free-ranging felids from southern Africa were tested for antibodies to Neospora caninum and Toxoplasma gondii by the indirect fluorescent antibody test. Four of the 68 (5.9%) serum samples were positive for antibodies to N. caninum, with titers ranging from 1:50 to 1:200. All other animals were negative for antibodies to N. caninum at a dilution of 1:50. Fifty of the 68 (74%) serum samples tested positive for antibodies to T. gondii, with titers ranging from 1:50 to 1:26,500. Four animals tested positive for antibodies to both N. caninum and T. gondii. None of these animals displayed clinical signs of disease. Results of this study indicate that nondomestic felids in southern Africa have been exposed to, and are likely infected with, N. caninum and T. gondii.
20095911|The cardiopulmonary effects of three drug combinations in polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were studied. In 1995, five adult polar bears received i.m. injections of either 8.2  1.3 mg/kg of Telazol or a combination of 159  34 g/kg of medetomidine with 4  0.8 mg/kg of ketamine in a crossover design. Significantly higher mean arterial pressure, lower heart rate, and lower partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO) occurred with medetomidine-ketamine. In 1996, six adult polar bears were immobilized with i.m. injections of either 8.2  2 mg/kg of zolazepam-tiletamine or a combination of 74.8  11.8 g/kg of medetomidine plus 2.2  0.3 mg/kg of zolazepam-tiletamine in a crossover design. Significantly higher mean arterial pressure and lower heart rate, base excess, and PaO occurred with medetomidine-zolazepam-tiletamine compared with zolazepam-tiletamine alone. Hypertension, bradycardia, and decreased PaO were observed with both medetomidine-ketamine and medetomidine-zolazepam-tiletamine. Both combinations should be well tolerated by healthy bears, but both have the potential to produce adverse effects in animals with cardiopulmonary disease. Zolazepam-tiletamine produced minimal adverse cardiopulmonary effects, consistent with the wide margin of safety of this combination in bears. The analgesic effect of zolazepam-tiletamine was apparently poor on the basis of the marked increases in pulse rate and mean arterial pressure after noxious stimuli.
20095147|An adult yellow rat snake (Elaphe obsoleta quadrivittata) with a malignant chromatophoroma of the skin was treated by surgical excision. The tumor rapidly recurred and was treated by surgical excision and radiation therapy, consisting of a total of 6,000 cGy delivered in four equivalent fractions by a 6-MV electron beam over a 15-day period. A minor side effect from the radiation treatments was the appearance of dry lackluster scales in the treatment field. Ten months after radiation therapy, the snake died with an apparent abscess at the previous site of the tumor. Necropsy revealed a large mass in the caudal coelomic cavity.
41262609|Forty years ago, Dr. Elizabeth Kubler-Ross in her landmark book On Death and Dying observed "maybe at the end of our days, when we have worked and given, enjoyed ourselves and suffered, we are going back to the stage that we started out with and the circle of life is closed." Just as human life expectancy has steadily increased over the last 4 or 5 decades, animal life expectancy has increased, including that of zoologie species. With this has come a need for humans to openly and frankly deal with end-of-life issues for themselves and for their animals, including those in zoos. By necessity, zoos have been dealing with problems such as aggressive pain management and triage, and efforts to incorporate end-of-life care into zoologie medicine. But these efforts have yet to include formal acknowledgment that they are a basic form of hospice. Hospice for humans, and now for companion animals, includes much more than pain relief and geriatric care. This article reviews the concepts and basic practices of hospice and the closely related field of palliative care, their relatively recent application to companion animal care, potential applications to zoologie medicine, and the ways this could provide opportunities for personal growth of zoo visitors and staff, including veterinary staff.
20096266|Elephant tusk removal usually requires costly surgical procedures that are time-consuming and present a significant risk to the animal when performed using general anesthesia. Such techniques require gauges, chisels, and forceps to remove the tusk. This article reports the simple removal of the tusk of an 18-yr-old African elephant (Loxodonta africana) without the use of surgical instruments and anesthesia. Rubber elastics were placed around a tusk, causing loss of alveolar bone with subsequent exfoliation of the tusk within 3 wk. The healing process was uneventful.
41262660|West Nile virus (WNV) was first documented in North America in New York City in 1999. Several deaths attributable to WNV have been reported in captive thick-billed parrots (Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha), an endangered psittacine native to North America. The serologie responses in 12 captive adult thick-billed parrots after a series of three initial WNV vaccine injections with annual boosters over 6 yr was evaluated. In addition, the serologie responses of 11 thick-billed parrot chicks following an initial vaccination series to determine if there were seroconversions were also reported. Most adults (67%) had seroconverted after 5 yr of annual vaccination, with a median titer of 1:80 (range 1:40-1:160) for those that seroconverted. After the first year, birds were likely naturally exposed to WNV, which limited interpretation of titers. None of the chicks seroconverted during the initial three-vaccine series; only two of four chicks (50%) had seroconverted when tested at the 1-yr yearly booster, and at 2 yr, three of four chicks had seroconverted. Although some birds had detectable antibody titers, it is unclear whether this vaccine can reliably provide protection against WNV in thick-billed parrots.
40962260|A 6-yr-old captive-born female fennec fox (Vulpes zerda) had a history of multiple seizures and was treated with diazepam and phnobarbital therapy. Despite medical treatment, the seizures continued. They were intermittent and progressive, resulting in neurologic deficits and death of the animal within 6 mo of onset of the clinical signs. At necropsy, the animal was in good nutritional condition, and no gross lesions were noted in the brain. Histologically, amphophilic to basophilic, periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) positive, diastase-resistant inclusions were present in the brain, heart, and liver. Ultrastructurally, the inclusions were variably electron dense, fibrillary to occasionally granular, and non-membrane bound. The clinical, histologie, and ultrastructural findings were consistent with Lafora's disease, which in humans is a rare, fatal, autosomal recessive hereditary neurometabolic disorder characterized by progressive myoclonic epilepsy. This is the first report of Lafora's-like disease in a fennec fox.
20095714|In an effort to define the effect(s) of lithium heparin and tripotassium EDTA on various hematologic parameters in Testudo hermanni, we collected blood samples from 29 clinically healthy adult individuals of both sexes. Portions of each blood sample were transferred to tubes containing either lithium heparin or tripotassium EDTA. The following determinations were made on samples of blood from each anticoagulant: red and white cell counts, packed cell volume, hemoglobin concentration, red cell indices, and differential white cell counts. Due to hemolysis, hematocrits could not be determined from blood samples in EDTA. Further, red blood cell counts were lower in the EDTA samples than in the heparin samples, again due to hemolysis associated with EDTA. However, EDTA did not appear to interfere with hemoglobin determinations. Heparin blood samples provided more optimal blood smears than did EDTA samples, thus differential leucocyte counts were determined only from smears taken from heparin blood samples. Futher, thrombocyte and leucocyte aggregation was not observed with heparin use. Thus, heparin is considered the anticoagulant of choice in chelonians for determining red blood cell counts, erythrocyte indices, and hematocrits. When May-Grunwald-Giemsa stain was compared with Diff-Quick, thrombocytes could be more easily differentiated from lymphocytes using the May-Brunwald-Giemsa stain. Heterophil granules seemed to coalese more when Diff-Quick was used. Eosinophils, basophils, and monocytes were similar in appearance with both staining methods.
20460485|The sand cat (Felis margarita) is a small-sized felid occurring in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The sand cat captive-breeding program at the Breeding Centre for Endangered Arabian Wildlife in Sharjah, UAE, has until recently been severely compromised by very high newborn mortality rates. Two different pairs of sand cats gave birth, respectively, to one and two litters (with a total of eight kittens) between 1999 and 2006. Seven out of eight kittens died between the third and 21st wk of life. Toxoplasmosis was confirmed as the cause of death in these two litters. Adult cats had high antibody titers to Toxoplasma gondii before pregnancy, suggesting that maternal immunity did not protect the kittens against infection with T. gondii and that maternal immunity might not have prevented transplacental transmission of the parasite. This observation contrasts with what is seen in domestic cats. To date, this is the first report on confirmed fatal toxoplasmosis and prevalence of T. gondii in sand cats.
20095495|Comparative hematologic and plasma chemistry values were determined in 10 captive blue duikers (Cephalophus monticola) and 23 captive grey duikers (Sylvicapra grimmia). The animals included both males and females and ranged in age from 5 mo to 7 yr. Blue duikers were anesthetized with medetomidine and ketamine, and grey duikers were anesthetized with medetomidine and ketamine or xylazine and ketamine. Significant differences were found between grey and blue duikers for albumin, creatinine, creatine kinase, magnesium, and total bilirubin.
20096441|Black lemurs, Eulemur macaco, are classified as generalist feeders, consuming a proportion of fruits and leaves that varies with seasonal availability. It is hypothesized that black lemurs are capable of using neutral detergent fiber (NDF) as a source of energy through fiber fermentation in the cecum and large intestine. In captivity, they are typically fed a diet of commercially available primate biscuits and readily available produce, both of which are limited in NDF. Digestibility trials were conducted on 14 black lemurs; 12 were housed in groups (four, three, three, and two) and 2 were individually housed. The lemurs were fed four manufactured feeds differing in fiber form and content. A commercially available primate biscuit, containing approximately 27% NDF, served as the control diet. The second diet contained the same primate biscuits, which were ground and then incorporated into a fiber-based gel matrix. The third and fourth diets were formulated using soybean hulls or ground corncobs as the fiber source, resulting in 53% and 47% NDF, respectively. Produce was added to the diet at 36% (dry matter basis). Dry matter digestibility differed significantly among all diets. Neutral detergent fiber digestibility was highest for the ground biscuit in gel and lowest for the two high-fiber gel diets, with biscuit digestibility values falling between the two extremes. The high-fiber gel diets were successful in increasing the NDF concentrations of the primate diets; however, black lemurs were capable of only limited fiber digestion.
20460442|A 10-yr-old male South American sea lion (Otaria byronia) died after several weeks of depression, anorexia, weight loss, and progressive respiratory distress. At necropsy, three confluent, lobulated, dark-red masses were noted in the mesentery. Similar masses were also observed in the lung and both kidneys. Hemangiosarcoma was diagnosed based on gross findings, histopathology, and immunohistochemistry. This is the first case of hemangiosarcoma reported in pinnipeds.
20095237|A 16-year-old Diana monkey (Cercopithecus diana diana) with chronic renal insufficiency was evaluated for progressive weight loss. The examination revealed a subcutaneous mass on the left carpus. Fluid was aspirated and disclosed numerous, shiny, nonbirefringent particles that stained bright red with alizarin red S. The mineral present was identified as apatite by high resolution X-ray crystallographic analysis. Later, similar masses developed near the left ischium and the right tarsus. The monkey was euthanatized and a necropsy performed. The histological studies revealed profuse amounts of hematoxyphilic material surrounded by fibrosis, histiocytes, and multinucleated giant cells. Transmission electron microscopy showed clumps of intracellular fine needle-shaped crystals typical for apatite. These apatite deposits were probably related to an increased serum calcium  phosphorus product secondary to the renal disease.
20460459|A captive, adult male Goeldi's monkey (Callimico goeldii) (GM) presented in acute respiratory distress 4 yr after importation into the United States from Europe. Radiographs and echocardiogram were consistent with heart failure. The monkey died within 24 hr of presentation. Necropsy findings included multicentric arteritis and aortitis with aneurysm associated with microsporidian organisms morphologically consistent with Encephalitozoon species. Polymerase chain reaction confirmed organisms were Encephalitozoon cuniculi. Sequence analysis of amplicons generated by using primers specific for the polar tube protein of E. cuniculi determined the organism to be genotype II. An E. cuniculi serosurvey of potentially exposed conspecifics that represented approximately 40% of the captive GM population in the United States was conducted. Multiple individuals that had been imported from Europe with the individual of this report were seropositive via an immunofluorescent antibody assay for E. cuniculi. Multiple samples were available from 3 individuals that demonstrated a decrease in titer or reversion to seronegative status within 3 yr of initial positive status. All other GM were negative on serology. This case is unique in that the genotype identified (genotype II) was different than the genotype (genotype III) reported in other New World primate (NWP) species, the patterns of arteritis were different from the typical pattern of microsporidial vasculitis described in other species, and clinical disease was observed in an adult. Most reported cases of clinical disease secondary to E. cuniculi in NWP have been in neonates and juveniles.
20460456|Entamoeba invadens is a protozoal parasite of reptiles that causes colitis, abscesses of liver and other organs, and sometimes acute death. It is generally considered a commensal of chelonians but has also been implicated as a cause of colitis, diarrhea, and death in gopher (Gopherus polyphemus) and leopard (Geochelone pardalis) tortoises. Diagnosis of E. invadens is currently by detection of trophozoites and/or cysts upon direct fecal examination. However, definitive diagnosis of E. invadens has been difficult due to the very similar morphology of nonpathogenic Entamoeba spp., including E. ranarum, E. insolita, E. barreti, and E. terrapinae. Definitive speciation of Entamoeba spp. is important to avoid misdiagnosis or overtreatment for nonpathogenic protozoa. It is also important for consideration of mixed species reptile collections to avoid exposing snakes and lizards to E. invadens. In this study, we developed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers for E. invadens, E. ranarum, E. terrapinae, and E. insolita and conducted PCR amplification of purified DNA from cell cultures, as well as purified DNA from reptile stool samples with E. invadens trophozoites added. As a result of this study, a naturally occurring infection of E. invadens was confirmed in a giant South American river turtle (Podocnemis expansa). This study has developed successful PCR primers for four species of Entamoeba and demonstrates that PCR is a promising diagnostic tool for the definitive identification of E. invadens.
20095972|Erythropoietin, a glycoprotein growth hormone that is produced primarily in the kidneys, promotes mitosis and survival of erythroid progenitors. The recent synthesis of the human form of the hormone by recombinant technology has provided a new therapeutic option, which is being used in both human and veterinary medicine for treatment of various anemias. A mature male rough-toothed dolphin, Steno bredanensis, was treated with human recombinant erythropoietin in an attempt to resolve a nonregenerative anemia. Two i.m. injections 48 hr apart were associated with an almost immediate increase in circulating immature reticulocytes, total reticulocytes, and nucleated erythrocytes. Over the next several weeks, the hematocrit, hemoglobin, and erythrocyte counts returned to normal, and the animal was subsequently released back into the wild. Endogenous erythropoietin concentrations were determined for this animal as well as three other conspecifics by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for human erythropoietin. These measurements showed circulating erythropoietin concentrations (5-20+ mU/ml) similar to those of most other mammals. This study suggests that human recombinant erythropoietin can be safely and effectively used in this species and may have applicability to other cetacean species for the treatment of nonregenerative anemia. Caution should be exercised during long-term use because production of antibodies to human recombinant and endogenous erythropoietin may lead to potentially serious side effects.
20095541|Free-ranging Steller's sea lions (Eumetopias jubatus) in various parts of Alaska were stalked and darted with telazol. The sea lions were then intubated and maintained with isoflurane anesthesia for 69-162 min (mean, 113 min; SD = 26 min) using large-animal anesthesia equipment and monitoring techniques. Forty-six adult female sea lions were successfully captured, studied physiologically, tested for disease states, and released unharmed. The animals returned to normal activity within 2 hr. Failure of darts resulted in 22 escaped captures. Five mortalities occurred: two sea lions drowned in pools of water on the haulouts; two died of telazol anesthesia complications; and one died early in inhalation anesthesia. Choice of animal, stalking, and darting methods were important factors in avoiding problems with capturing these animals. Isoflurane can be delivered safely for over 2 hr of spontaneous ventilation and anesthesia in this species.
20096362|A 37-yr-old female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) presented with anorexia, restlessness, and dark-colored urine. Urinalyses showed hematuria, leukocyturia, isosthenuria, proteinuria, granular casts, and no calcium oxalate crystals. Bloodwork revealed azotemia. Urine culture revealed a pure growth of Streptococcus zooepidemicus resistant to sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim but susceptible to cephalosporins. A presumptive diagnosis of pyelonephritis was made based on bloodwork, urinalysis, and urine culture. The animal was treated with intravenous ceftiofur, and intravenous and per rectum fluids were given for hydration. The elephant's attitude and appetite returned to normal, the abnormal blood parameters resolved, and urinary calcium oxalate crystals reappeared after treatment, supporting presumptive diagnosis. Follow-up ultrasonography revealed an abnormal outline of both kidneys with parenchymal hyperechogenicity and multiple uterine leiomyomas.
20095654|Institutions that exhibit animals and also engage in basic and/or applied research using collection animals are faced with complying with numerous Federal regulations and institutional policies. Whether or not a zoo or aquarium is required to become a registered research facility, most of these institutions already have an internal research committee. Registration as a research facility under the Animal Welfare Act requires the establishment of an effective Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. We explore the requirements of the Animal Welfare Act, the role of the institution's own research committee, and some of the problematic issues encountered while conducting zoo and aquarium animal related research.
20095657|The reproductive activities of one adult female Galpagos tortoise (Geochelone nigra) and three adult female Aldabra tortoises (Geochelone gigantea) were monitored over 2 yr using ultrasound scanning. A nonrestraining technique of tactile stimulation was used for all examinations. Developing, preovulatory, and atretic ovarian follicles, as well as eggs at various stages of shell deposition, were identified and measured. In G. nigra, follicles became preovulatory at a diameter of 40-42 mm and eggs were laid 34-84 days (mean = 55.6, n = 5) after the thin-shelled eggs were first detected in the oviducts. Geochelone nigra was capable of retaining eggs, with the shell already formed, until the next breeding season. No eggs have been produced by G. gigantea during their stay in Zrich Zoo although follicles of 38-40 mm have been observed frequently in two animals.
20095822|The effects of sevoflurane on anesthesia induction, recovery, ventricular pressures, heart rate, ventricular pH, blood gas values, and electrolytes were evaluated in desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii). Tortoises were orotracheally intubated while awake and ventilated manually with 3-7% sevoflurane in oxygen (1 L/min) to achieve desired expired sevoflurane concentrations. Data, consisting of induction time, recovery time, systolic, diastolic, and mean ventricular pressures, heart rate, ventricular pH, blood gas values, and electrolytes, were collected prior to anesthesia and sequentially at 2.50% and 3.75% expired sevoflurane as measured at the junction of the endotracheal tube and the breathing circuit. Blood pressure was measured and blood samples were collected through a 25-ga needle passed through a cardiac access port that was placed while the tortoises were in dorsal recumbency. Mean (SE) induction time was 2.55  0.55 min, recovery time was 27.58  7.55 min, and duration of anesthesia was 105  12 min. Mean (SD) values for systolic, diastolic, and mean ventricular pressures in awake tortoises were 28  3 mm Hg, 22  2 mm Hg, and 24  2 mm Hg, respectively. Sevoflurane (2.5% expired) significantly decreased systolic (14  3 mm Hg), diastolic (12  1 mm Hg), and mean (13  1 mm Hg) ventricular pressures compared with those of awake tortoises. Ventricular pressures did not decrease further with increasing depth of anesthesia. Heart rate (32  4 beats/min) did not change significantly under sevoflurane anesthesia. Sevoflurane administration increased ventricular Po but did not change Na, K, or
20095741|In 2 yr of bacteriologic culturing of 297 California sea lions (Zalophus californianus), 154 harbor seals (Phoca vitulina), and 89 northern elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris) stranded alive along the California coast, the most frequent isolates from inflammatory lesions in live animals were Escherichia coli, Streptococcus viridans, Listeria ivanovii, -hemolytic Streptococcus spp., and Enterococcus spp. This is the first report of L. ivanovii isolation from a marine mammal. The common isolates from lung and liver in animals dying during rehabilitation were E. coli, Salmonella spp., Klebsiella spp., Pseudomonas spp., Aeromonas spp., Proteus spp., and Staphylococcus aureus. The most common isolates from brain were Enterococcus spp., E. coli, Klebsiella spp., and Pseudomonas spp. Ocular lesions were seen most often in harbor seals and elephant seals, from which the isolates cultured included Pseudomonas spp., Enterococcus spp., Streptococcus viridans, E. coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Proteus spp., Morganella morganii, Moraxella spp., -hemolytic Streptococcus spp., and L. ivanovii. Nine different Salmonella serotypes were isolated from 49 animals; S. newport was the most common. These results should enable those working clinically with these species to make logical decisions in choosing initial antimicrobial therapy.
20095797|Normal serum biochemistry values are frequently obtained from studies of captive sedentary (zoo) or free-ranging (wild) animals. It is frequently assumed that values obtained from these two populations are directly referable to each other. We tested this assumption using 20 captive gray wolves (Canis lupus) in Minnesota, USA, and 11 free-ranging gray wolves in Alaska, USA. Free-ranging wolves had significantly (P &lt 0.05) lower sodium, chloride, and creatinine concentrations and significantly higher potassium and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentrations; BUN to creatinine ratios; and alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and creatine kinase activities relative to captive wolves. Corticosteroid-induced alkaline phosphatase activity (a marker of stress in domestic dogs) was detected in 3 of 11 free-ranging wolves and in 0 of 20 captive wolves (P = 0.037). This study provides clear evidence that serum biochemical differences can exist between captive and free-ranging populations of one species. Accordingly, evaluation of the health status of an animal should incorporate an understanding of the potential confounding effect that nutrition, activity level, and environmental stress could have on the factor(s) being measured.
41417175|An outbreak of Salmonella enterica serotype Choleraesuis enteritis occurred in two juvenile goitered gazelles and an adult Malayan tapir over a period of 5 wk at the Minnesota Zoo. Diagnosis was made postmortem on one gazelle and one tapir, and a second gazelle was diagnosed via fecal culture. The death of the tapir was attributed to S. enterica serovar Choleraesuis septicemia, while salmonellosis was considered to be a contributing factor besides ostertagiasis for the death of one goitered gazelle and for the diarrhea of another goitered gazelle. A third gazelle became ill in the same time period, but Salmonella infection was not confirmed by culture. All exhibited the clinical signs of profuse, watery diarrhea. The gazelles developed a protein-losing enteropathy, and the tapir showed signs of sepsis and endotoxemia. Serotyping and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis revealed the Salmonella isolates to be indistinguishable from each other. One year prior to this outbreak, Salmonella sp. was cultured from a Visayan warty pig (Sus cebifrons) housed in the same building as the tapir. After further investigation into the outbreak, spread of this pathogen was speculated to be associated with human movement across animal areas.
20096643|A 4-yr-old male guanaco (Lama guanicoe) in a multispecies exhibit presented with a laceration in the axillary region. The laceration was surgically repaired. Medical treatment was initiated with penicillin G procaine and benzathine (1920 IU/kg, i.m., s.i.d. for 14 days), and enrofloxacin (2.4 mg/kg, i.m., s.i.d. for 14 days). The animal was later treated with trimethoprim-sulfadiazine (24 mg/kg, p.o., s.i.d. for 10 days). Twenty-six days after initial presentation, the guanaco was suspected to be blind. An ophthalmic examination confirmed retinal damage. On postmortem histological evaluation, there was outer retinal atrophy that was most severe in the central retina with localized foci of complete retinal atrophy; lesions were similar to those observed in enrofloxacin retinal toxicity in cats.
20095240|An adult dromedary camel (Camelus dromedarius) was referred for treatment of bilateral fractures of the horizontal rami of the mandible. Cross-pin fixation in combination with tension-band wires were used to stabilize the fractures. Healing was complicated by formation of a large sequestrum and involucrum at the fracture site. Following sequestrectomy, the fracture healed and the camel was clinically normal 1.5 yr after surgery.
20094912|Serum samples were obtained from 20 randomly selected American bison (Bison bison) at a ranch in Michigan with a herd history of selenium (Se) deficiency, including white muscle disease/capture myopathy in spite of Se supplementation. Samples also were obtained from 20 free-ranging bison in the Badlands National Park, South Dakota, which were age and sex matched with the Michigan bison. Animals from both groups were handled similarly, with capture, physical restraint, and blood collection occurring at the same time of year (early fall) and serum frozen for later Se analysis. Exertion and stress have been implicated in the etiology of capture myopathy so the method of restraint and its impact on serum Se values also was investigated. Samples from 20 unexcited South Dakota bison, chemically restrained with carfentanil citrate and xylazine hydrochloride administered via tranquilizer dart from ambush, also were analyzed. Mean serum Se was 0.026 g/ml for Michigan bison, which was lower (P &lt 0.01) than the 0.099 g/ml for similarly restrained bison from South Dakota. Mean serum Se of the anesthetized South Dakota bison was 0.101 g/ml, which was not different (P &gt 0.05) from the mean for serum collected from physically restrained bison from the same area. Serum Se values from bison in South Dakota compared well with values considered adequate for domestic cattle and other wild species, while the low values from Michigan bison indicated a need for greater supplementation to balance the regional deficiencies of Se in forage plants.
20460574|A captive adult male grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) was evaluated due to multifocal wounds of the skin and subcutaneous tissues sustained as a result of trauma from another grizzly bear. On presentation, one lesion that was located in the perineal region seemed to be a deep puncture with purple tissue protruding from it. This perineal wound did not heal in the same manner or rate as did the other wounds. Twenty-five days after initial detection, substantial active hemorrhage from the lesion occurred and necessitated anesthesia for examination of the bear. The entire lesion was surgically excised, which later proved curative. An acquired arteriovenous fistula was diagnosed via histopathology. Arteriovenous fistulas can develop after traumatic injury and should be considered as a potential complication in bears with nonhealing wounds.
20096452|Open reduction of lateral luxation of the scapulohumeral joint was performed in a Mhorr gazelle (Gazella dama mhorr), a southern pudu (Pudu puda), and an Alpine ibex (Capra ibex ibex) by transposition of the biceps brachii tendon lateral to the greater tubercle of the humerus. The ibex had a very large greater tubercle that required a second osteotomy to allow successful lateral transfer of the tendon. Although all three animals were non-weight bearing in the first 2-3 wk after surgery, ambulation improved at 3 wk and was almost normal by 6 wk after surgery. Postoperative follow-up of 8 yr, 7 mo, and 3 mo in the gazelle, pudu, and ibex, respectively, revealed normal ambulation with no gait deficits. The gazelle was euthanized 8 yr after surgery for unrelated disease and necropsy demonstrated mild to moderate degenerative joint disease. Similar lateral shoulder luxations in comparably sized, nondomestic ruminants, without concurrent fractures or significant joint abnormality, have a good prognosis for return to function after surgical reduction using a biceps tendon transposition.
20460405|The skew toward males in the sex ratio of calves is considered to be a problem for the captive population of black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) in North America. This study used a retrospective case-control design to determine whether there was a predisposition toward birth of male calves over female calves and to examine risk factors associated with the occurrence of any detected skewed natal sex ratio in captive black rhinoceroses in the United States. The study population included captive female black rhinoceroses housed in the United States that had given birth to at least one calf of known sex. This study confirmed a skewing of the natal sex ratio toward male calves in the captive black rhinoceros population. The skewed ratio was found in calves born to wild-born dams, for which an increased time in captivity, irrespective of age, was associated with an increased likelihood of a male calf. Dams between 12 and 19 yr of age had a decreased likelihood of a male calf. The data also suggested a possible trend for the southern subspecies of black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis minor) to be more likely to produce male calves than the eastern subspecies (Diceros bicornis michaeli). No associations were found with the sex of offspring in captiveborn dams; however, this lack of association could be a result of low power in the study.
20096581|An adult Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris tigris) housed in an outdoor sanctuary in Florida exhibited vomiting, diarrhea, and weight loss. A clinical workup did not reveal the source of the clinical signs and antibiotic therapy was unrewarding. Radiographs revealed the presence of an abdominal mass. The tiger died during an immobilization for a follow-up clinical examination. A necropsy was performed and tissue samples of intestine and mesenteric lymph nodes were submitted for histopathologic diagnosis. A pyogranulomatous panenteritis and lymphadenitis with intralesional hyphae led to a presumptive etiologic diagnosis of intestinal/abdominal pythiosis. The diagnosis of pythiosis was confirmed by serology and immunoblotting.
20460451|The clinical efficacy of becaplermin (Regranex, Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc., Raritan, New Jersey 08869) on head and lateral line erosion syndrome (HLLES) in ocean surgeonfish (Acanthurus bahianus) was examined in a two-part study to determine suitable application frequencies of the drug and the effects of the environment on outcome of treatments. In the first part of the study, 12 ocean surgeonfish with prior HLLES were equally divided into three treatment groups, varying in application frequency of becaplermin: 1) one application, 2) three applications every 3 wk, and 3) no applications. After 9 wk, it was determined through photograph and computer analysis that fish treated with becaplermin did heal significantly more than the fish that were not treated. No significant difference was found when comparing the two treatment regimes; therefore, a one-time treatment of becaplermin was just as effective as the three-time application, reducing cost of the treatment, staff labor, and stress to the animals. In the second part of the study, the effect of the water environment on HLLES development was documented before and after a one-time treatment of becaplermin. When fish were treated and placed into a system known to cause HLLES, the becaplermin treatment had no effect on reducing the HLLES progression, whereas treated fish that were placed into a system that did not cause HLLES showed a significant decrease in erosion after the treatment. Therefore, treating fish being placed into a HLLES-causing system serves no beneficial purpose to healing HLLES.
20095815|Analgesics are often not provided to amphibians because the presence and severity of pain may not be recognized in these animals. In addition, there is little information on the mechanism of action of analgesic agents in amphibians. However, amphibians possess appropriate neurologic components for transmitting pain from peripheral receptors to the central nervous system and antinociceptive mechanisms to modulate pain. They are capable of displaying behavioral and physiologic modification of pain systems in response to analgesic pharmacologic agents. Therefore, pain perception in amphibians is likely analogous to that in mammals and invasive, potentially painful procedures should be accompanied by appropriate analgesia and anesthesia. Although specific doses have not been established in clinical trials, basic research into the mechanisms and regulation of endogenous opioid systems demonstrates the potential clinical benefit for the use of opioids in these animals. Other analgesics such as
20095516|Apnea, cardiac arrhythmias, and sudden death occur occasionally in raptors when isoflurane is used as the sole anesthetic agent. Twelve bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) were each subjected to two 30-min sessions of anesthesia in which isoflurane was the sole anesthetic agent. Electrocardiograms were obtained before induction and after 30 min of anesthesia. Continuous lead II electrocardiographic monitoring was initiated before induction and continued until after recovery. Pulse and O saturation were monitored on all birds with a plethysmograph. Continuous gas flow was monitored following intubation with a sidestream gas analyzer. In five randomly selected birds, 1 ml of venous blood was drawn at predetermined intervals from the ulnar vein into a syringe and refrigerated for subsequent blood gas and electrolyte analysis. Levels of venous O, Pco, potassium, and pH were determined for each sample. In the same five birds, mean arterial and systolic blood pressures were monitored indirectly every 3 min. Temperatures were measured at the same intervals as those used for blood sampling. Arrhythmias were observed in 75% of the eagles and occurred during periods of induction or recovery in 80% of the cases. Though hypercarbia was suspected as a contributing factor, paired sample t-test analysis of measured data failed to indicate causality.
20095688|A dermatophyte-like fungus was isolated from skin biopsies of three different species of captive chameleon in which fungal elements had been observed by histologic examination. An adult Parson's chameleon (Chamaeleo parsonii) presented with vesicles that became crusty brown lesions on the limbs and body. Skin biopsies revealed fungal hyphae in the affected epidermis and underlying dermis. The lesions regressed fully after oral administration of itraconazole. An adult jewel chameleon (Chamaeleo lateralis) from the same private collection presented with localized black skin lesions and died while being treated with itraconazole. A pulmonary granuloma was also present in this chameleon at autopsy. Cultures obtained from skin and lung lesions yielded the same fungus. A third isolate was obtained from a skin biopsy of a Jackson's chameleon (Chamaeleo jacksoni) with deep ulcerative cutaneous lesions located at the base of the tail. The fungus, in all three cases, has been identified as the Chrysosporium anamorph of Nannizziopsis vriesii, a poorly known ascomycetous species recorded previously from the skin of a lizard and from soil, on the basis of its keratinolytic activity, resistance to cycloheximide, strongly restricted growth at 37C, formation of clavate or pyriform single-celled or two-celled aleurioconidia, and alternate and fission arthroconidia.
20460267|The fluid dynamics associated with intraosseous cannulation have not been described in avian species. This study documents the fluid dynamics of substances injected into the medullary cavity of clinically normal adult pigeons (Columba livia). A radioactive blood pool agent (
20095803|An 8-yr-old male tayra (Eira barbara) was presented with acute onset of pelvic limb paralysis. Radiography was unremarkable. Neurologic examination showed signs consistent with an intramedullary lesion between the second thoracic and fifth lumbar spinal cord segments. The animal's condition did not improve after 4 days of aggressive glucocorticoid therapy, and euthanasia was performed. Histologic examination of the spinal cord showed amorphous emboli suggestive of cartilaginous fragments within spinal veins. A diagnosis of fibrocartilaginous emboli was made, the first known case in a mustelid.
27751719|A radiographic study documented shoulder dysplasia (n = 43), with varying degrees of malformation of the supraglenoid and infraglenoid tubercles and the coracoid process, shallowing or loss of the glenoid cavity, flattening or loss of the humeral head, malformation of the greater and lesser tubercles, loss of the intertubercle groove, and humeral diaphyseal abnormalities, in northern koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus) in the San Diego Zoo (San Diego, California, USA) colony. Retrospectively, historic radiographs (n = 38) were examined where available. Prospectively, three standard views (lateral extended arm, ventrodorsal cranially positioned arms, and ventrodorsal caudally positioned arms) were imaged (n = 25). In all radiographs, shoulders were graded as normal, or mildly, moderately, or severely dysplastic. Although affected koalas typically do not exhibit clinical signs, degenerative joint disease may develop and clinical signs treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Where shoulder and hip radiographs were both available (n = 60), 92% of individuals had correlation between the degree of shoulder and hip dysplasia.
20095344|An 8-yr-old male captive-bred corn snake, Elaphe guttata, developed an intracoelomic mass, 8 cm cranial to the cloaca. An exploratory laparotomy revealed multiple masses in the left kidney, and a nephrectomy was performed. Three months following surgery, a second intracoelomic mass developed and the snake was euthanized. Necropsy indicated that the right kidney had multiple white masses, with similar appearing masses in the liver and lung. The histopathologic diagnosis was renal cell carcinoma, with metastases to the liver and lung.
20460316|A weak and emaciated immature female red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) was presented to the Audubon Institute's Wild Bird Rehabilitation Center for evaluation. Physical examination of the bird revealed a left axillary subcutaneous mass. The mass was surgically excised and classified histologically as a fibrosarcoma. Following surgery, the bird's condition began to improve. However, the axillary tumor recurred and three other subcutaneous fibrosarcomas developed at distant sites in the hawk, necessitating euthanasia. At necropsy, an intestinal fibrosarcoma was also discovered. Although a viral carcinogen was suspected, transmission electron microscopy and virus isolation failed to reveal a viral etiology.
20095044|To determine the prevalence, species, and antibiotic sensitivities of anaerobic bacterial infections in reptiles, the results of bacterial cultures from clinical cases presented to the University of California Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital were reviewed. During the 2-yr study period, 65 specimens were submitted for both aerobic and anaerobic bacterial isolation. Sample collection sites included subcutaneous and internal abscesses, lungs, and the coelomic cavity. Of the 39 specimens yielding bacterial growth, 21 (54%) included anaerobic bacteria and produced 35 isolates of the genera Bacteroides, Fusobacterium, Clostridium, and Peptostreptococcus. The 19 isolates tested in vitro were least sensitive to penicillin (80%) and most sensitive to metronidazole (100%). Aminoglycosides are currently among the most commonly used antibiotics in reptile medicine but have no efficacy against anaerobic bacteria. The prevalence of anaerobic bacterial infections found in this study suggests that the use of aminoglycoside antibiotics alone may be inappropriate for the treatment of infectious diseases in reptiles.
20096190|A recently described mycoplasma, Mycoplasma alligatoris, was isolated from dead American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) that had demonstrated clinical signs of lethargy, anorexia, bilateral ocular discharge, edema, paraparesis, and polyarthritis. The in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration for nine antibacterial agents was determined through serial dilution in broth and plate culture for M. alligatoris isolates. The inhibitory concentration obtained for doxycycline, enrofloxacin, sarafloxacin, oxytetracycline, tilmicosin, and tylosin (&lt1 g/ml) was lower than that of clindamycin (1-8 g/ml), chloramphenicol (8-16 g/ml), and erythromycin (32-138 g/ml).
20096556|A male Grant's Zebra (Equus burchelli boehmi) housed with two mares at the Indianapolis Zoo had a 9-yr history of intermittent aggressive behavior toward mares and other animals. Periods of separation allowed the mares time to heal after sustaining superficial bite wounds. On 26 March 2003, the male (890293) was started on altrenogest at a dosage of 19.8 mg orally once daily to allow reintroduction. The dosage was doubled (40 mg once a day) because of a perceived lack of response. Reintroduction to the mares occurred on 17 May 2003 with no signs of aggression noted. Treatment was reduced to 19.8 mg orally once a day and then discontinued. Altrenogest was restarted at 39.5 mg orally once a day because of the planned introduction of a new mare. There have been no major aggressive displays at this dosage of altrenogest and the dosage has recently been reduced following successful introduction of a new mare.
20095006|Repair of bilateral choanal atresia in a 2-day-old llama (Lama glama) was achieved with Steinman pin perforation of the choanal membranes. An endotracheal tube was used to protect nasal mucosa and guide the Steinman pin to the membrane. Patency of the choanae was maintained by endotracheal tube stents that were retained by sutures to the external nares. These were changed at 7 days and then removed at 14 days. Daily cleaning was necessary to maintain patency of the tubes. The llama had grown to a normal weight at 8 mo of age with no evidence of respiratory distress.
20095907|Antemortem diagnosis of tuberculosis in captive wild animals is often difficult. In addition to the variability of host cellular immune response, which does not always indicate current active infection, reactivity to saprophytic or other mycobacteria is common and may interfere with the interpretation of the intradermal tuberculin skin test. Furthermore, the immobilization required for administering the test and evaluating skin reactions in these animals may result in unacceptable levels of morbidity and mortality, of particular concern in individuals of rare or endangered species. Proteins of the antigen 85 (Ag85) complex are major secretory products of actively metabolizing mycobacteria in vitro. Production of these proteins by mycobacteria during growth in vivo could result in increases in circulating levels of Ag85 in hosts with active tuberculosis. A dot blot immunoassay has been used to detect and quantify circulating Ag85 in captive wild animals with tuberculosis. Elevated levels of Ag85 were observed in animals with active tuberculosis as compared with uninfected animals. Study populations included a herd of nyala (Tragelaphus angasi) (n = 9) with no history of exposure to Mycobacterium bovis. Serum Ag85 levels ranged from &lt5 to 15 U/ml (median, 5 U/ml). The other group included 11 animals from a mixed collection with a documented history of an M. bovis outbreak. Animals with pulmonary granulomatous lesions (n = 3) had serum Ag85 levels ranging from 320 to 1,280 U/ml (median, 320 U/ml). Animals with only chronic mediastinal or mesenteric lymphadenitis (n = 4) had serum Ag85 levels ranging from &lt5 to 320 U/ml (median, 52.5 U/ml). Animals with no lesions present on necropsy (n = 4) had serum Ag85 levels ranging from &lt5 to 80 U/ml (median, &lt5 U/ml). This assay could provide an important adjunct to intradermal skin testing for antemortem diagnosis of tuberculosis in nondomestic species.
20096577|Seven captive male African wild dogs (Lycaon pictus) weighing 25-32 kg each, were anesthetized by i.m. injection via hand syringe with a combination of 1.5 mg/kg ketamine, 40 g/kg medetomidine, and 0.05 mg/kg atropine. Following endotracheal intubation, each animal was connected to a bain closed-circuit system that delivered 1.5% isoflurane and 2 L/min oxygen. Atipamezole (0.1 mg/kg i.v.; 0.1 mg/kg i.m.) was given at the end of each procedure (60 min following injection of medetomidine/ketamine/atropine). Time to sternal recumbency was 5-8 min. Times to standing after atipamezole administration were 8-20 min. This anesthetic regimen was repeated on three separate occasions (September 2000, February 2002, and October 2002) on all males to perform electroejaculation procedures. Each procedure was &lt80 min from injection to standing. Dogs showed excellent muscle relaxation during the procedures. Arterial blood samples were collected at 10-min intervals for blood gases in one procedure (September 2000). Separate venous samples were taken from each dog during each procedure for hematology and biochemistry. These values were within the normal range for this species. Arterial hemoglobin oxygen saturation (SpO2) and heart rate (HR) were monitored continuously in addition to other anesthesia monitoring procedures (body temperature, respiratory rate [RR], capillary refill time, blink response, pupil position, deep pain perception reflex). All dogs maintained relatively stable SpO2 profiles during monitoring, with a mean ( SD) SpO2 of 92%  5.4%. All other physiological variables (HR, RR, body temperature, blood pressure) were within normal limits. Following each procedure, normal behavior was noted in all dogs. All the dogs were reunited into the pack at completion of their anesthetic procedures. An injectable medetomidine-ketamine-atropine combination with maintenance by gaseous isoflurane and oxygen provides an inexpensive, reliable anesthetic for captive African wild dogs.
20095795|The Siberian polecat (Mustela eversmanni) is the preferred species to assess procedures and establish normative values for application in the related and endangered black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes). This study was undertaken to physically, ultrasonographically, and radiographically evaluate fetal development in a spontaneously breeding captive Siberian polecat population. Ultrasonographically, fetal sac enlargement allowed presumptive pregnancy detection as early as 12 days of gestation, the fetal pole was the first definitive sign of pregnancy at about 18 days of gestation, when the fetal heart beat also appeared, and definitive pregnancy detection by ultrasound was essentially 100% accurate after 18 days. The estimation of fetal number by ultrasound was less reliable than by radiography, as it is in other litter-bearing species. Crown-rump growth, organ differentiation, and calcification patterns resembled those of domestic carnivores except that comparable developmental stages in polecats occurred at disproportionately later times, suggesting that young Siberian polecats are delivered in a less developed state. Careful palpation permitted detection of pregnancy after day 17 but with less certainty than with ultrasound. Radiographic evaluation was insensitive and of limited value for pregnancy detection until near term. Litter number and fetal detail were difficult to assess until ossification could be observed, 3-6 days before parturition.
20095993|Infection with Cladosporium sp., a deuteromycete, caused a deep dermal ulcer that extended to bone in a cultured tomato clownfish (Amphiprion frenatus). The infection may have been secondary to immunosuppression resulting from transport or confinement-induced stress or may have resulted from chronic exposure to copper. Reports of fungal infections in tropical marine fish are rare.
20460549|Preliminary reference intervals for hematologic and total plasma protein profiles were determined for nine adult Red-capped parrots (Pionopsitta pileata) (six males and three females) and six Vinaceous Amazon parrots (Amazona vinacea) (two adult males, two adult females, one juvenile, and one nonsexed) from the Curitiba Zoo, Paran, Brazil. For both Red-capped parrots and Vinaceous Amazon parrots, adult males had higher red blood cell counts than adult females. Regarding white blood cell distribution, differences due to gender were also found for both species of parrots.
27751723|The objective of this project was to determine radiographic vertebral heart sizes and electrocardiographic (ECG) and echocardiographic measurements in healthy anesthetized maned wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus). The wolves, housed at the White Oak Conservation and Smithsonian National Zoo Conservation and Research Centers, were being anesthetized for annual examinations. Cardiac auscultation, thoracic radiographs, a standard 6-lead ECG, and echocardiography were performed on the wolves while they were under general anesthesia. Thirteen maned wolves were evaluated: five males and eight females. Mean age was 6.4  4.4 years (range, 213 years). Mean weight was 26  2.95 kg (range, 2232 kg). Low-grade systolic murmurs were auscultated in three of 13 maned wolves. Evaluation of ECGs revealed a sinus rhythm, with a QRS morphology, and mean electrical axis similar to domestic canines. Radiographic evaluation revealed a mean vertebral heart size of 8.27  0.48 (range, 7.98.6). In addition, the cardiac silhouette was seen to elongate, with an increase in sternal contact in older wolves. Echocardiography showed that mitral valve degenerative changes and insufficiency is likely common in older wolves. Visualization of physiologic regurgitation across the mitral and pulmonary valves was common in wolves of all ages. Left ventricular measurements were similar to those reported for healthy dogs, and several variables correlated well with body weight. Two wolves were found to have one to three heartworms in the right pulmonary artery, and degenerative mitral valve disease was determined in maned wolves older than 6 years of age. All of the wolves in this study were on heartworm preventative and tested negative for heartworm antigen at their annual examinations. The results of this study provide reference information for use in the cardiac evaluation of anesthetized maned wolves.
20460292|Sera from 65 free-ranging Zimbabwean black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) from the Chete safari area and the lower Zambezi Valley and 58 white rhinoceroses (Ceratotherium simum) from Hwange National Park were tested for antibodies to Cowdria ruminantium by monoclonal antibody-mediated competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Eighteen of 32 (56.2%) black rhinoceroses from the lower Zambezi Valley were positive, whereas only one of 33 (0.03%) from the Chete safari area was positive. Mice inoculated with freshly collected rhinoceros blood from the Chete safari area did not seroconvert. In addition, 44 of 58 (75.9%) white rhinoceroses from Hwange National Park had antibodies to Cowdria. These findings signify a possible reservoir role for rhinoceroses in the epidemiology of heartwater disease. If the carrier status for Cowdria in rhinoceroses is further confirmed by isolation of the organism, spread of the disease into heartwater-free areas that harbor known Amblyomma tick vectors is conceivable and should be taken into consideration when rhinoceroses are translocated. The purpose of the study was to determine seropositive rates to Cowdria ruminantium in convenience samples of black and white rhinoceroses in the natural habitat where contact with domestic cattle is essentially nil.
20460350|The captive North American cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) population is not self-sustaining because of high prevalences of unusual diseases and poor reproductive success. Cheetahs are commonly moved between zoos for breeding purposes to maintain genetic diversity within the captive population, and movement may exacerbate infertility and disease. Fecal corticoids were analyzed by radioimmunoassay to measure the stress response of cheetahs to movement between facilities. Fecal samples were collected from 15 cheetahs for 14 days before movement and for at least 30 days after movement. For each cheetah, premovement fecal corticoid concentrations were used to determine baseline and then compared with trends in postmovement concentrations. In general, postmovement corticoid concentrations either increased (n = 8), did not change (n = 2), or decreased (n = 5). Although individual animal differences occurred, corticoid concentrations increased for most animals moved on-exhibit and decreased in animals moved off-exhibit. Animals moving on-exhibit had an 18-times greater risk of having corticoids elevated more than two standard deviations above baseline for 30 days after movement compared with animals that moved off-exhibit. In addition, greater day-to-day variation in corticoids occurred in animals moved on-exhibit. In general, animals with initially low baseline corticoid concentrations had a greater postmovement corticoid response than cheetahs with initially high baseline levels. These results indicate that some cheetahs have a prolonged stress response when moved between facilities, and the magnitude and character of this response is influenced by the exhibit environment.
20096049|Six wild-caught, captive canyon tree frogs (Hyla arenicolor) purchased as a group and housed at the North Carolina Zoological Park were diagnosed with intradermal Hannemania mites, the first described infestation of this frog species by this mite. Typical gross lesions were orange-colored skin vesicles approximately 1 mm in diameter, predominantly located on the ventrum and ventral hind limbs. The larval mites had ovoid bodies approximately 44 m in length and 240 m in width. Three of the frogs died, and three became free of mites and pathologic changes after approximately 28 wk of treatment with transcutaneous ivermectin and manual mite removal. The frogs remained free of mites at a 1-yr recheck.
20460358|Endemic free-ranging Galapagos doves (Zenaida galapagoensis) and introduced rock doves (Columba livia) were surveyed in several islands of the Galapagos archipelago to establish sample prevalence of hemoparasites, Trichomonas gallinae, Chlamydophila psittaci, and Salmonella species. A Haemoproteus sp., the only hemoparasite identified, was found in 89% of the Galapagos doves sampled but not in the rock doves. Trichomonas gallinae was detected by polymerase chain reaction in 44% of rock doves from San Cristobal but in none of the Galapagos doves. Chlamydophila psittaci was detected from cloacal swabs in 6% of the Galapagos doves but in none of the rock doves sampled. All positive cases of C. psittaci occurred on Espaola, where the crude sample prevalence was 24%. A polymerase chain reaction--based Salmonella test failed to show evidence of this organism from any birds sampled.
40665086|Radio telemetry has greatly advanced the understanding of wild animal ecology. Telemetry studies must ensure that placement of transmitters does not influence the health and behavior of study animals. Here, 10 American badgers (Taxidea taxus) were implanted with beeswax-coated abdominal radio transmitters under general anesthesia and tracked for an average of 14 mo. Behavior and movements of all badgers indicated successful short-term recovery from implantation; however, three mortalities were observed between 5 mo and 15 mo after capture. Cause of death could not be determined for two badgers due to decomposition of the carcasses. A third badger that was recovered in good postmortem condition died from sepsis secondary to a transmitter-related omental torsion. This study indicates that there is some risk associated with abdominally implanted radio transmitters in badgers. Future studies involving implanted transmitters in mammals should focus on identifying safe and effective telemetry devices that do not affect the health of study animals.
20096347|Six of 15 (40%) inactive medical records of adult black howler monkeys (Alouatta caraya) at one zoological institution included either a pre- or postmortem diagnosis of renal disease. In these six cases, significantly abnormal hematologic and serum chemistry values were reported at onset of azotemia, onset of clinical signs, and at euthanasia. Average age of onset of azotemia was 14.8  2.9 yr, with clinical signs of disease noted at 17  4.7 yr. In four of the cases (66.6%), azotemia was documented earlier than the onset of clinical signs of renal disease. Average duration of clinical disease was 2.83  1.6 yr, with an average age at euthanasia of 18  4.7 yr. Chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis with secondary glomerular sclerosis was present in all cases. Thirteen of an additional 20 institutions in the United States that have held Alouatta caraya responded to a survey for prevalence of renal disease. These institutions showed a lower prevalence (15.1%) of renal disease in complete, inactive records, a higher prevalence of glomerulonephritis, and similar significant clinicopathologic values.
41262597|Seven Bennett's wallabies (Macropus rufogriseus rufogriseus) presented within a period of several months with onychodystrophy, onychomadesis, and severe digital tumefaction. Histopathologic findings included a pseudocarcinomatous hyperplasia of the claw matrix surrounding a cavity filled with keratin and septate hyphae stained with periodic acid Schiff reagent. The fungal species Chrysosporium keratinophilum was identified on cultures. The wallabies were orally treated with ketoconazole (15 mg/kg s.i.d.) for 20 wk. Material and enclosures were cleaned and sprayed with 0.2% enilconazole solution once a month over a period of 4 mo. No improvement of advanced cases was observed, but no new case appeared for the next 6 mo. The positive mycological culture and the invasion of tissues on histopathologic examination suggested that the fungal species C. keratinophilum was implicated in this claw disease. This is the first report of onychomycosis caused by C. keratinophilum in animals.
20096385|A total of 20 (14 females, six males) captive striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) with miniature temperature dataloggers implanted free in the abdominal cavity were examined for reproductive performance and pathology because of implants. Eleven of 12 female skunks reproduced successfully 45.9  3.7 days after surgery to remove implanted dataloggers. The pregnancy rate of 91.7% (11/12) was much higher than other captive studies and was comparable with that of wild skunks. Eight striped skunks (six males, two females) that were euthanatized and necropsied after having implants in the abdominal cavity for 5 mo showed no apparent pathology associated with the implant. Implantation of the intraperitoneal devices did not lead to complications in abdominal tissues. Neither implant nor surgery affected reproduction. We conclude that implanted dataloggers can safely be used in physiologic studies of striped skunks or possibly other small carnivores in captive or field studies.
41262593|Large and small piroplasms have been observed in the blood smears of various wild carnivores, but few studies utilizing molecular characterization have been done. The goal of this present study was to investigate the presence of Babesia sp. by molecular and serologic techniques in exotic and neotropical carnivores maintained in captivity at Brazilian zoos. Blood and sera samples were collected from 146 Brazilian wild felids, 21 exotic felids, 1 genet (Genetta tigrina), 3 European wolves (Canis lupus), and 94 Brazilian wild canids in Brazilian zoos in the So Paulo and Mato Grosso states and in the Federal District. A total of 53 wild felids (31.74%) and 10 wild canids (10.31%) were seropositive for Babesia canis by Indirect Fluorescent Antibody Test (IFAT). Antibodies were detected in ocelots, little-spotted cats, margays, pampas cats, jaguars, pumas, jaguarundis, crab-eating foxes, and bush dogs. Babesia sp. DNA, with high similarity to B. leo, was detected in one pampas cat and one genet.
41417166|Twenty-six adult semi-free-ranging Bennett's wallabies were anesthetized. Animals in group MA received medetomidine 0.1 mg/kg and alfaxalone 4 mg/kg i.m. in a 5-ml dart, whereas those in group MK received medetomidine 0.1 mg/kg and ketamine 5 mg/kg i.m. in a 3-ml dart. Dosages were based on estimated body weights. The wallabies were allowed to recover spontaneously or, if still nonresponsive at the end of the procedure, were given atipamezole 0.5 mg/kg (half the dose via i.m. and the other half via i.V.). Heart rate and respiratory rate were monitored at 5-min intervals, temperature at 10-min intervals, and two arterial blood samples were taken for blood gas analysis. Statistical analysis was performed by using analysis of variance (P < 0.05). The use of 5-ml darts in group MA compared with 3-ml darts in group MK could potentially increase the risk of iatrogenic trauma and should be considered. Induction and maintenance of anesthesia were satisfactory in both groups. There were no significant differences between the groups in mean time to first effect, recumbency, and approach, or to time to sternal recumbency and standing after reversal with atipamezole. Although bradycardia was present in both groups, no statistical differences were calculated for respiratory rate and heart rate, whereas the mean cloacal temperature was significantly lower in group MA (P = 0.01). Mixed acid-base disturbances occurred in both groups. All but one animal in group MK needed atipamezole at the end of the procedure. No adverse effects were observed after recovery.
20095596|An adult barn owl (Tyto alba) was evaluated for respiratory distress. A partial proximal tracheal obstruction was diagnosed, and surgical resection of the affected segment was elected. Anesthesia was induced with 4 mg i.v. propofol and maintained with 0.5 mg/kg/min propofol by continuous i.v. infusion. Heart rate, direct arterial blood pressure, respiratory rate, and arterial blood gases were measured prior to and during the anesthetic period. Mean arterial blood pressure decreased from 148 mm Hg to 130 mm Hg transiently following anesthetic induction. Arterial blood gas values were within normal limits (carbon dioxide = 34.3 mm Hg and oxygen = 86.7 mm Hg 15 min following induction). No complications were noted, and recovery was timely and uneventful. These results suggest that propofol may be used as an intravenous anesthetic for short surgical procedures in barn owls.
20095733|Transrectal ultrasonography was performed on five wild and two captive male African elephants (Loxodonta africana) and four captive male Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) to develop standards for assessment of reproductive health and status. The entire internal urogenital tract was visualized ultrasonographically by using a 3.5 MHz or a 7.5-MHz transducer in combination with a probe extension adapted for elephant anatomy. The findings were verified by postmortem ex situ ultrasound examinations in several individuals of each species. Each part of the internal urogenital tract was sonographically detectable except for the bulbourethral glands and the cranial portion of the ureters and ductus deferentes, which were only observed in situ in the neonate. Each structure visualized was measured and described. The size and morphology of the urogenital structures, especially the accessory glands, were indicative of breeding status, if known. There was a notable difference between African and Asian males in the size and morphology of the prostate gland and a slight difference in the shape of the ampullae. No other structure showed significant species differences. The detection of the location and description of the testes may provide information for modifying present castration procedures. Furthermore, ultrasound examination of the male accessory glands may aid in the identification of potential semen donors for assisted reproduction programs in captive elephants.
20460580|An adult male ball python (Python regius) presented in a state of severe dyspnea characterized by open-mouth breathing and vertical positioning of the head and neck. The animal had copious discharge in the tracheal lumen acting as an obstruction. A tube was placed through the body wall into the caudal saccular aspect of the lung to allow the animal to breathe while treatment was initiated. The ball python's dyspnea immediately improved. Diagnostics confirmed a bacterial respiratory infection with predominantly Providencia rettgeri. The saccular lung (air sac) tube was removed after 13 days. Pulmonary endoscopy before closure showed minimal damage with a small amount of hemorrhage in the surrounding muscle tissue. Respiratory disease is a common occurrence in captive snakes and can be associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Saccular lung cannulation is a relatively simple procedure that can alleviate tracheal narrowing or obstruction, similar to air sac cannulation in birds.
40962317|An adult male common genet (Genetta genetta) was examined for an onset of severe dyspnea. Physical examination findings included tachypnea and increased inspiratory sounds. Survey radiographs showed consolidation of both lung lobes, and a bronchoalveolar lavage sample contained cholesterol crystals. The genet was treated with a glucocorticoid but died overnight. Gross necropsy findings included consolidated lungs, multiple pale foci in the heart, and an atrophie right kidney. The histologie diagnosis was metastatic adenocarcinoma with associated endogenous lipid pneumonia.
40962302|The rock pigeon (Columba livia) may serve as a reservoir for several pathogenic agents that can be transmitted to poultry, wildlife, domesticated pets, and/or humans via excreta, secretions, or dust from feathers. In addition, ingestion of infected pigeons by wild and domestic animals can also transmit these pathogenic agents. The health status of 126 free-living pigeons in an urban area was evaluated by microbiologie culture for Salmonella and serologie testing for the presence of antibodies for Toxoplasma gondii and for Newcastle disease virus (NDV) from 120 and 109 pigeons, respectively. After drawing blood, the birds were euthanized, and fragments of the liver, spleen, lungs, and gonads, and feces were cultured for Salmonella spp. Salmonella spp. was isolated from 10 birds (7.94%), of which 8 were Salmonella typhimurium, one was Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serotype 4,12 and one was Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serotype 4,12, i. Six of 109 pigeons (5.50%) were positive for NDV antibodies when using the hemagglutination inhibition test. Toxoplasma gondii antibodies were detected by immunofluorescence in one of 120 sera tested (0.83%). The results indicate that feral rock pigeons were exposed to NDV and T. gondii, although the exposure was low. In addition, these birds had Salmonella spp. and could disseminate this pathogen in the environment.
20096061|Humoral immune responses of black-footed penguins (Spheniscus demersus) to DNA-mediated immunization with a -galactosidase reporter gene expression plasmid were evaluated. Six male and 6 female adult penguins received either test plasmid, pCMV-, containing the -galactosidase gene or control plasmid, pCI, lacking a gene for expression. Three birds from each group were used previously in a diluent control group and given one injection of sterile saline. All samples were screened for anti--galactosidase antibodies by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with anti-chicken immunoglobulin G as secondary antibody. Antibodies to -galactosidase were detected in the sera of pCMV--inoculated penguins, with a peak response on day 21. Antibody titers of the test plasmid group versus both control groups on days 21, 28, and 42 differed significantly. These results demonstrate that black-footed penguins can be safely transfected with the gene encoding -galactosidase and will mount a humoral response against the in vivo-expressed protein. Knowledge from this initial study can be applied to the development of DNA-mediated vaccines against specific infectious diseases of penguins.
20096066|Spondyloarthropathy was observed in 25 (2.8%) of 895 preserved canid museum specimens and was catalogued by species. The associated skeletal alterations in canids are indistinguishable grossly and physiologically from those in humans with spondyloarthropathy of the reactive type. Rate of affliction was independent of captive or wild-caught status or gender. In canids, spondyloarthropathy was much more common than osteoarthritis (0.3%), which predominantly is limited to captive animals. Animal well-being may be enhanced by recognition of the condition and initiation of specific treatment.
20460468|A neonatal male sable antelope (Hippotragus niger) was found dead. A 5 by 12--cm lobulated mass was present in the oral cavity, attached to the caudal border of the soft palate; this mass contained hair, cartilage, bone, nervous tissue, muscle, and multiple gland-like structures. Histopathologic diagnosis was consistent with oropharyngeal teratoma. As a result of the lack of wear of the fetal hooves, the firm, collapsed appearance of the lungs, and the lack of other gross or histopathologic abnormalities, the oropharyngeal tumor is suspected to have caused an airway obstruction, resulting in the calf's early postnatal death. This is the first report of an oropharyngeal teratoma in the veterinary literature.
20460441|In November 2004, an adult male siamang (Hylobates syndactylus) from The Tisch Family Zoological Gardens-Jerusalem Biblical Zoo (Israel) presented with skin lesions on various body parts. Lesions consisted of alopecia and dry, crusty areas of hyperkeratosis. A diagnosis of dermatophytosis due to Microsporum canis was determined by fungal culture of skin scraping taken from the edge of several lesions. Treatment with various oral and topical antifungal agents such as griseofluvin, itraconozole, and lufenuron resulted in the resolution of most lesions and a decrease in size of the single remaining lesion, which continued to be culture positive for M. canis. The animal was anesthetized and an experimental sustained-release clotrimazole varnish was painted directly on the lesion. Initially there was no change in the lesion, and 2 months later a slightly altered formula was applied under anesthesia. One month later, the lesion began to reduce in size; 3 months after the start of treatment, although 2 years after the onset of clinical signs, the lesion resolved. Minimizing the number of treatments is always an advantage when dealing with exotic animals or zoological collections.
20460412|Three Sumatran tigers (Panthera tigris sumatrae) at the Heidelberg Zoo in Germany presented with severe neurologic signs. Physical examination and diagnostic tests did not reveal a definitive diagnosis. Two days after initial presenting signs, all of the animals appeared clinically normal. An investigation into this outbreak revealed that all animals received horse meat on the evening before the incident. A toxicologic examination was initiated and serum analysis of the affected female tiger cub and the horse meat revealed contamination with pentobarbital.
20095708|The effects of short-term physical restraint and isoflurane anesthesia on hematologic and serum biochemistry parameters were evaluated in 12 island flying foxes (Pteropus hypomelanus). Physical restraint was associated with significantly decreased calcium, cholesterol, globulin, albumin, hemoglobin concentrations, red blood cell count, and hematocrit and increased glucose, phosphorus, and potassium concentrations. Isoflurane restraint was associated with significantly decreased calcium, cholesterol, albumin, globulin, and glucose concentrations, aspartate transaminase and alkaline phosphatase activities, white blood cell count, red blood cell count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, and total neutrophil and lymphocyte counts and significantly increased phosphorus and chloride concentrations. For those variables where both restraint forms produced an alteration (red blood cell count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, calcium, phosphorus, glucose), the magnitude of change was always significantly greater for the physically restrained animals. This study indicates that in adult flying foxes isoflurane anesthesia is preferable to physical restraint for collection of blood samples for hematologic and plasma biochemical analysis. Additionally, blood samples should be collected as soon as possible after capture, regardless of restraint technique.
20095184|The anthelmintic effectiveness of various dosages of ivermectin administered i.m. was compared in three groups of raccoons (Procyon lotor) naturally infected with nematode parasites. Qualitative fecal examinations were performed before treatment and periodically after treatment using a sucrose flotation technique. Ivermectin was effective against Placoconus lotoris, Capillaria putorii, and Physaloptera sp. at all doses (200-2,000 g/kg body weight) and against C. plica at higher doses (600 g/kg body weight). Ivermectin was incompletely effective against Baylisascaris procyonis and C. procyonis at a dose of 2,000 g/kg body weight.
20095553|A red-necked wallaby (Macropus rufogriseus) presented with a chronic draining tract located ventral to the right eye. Surgical debridement resulted in zygomaticofacial nerve injury with sensory loss in the lower eyelid and subsequent corneal ulcer formation. Due to overwhelming infection, transpalpebral enucleation and extensive debridement of the right orbit and zygomatic region were performed. After surgery, the defect was managed as an open wound for 10 days. A trapezius musculocutaneous free flap was then harvested and anastomosed onto vessels at the recipient bed to cover the entire facial defect. Postoperative complications included edema and seroma formation which resolved with conservative management. One year after microvascular reconstruction, clinical signs had not recurred. At this time the cosmetic appearance of the area of surgical repair is acceptable, and the wallaby is on public display.
20095436|Hemolyzed serum or serum that has been frozen is frequently submitted to veterinary diagnostic laboratories. This is especially true of samples from free-ranging animals in field studies. The present study measured the effects of frozen storage and hemolysis on 17 biochemical analytes in sera from cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus). Blood was collected twice from 10 clinically healthy cotton-top tamarins. One aliquot from each sample of whole blood was hemolyzed by rapid freezing and then centrifuged to remove serum. A second aliquot of whole blood was allowed to clot. Serum was separated by centrifugation, and half of that serum was stored at -70C. The remaining fresh serum and the hemolyzed serum were analyzed on the day of collection. Frozen samples were analyzed after 4 wk storage at -70C. Biologically important differences were not observed between mean values of chemical analytes in fresh and frozen sera. Moderate hemolysis resulted in significant increases in mean values for albumin (P &lt 0.001), potassium (P &lt 0.0001), total protein (P &lt 0.0002), total bilirubin (P &lt 0.0001), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (P &lt 0.024) when compared to those from fresh serum. However, the differences in mean values for albumin and AST were not biologically important because they were minimal and would not change clinical interpretation. When serum samples were severely hemolyzed, mean values for carbon dioxide (P &lt 0.0009) and alanine aminotransferase (P &lt 0.004) were decreased, whereas mean phosphorus values in addition to those for albumin, potassium, total protein, total bilirubin, and AST were increased (P &lt 0.01) when compared to fresh serum values. The magnitude of increase in these analytes was related to the severity of hemolysis. Differences in mean values for alkaline phosphatase between hemolyzed and fresh serum were not significant (P = 0.385), but did show a downward trend in the hemolyzed serum. The presence and severity of hemolysis must be considered in the interpretation of the aforementioned analytes in clinical and research investigations involving cotton-top tamarins.
20095239|A 4-mo-old male red wolf (Canis rufus) was evaluated for episodes of ptyalism, ataxia, and coma. Microcytic anemia and hypoproteinemia were present. Fasting and postprandial serum bile acid concentrations were increased (164.5 and 130.1 mol/L, respectively). Intraoperative mesenteric portography revealed a patent ductus venosus. The shunt vessel was surgically attenuated approximately 65% using a silk ligature. Portal pressure was 10 cm of water prior to and 15 cm of water after partial ligation of the shunt vessel. Serum bile acid concentrations transiently decreased postoperatively, but gradually the postprandial serum bile acid concentration increased to preoperative concentrations (111.0 mol/L). The wolf remains clinically normal 21 mo postoperatively.
20096520|Lemurs in captivity progressively accumulate iron deposits in a variety of organs (hemosiderosis) including duodenum, liver, and spleen throughout their lives. When excessive, the toxic effects of intracellular iron on parenchymal cells, particularly the liver, can result in clinical disease and death. The pathogenesis of excessive iron storage in these species has been attributed to dietary factors related to diets commonly fed in captivity. Tissue iron stores can be directly estimated by tissue biopsy and histologic examination, or quantitated by chemical analysis of biopsy tissue. However, expense and risk associated with anesthesia and surgery prevent routine use of tissue biopsy to assess iron status. A noninvasive means of assessing total body iron stores is needed to monitor iron stores in lemurs to determine whether dietary modification is preventing excessive iron deposition, and to monitor potential therapies such as phlebotomy or chelation. Serum ferritin concentration correlates with tissue iron stores in humans, horses, calves, dogs, cats, and pigs. Serum ferritin is considered the best serum analyte to predict total body iron stores in these species and is more reliable than serum iron or total iron binding capacity, both of which may be affected by disorders unrelated to iron adequacy or excess including hypoproteinemia, chronic infection, hemolytic anemia, hypothyroidism, renal disease, and drug administration. We have developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to measure serum ferritin in lemurs. The assay uses polyclonal rabbit anti-human ferritin antibodies in a sandwich arrangement. Ferritin isolated from liver and spleen of a black and white ruffed lemur (Varecia variegata variegata) was used as a standard. Ferritin standards were linear from 0 to 50 g/L. Recovery of purified ferritin from lemur serum varied from 95% to 110%. The within-assay variability was 4.5%, and the assay-to-assay variability for three different samples ranged from 10% to 17%. The assay also measures serum ferritin in several other lemur species.
20096336|An adult, captive-born Sumatran tiger (Panthera tigris sumatrae) had been ataxic for approximately 3 mo and had been self-mutilating after an acute onset of unilateral paresis and Horner's syndrome. Histologic lesions in the cervical spinal cord were consistent with fibrocartilaginous embolic myelopathy (FCEM), and they included the presence of cartilaginous occlusion of spinal blood vessels. This is the first reported case of FCEM in a large felid and specifically a Sumatran tiger.
41262651|The Cracidae family of neotropical birds is regarded as one of the most severely threatened in the world. They traditionally have been extensively hunted, and, thus, ex situ efforts for their conservation are recommended and involve the optimization of their care in captivity. Nutrition is a fundamental aspect of husbandry, which influences survival and reproduction in captivity. In this study, a total of 29 animals, including 3 species (Penelope obscura, Penelope superciliaris, and Aburria jacutinga), were subjected to monthly physical examination and blood sampling before and after dietary conversion from the traditional diet of broiler feed, fruits, and vegetables to a nutritionally balanced commercial diet specifically designed for wild Galliformes. The diet change produced differences in several parameters tested, including an increase (P < 0.05) in hemoglobin concentration for all species. Increases (P < 0.05) in erythrocyte count, packed cell volume, and body weight were observed in P. obscura, with a concomitant decrease in the standard deviation for such parameters that show improved uniformity. Globulins and lipase also were reduced (P < 0.05) in P. obscura. Although leukocyte count was lowered and eosinophils were increased in all 3 species after dietary conversion, only these 2 changes were significant (P < 0.05) in P. super ciliaris. A. jacutinga had higher (P < 0.05) blood glucose concentrations than the other species, but diet had no effect on this parameter. Blood uric acid concentrations were higher (P < 0.05) after conversion to the commercial diet in P. superciliaris. The provision of a commercial extruded diet as a single food source was beneficial, which led to a general improvement in clinical aspects and group uniformity in these 3 species of Cracidae.
20095351|A medical approach was utilized for the expulsion of stationary small intestinal foreign objects in a hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata). The clinically significant findings were inappetence, weight loss, and multiple radiopaque objects, including two partially dissolved pennies. After reestablishing motility with fluids, antibiotics, and metoclopramide therapy, all of the objects were expelled.
41417187|Actinomycosis, presenting as chronic proliferative pyogranulomatous pleuritis associated with sulfur granules, was diagnosed in a mature male river otter (Lontra canadensis) captured near Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, in April 2010. The river otter died during sedation for clinical examination and was necropsied immediately. Bacteria of the genus Actinomyces are commensals of the mucous membranes in a wide range of animals and people that act as opportunistic pathogens. This is the first report of actinomycosis in a river otter.
20095342|Dr. Edward Elkan can rightly be considered one of the founding fathers of lower vertebrate pathobiology. This short biographical picture of Dr. Elkan emphasizes what can be learned from his methods of work and outlines the developing work of the Edward Elkan Collection of Lower Vertebrate Pathology.
40962244|The Acadian redfish (Sebastes fasciatus) is a popular display animal in public aquaria and an important fisheries resource, but hmatologie values for this species have not been reported. This study investigated hematocrit, leucocyte counts, and leucocyte differential counts for 29 captive Acadian redfish collected in 2006 and 2008. All fish were judged to be in good health based on behavior, appetite, physical examination, skin cytology, and gill biopsy. Fish were anesthetized with tricaine methanesulfonate (MS-222) for blood collection from the ventral coccygeal vasculature. In 2008, MS-222 was buffered with sodium bicarbonate. Hematocrit values ranged from 27% to 45% (mean = 33% in 2006, mean = 31% in 2008). Leucocyte counts ranged from 670 to 35,000 cells/l (mean = 6,430 cells/l in 2006, and 13,130 cells/l in 2008). Lymphocytes were the most numerous of the leucocytes, followed by neutrophils and monocytes. Eosinophils and basophils were not seen. Fish weights were significantly greater in 2006, whereas total leucocyte counts, lymphocyte counts, and monocyte counts were significantly greater in 2008. Differences in leucogram values between the two groups may have been due to differences in size, age, anesthetic method, or other undetected factors. This is the first report of leucogram values for a species of the family Scorpaenidae. In general, values were similar to those of other teleosts, in which leucocyte counts can be quite variable.
20096447|Standing sedation was provided for 14 clinical procedures in three African elephants (Loxodonta africana) managed by combined protected and modified-protected contact and trained through operant conditioning. An initial hand-injection of detomidine hydrochloride and butorphanol tartrate at a ratio of 1:1 on a g:g basis was administered intramuscularly, with a dosage range of 50-70 mg (12.9-19.7 g/kg) for each drug. The initial injection resulted in adequate sedation for initiation and completion of eight procedures, whereas supplemental doses were required for the remaining procedures. The dosage range for the supplemental injections of each drug was 4.0-7.3 g/kg. Initial effect was noted within 3.0-25 min (mean = 11.6 min, SD  5.9 min), with maximal effect occurring at 25-30 min for those procedures not requiring supplementation. In all but one procedure, this effect was maintained until the end of the procedure, which ranged from 47 to 98 min (mean = 74.7 min, SD  18.8 min). No cardiac or respiratory depression was appreciated. Recovery after administration of reversal agents was rapid and complete, ranging from 2 to 20 min (mean = 9.0 min, SD  7.0 min). On the basis of the authors' experience, recommended dosage ranges for reversal agents would be intravenous yohimbine (73.4-98.5 g/kg), intravenous naltrexone (48.9-98.5 g/kg), and intramuscular naltrexone (73.4-98.5 g/kg). Approximately one-third to one-half of the total naltrexone dose should be administered intravenously. Mild adverse side effects limited to the gastrointestinal tract were observed in association with five procedures including abdominal distention with or without transient anorexia. Administration of reversal agents, encouraging exercise and water consumption, and administration of flunixin meglumine were helpful in the resolution of signs. In addition to gastrointestinal signs, slight ataxia was observed before initiation of surgical stimulation during one procedure in which 19.7 g/kg of each drug was administered. On the basis of the procedures that did not require supplementation to initiate treatment and taking into consideration the potential for ataxia at higher doses, a starting dosage range of 14.7-16.2 g/kg of both detomidine and butorphanol in a ratio of 1:1 on a g:g basis administered i.m. simultaneously is recommended.
20095804|An adult female nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus) died in the quarantine station of a private Swiss zoo. Multifocal ulcerative skin lesions and multiple hemorrhages in the lungs were found at necropsy. The spleen was enlarged and dark red. Histologically, there was diffuse granulomatous infiltration, including multinucleated giant cells, of the skin lesions, lungs, spleen, liver, heart, and kidneys. Abundant periodic acid--Schiff-positive yeastlike cells were demonstrated intracellularly in giant cells and extracellularly scattered throughout the tissues. Morphology of the cells varied, with some nonbudding cells resembling Cryptococcus neoformans and others resembling Sporothrix schenckii. A diagnosis of sporotrichosis was confirmed by immunofluorescence studies. This is the first report of sporotrichosis in an armadillo in a zoological garden and the third report of sporotrichosis in D. novemcinctus.
27751706|A stranded male harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) neonate with progressive clinical signs of ataxia, tremors, and deteriorating consciousness was evaluated using magnetic resonance imaging for suspected cerebellar brain disease prior to euthanasia because of grave prognosis. Magnetic resonance imaging identified occipital bone dysplasia with cerebellar herniation and concurrent atlantoaxial subluxation with spinal cord compression. These imaging findings elucidated the cause of histopathology changes including gliosis of the cerebellum and axonal degeneration and dilation of myelin sheaths of the dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord. Occipital bone dysplasia and/or atlantoaxial subluxation should be considered as differentials for abnormal neurologic signs in harbor seal neonates. Magnetic resonance imaging is a valuable modality for antemortem diagnosis.
27751732|Echinococcus oligarthrus hydatid cyst disease was diagnosed in two imported wild-caught Brazilian agouti (Dasyprocta leporina). The cysts were found incidentally during routine examinations and never appeared to cause any apparent clinical signs. Identification of the cysts was confirmed via histopathology. Over a period of 2 yr, the cysts calcified but did not reabsorb. Treatment with praziquantal and albendazole did not appear to affect the cysts. Agoutis are intermediate hosts of E. oligarthrus in the wild, where jaguars (Panthera onca) and pumas (Puma concolor) act as definitive hosts. Caution is advised when working with E. oligarthrusinfected animals because of the zoonotic disease potential.
27751740|Capillaria hepatica was detected by histopathologic diagnosis in two cougars that were shot in April 2008 in Painel, Santa Catarina, Brazil. Macroscopic analysis of their livers revealed the presence of diffuse granulomas, and the histopathologic analysis indicated the presence of C. hepatica eggs, surrounded by mononuclear inflammatory cell infiltrate, small foci of necrosis, and mild-to-moderate fibrosis. This is the first report of C. hepatica in cougars (Puma concolor) in Brazil.
40665149|An adult castrated male pet kinkajou (Potos flavus) presented with dyspnea due to congestive heart failure and was diagnosed with hypertrophie cardiomyopathy (HCM) and suspected pulmonary arterial hypertension. Diagnosis was based on history, clinical signs, clinical pathology, radiographs, abdominal ultrasonography, abdominal fluid analysis, electrocardiography, and echocardiogram. An undetermined hepatopathy also was found at presentation and resolved after metronidazole antimicrobial treatment. Cardiopulmonary medical treatment, including a loop diuretic, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, a -adrenergic receptor blocker, and a bronchodilator provided improvement of the clinical signs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of antemortem diagnosis and treatment of congestive heart failure and cardiomyopathy in a member of the family Procyonidae, suggesting that HCM should be considered as a differential diagnosis in kinkajous displaying clinical signs of dyspnea and exercise intolerance.
20095973|Thirteen sexually mature captive male lesser Malay chevrotains (Tragulus javanicus) were each anesthetized twice with tiletamine-zolazepam for electroejaculation. Viable spermatozoa were collected from all animals. The semen was creamy, milky, pale yellowish, or watery. The mean values for ejaculate volume, sperm concentration, and percentages of sperm motility, normality and viability were 23.7  2.5 l, 366.9  127.8  10 spermatozoa/ml, 40.0%  3.1%, 71.4%  1.6%, and 59.6%  2.1%, respectively. Semen pH was 7-8. No adverse effects of electroejaculation were noted. These are the first reported values for semen of lesser Malay chevrotain. Electroejaculation should be usable for routine semen collection in this species.
20460385|Subpalpebral lavage systems (SPLSs) were adapted for use in zoo llamas (Lama glama) and a wild harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) during therapy for severe ulcerative keratitis or corneal perforation. One llama presented with a melting corneal ulcer caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which necessitated frequent application of a topical ophthalmic antibiotic. The lavage system was used routinely during the day and was connected to a balloon infusion system at night to allow for continuous medication administration. The ulcer healed soon after therapy was extended to include overnight treatment with the infusion system. A SPLS system was also combined with a balloon infusor during postoperative treatment of a second llama that had sustained a corneal perforation. Both llamas tolerated the infusor/lavage systems well and regained vision. One llama had minor conjunctival irritation from the SPLS that resolved quickly without treatment. Bilateral SPLS were placed in a wild harbor seal for treatment of severe ulcerative keratitis associated with Candida albicans infection. The seal tolerated the lavage systems well throughout 14 wk of their use in an aquatic environment with other seals. Partial detachment of the lavage systems from the skin of the seal occurred a few times during treatment and was easily corrected. Severe keratitis resolved with administration of antimicrobials through the lavage systems, and the seal was returned to the wild. The use of SPLSs alone or in combination with balloon infusion systems warrants consideration for exotic, wild, and aquatic animals that cannot tolerate repetitive manual applications of topical ophthalmic medication.
20096281|The relative efficacies and cardiorespiratory effects of three injectable anesthetic combinations containing medetomidine were evaluated in ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta). In addition, the direct effects of medetomidine on heart rate and blood pressure were evaluated in lemurs anesthetized with isoflurane. For injectable anesthesia, captive adult ring-tailed lemurs were anesthetized with medetomidine and ketamine (0.04-0.06 mg/kg, i.m. and 3 mg/kg, i.m., respectively), medetomidine, butorphanol, and ketamine (0.04 mg/kg, i.m., 0.4 mg/kg, i.m., and 3 mg/kg, i.m., respectively), or medetomidine, butorphanol, and midazolam (0.04 mg/kg, i.m., 0.4 mg/kg, i.m., and 0.3 mg/kg, i.m., respectively). For inhalation anesthesia, lemurs were mask-induced and maintained with isoflurane for 30 min before receiving medetomidine (0.04 mg/kg, i.m.). Sedation produced by medetomidine-ketamine was unpredictable and of short duration. Both medetomidine-butorphanol-ketamine (MBK) and medetomidine-butorphanol-midazolam (MBMz) provided adequate anesthesia for routine physical exams; however, the effects of MBMz lasted longer than those of MBK. Heart rates and respiratory rates were within clinically normal ranges for all groups, and lemurs remained normotensive throughout the study. Common side effects such as hypertension and bradycardia associated with the use of
20095913|Reference hematologic and plasma chemistry values were determined from 103 blood samples collected from 53 clinically healthy brown tree snakes (Boiga irregularis). Female snakes had significantly higher mean plasma values for total solids, total protein, calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P), uric acid, and blood monocyte percentage than did males, whereas males had significantly higher mean plasma fibrinogen values. The variances for hematocrit, monocyte percentage, azurophil percentage, plasma total solids, plasma total protein, albumin, Ca, and P also differed significantly between sexes. The higher mean values and greater variances for plasma total protein, plasma total solids, Ca, and P in the female snakes were probably associated with yolk synthesis and accumulation.
20096553|Enterotoxemia caused by Clostridium glycolicum was identified as the cause of circulatory collapse and death in a female, 3-yr-old, captive-bred ornate Nile monitor (Varanus ornatus). Anaerobic culture of fecal samples from 12 other monitor lizards from the collection failed to demonstrate the presence of this pathogen.
20095746|A 6-yr-old, 1.36-kg, intact female black-footed cat (Felis nigripes) was presented to the Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital, University of Florida, with a history of depression, lethargy, and anorexia. Cardiac dysfunction and renal failure were diagnosed on the basis of antemortem and postmortem findings. At necropsy, heartworms (Dirofilaria immitis), glomerulonephritis, and endometritis were present. The glomerulonephritis could have been immune mediated and may have been associated with the heartworm infection or the chronic endometritis or both. Heartworm disease should be included in the list of differential diagnoses for any exotic cat housed outdoors in an endemic heartworm region that dies peracutely or has suggestive gastrointestinal or respiratory signs. Heartworm prophylaxis and annual serologic testing in exotic cats housed outdoors in heartworm endemic regions are recommended.
20096095|A simple, reliable, and safe protocol was developed for the collection of small amounts of blood from avian eggs of variable size and at early stages of development. Fifty eggs were used in the study; 40 were common chicken (Gallus domesticus) eggs, six were homing pigeon (Columba livia domestica) eggs, and four were burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia) eggs. Collection was attempted approximately halfway through incubation. The success rate for collection of blood or blood-tinged fluid from eggs was high, averaging 68% in the chicken eggs, 100% in the homing pigeon eggs, and 75% in the burrowing owl eggs. Collection did not affect subsequent hatchability. This blood could then be used to determine the sex of the embryo by utilizing a DNA probe or restriction fragment length polymorphism technique. Sex identification in ovo allowed the demographic management of small populations of birds within our institution.
20095514|As part of ongoing ecological studies of rain forest ungulate communities at two sites in the Ituri forest, Zaire, a health survey of five sympatric, free-ranging species of duikers (Cephalophus spp.) was conducted in 1991 and 1992. Ninety-five animals were physically examined during handling procedures, and blood and fecal samples were collected from 77 individuals for laboratory analysis. All animals appeared to be in good condition, and no abnormalities were noted. Hematology and serum chemistry, vitamin, and mineral levels were measured and correlated with the results of bacterial and viral serology and fecal parasite examinations. Positive antibody titers for leptospirosis, bluetongue virus, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, and epizootic hemorrhagic disease were found. These diseases have the potential to affect wildlife population dynamics as well as to have direct and indirect effects on local people. Serologic tests for foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest, bovine viral diarrhea, brucellosis, and anaplasmosis were negative. Significant differences in disease prevalence were not found among the five species, sex or age classes, or between the two sites. In light of the serology and parasitology findings, the apparent good condition of the individual animals demonstrates the importance of diagnostic testing in establishing a health profile for a given population.
20096060|The deaths of two Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) in August 1996 led the United States Department of Agriculture to require the testing and treatment of elephants for tuberculosis. From August 1996 to September 1999, Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection was confirmed by culture in 12 of 118 elephants in six herds. Eight diagnoses were made antemortem on the basis of isolation of M. tuberculosis by culture of trunk wash samples; the remainder (including the intial two) were diagnosed postmortem. We present the case histories, epidemiologic characteristics, diagnostic test results, and therapeutic plans from these six herds. The intradermal tuberculin test, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay serology, the blood tuberculosis test, and nucleic acid amplification and culture are compared as methods to diagnose M. tuberculosis infection in elephants.
20095339|Two juvenile radiated tortoises, Geochelone radiata, maintained in an outdoor enclosure in north-central Florida with four other radiated tortoises, were examined because of anorexia and lethargy. Hematologic and plasma biochemical evaluations indicated a mild to severe anemia, elevated white blood cell counts, hyponatremia, hyperuricosemia, and hyperglycemia. Both tortoises were considered near death and were euthanized. Histologic examination of multiple tissues revealed nephritis, hepatitis, enteritis, and pancreatitis. Light microscopic examination revealed an intranuclear protozoan in renal epithelial cells, hepatocytes, pancreatic acinar cells, and duodenal epithelial cells. Electron microscopic examination revealed developmental stages of an intranuclear coccidian parasite. This report is the first of an intranuclear coccidian in a chelonian. Oocysts could not be identified in feces of cagemates or tortoises from the originating breeding family. Identification to genus could not be made, and the source of infection could not be determined.
20095025|A northern sea otter (Enhydra lutris) collected in Prince William Sound, Alaska, had labored breathing on arrival at the Sea World Research Institute/Hubbs Marine Research Center, San Diego, California. The dyspnea increased in severity until death 8 days later. Necropsy findings included valvular endocarditis and pulmonary edema. Histological lesions included a bacterial valvular endocarditis of the septal cusp of the left atrioventricular valve, multifocal myocardial necrosis, pulmonary edema, congestion, and hemorrhage, and papillary necrosis of the kidney. Thromboembolism of the epicardium, thyroid glands, and submucosa of the small intestine was evident. The bacteria observed on histopathology were similar morphologically to a Staphylococcus sp. The pathogenesis of the endocarditis was not determined but led to thromboembolism, myocardial necrosis, heart failure, and death.
20095862|Steatitis due to vitamin E deficiency occurred in three 10-wk-old boat-billed herons (Cochlearius cochlearius) despite daily placement of a powdered vitamin supplement on the fish that was subsequently washed off by the parents. Physical findings included emaciation, yellow-brown subcutaneous nodules, a firm distended coelom, stomatitis, and yellow-white, submucosal pharyngeal nodules. Clinical pathology revealed heterophilic leukocytosis, anemia, hypoproteinemia, and low plasma alpha ()-tocopherol levels (1.94 g/ml and 2.14 g/ml). Two of the chicks died of severe, diffuse pansteatitis and respiratory aspergillosis.
40962303|Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) is a lentivirus in the Retroviridae family that causes lifelong infection in domestic cats. The lentivirus of African lions (Panthera leo), referred to as FIVple, is endemic in certain lion populations in eastern and southern Africa. Lentivirus infection leads to immunologie dysfunction and immunosuppressive disease in domestic cats; however, little is known about the pathogenic effects of infection in lions, nor about the epidemiologie impact on free-ranging and captive populations. Whole blood and serum samples were collected opportunistically from free-ranging lions in Kruger National Park, Republic of South Africa (RSA). Whole blood and serum samples were also collected from captive wild lions in the RSA. A nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for detection of FIV was performed on all whole blood samples. In addition, serum samples were tested for cross-reactive antibodies to domestic feline lentivirus antigens and puma lentivirus synthetic envelope peptide antigen. The PCR assay successfully amplified the lion lentivirus from African lions. The relative sensitivity and relative specificity were 79% and 100%, respectively, and the positive and negative predictive values were 100% and 67%, respectively. This research represents the first study to compare genetic material with antibody-based methods of lentivirus detection on lions in RSA. Using PCR as an additional diagnostic test for FIV in lions will increase screening sensitivity and will allow viral characterization among circulating isolates and monitoring of changes in the viral epidemiology within geographic regions and populations over time.
20096361|Plasma levels of the parasiticide ivermectin were studied by high-performance liquid chromatography in five llamas (Lama glama) after single 200 g/kg s.c. injections. Ivermectin levels were undetectable in plasma samples drawn up to 4 wk after injection, suggesting that the dosage used was insufficient to reach therapeutic concentrations in this species.
20096175|Nine acaricides (amitraz, carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, cyfluthrin, fipronil, lindane, permethrin, phenothrin, and pyrethrins) were studied for their efficacy in killing the African tortoise tick (Amblyomma marmoreum). Only four of the acaricides (chlorpyrifos, cyfluthrin, lindane, and permethrin) produced 100% mortality within 24 hr of application, and only two (cyfluthrin and permethrin) continued to cause 100% mortality when diluted to as low as 1:10,000. Five of the acaricides (amitraz, carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, cyfluthrin, and permethrin) were studied for toxicity to the leopard tortoise (Geochelone pardalis), the most common host of A. marmoreum. The results indicate that cyfluthrin and permethrin, which were herein found to be the two most effective acaricides for control of A. marmoreum, are also the safest acaricides for use on leopard tortoises.
40665078|A captive colony of Brazilian free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasiliensis) was vaccinated with a commercial monovalent inactivated rabies virus (RABV) vaccine (RABVAC 1). Baseline rabies virus neutralizing antibodies (VNA) and the response to vaccination were measured in 50 bats. Rabies VNA was detected in the plasma of 64% (27/42) of bats that had been vaccinated 1 yr prior, but only 19% (8/42) had levels considered adequate. Rabies VNA was detected in the plasma of 63% (5/8) of bats with no record of previous vaccination, suggesting natural RABV exposure before captivity. All bats demonstrated a VNA response by 10 days postvaccination, and baseline titer significantly predicted humoral response to vaccination. No adverse reactions to vaccination or clinical signs of RABV infection were observed in the bats during a 6-mo observation period. Annual vaccination may maintain immunity against RABV infection in captive colonies of bats.
20095446|Echinococcus granulosus is a tapeworm with a worldwide distribution found in dogs and wild canids. Intermediate hosts are domestic and wild ruminants, primates, and pigs. Larval development in the intermediate host occurs in the form of a hydatid cyst, usually in the liver or the lungs. This report describes a case of disseminated hydatid cysts in the abdomen of a ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta) diagnosed by ultrasound and laparotomy and treated by surgical excision and chemotherapy.
20095346|An adult male Florida indigo snake (Drymarchon corais couperi) was presented to the Tufts University School of Veterinary Medicine Wildlife Clinic for evaluation of a swelling in the cranial one third of its body. Survey radiographs, an upper gastrointestinal tract study, and an ultrasonic evaluation indicated an intracoelomic mass with probable gastrointestinal involvement. An exploratory celiotomy revealed a mass originating from the wall of the stomach and extending in a polypoid fashion both into the bowel lumen and transmurally beyond the serosal surface. Microscopic evaluation of the completely excised mass revealed an adenocarcinoma.
20460529|A review of medical records and necropsy reports from 1979-2003 found 40 neoplasms in 26 zoo felids, including five lions (Panthera leo, two males and three females), three leopards (Panthera pardus, two males and one female), one jaguar (Panthera onca, female), 11 tigers (Panthera tigris, three males and eight females), two snow leopards (Panthera uncia, one male and one female), two cougars (Felis concolor, one male and one female), one bobcat (Felis rufus, male), and one cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus, female). Animals that had not reached 3 yr of age or had been housed in the collection less than 3 yrs were not included in the study. Neoplasia rate at necropsy was 51% (24/47), and overall incidence of felid neoplasia during the study period was 25% (26/103). Neoplasia was identified as the cause of death or reason for euthanasia in 28% (13/47) of those necropsied. Neoplasms were observed in the integumentary-mammary (n = 11), endocrine (n = 10), reproductive (n = 8), hematopoietic-lymphoreticular (n = 5), digestive (n = 3), and hepatobiliary (n = 2) systems. One neoplasm was unclassified by system. Multiple neoplasms were observed in 11 animals. Both benign and malignant neoplasms were observed in all systems except for the hematopoietic-lymphoreticular systems where all processes were malignant. Of the endocrine neoplasms, those involving the thyroid and parathyroid glands predominated (n = 8) over other endocrine organs and included adenomas and carcinomas. In the integumentary system, 63% (7/11) of neoplasms involved the mammary gland, with mammary carcinoma representing 83% (6/7) of the neoplasms. The rates of neoplasia at this institution, during the given time period, appears to be greater than rates found in the one other published survey of captive felids.
20096615|A 16-yr-old, female, captive-bred bontebok (Damaliscus pygargus) estimated to be 75 kg, was presented with a 1-mo history of chronic diarrhea and weight loss. A cause for the deteriorating condition was not found antemortem, and the bontebok was humanely euthanatized when it failed to respond to empirical therapy. On necropsy, numerous nodules were present on the pleural surfaces and within the lung parenchyma, the pancreas appeared inflamed and fibrotic. Histologic examination revealed lymphoma in the mesenteric lymph nodes, alimentary tract, reproductive tract, and liver. In the small and large intestine, rumen, esophagus, bile duct, and vagina, the neoplastic cells had a tropism for epithelium. The neoplastic cells within the epithelium and subepithelium of the alimentary tract stained positively for CD3, consistent with T cell differentiation.
20096288|A mixture of medetomidine (50.0 g/kg, i.m.) and zolazepam-tiletamine (2.0 mg/kg, i.m.) effectively immobilized 16 sun bears (Helacrtos malayanus) for more than 1 hr with good myorelaxation and minimal effects on cardiorespiratory performance during 22 immobilizations. All bears were immobilized once, except for six individuals that were immobilized twice. Atipamezole (250 g/kg, i.v.) effectively reversed medetomidine-induced sedation and reduced recovery time significantly. Respiratory rates of immobilized bears did not change significantly over time. Rectal body temperature and heart rate decreased significantly after 10 min of immobilization. Hematologic and serum biochemical parameters did not change significantly within 30 min of induction.
20096645|A 32.5-year-old female hybrid orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus) developed hind-limb stiffness that progressed to tetraparesis over 2 wk. Repeated diagnostic evaluations, including serial magnetic resonance imaging of the central nervous system, revealed nonspecific lesions involving both the deep white and gray matter with an intact blood-brain barrier. Multiple empirical treatments failed to produce improvement and the animal was humanely euthanized. Histology of a granuloma in the ileum contained a nematode parasite, most consistent with Baylisascaris procyonis. Additionally, neuropil vacuolization, rarefaction, astrocytic scarring, and an eosinophilic granuloma and lymphoeosinophilic perivascular cuffing in the brain were suggestive of nematode migration. These findings confirm the presence of visceral larval migrans and support the presence of neural larval migrans. This case report of Baylisascaris procyonis confirms the presentation for the first time in an ape and documents the difficulty in antemortem diagnosis of neural larval migrans.
20096079|On 27 May 1999, a big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus) was discovered on an island exhibit at the Denver Zoo that contained a troop of 15 hooded capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella cay). The monkeys were attacking the bat when it was discovered. The bat was collected and humanely euthanatized without direct handling and submitted to the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment Virology Laboratory for rabies evaluation. The monkeys had not been vaccinated against rabies virus. The next day, the laboratory confirmed that the bat was positive for rabies. The recommendations from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention were to euthanatize the monkeys or quarantine them and comply with the human nonvaccinated postexposure protocol. A 1-ml dose of a killed rabies vaccine was administered i.m. in the hip on each of days 2, 7, 12, 19, and 33 postexposure, and a single dose of human rabies immune globulin was administered i.m. 5 days postexposure. Blood was collected under anesthesia in order to evaluate the immune response after rabies vaccination from six monkeys 5 days postexposure, six monkeys 19 days postexposure (five of the six monkeys were the same monkeys bled 5 days postexposure), 15 monkeys 67 days postexposure, and 13 monkeys approximately 1 yr postexposure. All of the monkeys developed and maintained levels of rabies virus neutralizing antibody above 0.05 IU/ml by 67 days postexposure. Although a serologic titer of 0.05 IU/ml indicates an adequate human response after rabies vaccination, no similar information is available for nonhuman primates. To date, none of the monkeys has succumbed to rabies.
20095565|Seventeen wild-caught white-faced capuchin monkeys (Cebus capucinus) were diagnosed with infections of the metastrongylid lungworm Filariopsis arator Chandler, 1931. Treatments with ivermectin, fenbendazole, thiabendazole, mebendazole, and pyrantel pamoate were not effective in controlling these parasites. However, administration of albendazole at 15 mg/kg p.o. (b.i.d.) for 14 days eliminated the shedding of nematode larvae in the feces and killed adult worms in the lungs.
20095123|The purpose of this study was to develop a simple staining procedure for determining the acrosomal status of felid spermatozoa. Previously, only a modified triple-stain technique successfully differentiated the acrosomal reaction; however the complexity of the technique limited its usefulness. The single-step staining technique uses a solution of 1% fast green FCF, 1% rose bengal, and 40% ethyl alcohol in 0.1 M citric acid--0.2 M disodium phosphate buffer. Semen was diluted with 2.9% sodium citrate, and an equal volume of staining solution was added and incubated for 70 sec at room temperature. Ten microliters of the mixture then was pipetted onto a microslide, smeared with anther slide, and air dried at 37C. Acrosomal status was evaluated using bright field microscopy (1,000). An intact acrosome was indicated by the purplish-blue staining over the anterior portion of the sperm head. If acrosomal loss had occurred, the anterior caput was almost colorless to light pink. The postacrosomal region of the head was pale pink in spermatozoa with and without intact acrosomes. There was no difference in percentage of intact acrosomes in a comparison of three media used for semen dilution (Experiment Ia) or in a comparison of fresh versus premixed (stored) staining solution (Experiment Ib). The percentage of intact acrosomes as determined by the single stain was higher (P &lt 0.001) than that determined by the modified triple stain in all four cat species studied (Experiment II). This technique can be used to evaluate the daily rate of acrosome loss in domestic cat semen during storage at 4C (Experiment III). The single-step acrosome staining technique as described is useful for quantifying acrosome loss in felid spermatozoa because it is simple, unaltered by dilution medium or storage of stain, and results in a higher percentage of intact acrosomes than does a modified triple stain.
20095977|Five chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) initially received oral droperidol sedation (1.25 mg for a juvenile chimpanzee, body wt = 18.5 kg, and 2.5 mg for adults, body wt &gt20 kg, range: 18.5-71 kg) followed by transmucosal carfentanil administration at 2.0 g/kg. This preinduction regimen was developed to produce heavy sedation or even light anesthesia in order to eliminate the need for or at least minimize the stress of darting with tiletamine/zolazepam at 3 mg/kg i.m. This study was designed to assess the safety and efficacy of transmucosal carfentanil. Once each animal was unresponsive to external stimuli, or at approximately 25 min (range 24-34 min) after carfentanil administration, naltrexone and tiletamine/zolazepam (N/T/Z) were combined into one intramuscular injection for anesthetic induction. Naltrexone was administered at 100 times the carfentanil dose in milligrams. For comparison, two chimpanzees received only droperidol, 2.5 mg p.o., followed by tiletamine/zolazepam, 3 mg/kg i.m. The preinduction period for all animals receiving carfentanil was characterized as smooth, with chimpanzees becoming gradually less active and less responsive to external stimuli. Two animals became very heavily sedated at 24 and 35 min, respectively, and were hand injected with N/T/Z. The other three chimpanzees became sternally recumbent but retained some response to stimuli, and N/T/Z was administered by remote injection with minimal response. Rectal body temperatures, pulse and respiratory rates, arterial oxygen hemoglobin saturation, and arterial blood gases were measured at initial contact (t = 0 min) and at 10-min intervals thereafter. Respiratory depression was present in all chimpanzees, regardless of protocol. Mean hemoglobin saturation was 91% for both groups. Mean partial pressure of oxygen, arterial values for carfentanil-treated and control animals were 64.4  7.6 and 63.5  6.0 at t = 0, respectively. Only the partial pressure of carbon dioxide, arterial (Paco) and pH showed significant differences between treated and control animals. Mean Paco was greater and mean pH lower for the carfentanil-treated group compared with the controls at t = 0 (58.9  3.7 and 50.3  3.1 for Paco and 7.33  0.02 and 7.40  0.30 for pH, respectively). The results of this study suggest that oral droperidol followed by transmucosal carfentanil can be used effectively as a premedication regimen to produce profound sedation, which limits the stress of darting during parenteral anesthetic induction with tiletamine/zolazepam in chimpanzees. The main side effect of respiratory depression appears to be adequately managed by reversing the carfentanil at the time of induction.
41417164|During a population decline or disease outbreak, the true risk of specific diseases to a wild population is often difficult to determine because of a lack of baseline disease information. To better understand the risk of disease in an endangered and scientifically important population of chimpanzees (Pan trogylodytes schweinfurthii), a health monitoring program was initiated in Gombe National Park, Tanzania. As part of this health monitoring program, comprehensive necropsies with histopathology were conducted on chimpanzees (n = 11; 5 male, 6 female), ranging in age from fetal to 44 yr, that were found dead between August 2004 and January 2010. In contrast to previous reports, respiratory disease was not noted as a cause of morbidity or mortality. Trauma was the most common cause of death in these 11 chimpanzees. All of the chimpanzees greater than 1 yr of age had intestinal and mesenteric parasitic granulomas associated with true strongyles consistent with Oesophagostomum spp. The relative numbers of granulomas increased with age and, in some cases, may have been a cause of weight loss and diarrhea. Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)cpz infection was documented in four deceased apes, all of whom exhibited varying amounts of lymphoid depletion including two females with marked CD4+ T cell loss consistent with end-stage SIVmac or human immunodeficiency virus infections. Myocardial megalokaryosis was common in chimpanzees greater than 1 mo of age; yet myocardial interstitial fbrosis, a common lesion in captive chimpanzees, was uncommon and only noted in two aged chimpanzees. These findings provide important information on causes of morbidity and mortality in wild chimpanzees, information that can be used to interpret findings during population declines and lead to better management of this population in the context of disease risk.
20096649|The nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug ketoprofen (KTP) is a commonly used antiinflammatory and analgesic agent in reptile medicine, but no studies documenting its pharmacokinetics in this species have been published. Ketoprofen was administered as a racemic mixture to green iguanas (Iguana iguana) intravenously (i.v.) and intramuscularly (i.m.) at 2 mg/kg. Pharmacokinetic analyses were performed and indicated that ketoprofen in iguanas administered by the intravenous route has a classical two-compartmental distribution pattern, a slow clearance (67 ml/kg/hr) and a long terminal half-life (31 hr) compared to ketoprofen studies reported in mammals. When delivered by the intramuscular route, bioavailability was 78%. These data indicate the daily dosing that is generally recommended for reptile patients, as an extrapolation from mammalian data, may be more frequent than necessary.
20096628|Electrocardiographic (ECG) measurements were recorded in two subspecies of awake, apparently healthy, wild manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris and T. m. manatus) undergoing routine field examinations in Florida and Belize. Six unsedated juveniles (dependent and independent calves) and 6 adults were restrained in ventral recumbency for ECG measurements. Six lead ECGs were recorded for all manatees and the following parameters were determined: heart rate and rhythm; P, QRS, and T wave morphology, amplitude, and duration; and mean electrical axis (MEA). Statistical differences using a t-test for equality of means were determined. No statistical difference was seen based on sex or subspecies of manatees in the above measured criteria. Statistical differences existed in heart rate (P = 0.047), P wave duration (P = 0.019), PR interval (P = 0.025), and MEA (P = 0.021) between adult manatees and calves. Our findings revealed normal sinus rhythms, no detectable arrhythmias, prolonged PR and QT intervals, prolonged P wave duration, and small R wave amplitude as compared with cetacea and other marine mammals. This paper documents the techniques for and baseline recordings of ECGs in juvenile and adult free-living manatees. It also demonstrates that continual assessment of cardiac electrical activity in the awake manatee can be completed and can be used to aid veterinarians and biologists in routine health assessment, during procedures, and in detecting the presence of cardiac disease or dysfunction.
20096498|An 18-yr-old Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris) presented with acute onset hind limb paresis. Radiographic and ultrasonographic imaging revealed a caudal abdominal aortic thrombus and a cranial mediastinal mass. Necropsy confirmed aortic thrombosis. Necrotizing enteritis and multifocal renal thrombosis were also noted. The cranial mediastinum contained a bilobed mass that histologically and ultrastructurally was consistent with a carcinoid.
20460411|Progressive ataxia, particularly of the hind limbs, developed in a paretic female juvenile captive North American river otter (Lontra canadensis). Severe bilaterally symmetrical axonal degeneration in the medulla oblongata (nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus) and multiple scattered spheroids in the region of the pons were detected microscopically. This is the first description of ataxia associated with axonal degeneration in otters.
20095982|Two captive California sea lions (Zalophus californianus) from different facilities were diagnosed with disseminated blastomycosis. The first, a 12-yr-old male, died after a 3-wk history of progressive anorexia and lethargy. Gross examination revealed acute jejunitis with focal perforation and associated peritonitis, along with severe purulent bronchopneumonia. The second, a 15-yr-old female, was euthanized after a 2-wk history of severe cutaneous ulceration and declining clinical condition. Gross examination revealed severe pyogranulomatous bronchopneumonia and ulcerative dermatitis. Histopathologic examination in both individuals revealed severe multifocal subacute to chronic pyogranulomatous pneumonia associated with massive numbers of fungal organisms morphologically compatible with Blastomyces sp. Fungal organisms were 8-20-m-diameter broad-based budding yeasts with thick, refractile, double-contoured walls. The male sea lion had multifocal transmural Blastomyces-induced enteritis with subsequent rupture and peritonitis. The organism was also present in the liver, with minimal associated inflammation. The female had severe multifocal pyogranulomatous ulcerative dermatitis associated with large numbers of intralesional fungal organisms. Dissemination to the spleen had occurred in both animals. A serologic immunodiffusion test for Blastomyces dermatitidis was positive in the male. The presumptive primary pathogen in both cases was Blastomyces dermatitidis.
20095519|Prior to enhancement of insular-endemic and highly endangered San Clemente Island loggerhead shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus mearnsi) on San Clemente Island, a disease survey of horned larks (Eremophila alpestris), a common prey species of the shrikes, was performed. Nineteen juvenile and adult horned larks, 10 males and nine females, were collected on the island. The survey included gross and histologic examination of representative tissue of all organ systems, examination of selected tissues by transmission electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry, blood smear exams, aerobic and anaerobic fecal bacterial cultures, and fecal parasitology. All birds were in good to excellent nutritional condition. On histopathologic examination, mild to marked irregularly reticulated proliferations of large plump to fusiform cells were present in the heart and skeletal muscle of 16 (84%) larks. The proliferations were supported by a finely reticulated collagenous stroma, were associated with vessels, and formed channels containing blood cells. There was little inflammation associated with the proliferations, and within the cytoplasm of many of the cells were solitary, oval, 1.5- to 2.5-m-diameter organisms. Factor VIII staining of both normal endothelium and the proliferative cells was negative. Ultrastructurally, a single layer of proliferative cells rested on a prominent basement membrane. The cytoplasm of many of the cells had solitary vacuoles containing single organisms. The presence of a bilayered pellicle, large nucleus, granular cytoplasm with vacuoles, abundant micronemes, and apical complexes allowed identification of the organism as a eucoccidian. Clinically insignificant enteric coccidia infection was also identified in 13 (68%) larks. The vascular proliferations probably consisted of endothelial cells and were probably caused by the eucoccidian. This is the first report of a eucoccidian parasite causing such lesions.
20096198|Forty dog-faced fruit bats (Cynopterus brachyotis) were administered 1 drop of 1% ivermectin topically as part of a routine physical exam and deworming program, and 11 developed sudden generalized paresis. Six of the bats recovered within 24-48 hr, and the remaining 5 were presented recumbent and weak to the University of Florida Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital. Ivermectin toxicosis was suspected, and the admitted bats died or were euthanatized within 3-5 days of the development of clinical signs despite supportive care. Three of the dead bats had renal tubular necrosis.
20094958|The viral diseases of the parrot family are a major frustration for the aviculturalist and the avian veterinarian. Through a worldwide effort, however, progress is being made toward understanding and managing these diseases. Unfortunately, emerging information is disseminated in literature sources not readily available to most avian practitioners. The purpose of this review is to consolidate current knowledge in a rapidly evolving area of veterinary medicine. The once tenuous possibility of controlling psittacine viral diseases is becoming reality.
20096045|A 4-yr-old cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) with a 2-yr history of chronic intermittent vomiting and spiral bacteria-associated gastritis presented with dramatically increased vomiting frequency and marked intermittent abdominal distention. Physical examination revealed loss of muscle mass and poor fur coat quality. Contrast radiography was consistent with delayed gastric emptying due to presumed gastric outlet obstruction. Both Y-U pyloroplasty and incisional gastropexy were performed, and no subsequent vomiting has been observed for 3 yr with the exception of three episodes during the immediate postoperative period. The cause of delayed gastric emptying was not determined, although a gastric motility disorder associated with gastric bacterial infection and elevated gastrin levels was suspected.
40962254|Three gravid, female, wild Florida cooter turtles (Pseudemys floridana floridana) were evaluated and treated by the North Carolina State University College of Veterinary Medicine Turtle Rescue Team as a result of traumatic injuries or infection. As part of medical management, oviposition was induced using oxytocin, which was only partially effective. In all three cases, ectopie eggs were subsequently identified in the urinary bladder by ultrasound and were successfully removed via a minimally invasive cystoscopic-guided technique. One of the three turtles died within several days of the procedure, and necropsy revealed granulomatous bacterial cystitis. It is hypothesized that these complications were likely due to the length of time between induction with oxytocin and the identification and removal of the ectopic egg.
20096015|Ten fawns and four adult black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus) in a captive herd died as a result of adenovirus-induced hemorrhagic disease. Acute, systemic infections were characterized by hemorrhagic enteropathy, pulmonary edema, and occasional ulceration of the upper alimentary tract. Localized infections were limited to the upper alimentary tract and included stomatitis, pharyngitis, mandibular osteomyelitis, and rumenitis. In deer with acute, systemic infections, a diagnosis was made by histopathology and immunohistochemistry. The serum neutralization test was useful for conforming a diagnosis in animals with prolonged, localized infections. Deer originating from herds with a history of adenovirus infection should not be transferred to other captive herds or released into free-ranging populations because they may serve as carriers of adenovirus.
40665137|Four adult, full-sibling slender-tailed meerkats (Suricata suricatta) were diagnosed with acute pancreatitis. The incident case presented with lethargy, anorexia, abdominal guarding, and a cranial abdominal mass. Serum was grossly lipemic, with elevated cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations and increased amylase and lipase activity. An exploratory laparotomy confirmed chylous peritonitis and included excision of a saponified spleno-duodenal mass, a partial pancreatectomy, and a splenectomy. Histopathology revealed severe, multifocal, subacute necrotizing and granulomatous pancreatitis. Within 13 days of the incident case, the second meerkat was identified with essentially identical clinical, surgical, and histologie findings. During subsequent physical examinations of apparently unaffected cohorts (n = 12), physical and hmatologie findings suggestive of pancreatitis were identified in the two remaining siblings of the first two cases. The definitive cause for these four cases is undetermined; however, common risk factors identified were obesity and hyperlipidemia, a change to a higher-fat diet, and genetic predisposition. To assess its usefulness in the diagnosis of meerkat pancreatitis, serum canine and feline pancreatic lipase immunoreactivity (cPLI and fPLI) concentrations were measured in serum samples (n = 61) from two unrelated meerkat populations. Although these assays are highly sensitive and specific for the diagnosis of pancreatitis in domestic carnivores, similar correlation was not apparent for meerkats. In addition, hyperlipidemia was inconsistently present in many meerkats, with no apparent correlation to the development of clinical illness. Based on these observations, sensitive and specific diagnostic tests for pancreatitis in meerkats are currently unavailable.
20460370|Portable ultrasound imaging was examined as a noninvasive measure of skin including blubber thickness in captive subadult Steller sea lions (Eumetopias jubatus) and adult harbor seals (Phoca vitulina). This method was validated through comparison with blubber biopsy. Ultrasound images provided depth measurements that were accurate to 99.8% of the actual. This method allowed clear images of the epidermis, dermis, and blubber layer to be rapidly obtained, with minimal animal restraint, and allowed differentiation of phocid and otariid blubber structure.
20095693|An 11-yr-old female cheetah (Acinonyx jubilatus) from a privately owned breeding center for endangered species was referred for evaluation with a history of vomiting and depression of 10 days' duration. After anesthetic induction with tiletamine and zolazepam and anesthetic maintenance with isoflurane, a complete diagnostic workup was performed, including hematology, serum chemistry, and radiography. The clinical diagnosis was septic suppurative inflammation and hemorrhage in the abdomen, consistent with perforation or rupture of the gastrointestinal tract. An exploratory laparotomy showed a perforated duodenal ulcer, which was resected. Subsequent endoscopy revealed no further evidence of ulceration in the upper gastrointestinal tract. Biopsy of the ulcerated tissue collected from the duodenum revealed Gastrospirillum-like organisms. Histologic examination revealed widespread infiltration of lymphocytes and plasma cells into the lamina propria and submucosa. Intraepithelial leukocytes were present along with attenuation, erosion, and ulceration of the superficial epithelium. Fourteen days after surgery, this cheetah was returned to its breeding compound, and no subsequent vomiting has been observed for 4 yr.
20095161|Since 1986, when bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) was first recognized in domestic cattle, six cases of spongiform encephalopathy have been diagnosed in exotic bovids in British zoos. This paper reviews these cases and our current understanding of BSE. The effects of the disease on British zoos is also reviewed and possible future implications, both within the U.K. and elsewhere, are discussed.
40962251|The transfusion of whole blood in elasmobranchs could provide cardiovascular support following hemorrhage. Since donor and recipient compatibility is not known, a technique was established to allow cross matching of red blood cells and serum in sharks. Cross matching was carried out among 19 individuals from seven species: the nurse shark (Ginglymostoma cirratum), sandbar shark (Carcharhinus plumbeus), sandtiger shark (Carcharas taurus), white-spotted bamboo shark (Chiloscyllium plagiosum), brown-banded bamboo shark (ChiloscyIlium punctatum), zebra shark (Stegostoma fasciatum), and spotted wobbegong (Orectolobus maculatus). Negative cross-matches showed no agglutination or hemolysis, suggesting that donor and recipient would be compatible. Cross-matches between conspecifics were all negative (sandbar, sandtiger, nurse, and white-spotted bamboo sharks). All cross-matches between sandbar and sandtiger sharks were also negative. Positive crossmatches consisted of agglutination or hemolysis of red blood cells, suggesting that the donor and recipient would be incompatible. Strong positive reactions occurred, for example, with red blood cells from sandtiger and sandbar sharks and serum from nurse sharks. Cross matching should be carried out in elasmobranchs prior to any blood transfusion.
20460406|Fungal spore loads in the air of cool-temperature, temperate, and tropical aviaries were collected with an Andersen N-6 air sampler. The relationship of spore loads to air-handler and exhibit design in these three environments was examined. In addition, a 2-yr longitudinal study of fungal spore loads in the air of a newly designed and installed air-handling system in the R. J. Reynolds Forest Aviary at the North Carolina Zoological Park was compared to the earlier air-handling system that it replaced. High-efficiency particulate air filters installed in cool-temperature aviaries produced the cleanest air, although pleated filters showed only marginally higher spore loads. Temperate and tropical aviaries with pleated filters or bag filters with variable-velocity fans had much higher spore loads. Tropical and temperate exhibits with bag filters and constant-velocity fans produced the cleanest air in tropical and temperate exhibits. Information on the relative effectiveness of different air-handling system designs and related costs/benefits should be used by zoo managers when they are designing or retrofitting aviary air-handling systems.
20096264|The efficacy of meso-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) (succimer) in treating avian lead intoxication was studied in a retrospective, nonrandomized, longitudinal study. Nineteen birds with moderate to high blood lead concentration and neurologic signs compatible with lead toxicity were treated with DMSA (30 mg/kg p.o., b.i.d.; n = 15) for a minimum of 7 days. In cases with severe neurologic signs, DMSA was supplemented with a single dose of edetate calcium disodium (&lt50.0 mg/kg of body weight i.m.; n = 4). Blood lead concentrations were measured two or more times (before and after treatment). Median blood lead concentration decreased (87%), neurologic signs were resolved, and there were no apparent adverse secondary effects.
20095749|Nine small cats, including one bobcat (Felis rufus), one Pallas cat (F. manul), one Canada lynx (F. lynx canadensis), two fishing cats (F. viverrina), two margays (F. wiedii), and two sand cats (F. margarita), necropsied between June 1995 and March 1997 had large numbers of gastric spiral bacteria, whereas five large cats, including one African lion (Panthera leo), two snow leopards (P. uncia), one Siberian tiger (P. tigris altaica), and one jaguar (P. onca), necropsied during the same period had none. All of the spiral organisms from the nine small cats were histologically and ultrastructurally similar. Histologically, the spiral bacteria were 5-14 m long with five to nine coils per organism and were located both extracellularly within gastric glands and surface mucus, and intracellularly in parietal cells. Spiral bacteria in gastric mucosal scrapings from the Canada lynx, one fishing cat, and the two sand cats were gram negative and had corkscrewlike to tumbling motility when viewed with phase contrast microscopy. The bacteria were 0.5-0.7 m wide, with a periodicity of 0.65-1.1 m in all cats. Bipolar sheathed flagella were occasionally observed, and no periplasmic fibrils were seen. The bacteria were extracellular in parietal cell canaliculi and intracellular within parietal cells. Culture of mucosal scrapings from the Canada lynx and sand cats was unsuccessful. Based on morphology, motility, and cellular tropism, the bacteria were probably Helicobacter-like organisms. Although the two margays had moderate lymphoplasmacytic gastritis, the other cats lacked or had only mild gastric lymphoid infiltrates, suggesting that these organisms are either commensals or opportunistic pathogens.
20096216|Two adult North American river otters (Lontra canadensis) and an adult red panda (Ailurus fulgens fulgens) at three separate institutions died within 22 hr after receiving single 2.5- to 2.7-mg/kg doses of melarsomine dihydrochloride administered in the epaxial musculature as a treatment for filarid nematodes. One otter had a suspected Dirofilaria immitis infection, the other had a confirmed D. lutrae infection, and the red panda had a confirmed Dirofilaria sp. infection, presumably with D. immitis. Postmortem examinations revealed similar gross lesions, although they were less severe in the red panda. The trachea and primary bronchi contained abundant foamy fluid, the lungs were mottled with areas of consolidation, and the pulmonary parenchyma exuded abundant fluid at the cut section. Histologic evaluation revealed acute pulmonary edema, which resulted in respiratory failure and death. There may have been direct pulmonary cellular toxicity of melarsomine dihydrochloride or a severe systemic anaphylactic reaction to antigens released after parasite death. An idiosyncratic drug reaction or a low therapeutic index of melarsomine probably caused the death of the three individuals. Melarsomine dihydrochloride use should be avoided in North American river otters and red pandas.
20460437|A 2-yr-old female forest buffalo (Syncerus caffer nanus) presented with acute trauma to the right horn following a fight with a conspecific resulting in fracture and avulsion of the frontal bone, cornual process, horn, and juxtaposed skin. The animal was sedated for wound care and debridement followed by placement of an antibacterial-impregnated polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) dressing. The dressing was noted to be intact on examination at day 7 post-injury, but had become dislodged and had to be replaced at day 11 postinjury. The replacement dressing ultimately fell off 68 days post-injury, revealing a healed circular scar. The use of PMMA in this case provided optimal wound care. In the 6 yr since the injury, the animal has grown a nearly normal-appearing horn, suggesting that the noncornual skin and associated skull structures may retain the ability to differentiate into a near-normal appearing horn because the entire horn apparatus in this case was avulsed.
20095777|Paired tympanic membrane and rectal temperatures were compared for 103 female fallow deer (Dama dama) after short-term anesthesia to determine if tympanic temperature was a reliable indicator of hyperthermia associated with handling stress. Each deer was restrained in a drop-floor chute, anesthetized by i.v. injection of xylazine hydrochloride and ketamine hydrochloride, and removed from the chute. After a short procedure was completed, i.m. antibiotics and i.v. yohimbine hydrochloride were given to each deer. Temperature measurements were obtained during recovery from anesthesia, approximately 10 min after initial restraint. Mean tympanic temperature (40.1C  0.8C; range 37.5-42.0C) was significantly lower than mean rectal temperature (38.6C  0.7C; range 37.4-40.8C). One animal had rectal and tympanic temperatures of 42.0C and 40.8C, respectively, but regained normal body temperature after cooling measures were applied. Tympanic membrane temperature measurement may provide a method for evaluation of body temperature by separating retained body heat caused by exertion from critical elevations in core body temperature associated with clinical disease or capture stress.
40665065|During serologic rabies surveys, bleeding is often difficult or almost impossible in small or endangered mammals such as bats. Therefore, the usefulness of an alternative, less invasive techniquethat is, the use of blood-sucking reduviid bugs (Dipetalogaster maximus and Rhodnius prolixus)was investigated. Bugs were used in combination with a conventional method (retro-orbitale bleeding) to obtain blood samples from the same individual NMRI-mice (Mus musculus) vaccinated against rabies. Rabies virus-neutralizing antibody (VNA) titers between paired blood samples obtained from the same mice were compared. The accuracy (between-method comparison), precision (repeatability of results), and robustness (influence of digestion on blood parameter) of the bug method was evaluated. VNA titers in the blood sample obtained from the bugs' crops were equivalent to those from samples collected directly from the mice. No differences between samples taken from different bugs that had fed on the same mouse were noted. In addition, there were no changes in VNA titers in blood samples collected from the triatomine bugs for up to 4 hr after completion of the blood meal. This study demonstrates that the application of blood-sucking bugs offers a validated alternative for obtaining blood samples to determine rabies virus-neutralizing antibody titers and is highly suitable for animals with limited or no accessibility of veins by conventional sampling techniques.
20096592|Conservation medicine is a discipline in which researchers and conservationists study and respond to the dynamic interplay between animals, humans, and the environment. From a wildlife perspective, animal species are encountering stressors from numerous sources. With the rapidly increasing human population, a corresponding increased demand for food, fuel, and shelter; habitat destruction; and increased competition for natural resources, the health and well-being of wild animal populations is increasingly at risk of disease and endangerment. Scientific data are needed to measure the impact that human encroachment is having on wildlife. Nonbiased biometric data provide a means to measure the amount of stress being imposed on animals from humans, the environment, and other animals. The stress response in animals functions via glucocorticoid metabolism and is regulated by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Fecal glucocorticoids, in particular, may be an extremely useful biometric test, since sample collection is noninvasive to subjects and, therefore, does not introduce other variables that may alter assay results. For this reason, many researchers and conservationists have begun to use fecal glucocorticoids as a means to measure stress in various animal species. This review article summarizes the literature on many studies in which fecal glucocorticoids and their metabolites have been used to assess stress levels in various mammalian species. Variations between studies are the main focus of this review. Collection methods, storage conditions, shipping procedures, and laboratory techniques utilized by different researchers are discussed.
20460563|Morbidity and mortality associated with respiratory disease following capture and translocation of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis canadensis) is a significant concern, particularly when establishing new or augmenting existing bighorn populations. Administration of prophylactic antibiotics at the time of capture is often done to minimize the risk of respiratory disease, but the efficacy of this practice is unknown. The effects of oxytetracycline and florfenicol on the Pasteurella (Bibersteinia) and Mannheimia spp. isolated from samples collected from the oropharynx at the time of capture and 3 or 42 day later were evaluated in two groups of bighorn sheep. The most evident change in the isolation rates or types of Pasteurella (Bibersteinia) spp., Mannheimia spp., or both was an increase of -hemolytic strains isolated from bighorn sheep 3 day following oxytetracycline treatment. Both groups of bighorn sheep carried Pasteurella (Bibersteinia) trehalosi identified as the same biovariants, but they did not share biovariants of Mannheimia spp. No animals had signs of respiratory disease. Isolates representative of all biovariants present in cultures from the two bighorn sheep groups were sensitive to in vitro tests to both oxytetracycline and florfenicol and the majority were also sensitive to seven other antibiotics tested. The administration of neither oxytetracycline nor florfenicol eliminated Pasteurella (Bibersteinia) or Mannheimia from the oropharyngeal mucosa. Resistance to either antibiotic used in these animals was not noted. Although the prophylactic benefits of these drugs in preventing disease are uncertain, therapeutic levels of antibiotics in lung tissue during times of stress may reduce the risk of disease. Representative sampling of the oropharyngeal microflora of bighorn sheep source and recipient populations prior to being intermingled should be considered as one of the tools to minimize exposure of nave populations to potentially pathogenic bacteria.
20096124|Embryos from five anesthetized mouflons (Ovis gmelini musimon), superovulated with FSH-o (Ovagen) were transferred into preselected Spanish Merino sheep (Ovis aries). Myorelaxation was complete in four of five donor mouflons. The status of the uterus of potential recipients was evaluated by transrectal ultrasonography, and those ewes with fluid in the uterine horn were rejected. The corpus luteum in each ewe was assessed ultrasonographically the day before surgery. Plasma progesterone levels and the quality of the corpora lutea were the criteria for selection of recipients. Ten embryos were transferred to the five selected Spanish Merino recipients, resulting in four pregnancies and seven live-born lambs, including three sets of twins. This study shows that determination of plasma progesterone levels combined with ultrasonographic assessment of the corpus luteum provides information useful for screening of potential recipients.
20095793|Six electric eels (Electrophorus electricus) from various centers that house aquatic organisms presented clinically with abdominal distension following prolonged exposure to elevated environmental pH. Postmortem examination revealed marked ascites. Culture of the abdominal fluid from three of the eels yielded either Aeromonas hydrophila or Citrobacter freundii, which were most likely secondary invaders. Histopathology showed marked iron accumulation in both hepatocytes and hepatic macrophage aggregates.
20096435|Plasma biochemistry, iohexol clearance, endoscopic renal evaluation, and biopsy were performed in 23 clinically healthy 2-yr-old green iguanas (Iguana iguana). Mean (SD) values for packed cell volume (30  3%), total protein (62  7 g/L, 6.2  0.7 g/dl), albumin (25  2 g/L, 2.5  0.2 g/dl), globulin (37  6 g/L, 3.7  0.6 g/dl), total calcium (3.0  0.2 mmol/L, 12.0  0.7 mg/dl), ionized calcium (1.38  0.1 mmol/L), phosphorus (1.32  0.28 mmol/L, 4.1  0.9 mg/dl), uric acid (222  100 mol/L, 3.8  1.7 mg/dl), sodium (148  3 mmol/L or mEq/L), and potassium (2.6  0.4 mmol/L or mEq/L) were considered within normal limits. Values for urea were low (&lt1.4 mmol/L, &lt4 mg/dl) with 70% of samples below the detectable analyzer range. After the i.v. injection of 75 mg/kg iohexol into the caudal (ventral coccygeal or tail) vein, serial blood collections were performed over 32 hr. Iohexol assays by high-performance liquid chromatography produced plasma iohexol clearance graphs for each lizard. A three-compartment model was used to fit area under the curve values and to obtain the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) using regression analysis. The mean GFR (SD) was 16.56  3.90 ml/kg/hr, with a 95% confidence interval of 14.78-18.34 ml/kg/hr. Bilateral endoscopic renal evaluation and biopsy provided tissue samples of excellent diagnostic quality, which correlated with tissue harvested at necropsy and evaluated histologically. None of the 23 animals demonstrated any adverse effects of iohexol clearance or endoscopy. Recommended diagnostics for the evaluation of renal function and disease in the green iguana include plasma biochemical profiles, iohexol clearance, endoscopic examination, and renal biopsy.
20079496|Two female Grevy's zebras (Equus grevyi), one juvenile and one adult, were treated for hemolytic anemia. The juvenile survived, but the adult animal, which also had methemoglobinemia, was euthanized after it failed to recover from anesthesia. Significant pathologic findings in the adult zebra included generalized icterus, hemoglobinuric nephrosis, and paracentral hepatic necrosis. Serum titers for known infectious causes of anemia were negative. Examination of the zebra holding areas revealed two hybrid red maple (Acer sp.) trees. There was no known exposure to other hemolytic agents. This is the first report of probable red maple-induced hemolysis in zebra.
20096492|A 10-yr-old male gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) with a history of conspecific bite wounds was evaluated for acute onset of depression, anorexia, and right hemiparesis. The animal was immobilized for diagnostic examination and treatment for suspected toxic shock from a necrotizing, emphysematous wound infection, but was euthanized due to complications during recovery. Gross and histopathologic examination revealed acute necrotizing myositis, fasciitis, cellulitis, and emphysema in the affected wound area, with large numbers of large Gram-positive rods among necrotic muscle fibers. Severe pulmonary edema with airways containing fibrin, acute hemorrhage in multiple body sites, thrombosis in blood vessels in the skeletal muscle, liver, and lung, and lymph node hyperplasia with lymphoid necrosis and hemorrhage. Immunohistochemical fluorescent antibody staining of muscle from the wound site was positive for Clostridium septicum.
20094992|Twenty-one Chinese water deer (Hydropotes inermis) were blowdarted with a combination of ketamine and xylazine, resulting in a level of sedation adequate for minor surgical procedures in 14 of the deer (mean dosages: ketamine, 7.2 mg/kg; xylazine, 7.3 mg/kg). Seven deer required an additional dose. Effective dosages were higher for males in rut. Heart rate appeared to be markedly depressed in sedated deer. Seven deer were driven into nets, and either xylazine or a ketamine--xylazine mixture was given i.m. or i.v. Xylazine alone (mean dosage, 1.8 mg/kg) produced a highly variable and usually inadequate depth of sedation. One of two alpha-2 adrenergic antagonists, RX821002A or yohimbine, was given i.v. or i.m. in 12 and two deer, respectively, resulting in complete anesthetic reversal. No anesthetic complications were seen in any deer.
40962301|Free-ranging Florida manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) consume a variety of sea grasses and algae. This study compared the dry matter (DM) content, proximate nutrients (crude protein [CP], ether-extracted crude fat nonfiber carbohydrate [NFC], and ash), and the calculated digestible energy (DE) of sea grasses (Thalassia testudinum, Halodule wrightii, and Syringodium filiforme) collected in spring, summer, and winter, and an alga (Chara sp.) with those of romaine lettuce (Lactuca sativa var. longifolid). Neutral-detergent fiber (NDF), aciddetergent fiber (ADF), and lignin (L) measured after ash-extraction were also compared. Results of statistical tests ( = 0.01) revealed DM content was higher in aquatic vegetation than in lettuce (P = 0.0001), but NDF and ADF were up to threefold greater, EE (P = 0.00001) and CP (P = 0.00001) were 2-9 times less, and NFC (P = 0.0001) was 2-6 times lower in sea grass than in lettuce, on a DM basis. Chara was lower in NDF, ADF, L., EE, CP, and NFC relative to lettuce on a DM basis. Ash content (DM basis) was higher (P = 0.0001), and DE was 2-6 times lower in aquatic vegetation than in lettuce. Sea grass rhizomes had lower L and higher ash contents (DM basis) than sea grass leaves. Based on the nutrient analyses, romaine lettuce and sea grasses are not equivalent forages, which suggests that the current diet of captive Florida manatees should be reassessed.
20095499|Chelonians frequently require anesthesia or sedation to permit performance of clinical procedures. Midazolam is a safe and reversible benzodiazepine used in many other species for its sedative and muscle relaxant properties. The objective of this study was first to determine an effective dose of midazolam in red-eared slider turtles (Trachemys scripta elegans) and then to examine the extent and duration of the effects of this dose on those same turtles. In the first part of the study, 12 turtles were given increasing doses of midazolam intramuscularly at 5-min intervals until a cumulative dose was reached that allowed manual extension of the head and neck and opening of the mouth without resistance. The effective dose at which 10 of the 12 turtles were thus sedated (
20095278|The relocation of wild mammals and birds for the reinforcement of a population or for the reintroduction of a species that has become extinct in its natural range has become a popular wildlife management technique. Concern has been expressed that these translocated wild animals, which often originate in captive-breeding facilities in a distant country, may bring with them diseases and parasites that could threaten the health of the valuable domestic livestock and wildlife resources of the recipient country. At present, the International Zoo-Sanitary Code of the International Office of Epizootics (OIE) in Paris, which is implemented by all 126 nation members of OIE, applies only to the important diseases of domestic livestock that may affect wild animals. However, proposals are now being made for the collection, through the OIE global network, of data on the worldwide occurrence of wildlife diseases. Following this initiative, regulations for the international movement of wildlife will be reviewed, as will proposals for the standardization of both diagnostic procedures for wildlife diseases and vaccination protocols for the immunization of wildlife. All veterinarians involved in wildlife translocation projects must cooperate closely with national and international animal disease control agencies so that regulations will be both effective and realistic.
20096548|The purpose of this study was to provide safe anesthesia for bronchoalveolar lavage and assess the utility of premedication with i.m. midazolam for short-duration anesthesia with isoflurane in harp seals (Phoca groenlandica). Fourteen yearling harp seal pups were anesthetized three times each as part of a prospective, cross-over, blinded study. Each animal received i.m. premedication with saline, low-dose, or high-dose midazolam (respectively 0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg). Following premedication, anesthesia was induced with 4% isoflurane in oxygen delivered through a mask and connected to a Bain non-rebreathing system. A significantly longer time was taken from the end of general anesthesia to head movement in the high-dose group compared with the saline group (P = 0.002). A significantly longer time was taken from the end of general anesthesia to ambulation in the high-dose group compared with the saline group (P = 0.006). There were no significant differences between groups in the subjective assessment of anesthetic quality or ease of intubation. Premedication with i.m. midazolam at the dosages used did prolong recovery from anesthesia, although to a degree unlikely to be significant clinically.
20095924|A 22-yr-old captive-born Atlantic bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) presented with a nonhealing sublingual mucosal ulcer that was diagnosed histologically as a squamous cell carcinoma, the first such report in a dolphin. The lesion was excised completely and has not recurred.
20095722|An adult cattle egret (Bubulcus ibis) caught in Kobe of Hyogo Prefecture, Japan, in December 1995 died of a severe infection associated with the trematode parasite Pegosomum sp. At necropsy, 22 trematode parasites were found in the lumen of the bile duct, and the duct wall was markedly thickened. Histopathologically, severe cholangitis and cholecystitis were observed in close association with the parasites in the bile duct. Severe Pegosomum sp. infection may be one of the factors contributing to the mortality of wild cattle egrets. This is the first reported case of the genus Pegosomum infection in wild birds of Japan.
20095399|A salivary adenocarcinoma with hepatic metastasis was identified in an adult male crested barbet (Trachyphonus vaillantii). Cytology and biopsy of a 1.5-cm-diameter mass were suggestive of neoplasia of glandular origin, and there was radiographic evidence of mandibular osteolysis. On postmortem, the neoplasm consisted of irregular lobules of pleomorphic polyhedral cells arranged in papillae and acini. Secretory material within the acini stained positively with both periodic acid--Schiff and alcian blue and was interpreted to be salivary gland mucin. A single well-circumscribed, compressive mass of similar neoplastic cells was present in the liver. The barbet also had multiple granulomas containing acid-fast bacilli in liver, air sac, and duodenum and focal, acute pyogranulomatous bronchiolitis with fungal hyphae.
20096364|Intra-alveolar infraction and malformation of the apical part of the permanent left maxillary canine in an adult male wild boar (Sus scrofa L.) is documented. The infraction and its sequelae produced an irregular mass of reparative tissue that led to the formation of two growing ends of the tooth.
20095526|Spongiform encephalopathy has been reported recently in three species of Felidae, the domestic cat (Felis cattus), cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus), and puma (Felis concolor). It is likely that at least some cases were caused by eating tissues from cattle judged unfit for human consumption and which were infected with the bovine spongiform encephalopathy agent. here we report a fourth case in a captive cheetah and discuss some epidemiologic aspects of the disease in cheetahs and implications to captive breeding and reintroduction programs for this species. Since it is likely that other species of zoo felids have been exposed to food that may have contained the bovine spongiform encephalopathy agent, the relatively high incidence of the disease in cheetahs suggests that they may be more susceptible than other species in the family Felidae or that there are variations in incubation period among species.
41262574|Serum chemistry analyses were compared between captive and free-ranging giraffes (Giraffa camelopardalis) in an attempt to better understand some of the medical issues seen with captive giraffes. Illnesses, including peracute mortality, energy malnutrition, pancreatic disease, urolithiasis, hoof disease, and severe intestinal parasitism, may be related to zoo nutrition and management issues. Serum samples were collected from 20 captive giraffes at 10 United States institutions. Thirteen of the captive animal samples were collected from animals trained for blood collection; seven were banked samples obtained from a previous serum collection. These samples were compared with serum samples collected from 24 free-ranging giraffes in South Africa. Differences between captive and free-ranging giraffes, males and females, and adults and subadults were analyzed by using a 2 X 2 X 2 factorial and Fisher's least significant difference for mean separation; when necessary variables were ranked and analyzed via analysis of variance. Potassium and bilirubin concentrations and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activities were different between captive and free-ranging giraffes, but all fell within normal bovid reference ranges. The average glucose concentration was significantly elevated in free-ranging giraffes (161 mg/dl) compared with captive giraffes (113 mg/dl). All giraffes in this study had glucose concentrations higher than bovine (42-75 mg/dl) and caprine (48-76 mg/dl) reference ranges. Differences were also seen in lipase, chloride, and magnesium though these findings are likely not clinically significant. There were no differences detected between sexes. Adults had higher concentrations of potassium, total protein, globulins, and chloride and higher gamma glutamyltransferase activities, whereas subadults had higher concentrations of phosphorus. Within the captive group, nonimmobilized animals had higher concentrations of total protein and globulins. Captive giraffe diets need further investigation to determine if the differences seen in this study, especially glucose and bilirubin concentrations and ALT activities, may result in some health problems often seen in captive giraffes.
41262615|A description of bioencapsulation of metronidazole in adult brine shrimp (Anemia) for 2.5 g/L, 5 g/L, and 10 g/L treatment baths is presented. Metronidazole was detected in adult brine shrimp tissue after enrichment periods of 15 min, 30 min, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 8 hr, 12 hr, and 24 hr. The assays were performed using high performance liquid chromatography. There was a positive relationship in both dose and time. When evaluating percent uptake, all three baths demonstrated a similar pattern. All three bath concentrations had a high initial concentration that fell at 30 min and slowly began to increase through the end of the study. Survival of shrimp was not affected by bath concentration but decreased over time in all treatment baths comparatively. It can be concluded that metronidazole can be successfully bioencapsulated in adult Artemia.
20096663|This study describes clinical, histologic, immunohistochemical and electron microscopic features of amyloid A amyloidosis occurring in black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) from eight U.S. zoological institutions. Ferrets had nonregenerative anemia, serum chemistries consistent with chronic renal disease, and proteinuria. Amyloid was present in a variety of tissues, but it was most severe in renal glomeruli and associated with tubular protein loss and emaciation. Congo red/potassium permanganate (KMnO) and immunohistochemical stains revealed that the amyloid was of the AA type. Concurrent diseases and genetic predisposition were considered the most important contributing factors to development of amyloidosis. Analysis of the genetic tree did not reveal convincing evidence of a common ancestor in the affected ferrets, but a genetic predisposition is likely because all the captive black-footed ferrets are related.
40665073|This paper reports in detail, for the first time, on two anesthetic procedures performed on a 15-yr-old, 530 kg, adult male Sumatran rhinoceros (Dicerorhinus sumatrensis). The anesthetic procedures were carried out in order to perform semen collection via electro-ejaculation, using well-established methods, and in order to examine and sample bilateral corneal opacities. Anesthesia for the first procedure was induced with a combination of 5 mg (0.0094 mg/kg) butorphanol tartrate and 5 mg (0.0094 mg/kg) detomidine hydrochloride administered intramuscularly. Subsequently, 0.74 mg (0.0014 mg/kg) etorphine and 3 mg (0.0057 mg/kg) acepromazine, with an additional 1.5 mg butorphanol (0.0028 mg/kg) and 1.5 mg (0.0028 mg/kg) detomidine, were administered intramuscularly. The second procedure was carried out using an intramuscular combination of butorphanol (0.019 mg/kg) and detomidine (0.019 mg/kg), followed by etorphine (0.0023 mg/kg) and acepromazine (0.009 mg/kg). During the second procedure, the depth of anesthesia was managed with very small, supplemental intravenous doses of 50 mg ketamine (0.094 mg/kg). Sequential arterial blood gas analysis demonstrated respiratory acidosis with hypoxemia. Heart rate and respiratory rate ranged between 60-74 beats per minute (bpm), and 10-20 breaths per minute, respectively. Reversal after 100 min, with the intravenous administration of 150 mg (0.28 mg/kg) naltrexone and intravenous 20 mg (0.038 mg/kg) atipamezole, was uneventful and rapid, with the animal standing after 2 min. This combination provides satisfactory general anesthesia in this critically endangered species and will facilitate veterinary management of this species in captivity.
20096702|Florida manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) are endangered aquatic mammals living in coastal and riverine waterways of Florida and adjacent states. Serum or plasma biochemical analyses are important tools in evaluating the health of free-ranging and captive manatees. The purpose of this study was to measure diagnostically important analytes in the plasma of healthy manatees and to determine whether there was significant variation with respect to location (free-ranging versus captive), age class (small calves, large calves, subadults, adults), and gender. No significant differences in plasma sodium, potassium, bilirubin, glucose, alanine aminotransferase, or creatine kinase were found among these classes of animals. Compared to free-ranging manatees, captive animals had significantly lower mean concentrations of plasma chloride, phosphate, magnesium, triglycerides, anion gap, and lactate. Captive manatees had significantly higher mean values of total CO, calcium, urea, creatinine, alkaline phosphatase, -glutamyltransferase, total protein, albumin, and albumin/globulin ratio than did free-ranging animals. Differences in the environments of these two groups, including diet, temperature, salinity, and stress, might account for some of these results. The higher plasma lactate and anion gap concentrations and lower total CO concentrations of free-ranging manatees were probably due to greater exertion during capture, but the lack of elevated plasma creatine kinase activity relative to captive animals indicates that there was no serious muscle injury associated with capture. Plasma phosphate decreased and total globulins increased with age. Plasma cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations were highest in small calves. Plasma aspartate aminotransferase was higher in large calves than in adults and subadults, and the albumin/globulin ratio was higher in subadults than in adults. Plasma total CO was higher and chloride was slightly lower in females than in males.
20095549|An ovarian mass was diagnosed in an adult female green iguana (Iguana iguana) by ultrasonography during evaluation for ovarian follicular development. A large, well-circumscribed, hypervascular ovarian mass with multiple fluid-filled vesicles was identified during surgery. A histopathologic diagnosis of ovarian teratoma was made based on the presence of multiple tissues of different embryonic germ-layer origins. The teratoma recurred as a malignant tumor 18 mo later.
20095635|Eight domestic goats (Capra hircus) were anesthetized with a combination of carfentanil citrate and detomidine HCl, each at a dosage of 60 g/kg, mixed with an equal volume of 0.5% saponin, an absorption enhancer. The drug combination was delivered by hand directly into the buccal cavity. Physiologic parameters were measured prior to drug administration and at 5-min intervals after the goats reached sternal recumbency. Depth of anesthesia was assessed at the same time intervals following drug administration. Blood was drawn prior to drug administration, at initial contact following sustained sternal recumbency, and at 15-min intervals thereafter. Serum carfentanil and detomidine levels were measured using slightly modified commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits and techniques. Mean (SD) induction time (time from drug administration to sternal recumbency) was 22  4.3 min (n = 8), and inductions were characterized by long excitement phases (9.3  5.8 min). There was considerable variation in the depth of anesthesia. Three goats appeared to be lightly anesthetized, two goats showed moderate levels of anesthesia, and three goats attained levels of anesthesia adequate for the performance of minor veterinary procedures. Physiologic changes caused by the drug combination were minor and were consistent with changes seen with parenteral administration of these drugs. Serum carfentanil levels were greatest at the time of initial contact for three goats and greatest 15 min later for two other goats. Levels then decreased slightly during the procedures, suggesting carfentanil absorption in these animals was across the oral mucosa. Serum detomidine levels rose gradually throughout anesthesia. Reversals with naltrexone and yohimbine or atipamezole were rapid and smooth.
27751752|Ten cases of hematuria in Grant's gazelle (Gazella granti) (two male and eight female) from five institutions were examined and the clinicopathologic data summarized. Five gazelles died spontaneously and five were euthanized. All gazelles had marked hematuria without pyuria. Mean age at the onset of clinical signs and time of euthanasia or death was 5.0  1.4 yr and 8.2  3.7 yr, respectively. The severity of clinical signs with hematuria ranged from episodes of chronic intermittent hematuria to marked dysuria, with urinary bladder rupture secondary to obstructive blood clots in one case. Submandibular edema was the most common associated clinical sign (five of 10 cases). Serum chemistries from eight gazelles obtained during hematuria episodes revealed hypocalcemia (8/8), hypoproteinemia (7/8), hypoalbuminemia (7/8), and hyperphosphatemia (6/8). Fifty percent of the gazelles (4/8) developed anemia over the course of hematuria episodes. Prothrombin times and partial thromboplastin times were presumed increased in two of four animals evaluated. The predominant histologic lesions in seven of 10 gazelles reviewed were vascular necrosis, vasculitis, and perivasculitis in the urinary tract. Lesions in necropsied gazelles were identified in the urinary bladder (7/10 gazelles), kidney (3/10), and ureter (3/10). Additional urinary tract lesions included tubulointerstitial nephritis (5/10 gazelles), hemorrhagic cystitis (4/10), renal tubular necrosis (4/10), and subacute renal infarcts (2/10). Polymerase chain reaction testing on paraffin-embedded urinary tract tissue for alcelaphine herpesvirus-1 and -2, ovine herpesvirus-2, bluetongue virus, and epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus was negative for the six cases tested. One gazelle that had been vaccinated for Leptospira interrogans had a titer to serovar icterohaemorrhagiae, but serum from the six other gazelles tested was negative for all L. interrogans serovars. No exposure to any toxic agent was identified. An underlying cause for vascular lesions associated with episodic hematuria in Grant's gazelles remains to be determined.
20096377|The common piping guan (Pipile cumanensis cumanensis) is serving as a model for assisted reproductive techniques (ARTs) in Cracidae (Aves: Galliformes). Manual collection methods used in domestic birds and other exotics were modified to optimize quality and quantity of fresh semen samples. In addition, a method to subjectively assess semen quality on the basis of its color, clarity, and consistency was developed to serve as a tool when laboratory equipment is not available. In a species where only two eggs per clutch is typical, predictability of the date of the first egg is critical to ensure adequate inseminations before oviposition. An increase in both the distance between the female's pubic bones and degree of abdominal swelling indicated optimal time to initiate artificial insemination (AI) and allowed the number of semen samples used to fertilize the first egg in the clutch to be minimized while ensuring its fertility. In three separate AI trials, a total of four fertile eggs were produced, a first for cracids. Two of the four fertile eggs hatched successfully, and the chicks' parentages were confirmed using DNA fingerprinting. This study represents the first published account of the use of ARTs in Cracidae and forms the basis for future developments (e.g., AI of frozen-thawed semen) aimed at optimizing genetic management of cracids in ex situ breeding programs.
20460388|A pathogenic Entamoeba histolytica-like variant (JSK2004) with genetic variations and a novel isoenzyme pattern was isolated from a De Brazza's guenon. A homology of 99.1% was found between the clones of E. histolytica (HM-1:IMSS) and JSK2004 in the 1,893 nucleotide bases of the small subunit rRNA (SSU-rRNA) gene. The DNA of the pathogenic amoeba species was also extracted from two sterile liver abscesses during the autopsies of an Abyssinian colobus and a Geoffroy's spider monkey occurring in the same institution in which JSK2004 was isolated, and the homology of the nucleotide sequences in the SSU-rRNA gene of the DNAs was identical to that of JSK2004.
27751766|A male ball python (Python regius) and a female blue tongue skink (Tiliqua spp.) of unknown age were evaluated for anorexia, lethargy, excessive shedding, corneal opacity (python), and weight loss (skink) of approximately three weeks' duration. These animals represented the worst affected animals from a private herpetarium where many animals exhibited similar signs. At necropsy, the python had bilateral corneal opacity and scattered moderate dysecdysis. The skink had mild dysecdysis, poor body condition, moderate intestinal nematodiasis, and mild liver atrophy. Microscopic evaluation revealed epidermal erosion and ulceration, with severe epidermal basal cell degeneration and necrosis, and superficial dermatitis (python and skink). Severe bilateral ulcerative keratoconjunctivitis with bacterial colonization was noted in the ball python. Microscopic findings within the skin and eyes were suggestive of ultraviolet (UV) radiation damage or of photodermatitis and photokeratoconjunctivitis. Removal of the recently installed new lamps from the terrariums of the surviving reptiles resulted in resolution of clinical signs. Evaluation of a sample lamp of the type associated with these cases revealed an extremely high UV output, including very-short-wavelength UVB, neither found in natural sunlight nor emitted by several other UVB lamps unassociated with photokeratoconjunctivitis. Exposure to high-intensity and/or inappropriate wavelengths of UV radiation may be associated with significant morbidity, and even mortality, in reptiles. Veterinarians who are presented with reptiles with ocular and/or cutaneous disease of unapparent cause should fully evaluate the specifics of the vivarium light sources. Further researach is needed to determine the characteristics of appropriate and of toxic UV light for reptiles kept in captivity.
20095837|From January through November 1994, 32% (7/22) of koi carp (Cyprinus carpio) maintained in indoor aquariums developed proliferative cutaneous lesions that consisted of single to multiple 2-10-mm whitish to pink fleshy masses usually associated with fin rays. Although scaleless koi were more commonly affected (3/6) than were normally scaled koi (4/16), the difference in incidence rates was not significant ( text, P &gt 0.05). Lesions typically resolved spontaneously in 1-3 wk, occasionally persisted for &gt3 mo, and recurred in several fish after 2-5 mo. Fish were otherwise asymptomatic. Wet mount preparations from lesions were densely cellular and consisted of hyperplastic epidermal cells of normal morphology without parasites or inflammatory cells. Histologically, biopsies were consistent with papillomas and were characterized by a marked benign epidermal hyperplasia without inclusion bodies or inflammatory infiltrate. Transmission electron microscopic examination revealed intranuclear and intracytoplasmic herpesvirus virions. Virus isolation attempts were unsuccessful.
20095419|An aged female river hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius) died unexpectedly after a brief episode of respiratory distress and convulsions. Unilateral adrenal medullary pheochromocytoma was found at necropsy. The neoplasm was secretory, based on tissue catecholamine levels. Vascular changes consistent with hypertension were evident in both eyes. Syndromes associated with pheochromocytoma and the findings in the case are discussed.
20096606|Using a crossover design, the effects of the addition of ketamine to a previously determined optimal hand-injected immobilization dosage of carfentanil/xylazine were evaluated in 11 adult white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Two i.m. ketamine dosages were evaluated: 0.15 mg/kg (low ketamine) and 0.30 mg/kg (high ketamine). Each deer was immobilized twice 2 wk apart. Inductions were video recorded and reviewed by observers, who had been blinded to drugs and dosages, who rated qualitative aspects. There were significant (P &lt 0.05) dosage-dependent decreases in heart rate, SaO, and arterial pH, and a significant dosage-dependent increase in PaCO. Induction times with both dosages were more rapid (mean 2.3  0.9 min for low ketamine and 2.3  0.6 min for high ketamine) than those reported for the same carfentanil/xylazine dosage used without ketamine. Mean quality ratings, though improved compared to those reported for carfentanil/xylazine alone, were considered "undesirable" for both dosages. Hyperthermia (temperature &gt41C) was noted in 13 of 22 immobilizations. Arterial pH and PaO increased significantly from 10 to 20 min postrecumbency, but acidemia (pH &lt7.3) was present throughout immobilization periods for all deer. There were ketamine dosage-dependent increases in respiratory components of this acidemia compared with that associated with carfentanil/xylazine alone. Possible hypoxemia was present at both sampling times for both groups, while hypercapnea (PaCO &gt60 mm Hg) was present for the high-ketamine group only. Reversal times for naltrexone and yohimbine were rapid (mean 2.9  0.7 min for low ketamine and 3.3  0.8 min for high ketamine), with no evidence of renarcotization. Although the addition of ketamine to carfentanil/xylazine caused faster inductions and improved induction qualities, it also produced an increased incidence of hyperthermia, acidemia, hypoxemia, and hypercapnea. Supplemental oxygen and close monitoring of body temperature is recommended when using this immobilization regimen.
20460360|The results of long-term administration of leuprolide acetate (LA) depot in a 52-yr-old Asian elephant bull (Elephas maximus) for control of musth are presented. Twelve injections were administered for 6 yr during our interpretation of early musth or "premusth." Intervals between musth periods during the study varied from 2 to 34 mo. Blood samples, drawn weekly, were assayed for serum testosterone concentrations; mean levels were 11.78  1.97 nmol/L throughout the first 26 mo of the study, 7.28  1.28 nmol/L during the following 21 mo, and 0.45  0.035 nmol/L in the last 34 mo of this study. Early musth signs ceased within 3 days of drug administration after 10 of 12 injections. The mean serum testosterone concentrations were significantly decreased by the last 34 mo of the study. The results suggest leuprolide is a suitable alternative for controlling or preventing (or both) musth in captive Asian elephants, although permanent reproductive effects may occur. Zoos and wildlife conservation institutions could benefit from the use of LA in Asian elephants to increase the male availability in captivity, consequently ensuring genetic diversity and the perpetuation of the species.
20095392|Six adult llamas (Lama glama) were experimentally infected with five larval Parelaphostrongylus tenuis each. Neurologic, anatomic, and cerebrospinal fluid changes were assessed, and the potential for llamas to develop patent meningeal worm infections was evaluated. Clinical signs first appeared on days 45-53 postinfection. Onset of clinical signs was significantly associated with the age of the llama. Neurologic deficits characteristically appeared in the hind limbs first and progressed to the front limbs. Four of six llamas developed fatal infections, with clinical signs lasting between 20 and 80 days. No consistent abnormalities were present in cerebrospinal fluid total protein, glucose, aspartate aminotransferase, or creatine kinase, thus limiting their value as diagnostic indicators of infection. All llamas developed an eosinophilic pleocytosis in the cerebrospinal fluid, but the day on which it appeared differed. Histologic lesions compatible with parasite migration were present, primarily in the cervical spinal cord, in five of six llamas. Although two of six llamas survived the duration of the study, evidence of reproducing meningeal worm populations was absent. Risk of llamas transporting patent meningeal worm populations to nonendemic areas is considered minimal.
20095564|Four adult red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), four adult great horned owls (Bubo virginianus), and four adult turkey vultures (Cathartes aura) were fed 1-day-old chicks (Gallus gallus) or 3-wk-old Syrian golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) to satiety in metabolism cages to determine whether these prey species would meet energy and nutrient needs in captivity. Chicks contained 24% dry matter and (on a dry basis) 67% crude protein, 21% ether extract, 5% ash, 2.1% calcium, and 1.5% phosphorus. Hamsters contained 30% dry matter and (on a dry basis) 50% crude protein, 35% ether extract, 8% ash, 2.5% calcium, and 2.0% phosphorus. Magnesium, sodium, potassium, iron, copper, manganese, zinc, and selenium concentrations were also determined. Daily dry matter intakes were equivalent to 1.7-3.2% of raptor body weight. Cast dry matter regurgitated and egested comprised 2-8% of dry matter consumed. Casts egested by owls were higher in ash, calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium than casts egested by hawks or vultures, apparently because of the predominance of bone in owl casts. Daily metabolizable energy intakes were 96-184 kcal/
20095984|A previously stranded 30-kg female green turtle (Chelonia mydas) was referred to the Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital at the University of Florida following a 2-mo history of anorexia, intermittent regurgitation, decreased fecal production, and positive buoyancy of the right side. Radiographs confirmed gaseous distension of bowel loops suggestive of intestinal obstruction. The coelom was surgically approached through a plastron osteotomy, and a 540 volvulus of the small intestine was identified and derotated. An intestinal stricture was present at the site of the volvulus, and segments of bowel orad to the stricture were greatly distended. Following resection of abnormal bowel, the osteotomy was stabilized using self-tapping screws and figure-eight wire, and the defect was sealed with fiberglass cloth and fast-drying epoxy resin. A leiomyoma associated with the focal stricture was identified by histology. Appetite and defecation returned to normal. Six months after surgery, the turtle had regained normal buoyancy and showed no further clinical signs of gastrointestinal obstruction.
40962255|An ungulate research facility in Fort Collins, Colorado, USA, experienced mortality in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) because of epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV) infection from 20 August 2007 through 26 September 2007. Epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV) was detected by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and virus isolation from the spleen and lung tissues of two white-tailed deer. Virus neutralization tests were performed on pre-and postoutbreak sera from other species maintained in the same facility, including bison (Bison bison), elk (Cervus elaphus), domestic cattle {Bos taurus), and domestic goats (Capra hircus), as well as postoutbreak sera from the surviving white-tailed deer. Serum samples that represented all species in the facility neutralized EHDV-1 and EHDV-2 either before or after the outbreak. The animals that neutralized EHDV-1 did not neutralize EHDV-2. No clinical signs attributable to EHDV infection were noted in any of the species other than the deer during the outbreak. Although experimental EHDV infections have been reported in bison and elk, natural exposures have not been previously documented in these species in North America. The roles that elk, bison, cattle, and goats might play in the epidemiology of EHDV in a close-contact multispecies situation remain unknown.
20095718|A captive-born 2-yr-old male mountain agile gibbon (Hylobates agilis agilis) that died of encephalitis harbored a herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1)-like agent in the brain. A complete necropsy revealed intensive meningeal congestion with nonsuppurative encephalitis. The virus was recovered from frozen brain tissue in Vero cells. The isolate was very similar but not identical to human HSV1. Both western blot assay and virus neutralization tests were done with sera from 15 gibbons. Antibodies against HSV1 and herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV2) were detected in four healthy gibbons, which included four species in three subgenera.
20096415|Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) is a picornavirus with a worldwide distribution, capable of infecting a wide range of species. Episodes of EMCV-associated mortality have been reported in zoos and national parks around the world, including sporadic cases at Taronga Zoo, Sydney. An inactivated EMCV vaccine was evaluated by inoculating Barbary sheep (Ammotragus lervia), Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra), Eastern wallaroos (Macropus robustus), and chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). A proportion of the vaccinated ungulates were administered a second vaccination 4 wk after the initial dose. Neutralizing antibody titers were monitored for a period of 12 mo. One month after vaccination, all vaccinated groups had developed significant antibody titers that persisted for at least 6 mo. Animals receiving two doses of vaccine had higher titers 3, 6, and 12 mo after the initial vaccination compared with animals receiving a single vaccine dose.
27751693|Reduced populations of emperor geese (Chen canagica), a Bering Sea endemic, provided the need to assess plasma biochemistry values as indicators of population health. A precursory step to such an investigation was to evaluate patterns of variability in plasma biochemistry values among age, sex, and reproductive period. Plasma from 63 emperor geese was collected on their breeding grounds on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta in western Alaska, USA. The geese sampled included 18 incubating adult females captured, in mid June, on their nests by using bow nets, and 30 adults and 15 goslings captured in corral traps in late July and early August, when the adults were molting their wing feathers and the goslings were 56 weeks old. Plasma was evaluated for 15 biochemical parameters, by comparing results among age, sex, and sampling period (incubation versus wing-feather molt). Ten of the 15 biochemical parameters assayed differed among adults during incubation, the adults during molt, and the goslings at molt, whereas sex differences were noted in few parameters.
20096078|A 10-day-old female southern white rhinoceros calf (Ceratotherium simum simum) was diagnosed with a patent urachus after urine was observed dribbling from the umbilicus. After being separated from its mother, the animal was sedated with i.m. butorphanol and anesthetized with isoflurane in oxygen for surgical correction of the patent urachus. Mild postoperative complications involved seroma formation and partial skin incision dehiscence, which necessitated three follow-up immobilizations for reevaluation and treatment of the surgical site. Histopathology did not reveal an infectious etiology as the cause for the complications or for the patent urachus. The etiology of the patent urachus in this animal remains undetermined. This report represents the first documented case of a patent urachus in a white rhinoceros.
20095140|A paramyxovirus (PMV) isolated from a black mamba (Dendroaspis polylepsis) was inactivated with beta-propiolactone and used to prepare the following vaccines: 1) nonadjuvanted vaccine (NAV), 2) aluminum hydroxide vaccine (ALV), and 3) oil-emulsion vaccine (OEV). An inactivated oil-emulsion encephalomyocarditis virus (EMV) vaccine was used as a non-PMV control vaccine. Three groups of six PMV seronegative western diamondback rattlesnakes (Crotalus atrox) each received one of the PMV vaccines, and each of one group of five western diamondbacks received the inactivated EMV vaccine. Blood samples from each snake were collected at 53 days before vaccination, immediately before vaccination, and at 14, 28, 42, 63, 84, 136, 176, 219, 253, and 296 days postvaccination. Serum was removed, and antibody titers to PMV were determined using a hemagglutination-inhibition test. All snakes were seronegative for PMV antibody prior to vaccination. Following vaccination, two snakes that received NAV and three snakes that received OEV seroconverted (titers 20); no snakes that received ALV seroconverted. At 296 days postvaccination, all but one snake (which received OEV) were seronegative. The results of this study demonstrated that western diamondback rattlesnakes will develop hemagglutination inhibition antibody titers following vaccination with inactivated vaccines, with and without adjuvant. However, the responses among individuals seroconverting were both variable and transient.
20096306|Severe systemic mycobacteriosis without typical granuloma formation was diagnosed in a group of six mature, captive, striated frogfish Antennarius striatus approximately 5 mo after fish originating from Brazil were purchased by Mote Marine Laboratory Aquarium. Beginning 1 mo after spawning, over a period of 9 mo, individuals began to show a variety of signs including egg retention, ocular opacity, poor buoyancy control, ascites with coelomic distension, skin lesions, and anorexia. Two fish died, and four were euthanatized. At necropsy, raised pigmented skin nodules; pale pink gills; and pale yellow or tan, fatty livers were noted. A systemic fungal infection was diagnosed histopathologically in one female, and the remaining fish had severe, systemic, histiocytic inflammation and necrosis. Although large numbers of acid-fast bacterial rods were identified in each fish, no bacteria were cultured aerobically from skin, kidney, spleen, liver, or brain. Mycobacterium marinum was cultured from the liver of the last fish that was euthanatized after it became moribund and failed to respond to symptomatic treatment.
20095343|Nematodes identified as Strongyloides sp. were found in the ureters, kidneys, and small intestines of a juvenile Burmese python (Python molurus bivitattus). Severe nephritis, ureteritis, and enteritis were associated with the presence of the parasites. Definitive identification of the species was not possible, but the morphology and morphometrics of the worms were most compatible with Strongyloides gulae, an esophageal parasite of snakes in the lower Mississippi Valley.
20095480|Since 1982, the Pennsylvania River Otter Reintroduction Project has placed 87 river otters (Lutra canadensis) into captivity for prerelease care and clinical evaluation. A rabid otter captured by a Wildlife Conservation officer in northeastern Pennsylvania on 10 February 1992 was the only case of infectious disease detected during the project. The rabies virus infecting the otter was identified as the mid-Atlantic raccoon variant. Occurrence of rabies in an otter intended for reintroduction demonstrates the risk of spreading infectious disease during translocation projects.
20095229|Two white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fawns and two goat (Capra hircus) kids were each infected with 50 third-stage larvae of Parelaphostrongylus tenuis. Weekly sample collections of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood, beginning 1 wk before infection and continuing 15 wk after infection, permitted the assessment of parasite-specific IgG responses in CSF and serum. Leukocyte number, total protein concentration (TP-CSF), aspartate aminotransferase activity (AST-CSF), and creatine kinase activity (CK-CSF) were also measured in the CSF. The goats developed a significant (P &lt 0.001) P. tenuis-specific serum antibody response; no such response was seen in the deer (P &gt 0.25). Both goats and deer developed significant levels (P &lt 0.002) of P. tenuis-specific antibody in the CSF by 6 wk after infection. All animals had increased numbers of leukocytes in CSF during this period. Between 4 and 8 wk after infection, eosinophils represented 40-85% of the leukocytes. The TP-CSF, AST-CSF, and CK-CSF did not appear to be of diagnostic value. We suggest that the detection of parasite-specific immunoglobulin using adult worm antigens might be of value in the diagnosis of this infection in naturally infected animals.
20096278|Tendon ossification in the crus and tarsometatarsal regions of cranes makes ultrasonography difficult everywhere except for joints, where ossification is absent. Normal ultrasonographic anatomy of the adult Florida sandhill crane (Grus canadensis pratensis) intertarsal joint is described on the basis of ultrasonography that was performed on the limbs of a cadaver, which were dissected and cross-sectioned subsequently, to correlate ultrasonographic images with anatomic structures. Intertarsal joints of five normal sandhill cranes and two cranes with known intertarsal abnormalities were then imaged bilaterally in transverse and sagittal planes. Ultrasonographic imaging can be used to evaluate the soft-tissue structures on the dorsal and plantar aspects of the intertarsal joint of cranes, and it is a useful adjunct to physical and radiographic examination for localizing injuries to this area.
20460465|An adult female free-ranging American black bear (Ursus americanus) was presented in poor body condition, with advanced skin disease. Skin changes included hair loss, lichenification, crusting, and focal erosions. Skin scrapings and histopathology identified two distinct parasitic conditions that were contributing to this animal's dermatitis. Large numbers of larvae, nymphs, and adults of Sarcoptes scabiei were present in the superficial epidermis, and nematodes consistent with Pelodera strongyloides were abundant within the hair follicles. This appears to be the first reported case of Pelodera dermatitis in a bear species, adding a new differential agent to the list for dermatitis in bears. The sarcoptic mange and poor body condition of this bear may have been contributing factors to the development of the opportunistic Pelodera infestation.
20096242|An undersized, 16-mo-old, captive wood bison (Bison bison athabascae) was observed with dysphagia and postprandial regurgitation. The animal died shortly after anesthesia was initiated for diagnostic purposes. At necropsy, a persistent right aortic arch and aberrant left subclavian artery were diagnosed. The vascular ring structure around the esophagus and the trachea caused a megaesophagus with complete esophageal obstipation and ulcerative esophagitis. The aberrant left subclavian artery did not significantly compromise the esophagus. Persistence of the right aortic arch is relatively rare in ruminants and has not previously been reported in a bison.
20095420|A fatal case of herpesviral hepatitis occurred in a red kangaroo (Macropus rufus). The liver had extensive acute necrosis with numerous eosinophilic intranuclear inclusions. Enveloped virions, consistent with a herpesvirus, were demonstrated by electron microscopy. Other cases of macropod herpesvirus infection are reviewed. This is the first report of fatal herpesviral infection in a red kangaroo and only the second in a large macropod.
20460572|Fatal colonic obstructions were diagnosed in three captive, adult, reticulated giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis reticulata). Clinical presentations varied, but all cases displayed decreased activity, anorexia, and considerably decreased fecal production, consistent with intestinal obstruction. Case 1 was diagnosed at necropsy with a phytobezoar obstructing the spiral colon. Case 2 was diagnosed at necropsy with a fecal impaction of the colon. Case 3 was diagnosed during surgery with colonic ileus. Cases 2 and 3 underwent surgical intervention but were markedly compromised by the time of surgery and died during surgery or 24 hr postoperatively. Gastrointestinal obstruction, requiring aggressive supportive care and early surgical intervention, should be considered in giraffe in which anorexia and substantially decreased fecal production are observed. Abdominal exploratory surgery will likely be necessary for diagnosis and treatment. Based on a small number of cases, gastrointestinal obstruction has a poor prognosis in giraffe.
20096128|An adult male Boelen's python, Morelia boeleni, presented with acute neurologic disease and was euthanatized. Histologic examination revealed nonsuppurative meningoencephalitis. Occasional eosinophilic intracytoplasmic inclusions were noted in glial cells. On the basis of clinical signs and histopathology, inclusion body disease of boid snakes was suspected, but inclusions were not seen in other organs commonly affected with the disease. Moreover, electron microscopy revealed that the inclusions contained stacks of filaments 13-14 nm wide. With the use of a generic paramyxovirus cDNA probe, sections of brain and esophageal ganglion demonstrated hybridization. The findings indicate that paramyxovirus was the likely cause of the encephalomyelitis in this python, and this virus should be included in the differential diagnosis of pythons exhibiting central nervous system disease.
20095473|Total serum protein and protein electrophoretic fractions of 15 capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus) (six young and nine adult) have been studied. No statistically significant age differences existed in prealbumin, globulin fractions, or the albumin/globulin ratio. Significant age differences were found in total serum protein (P &lt 0.01) and albumin fraction (P &lt 0.05).
20096202|A recently weaned, stranded, male northern elephant seal (Mirounga angustirostris) pup that had been undergoing rehabilitation was found severely obtunded with hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypochloremia, and hypophosphatemia after a history of intermittent regurgitation. The animal was euthanatized, and gross postmortem findings included multifocal abscessation affecting brain, spleen, kidney, muscle, and subcutaneous tissue. Scedosporium apiospermum and mixed bacteria were cultured from brain, kidney, and subcutaneous tissue. Histopathologic examination revealed multiple fungal granulomas of variable size in the kidneys, brain, liver, and skeletal muscle. This is the first report of S. apiospermum infection associated with lesions in a marine mammal.
20096576|Manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) are afflicted with inflammatory and infectious disease secondary to human interaction, such as boat strike and entanglement, as well as "cold stress syndrome" and pneumonia. White-blood-cell count and fever, primary indicators of systemic inflammation in most species, are insensitive in diagnosing inflammatory disease in manatees. Acute phase-response proteins, such as haptoglobin and serum amyloid A, have proven to be sensitive measures of inflammation/infection in domestic large animal species. This study assessed diagnosis of generalized inflammatory disease by different methods including total white-blood-cell count, albumin: globulin ratio, gel electrophoresis analysis, C-reactive protein, alpha acid glycoprotein, haptoglobin, fibrinogen, and serum amyloid A. Samples were collected from 71 apparently healthy and 27 diseased animals during diagnostic medical examination. Serum amyloid A, measured by ELISA, followed by albumin:globulin ratio, measured by plasma gel electrophoresis, were most sensitive in diagnosing inflammatory disease, with diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of approximately 90%. The reference interval for serum amyloid A is &lt10-50 g/ml with an equivocal interval of 51-70 g/ml. The reference interval for albumin:globulin ratio by plasma gel electrophoresis is 0.7-1.1. Albumin: globulin ratio, calculated using biochemical techniques, was not accurate due to overestimation of albumin by bromcresol green dye-binding methodology. Albumin:globulin ratio, measured by serum gel electrophoresis, has a low sensitivity of 15% due to the lack of fibrinogen in the sample. Haptoglobin, measured by hemoglobin titration, had a reference interval of 0.4-2.4 mg/ml, a diagnostic sensitivity of 60%, and a diagnostic specificity of 93%. The haptoglobin assay is significantly affected by hemolysis. Fibrinogen, measured by heat precipitation, has a reference interval of 100-400 mg/dl, a diagnostic sensitivity of 40%, and a diagnostic specificity of 95%.
20096265|Three loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) and a Malaysian giant turtle (Orlitia borneensis) were presented with suspected or confirmed esophageal foreign bodies. Esophagoscopy was performed on all turtles, and gastroscopy was performed on three turtles. In all cases, endoscopy was easy to perform, and allowed visualization of most upper gastrointestinal features. The papillated esophagus was easy to navigate, but mucosal papillae in the loggerhead sea turtles prevented examination of the underlying mucosa. The stomach was easily entered and examined in both species, but the working endoscope length (100 cm) prevented inspection of the pyloric antrum and the duodenum in all turtles. The turtles in this report may serve as references for future endoscopic examinations of these species.
20095683|Remote thermal telemetry was performed on North American river otters (Lutra canadensis) during the 1995 North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission Otter Restoration Project. Otters were anesthetized with either ketamine-midazolam (n = 11) or tiletamine-zolazepam (n = 9) combinations. Based upon initial rectal temperatures, mild to moderate hyperthermia (39.4-40.5C) developed in five otters given ketamine-midazolam and three otters given tiletamine-zolazepam. Following anesthetic induction, each otter received an ingestible temperature transmitter. Dependent upon gastrointestinal transit time and transmitter battery life, core body temperature was monitored for up to 13.75 hr postanesthesia. Thermal telemetry revealed a gradual decline in core temperature in all otters after anesthetic recovery (30-60 min). Median core temperature stabilized subsequently within 0.3C of resting temperature (38.4C) 1.75 hr after initial injection in otters given tiletamine-zolazepam and 2.75 hr in otters given ketamine-midazolam. Minor fluctuations in body temperature (less than 1C) occurred in most otters from 6 to 13.75 hr and were attributed to variations in physical activity.
20095260|Healthy 3-yr-old crocodiles (Crocodylus niloticus) reared on a commercial farm in Zimbabwe were examined for the presence of intestinal Salmonella. Eight out of 50 crocodiles (16%) were positive, the majority with S. arizona. This finding suggests that Salmonella may represent normal flora in the intestinal tracts of crocodiles.
20096633|As ectothermic animals, snakes depend exclusively on the environment for proper temperature maintenance, which may greatly influence their activity. Twenty-five adult Boa constrictor amarali snakes maintained in captivity were used to determine the influence of seasons on their hematologic values and electrophoretic profile of hemoglobin. A complete blood cell count (CBC) and examination for hemoparasites were performed in the summer and winter of 2004. Hemoglobin was stored for later electrophoresis. Significant differences (P &lt 0.05) were obtained in RBC, WBC, lymphocyte, thrombocyte, and monocyte counts, demonstrating the importance of the period of the year in the interpretation of reference values in these animals. Two snakes were detected with blood parasites (Hepatozoon sp.) in the winter and four in the summer, although it appears that their presence did not cause any significant alterations in the CBC. The electrophoretic analysis of the samples demonstrated two-four hemoglobin bands in this species.
20095681|Blood obtained from 20 cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) during annual physical examinations was analyzed for serum lipid concentration, for lipoprotein distribution by agarose gel electrophoresis, and for thyroid hormone and resting cortisol levels by solid-phase radioimmunoassay to develop normal reference ranges.
40962304|Ulcerative lesions are a health concern for managed black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) populations. To examine possible relationships between ex situ variables and adrenal activity with the presence of lesions, facility and socioenvironmental surveys of 25: 20 (male: female) black rhinos at 18 zoos were conducted, and fecal samples were collected twice weekly for 1 yr for glucocorticoid metabolite analyses. During the collection period, 5.1 rhinos exhibited skin lesions, 1.0 had oral lesions, and 1.0 had both. All of the rhinos with lesions recovered, except the one with both oral and skin lesions, which died shortly after the end of the study. In general, there were no relationships (P > 0.05) between ex situ variables, or rhino behavior indices, and lesion onset. There also were no differences (P > 0.05) in fecal glucocorticoid variability ( SEM) between rhinos with (coefficients of variation [CV] = 57.1  7.2 ng/g) and without (53.8  2.3 ng/g) lesions, or in overall mean ( SEM) glucocorticoid metabolite concentrations between rhinos with (45.1  4.0 ng/g) and without (34.6  2.8 ng/g) lesions. However, baseline mean ( SEM) glucocorticoid metabolite concentrations were lower (P < 0.05) in rhinos with lesions (n = 5.1, baseline mean = 29.9  3.3 ng/g, range: 24.3-84.9 ng/g) than without (n = 19.19 baseline mean = 40.0  2.4 ng/g, range: 19.4-50.8 ng/g). For a male rhino that developed lesions during the study, the mean glucocorticoid concentrations were lower (P < 0.01) when lesions were present (n = 12, overall = 30.1  2.4 ng/g, baseline = 28.7  2.2 ng/g) than prior to lesion onset (n = 75, overall = 36.5  1.0 ng/g, baseline 35.3  0.8 ng/g). These results suggest that ulcerative lesions may be associated with changes in adrenal activity, although it is not clear if this is a cause or effect of disease.
20096215|Necropsy records for 102 Attwater's prairie chickens (Tympanuchus cupido attwateri) that had been captive-reared and had died at the San Antonio Zoo over a 4-yr period were evaluated to determine the causes of mortality. Gross necropsy, histopathology, and bacterial culture findings are summarized. Mortality was highest in young birds (&lt6 mo) and embryos. Husbandry- and gastrointestinal-related diseases were the most common causes of mortality.
20096386|Two juvenile, male, captive-born lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) with the same father but different mothers developed bilateral cataracts. The cataracts were surgically removed within 6 yr and 3 mo, respectively, of diagnosis, and foldable intraocular lenses were implanted. Although vision was not restored in one eye with a mature, 6-yr-old cataract in gorilla A, surgical intervention on the other eye was performed before a complete cataract developed, and vision was fully restored. Gorilla B was treated at the age of 17 mo, and normal visual development proceeded in both eyes. This animal developed bilateral after-cataract and therefore needed a second intervention in both eyes using Nd:YAG laser treatment. The genetic component of juvenile cataracts should be considered in breeding management programs.
20096383|In recent years, several species of ehrlichiae have been recognized as tick-borne disease agents of veterinary and medical importance. Clinically normal free-ranging or previously free-ranging lemurs, including 46 ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta), six blue-eyed black lemurs (Eulemur macaco flavifrons), and four black and white ruffed lemurs (Varecia variegata variegata) from St. Catherines Island, Georgia, were tested for evidence of exposure to tick-borne ehrlichiae. All 52 adult lemurs were serologically tested for exposure to Ehrlichia chaffeensis and Anaplasma phagocytophilum. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays for E. chaffeensis, A. phagocytophilum, Ehrlichia ewingii, and Ehrlichia canis were conducted on blood samples from all 56 lemurs. Blood from all lemurs was inoculated into DH82 cell cultures for E. chaffeensis isolation. Of the adult lemurs, 20 (38.5%) and 16 (30.8%) had antibodies reactive (1:128) for E. chaffeensis and A. phagocytophilum, respectively. Two ring-tailed lemurs were PCR and culture positive for E. chaffeensis. Molecular characterization of the two E. chaffeensis isolates showed that both contained 5-repeat variants of the variable-length PCR target (VLPT) antigen gene and 3-repeat variants of the 120-kDa antigen gene. Sequencing of the VLPT genes revealed a novel amino acid repeat unit (type-9). One lemur infected with E. chaffeensis was slightly hypoproteinemic and had moderately elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels. These lemurs from St. Catherines Island have been exposed to or infected with tick-borne ehrlichiae, or both, but showed no clinical disease.
20096605|Although herpesviruses are known to contaminate the semen of several mammalian species, the occurrence of feline herpesvirus type 1 (FHV-1) in semen of infected cats has not been reported. Our objectives in this study were to investigate the presence of FHV-1 DNA in seminal fluid and frozen-thawed spermatozoa from FHV-1 infected Pallas' cats (Otocolobus manul) and assess the functionality of their frozen-thawed spermatozoa in vitro. Over a 3-yr period, semen (n = 33 ejaculates) was collected periodically via electroejaculation from four Pallas' cats chronically infected with FHV-1. Spermic ejaculates were frozen by pelleting on dry ice and stored in liquid nitrogen. After thawing, sperm motility and acrosome status were assessed over time during in vitro culture. For vitro fertilization (IVF), viable domestic cat (Felis silvestris catus) oocytes were inseminated with frozen-thawed Pallas' cat spermatozoa and evaluated for embryo cleavage. For FHV-1 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis, DNA was extracted from seminal fluid, frozen-thawed spermatozoa, inseminated oocytes, heterologous IVF embryos, and conjunctival biopsies and analyzed for presence of a 322--base pair region of the FHV-1 thymidine kinase gene. Immediately post-thaw, sperm motility and percentage of intact acrosomes were decreased (P &lt 0.05) compared to fresh samples, and declined further (P &lt 0.05) during culture. However, all frozen-thawed IVF samples were capable of fertilizing domestic cat oocytes (overall, 46.1  6.0% cleavage). PCR analysis did not identify FHV-1 DNA in any reproductive sample despite the repeated detection of FHV-1 DNA in conjunctival biopsies. These results suggest that semen collected from Pallas' cats infected with FHV-1 does not contain cell-associated or non-cell-associated virus and that frozen-thawed spermatozoa exhibit adequate function for potential genetic rescue with minimal risk of FHV-1 transmission.
20095144|A 4-yr-old female Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) had chronic cryptosporidiosis for 18 mo. The female camel had been housed with a male camel in an outdoor pen for 3 yr; the male had no history of cryptosporidiosis. Clinical signs included chronic loose stools, reduced appetite, weight loss, and lethargy. During this period, recurrent intestinal parasitic infections, including gastrointestinal helminths and cryptosporidiosis, were identified from microscopic stages in the feces. Treatment of the helminth infections with anthelmintics only temporarily diminished the number of eggs produced. Treatment of the cryptosporidiosis with an anticoccidial drug failed to resolve that infection. Oocysts averaging 5.9  7.9 m were indistinguishable from those of Cryptosporidium muris or from a bovine isolate that parasitizes the abomasum. Attempts were made to experimentally establish cryptosporidial infections in neonatal calves and mice by oral administration of oocysts. Calves did not shed oocysts resembling C. muris during 17 days of daily fecal examinations. Only those mice examined 12 days or more after inoculation had oocysts in their feces and cryptosporidial stages in gastric glands of the stomach, indicating that the isolate from the camel was very similar, if not identical to C. muris.
20460453|Relaxin, a 6-kDa polypeptide hormone, is excreted in the urine during pregnancy in several mammalian species. A recent study showed that detection of urinary relaxin using a bench-top serum assay (Witness relaxin kit, Synbiotics Corp., San Diego, California 92127, USA) can be diagnostic for pregnancy in domestic cats (Felis silvestris catus), but it is unknown whether the bench-top kit is applicable with urine across felid species. Our objectives were to 1) examine modifications in urine processing to improve kit reliability in pregnant cats, 2) evaluate the impact of concentrating urine via filtration on relaxin detection, 3) assess the effect of sample freezing on relaxin concentrations, and 4) begin quantifying urinary relaxin levels in nondomestic felids. Urine and serum were collected from domestic cats and nondomestic cat species (Pallas' cat, Otocolobus manul; sand cat, Felis margarita; cheetah, Acinonyx jubatus; and lion, Panthera leo) at several times after breeding. Urine samples, subjected to various processing methods, were tested using the bench-top kit, and relaxin levels were later quantified via radioimmunoassay. For domestic cat urine samples, filtration and addition of protein/phosphate buffer improved the consistency of the relaxin kit for early pregnancy diagnosis. Urine freezing caused a slight (13%) but significant decrease in relaxin concentrations, but frozenthawed samples still tested positive with the bench-top kit. In nondomestic felids, urinary relaxin immunoreactivity during pregnancy was similar to or higher than that of pregnant domestic cats, suggesting that relaxin is a reliable cross-species marker of pregnancy. Urinary relaxin was detectable using the bench-top kit in pregnant Pallas' cats, but urine samples from other species tested negative, regardless of processing methods. Findings suggest that measurement of urinary relaxin is a promising approach for noninvasive pregnancy diagnosis in exotic felids, but further assessment of urinary relaxin profiles among cat species and modification of the bench-top relaxin kit are warranted to improve cross-species utility.
20096245|Twelve reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus) were immobilized by hand injection in indoor stalls with established optimal hand-injection doses of medetomidine-ketamine and then moved to outside paddocks where they were immobilized against with the same dose by dart. The reindeer in paddocks were immobilized a second time with a 50% higher dose, hereafter referred to as the optimal darting dose. Mean time to first sign of sedation was longer and mean induction time was significantly longer (55% and 79%, respectively) when the optimal hand-injection dose was dart injected versus hand injected. Mean time to first sign of sedation was not significantly shorter (although 21% shorter, numerically) but mean induction time was significantly shorter (30%) when animals were darted with the optimal darting dose versus darted with the optimal hand-injection dose. There were no significant differences in respiratory rate, rectal temperature, and relative arterial oxygen saturation in animals injected with different doses and by different routes, but there was a significantly lower heart rate in animals dart injected with the optimal darting dose versus dart injected with the optimal hand-injection dose. All animals responded at similar rates to atipamezole injection.
20096619|An adult male white Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris tigris) with pronounced atrophy of the pelvic musculature was diagnosed with degenerative osteoarthritis of the coxofemoral joints. Initial management with the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug meloxicam and a semisynthetic sodium pentosan polysulfate resulted in clinical improvement and radiographic stabilization of the arthritic condition over several months. However, because pain was still evident, bilateral denervation of the coxofemoral joints was performed, successfully ameliorating the signs of osteoarthritic pain in the tiger. Meloxicam has shown good clinical efficacy for the treatment of osteoarthritis and other painful conditions in large felids. Coxofemoral joint denervation offers many advantages for the treatment of osteoarthritis in exotic carnivore species, and should be considered a viable treatment modality.
20095917|Primary hypothyroidism was diagnosed in a 26-yr-old female western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) on the basis of serum levels of thyroxine (T), free T, and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) measured by human immunoassays. Compared with clinically normal gorillas, the TSH level (107 mIU/L) was markedly elevated, and T (&lt14.0 nmol/L) and free T (5.0 pmol/L) levels were decreased. Thyroid hypofunction could explain the weight gain, unsettled appetite, anxious behavior, lethargy, and poor intraspecies interactions shown by this gorilla. The antibodies in the commercial immunoassay used in this study apparently cross-reacted with gorilla TSH. Supplementation with levothyroxine sodium was initiated and was followed by a marked decrease in circulating TSH and a noticeable improvement in the animal's physiologic status and activity level.
20095303|This study was conducted to broaden the knowledge of the hematology of healthy free-ranging Asian elephants (Elephas maximus ceylonicus). Blood cell measures and plasma and serum biochemistries were determined using standard hematologic techniques. Blood samples were collected from 37 elephants following chemical immobilization. When compared to other domestic species such as bovids, equids, canids, and felids, the elephants' packed cell volumes (31-44%), hemoglobin concentrations (9.8-15.8 g/dl), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentrations (28-40 g/dl) were similar. Erythrocyte counts (2.3-5.4 
20095568|Five healthy Suffolk sheep (Ovis ovis) were used to determine selected cardiopulmonary effects of i.m. medetomidine--ketamine. The sheep were immobilized with medetomidine (125 g/kg) plus ketamine (2.5 mg/kg) and maintained in sternal recumbency for 1 hr. Reversal of medetomidine was achieved with atipamezole at five times the medetomidine dose. There were significant changes over time in heart rate, cardiac index,
20460279|An adult male black palm cockatoo (Probosciger aterrimus) had a 10-mo history of anorexia, weight loss, episodic depression, muscular tremors, and bilateral leg paresis. The bird died and was sent to the University of Georgia College of Veterinary Medicine for pathologic evaluation. At necropsy, a greenish-white proliferative cavitating mass was found in the left abdominal air sac with extension into the left kidney. Histologic lesions included inflammation and necrosis of the kidney and the sacral plexus, including the ischiatic nerve. Fungal hyphae morphologically compatible with Aspergillus sp. were found in the necrotic areas. These findings suggest that aspergillosis in birds can cause leg paresis without respiratory signs.
20095029|Plans are provided for the construction of a restraint device, made from polyvinyl chloride sheeting, that is routinely used at the Monterey Bay Aquarium for the handling of sea otters (Enhydra lutris). Previous physical restraint methods used to control sea otters were ineffective and dangerous to both animal and handler. The device described in this paper has proven to be safe, sturdy, and easy to clean.
20095860|Four outbreaks of hemorrhagic septicemia caused by Pasteurella multocida multocida occurred in a population of 1,800 fallow deer (Dama dama) during 1992-1996. A total of 340 fallow deer were submitted for postmortem examination. Pasteurellosis was diagnosed in 273 of 312 deer suspected of having septicemia. Pasteurella multocida was isolated from 257 animals, and the diagnosis was based on typical pathologic changes alone in the other 16 animals. Pasteurella multocida was isolated in pure culture from 219 of 248 samples of cerebrospinal fluid. Eighteen animals were observed moribund with severe depression, foamy nasal discharge, and respiratory distress, and 257 were found dead. Major clinical signs and pathologic changes included extensive swelling of the head and the neck and peracute or acute septic pneumonia, petechial and ecchymotic hemorrhages on serous membranes, and severely hemorrhagic adrenal glands and abomasum. Rhinitis and necrotic pharyngeal mucosae were common. Histologically, the most advanced lesions were in the nasal mucosa and pharynx. The swelling of the head and the neck arose from a diffuse cellulitis in the subcutaneous and intermuscular tissues. The earliest lesions in the lungs included large numbers of bacteria in the pulmonary capillaries, but various degrees of fibrinous exudation to the alveoli and infiltration with heterophils usually were observed.
40962266|Five southern red-backed voles (Myodes gapperi) of the first generation of a wild-caught breeding colony were presented with lesions at the maxillary incisors consistent with elodontoma. The affected animals had a history of chronic weight loss, were > 16 months of age, and were siblings. Radiographs of the head showed multiglobular to irregularly outlined mineral opacity masses at the apices of the maxillary incisors. On necropsy, maxillary incisor teeth were not grossly visible, and a gingival ulcration was observed at the expected site of eruption. Microscopically, the apical region of the maxillary incisors was thickened or replaced by irregular dental tissue masses consistent with elodontoma. This is the first report to describe elodontoma in red-backed voles.
20094990|Etorphine and acepromazine were used to immobilize four captive markhors (Capra falconeri megaceros) on six occasions. The chemical immobilization was evaluated by serial recordings and determinations of clinical, hematological, and serum chemical parameters and by blood gas and acid-base status determinations. Etorphine and acepromazine induced incomplete immobilization and myorelaxation. Respiratory depression and statistically significant changes in measured parameters were recorded but no severe alterations were noted. Eleven arterial blood samples for blood gas and acid-base status determinations were obtained from eight markhors immobilized with medetomidine--ketamine combinations. Arterial blood gases were largely similar with both immobilizing methods, although respiratory rate and depth were different. Results of serial recordings and determinations of etorphine--acepromazine-treated markhors were compared to those of medetomidine--ketamine-treated markhors in a previous study. Marked clinical differences in types of induction period and immobilization were noted, but differences in other parameters were clinically insignificant. Diprenorphine was used to reverse the etorphine--acepromazine-induced chemical restraint. The results were compared to the effects of atipamezole as a reversing agent in medetomidine--ketamine-treated markhors. Both antagonists were equally effective. Procedures requiring simple restraint/reversal can be performed using the etorphine--acepromazine/diprenorphine combination, whereas the medetomidine--ketamine/atipamezole combination is recommended for procedures requiring more complete immobilization and myorelaxation.
20096289|Simple nonlethal blood culture methodology, an alternative to euthanasia for diagnosing systemic bacterial infections in fish, is described. Blood was extracted from the caudal vein of 20 individuals of five fish species, incubated in brain-heart infusion broth, and then plated onto enriched blood agar. Nine of these fish were subsequently euthanized and necropsied for confirmatory tissue cultures. Five species of bacteria were isolated from the blood cultures from nine fish, and the tissue culture results in euthanized, necropsied fish agreed with the blood culture results in all cases. All the fish that were not euthanized survived for 24 hr, although two heavily parasitized fish subsequently died.
20095572|The effects of monotypic diets of agricultural grains on mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) physiological status were tested. Restricted amounts of six diets were fed to captive hen mallards housed in an outdoor aviary at the White River National Wildlife Refuge (Arkansas County, Arkansas, USA). Dietary treatment groups included 1) a 23% protein (high protein) control, 2) a 7% protein (low protein) control, 3) corn, 4) rice, 5) soybeans, and 6) a natural diet, consisting of equal amounts of willow oak acorns (Quercus phellos), Pennsylvania smartweed (Polygonum pennsylvanicum), and Japanese millet (Echinocloa crusgalli) by weight. These diets represent foods available to wild mallards in the Mississippi alluvial valley during winter. Effects of diet on mallard physiological status were determined by measuring body weight at 8 wk and serum metabolites and gamma globulins at 9 wk. No diets induced protein dificiency, as indicated by final equivalent serum total protein and gamma globulin levels among groups fed different diets. The soybean diet, however, caused a negative energy balance as shown by higher serum D-beta-hydroxybutyrate levels.
40665082|A 14-year-old female pudu (Pudu puda) developed a uterine prolapse after unassisted parturition. The length of time between the prolapse and replacement of the organ was not known but was less than 24 hr. When the prolapse was first noticed, uterine tissue appeared undamaged and was immediately cleaned with antiseptic solution, handled carefully during replacement, and prophylactic antibiotic and anti-inflammatory drugs were given. The pudu appeared clinically normal until 4 days postpartum, when she developed clinical signs of tenesmus, dysuria, and a purulent discharge from the vulva. Despite further treatment, the animal was found dead 10 days postpartum, even though it had not shown any other signs of systemic illness. Gross and histologic lesions supported a diagnosis of septicemia secondary to metritis. Arcanobacteriwn pyogenes was isolated from lung, liver, and uterine exudate.
20460458|A pair of Australian black swans (Cygnus atratus) with origins in Wakefield, Virginia, USA, was admitted to the quarantine area at the Baltimore Zoo for general health assessments before housing in the collections. During the quarantine period, no clinical signs of disease were manifest; however, upon examination of a blood smear, intraerythrocytic parasites were detected and initially determined to be Haemoproteus species. Diagnostic polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequencing results, however, indicated that the parasites were within the genus Plasmodium. Subclinical infections with Plasmodium species in birds may affect collection management, and transmission from refractory hosts to susceptible hosts should be considered when multispecies exhibits are used. In addition, changes in the dynamics of host-vector-parasite interactions might have significant impacts on wild or domesticated populations of birds.
20095896|Three anesthetic protocols, each using an alpha-2 agonist sedative in combination with a dissociative anesthetic, were evaluated in 17 captive fallow deer (Cervus dama). The alpha-2 agonist was given first in two of the three protocols: 1) detomidine (0.1-0.2 mg/kg i.m.) followed by tiletamine-zolazepam (3.0-6.3 mg/kg i.m.) and 2) xylazine (0.6-0.9 mg/kg i.m.) followed by tiletamine-zolazepam (4-5 mg/kg i.m.). In the third protocol, xylazine (1.0-6.2 mg/kg i.m.) and ketamine (2.5-5.1 mg/kg i.m.) were given simultaneously. Each of the sedative/anesthetic combinations produced acceptable immobilization in fallow deer and both provide an alternative to narcotic anesthesia.
41417189|A 19-yr-old intact male Coquerel's sifaka (Propithecus coquereli) was evaluated for a crusting facial dermatopathy. Fungal culture and histopathology of skin biopsies were consistent with dermatophytosis caused by Trichophyton mentagrophytes, and treatment with the antifungal medication terbinafine was initiated. After 1 mo of treatment, all clinical signs had resolved and a fungal culture of the skin was negative. The sifaka was treated with terbinafine for a total of 81 days. Two additional fungal cultures were taken and found to be negative for the presence of dermatophytes, the last culture being taken 1 mo after discontinuation of terbinafine. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of dermatophytosis in a prosimian species and the first reported treatment of a prosimian with the antifungal drug terbinafine.
20096109|The clinical, gross necropsy, and histopathology findings in two unrelated desert grassland whiptail lizards (Cnemidophorus uniparens) with teratoma are described. The desert grassland whiptail is a parthenogenic lizard species with a polyploid chromosomal complement. The chromosome composition of the teratomas from these lizards was not determined.
20095287|Worldwide experience has pointed to the central role of the immunologic defense systems of all animal species in resistance to and recovery from infectious diseases. Future improvements in the diagnosis and control of infectious diseases in wildlife populations will require an increased understanding of the immunology of threatened animal species, their associated pathogens, and the environmental factors that may undermine the immune system's ability to cope effectively with pathogens. Future research in this area will benefit from the networking of wildlife disease experts, immunologists, and biotechnology researchers to develop and utilize new tools and assays for management of diseases. Tools needed include up-to-date medical, genetic, and immunologic data bases, a wider variety of monoclonal antibodies to immune system components and pathogen-specific antigens, natural and recombinant pathogen-specific antigens for use in assays and as vaccines, and practical diagnostic immunoassays for measuring disease exposure and immune system function (immunologic competence). Future research must address diseases in both vertebrate and invertebrate animals and must integrate immunologic, microbiologic, pathologic, physiologic, developmental, genetic, and environmental data unique to each species. A program, Biotechnologies for the Ecological, Evolutionary, and Conservation Sciences (BEECS), that utilizes these principles has been developed at the University of Florida. The BEECS program is available as a resource to zoos, conservation groups, and individuals needing assistance in addressing problems of disease in wildlife populations.
20096355|Ultrasonography is currently used in veterinary medicine to examine the anatomy and physiology of internal organs and to establish normal standards for exotic animal species. Specifically, the kidneys may be evaluated and measured in length, width, and height. The kidneys in 33 oncilla (Leopardus tigrinus), including 20 males and 13 females, were opportunistically located, characterized, and measured by ultrasound using a 7.5-MHz linear transducer at two different zoologic facilities in So Paulo, Brazil. Renal volume was calculated from these linear measurements. The mean linear measurements and volume of the right and left kidneys were not significantly different.
41417184|Five 25-yr-old crocodiles (Crocodylus johnstoni and Crocodylus porosus) were diagnosed with Aeromonas hydrophila-associated septicemia accelerated by improper thermoregulation. At necropsy, pulmonary congestion and pleural effusion were the main lesions in the thorax. Necrotizing enteritis, intestinal hemorrhage, fibrinous serositis, hepatitis, and pancreatitis were observed in the abdominal cavities of all five crocodiles. Aeromonas hydrophila was identified in the pleural effusions and abdominal ascites of all necropsied crocodiles by using an API system 20NE. Aeromonas hydrophila infection and evaluation of virulence were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction targeting the 16S rRNA and extracellular hemolysin gene. The crocodiles in the present case were housed in an indoor facility at a private zoo that failed to optimize land and water portions of the enclosure, exposing the animals to impeded thermorgulation, and it is suggested that the pathogenesis was accelerated by the improper thermoregulation-induced stress. This is the first description of A. hydrophila pathogenicity associated with impeded thermorgulation in reptiles.
20095250|The clinical effectiveness of tiletamine/zolazepam with and without xylazine and of carfentanil with xylazine for the immobilization of gaur (Bos gaurus) was compared. Six animals were immobilized with tiletamine combined in a 1:1 ratio with zolazepam at an average total dose of 4.0 mg/kg (range, 3.0-4.7 mg/kg). Six animals were immobilized with tiletamine/zolazepam at an average total dose of 4.6 mg/kg (range, 2.7-6.7 mg/kg) plus xylazine at an average total dose of 0.13 mg/kg (range, 0.04-0.23 mg/kg). Six animals were immobilized with carfentanil at an average total dose of 7.6 g/kg (range, 5.0-10.0 g/kg) combined with xylazine at an average dose of 0.10 mg/kg (range, 0.08-0.13 mg/kg). Difficulties were encountered with induction and maintenance of immobilization with tiletamine/zolazepam both with and without xylazine. No statistically significant differences among treatment groups were found in the initially recorded heart rate, respiratory rate, or rectal temperature. Blood pressure was lower in animals that received tiletamine/zolazepam with xylazine than in those that received tiletamine/zolazepam alone. Doxapram, given to five animals immobilized with tiletamine/zolazepam or tiletamine/zolazepam--xylazine, did not shorten recovery time when given at an average dose of 0.5 mg/kg i.v. Recovery was rapid in all carfentanil--xylazine-immobilized animals when reversed with naloxone or naltrexone both with and without the alpha-2 antagonist yohimbine. Renarcotization 12-24 hr after initial recovery was observed in two of six animals immobilized with carefentanil--xylazine. Carfentanil--xylazine was the most useful combination, considering the low dose volume, reversibility, and rapid induction and recovery with this regimen, although further investigation of the renarcotization problem is needed.
20460436|Although lungworms are known to infect many mammalian species and a few are known to infect snakes, lizards, and birds, previously none were known to infect chelonians. This study documents the first three known cases of lungworms in loggerhead sea turtles, Caretta caretta. It is unlikely that the lungworms were the primary cause of illness in any of the cases, and they may be only contributory or even incidental. Changes observed in the two cases that died included tracheal and bronchial epithelial hyperplasia and goblet cell hyperplasia. Lesions caused directly by the parasites seem to be restricted to the upper respiratory tree (trachea and main bronchi), but changes in the lungs themselves may be caused by the debris produced by the worms. Although neither case was successfully treated for the lungworms prior to death, it would appear that oxfendazole may be an effective treatment and has been used in the third case that is still undergoing rehabilitation.
20095954|An adult female lesser flamingo (Phoeniconaias minor), caught in the African Rift Valley in 1991 and subsequently housed at the Baltimore Zoo, died of severe visceral gout in 1996. Necropsy revealed a white, moderately firm, nodular lesion, 1 cm in diameter, in the serosal wall of the small intestine. Although it was initially thought to be a tumor or focal granuloma, histologic examination revealed multiple cestodes deeply embedded at the base of the crypts between the intestinal villi, with their massive scolices (up to 3.4 mm in diameter) distending these spaces into multiple diverticulae. The mucosal epithelium surrounding the scolices was severely attenuated. Around the diverticulae, in the submucosa and muscularis, was a mild to moderate lymphocytic reaction and mild fibrosis. The proximity of multiple scolices and extensive invasion of host tissue suggested that the infection occupied a preexisting lesion. The cestodes were cyclophyllids but were distinct from any species previously reported from flamingos. Helminths should be included in differential diagnoses for gastrointestinal nodules in flamingos.
20096046|A debilitated 9-yr-old female red panda (Ailurus fulgens fulgens) with a recent history of corticosteroid administration displayed anorexia, depression, and diarrhea for 2 days. Blood work revealed a moderate nonregenerative anemia, leukocytosis, hypokalemia, hyperbilirubinemia, and mildly elevated alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase. Serology was negative for occult heartworm, Toxoplasma gondii, feline leukemia virus, feline infectious peritonitis, feline immunodeficiency virus, and canine distemper virus. Electron microscopy of the feces demonstrated corona-like virus particles. The panda died 3 days after initial presentation. Histologic findings included multifocal, acute, hepatic necrosis and diffuse, necrotizing colitis. Liver and colon lesions contained intracellular, curved, spore-forming, gram-negative, silver-positive rods morphologically consistent with Clostridium piliforme. This panda most likely contracted Tyzzer's disease subsequent to having a compromised immune system after corticosteroid administration and concurrent disease.
40665134|This paper describes the clinical signs and histopathologic findings associated with an emergent disease associated with Trichomonas gallinae infections in free-ranging house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) in California. Wet mounts were necessary to detect T. gallinae infections in house finches because classical clinical presentation, such as caseous stomatitis or ingluvitis, occurred in <25% of cases. Early detection was instrumental in preventing trichomonosis outbreaks in a high-density nursery (P < 0.0001). Detection before onset of clinical signs was critical. Despite treatment, ~95% of house finches died within 24 hr of displaying signs of illness. In contrast, 58% of T. gallinae-positive house finches housed in a nursery survived if they received treatment before onset of clinical signs. Recurrent protozoal shedding in survivors was not evident.
41262616|Hypothermia or cold-stunning is a condition in which the body temperature of an animal decreases below normal physiologic range and which has been linked to severe morbidity in sea turtles. Reports have focused on the physiologic changes caused by cold-stunning in Kemp's Ridley sea turtles (Lepidochelys kempii) and loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta), but few have evaluated the green sea turtle (Chelonia mydas). This study evaluated hmatologie and serum biochemical profiles of cold-stunned green sea turtles in North Carolina, USA. When compared with healthy, free-ranging juvenile green turtles from the same region, cold-stunned turtles exhibited hypoglycemia, hypocalcemia (both total and ionized calcium), hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypoproteinemia, hypoalbuminemia, hyperphosphatemia, and elevations in uric acid and blood urea nitrogen. These findings contrast with some previously reported changes in cold-stunned Kemp's Ridley and loggerhead sea turtles. These results emphasize the importance of basing therapeutic regimens on biochemical analyses in coldstunned sea turtles.
20095956|A castrated adult male 1.0-kg domestic ferret (Mustela putorius furo) was referred for evaluation of a mass of &gt5 mo duration that was associated with the thoracic spine. The ferret had motor dysfunction and no conscious proprioception or pain perception in either hind limb. Segmental reflexes were present. Survey radiography, myelography, and magnetic resonance imaging showed a mass involving the ninth and 10 thoracic vertebrae and compressing the spinal cord. Decompressive surgery was performed, but clinical signs persisted. A diagnosis of chordoma was made using histopathology and immunohistochemistry. This is the first reported case of a chordoma involving the thoracic vertebrae in a domestic ferret.
20460531|A privately owned, obese, adult female raccoon (Procyon lotor) presented with polyuria, polydipsia, weight loss, and increased appetite. Diabetes mellitus was diagnosed based on laboratory findings, including hyperglycemia and glucosuria. As a result of the raccoon's age and obesity at the onset of clinical signs, the raccoon was thought to have type 2 diabetes mellitus, a diagnosis that was supported by paired glucose tolerance tests. Treatment consisted of dietary management and daily insulin therapy. The raccoon was gradually weaned off insulin with no return of clinical signs, further verifying the characterization of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
20094998|Unilateral dentoalveolar abscesses and/or tusk fractures were identified and tusk extractions performed in seven 3.5-21-yr-old African elephants (Loxodonta africana) of both sexes weighing 650-3,000 kg. Following immobilization with etorphine hydrochloride or carfentanil citrate, six of seven elephants were intubated and maintained on a 1-1.5% halothane in oxygen mixture; one elephant was maintained in lateral recumbency by multiple i.v. injections of etorphine. All elephants were positioned with the affected tusk up. For one elephant, two surgical procedures were required to remove the tusk. In six of seven elephants, the tusks were sectioned transversely and the tusk wall thinned by enlarging the pulp chamber with carbide burs. In those tusks with remaining pulp, the pulp was removed with stainless steel rods and hooks. Next, the tusk was sectioned longitudinally into three or four segments using a wood saw within the pulp chamber. Bone gouges, osteotomes, and a mallet were used to free the outer epithelial and alveolar attachments from the tusk. Starting with the smallest segment, the sections were removed using long screwdriver-shaped stainless steel rods. The alveolar chamber was then periodically flushed postsurgically with a dilute organic iodine solution. For six of seven elephants, complete granulation of the alveolar chamber was evident by 4 mo postsurgery; the seventh elephant showed partial healing with granulation tissue at 2 mo following surgery.
20094961|Two adult snow leopards (Panthera uncia), male and female, both with vaccinations current, became infected with feline panleukopenia virus (FPV) at the Blank Park Zoo, Des Moines, Iowa, in late 1988. Clinical signs included weakness, hemorrhagic feces, fever, seizures, and nasal discharge. Blood analysis revealed severe lymphopenia and mild anemia. A positive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test for FPV on fecal contents from the male leopard confirmed the diagnosis. In spite of intensive therapy, both animals died. Necropsy of the female, which survived for 1 wk after onset of signs, revealed intestinal crypt necrosis, pulmonary consolidation, necrotizing laryngitis, and diffuse lymphoid depletion. The male leopard, which lived 3 wk after onset of illness, had similar enteric and lymphoid lesions. In addition, there was a severe interstitial pneumonia, with syncytial cells containing eosinophilic intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies. Ultrastructural characteristics of these inclusions featured tubular structures consistent with a paramyxovirus. Although repeated virus isolation attempts from the affected lung were negative, polyclonal and monoclonal fluorescent antibody tests were strongly positive for canine distemper virus (CDV). Frozen paired sera from each leopard demonstrated very high acute and convalescing titers to FPV; both animals also seroconverted to CDV, with titers in the male leopard higher than those in the female. Additional tests for toxoplasmosis, feline infectious peritonitis, feline rhinotracheitis, feline calicivirus, feline leukemia, canine parainfluenza, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus were all negative. The neurologic signs present in these leopards remained unexplained, but may have been attributable to CDV infection. A feral cat trapped on zoo property had feces positive for FPV by ELISA. Although the specific contributions of FPV and CDV toward the development of this case are unknown, it is likely that initial FPV-induced immunosuppression allowed the subsequent development of CDV in these snow leopards. The likelihood that initial FPV infection came from feral cats underscores the importance of feral animal control on zoo premises.
20460452|Yolk coelomitis is a major cause of death in captive sexually mature female Fiji Island banded iguanas (Brachylophus fasciatus) maintained by the Zoological Society of San Diego. The medical records, breeding histories, and pathology archival materials from this group were reviewed to study this health problem. From 1987 through 2004, deaths of nine of 21 adult females were due to yolk coelomitis. Most iguanas had a history of reproduction-related problems, which included reproductive failure, episodes of lethargy associated with ovarian activity, folliculostasis, ovostasis, and behavioral abnormalities. Most affected iguanas either were found dead or presented moribund and subsequently died or were euthanized. Clinical signs were nonspecific and included lethargy, cutaneous discoloration, and coelomic effusion. Yolk leakage in most cases was associated with the presence of large vitellogenic follicles undergoing atresia and resulted in coelomitis characterized by florid mesothelial proliferation.
20460315|An adult bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was presented with anisocoria and posterior synechiae in the left eye. Lack of inflammatory reaction at the site suggested the process was static. Electroretinographic studies and menace response indicated vision in the affected eye. Synechial breakdown by pharmacologic pupillary dilatation was unsuccessful. Surgical resection of the synechiae resulted in improved pupillary dilatation.
20096517|Plasma concentrations and pharmacokinetics of enrofloxacin were determined in 12 loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) after oral administration. Six turtles in group 1 and group 2 received enrofloxacin at 10 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg of body weight, respectively. Blood was collected from the cervical sinus before administration and at timed intervals up to 168 hr following administration. Plasma concentrations of enrofloxacin were determined using a microbiologic assay. The mean peak plasma concentration (
41417171|Dietary isoflavones, capable of influencing reproductive parameters in domestic cats (Felis catus), have been detected in commercial diets fed to captive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus). However, the absorptive and metabolic capacity of cheetahs towards isoflavones has not yet been studied. Experiments were designed to describe the plasma concentration-time curve, metabolite profile, and urinary and fecal excretion of genistein and daidzein in cheetahs following consumption of isoflavones. Four adult cheetahs were administered a single oral bolus of genistein and daidzein, and five juvenile cheetahs consuming a milk replacer formula found to contain isoflavones were also included. Urine was collected from all animals, and blood and feces were also collected from adult cheetahs following isoflavone exposure. Samples were analyzed for isoflavone metabolite concentration by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-multiple reaction ion monitoring mass spectrometry and highperformance liquid chromatography. Sulfate conjugates were the primary metabolites detected of both genistein and daidzein (60-80% of total isoflavones present) in the plasma and urine of cheetahs. A smaller proportion of daidzein was detected as conjugates in the urine of juvenile cheetahs, compared to adult cheetahs. Other metabolites included unconjugated genistein and daidzein, O-desmethylangolensin, and dihydrodaidzein, but not equol. Only 33% of the ingested genistein dose, and 9% of daidzein, was detected in plasma from adult cheetahs. However, of the ingested dose, 67% of genistein and 45% of daidzein were detected in the feces of adults. This study revealed that cheetahs appear efficient in their conjugation of absorbed dietary isoflavones and only a small fraction of ingested dose is absorbed. However, the capacity of the cheetah to conjugate genistein and daidzein with sulfate moieties appears lower than reported in the domestic cat. This may confer greater opportunity for biologic activity of isoflavones in the cheetah than would be predicted from findings in the domestic cat. However, further investigation is required.
20095560|Seven captive adult flying foxes (Pteropus spp.) from the same facility developed dilated cardiomyopathy during a 2-yr period. The physical, clinicopathologic, radiographic, and ultrasonographic findings showed congestive heart failure secondary to dilated cardiomyopathy. Pathologic findings and micronutrient evaluation of the diet, blood, and tissues were indicative of hypovitaminosis E.
20096193|Hematology and serum biochemistry values are reported for 33 Attwater's prairie chickens (Tympanuchus cupido attwateri) that were captive-reared at the San Antonio Zoo as part of a federal reintroduction program in Texas. Hematologic values include packed cell volume, and total and differential white blood cell counts. The biochemical values include concentrations of serum calcium, total protein, albumin, phosphorus, glucose, uric acid, and cholesterol. Mathematic computation of globulin concentration and albumin: globulin ratios were conducted. Also, determination of the serum activities of creatine kinase and aspartate aminotransferase was done.
20096586|Mycoplasma iguanae proposed species nova was isolated from vertebral abscesses of two feral iguanas (Iguana iguana) from Florida. Three strains were evaluated for sensitivity to a variety of antibiotics. The minimum inhibitory concentrations for M. iguanae, assessed by broth dilution methods, of clindamycin, doxycycline, enrofloxacin, oxytetracycline, and tylosin (all &lt1 g/ml) were lower than those of chloramphenicol (32 g/ml) and erythromycin (64 g/ml). The profile was identical to that of Mycoplasma alligatoris, previously isolated from American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis). M. iguanae strain
41262620|Fatal abomasal impaction, often combined with omasal impaction, was diagnosed in 11 bongo (Tragelaphus eurycerus) from five different zoologie collections in the United States between 1981 and 2009. Nine of 11 cases occurred in young females (10 mo-7 yr old) and typical clinical signs prior to diagnosis or death included partial or complete anorexia, dehydration, and scant fecal production. Although the clinical histories in several of the earlier cases are incomplete, clinical signs were known to begin shortly after an anesthetic event in five of 11 bongo (45%). Pedigree analysis indicates that affected bongo were descendants of multiple founders and not from a single family line, suggesting that the development of abomasal impaction is not a strictly inheritable trait. Treatment, when attempted, was variable and included abomasotomy and removal of impacted ingesta, drug therapy (prokinetic drugs, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, antimicrobials), fluid therapy, and administration of oral lubricants or intralesional stool softeners. Based on the outcomes in the cases presented here, the prognosis for bongo with abomasal impaction is considered poor to grave.
20095371|The tamandua (Tamandua tetradactyla) or lesser anteater is a member of the family Myrmecophagidae in the order Xenarthra (Edentata), which consists of neotropical sloths, anteaters, and armadillos. Little is known about this order in general or tamandua in particular. Because of the difficulty in obtaining field data and the poor propagation record of the few specimens listed in the International Species Inventory System (ISIS), captive xenarthrans are a valuable source of physiological and behavioral information for this order. Daily urine samples were collected from two female tamandua over 420 days and analyzed for concentrations of estrone conjugates (EC), pregnanediol-glucuronide (PdG), and cortisol concomitant with collection of vaginal smears to correlate changes in vaginal epithelial cells with endocrine patterns. Hormonal analyses indicted that one of the females demonstrated regular estrous cycles lasting 42  3 days with no apparent effect of season. Based on the rise and fall of PdG values, the luteal phase lasted 23.4  1.0 days (n = 10) with peak PdG concentrations (18  0.8 ng/mg creatinine [Cr]) occurring 12 days later than peak EC (37  11 ng/mg Cr). Examination of vaginal cytology indicated the occurrence of red blood cells 1-3 days prior to and during the rise in urinary EC; however, stained vaginal epithelial cells displayed no clearly defined pattern of cornification. The second female had regular bloody vaginal discharges that occurred every 40 days and lasted 7-12 days without any corresponding changes in excretory endocrine patterns. Although concentrations of estrogen and progesterone metabolites in the urine were greater during the initial three cycles compared to subsequent cycles, there was no correlation between declining ovarian steroid levels and urinary cortisol concentrations. A better understanding of the reproductive physiology in this particular species could assist in the captive breeding not only of small anteaters but also of the more threatened anteater species.
20460312|The Marine Mammal Center is a facility for the treatment and rehabilitation of pinnipeds that have been stranded along the central and northern coast of California. The most common species presented to the Center are California sea lions (Zalophus californianus), northern elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris), Pacific harbor seals (Phoca vitulina), and the northern fur seals (Callorhinus ursinus). Physical examination, hematologic and serum biochemical tests, and fecal analysis for parasites are performed on each animal admitted to the Center. Postmortem examinations are performed on the animals that die. All medical information obtained is entered into individual records. This retrospective study focused on data obtained from the medical records of 786 California sea lions and 18 northern fur seals presented to the Center between 1984 and 1990. The most common medical problems seen in the sea lions were renal disease and pneumonia. The most common problems seen in the fur seals were orphaned pups and seizures. The treatment success rate was defined as the number of animals that appeared clinically healthy, had adequate body weight and normal blood measures, and were subsequently released to the wild. Treatment success rates were calculated for the primary health problems diagnosed at the Center. The overall treatment success rate for otariids (eared seals) at the Center was 46.3% during the 7-yr study.
41262590|This report describes the use of computed tomography (CT) in a nondomestic species. Postmortem CT was performed on a red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) and a diagnosis of oral osteomyelitis was made. CT examination revealed bony remodeling of the right mandible, an intraosseous lesion of the right temporal bone, muscle necrosis around the right mandible, and the absence of the right, first, upper molar tooth. Cardiac and intrahepatic gas and a distended intestine due to postmortem gas accumulation were also seen. All the lesions identified with CT were also identified by conventional necropsy, except the cardiac and intrahepatic gases. Virtopsy may be a useful procedure for the noninvasive identification of cause of death and as a guide for necropsy in animals.
20095886|In a privately owned petting zoo in Arizona, 17 deer from five different species, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), Reeve's muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), reindeer (Rangifer tarandus), and axis deer (Axis axis), died of suspected malignant catarrhal fever (MCF) over a period from late 1992 to early 1995. A PCR assay specific for ovine herpesvirus 2, the putative causative agent of sheep-associated MCF, and a competitive-inhibition enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay based on a monoclonal antibody specific to an epitope conserved among all known MCF viral isolates were used to investigate the outbreak. Ovine herpesvirus 2 DNA sequences were detected by PCR from fresh-frozen and/or formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue samples in seven deer out of eight available animals previously suspected as cases by histopathology. A high seroprevalence to the virus was found among mouflon (Ovis musimon, 80%) and pygmy goats (Capra hircus, 61%), both of which were present on the farm during the outbreak. Sixteen percent of fallow deer (Dama dama) were also seropositive to the virus. After removal of the mouflon and positive pygmy goats, no further MCF cases occurred on the farm, confirming the importance of careful management to avoid mixing clinically susceptible species with carrier species. Until better control measures are available, adherence to this practice is necessary if MCF is to be prevented in intense exposure environments such as zoos and densely populated animal parks.
20095018|Recent anatomic studies of the bowhead whale (Balaena mysticetus), including cardiovascular investigations, have been undertaken to help elucidate cetacean adaptations to diving. Electron microscopy data on the heart of this species are presented, illustrating unique features such as high glycogen content of the myocardium and a spongiosum subjacent to the endocardium. It is postulated that the high glycogen content may facilitate cardiac metabolism during prolonged submersion, and the spongiosum may dampen pressure effects on the Purkinje fibers during systole. Other findings in the bowhead whale heart, such as the enlarged and displaced Purkinje fibers and dense thickened endocardium, were similar to these features reported in smaller whales. A transverse tubular system, closely associated with the Z line, was present but less developed than that found in some terrestrial mammals.
20096629|Safe and effective echocardiography would represent a valuable tool for marine mammal veterinarians and physiologists evaluating the dolphin heart. Unfortunately, conventional ultrasound technology (transthoracic echo-cardiography) has been limited by logistic, anatomic, and behavioral challenges. Five mature male Atlantic bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) were trained for echocardiographic imaging (four for both transthoracic and transesophageal imaging, and one for only transthoracic imaging). It was noted that transesophageal image quality transiently improved when the dolphins spontaneously exhaled. Subsequently, dolphins were conditioned to hold their breath following forced exhalation, and imaging proceeded during such behavioral breath holds. Over 25 transthoracic and 100 transesophageal echocardiographic studies were performed, including both two-dimensional imaging and color flow mapping. Transthoracic imaging yielded poor-quality images of only small portions of the heart. In contrast, transesophageal imaging, which improved dramatically with behavioral breath holding following exhalation, yielded consistently high-quality images of the entire heart (mitral, tricuspid, aortic, and pulmonary valves, atrial and ventricular septa, left and right atria, left and right ventricles, and ascending aorta and main pulmonary artery). Color flow mapping demonstrated mild tricuspid regurgitation in all dolphins, and mild aortic regurgitation in one dolphin found to have a pedunculated mass arising from the sinutubular junction just above the aortic valve. There were no complications in nonsedated dolphins. The heart of the bottlenose dolphin can be safely, effectively, and reproducibly evaluated with the use of transesophageal echocardiography in conjunction with behavioral breath holding following forced exhalation. This approach, and the normative echocardiographic data generated from this work, lays the foundation for future echocardiographic studies of cetaceans.
40665130|A coprologic study was conducted to determine the prevalence of helminth infections at the Samsun Zoo, Turkey. There are 184 animals comprising 45 species or subspecies, including 23 ruminants, three equines, 21 carnivores, 10 rabbits, two primates, two kangaroos, and 123 birds in the zoo. Fecal samples of zoo animals were collected and examined four times from 2006 to 2007: in September, December, March, and June. In four seasons, coprologic analysis revealed that 123 of 338 (36.4%) fecal samples were infected with different helminths types, including one trematode, one cestode, and 12 nematodes eggs or larvae. Species included Dicrocoelium spp. (0.9%), Moniezia spp. (1.1%), Toxascaris leonina (7.1%), Toxocara spp. (8.6%), Uncinaria stenocephala (1.4%), Dictyocaulus filaria (1.9%), Muellerius spp. (14.1%), strongyle type (20.7%), Strongylus edentatus (8.3%), Cyathostomum spp. (66.7%), Trichuris spp. (3.9%), capillarid type (9.5%), Ascaridia spp. (1.9%), and Heterakis spp. (12%).
40962264|A captive-born female sub-adult Eastern black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis michaeli) developed areas of non-ulcerated, non-pruritic depigmentation around the nares at 2 yr of age. Over the subsequent 18 mo, the symmetrical multifocal depigmented macules increased in size and distribution to include facial fold crypts, interdigital skin, lips, nares, palmar carpi, ventral abdomen, ventral mandible, axillae, lateral brachium and antebrachium, lateral thighs, ventral tail, and permeai region with an estimated 15% of the skin affected. Facial fold skin biopsies revealed multifocal hypopigmentation with melanin incontinence and mild perivascular lymphohistiocytic dermatitis. The gross appearance and histologie lesions were consistent with vitiligo. Treatment with UV-B narrowband phototherapy was performed on the lateral thighs, lateral elbows, palmar carpi, and rostral maxilla for a period of 12 mo. Significant repigmentation of the treatment areas was achieved.
20460276|Coronaviral particles were identified in intestinal contents and epithelial cells of the lower small intestine of a dead 18-day-old ostrich (Struthio camelus) chick. This ostrich chick was one of two with a 1-wk history of anorexia, lethargy, weakness, and diarrhea. Histologic changes included villous atrophy, necrotic cells in crypts, and occasional crypt collapse in the lower small intestine. Other lesions were dilation of the proventriculus, nutritional osteodystrophy of the proximal tibiotarsal bones, and degenerative myopathy of the pectoral muscles.
20460439|A 48-yr-old female Asian elephant with a history of pododermatitis developed recurrent hematuria beginning in 2002. Transrectal ultrasonography and endoscopic examination in 2004 identified the uterus as the source of hematuria and excluded hemorrhagic cystitis. Treatment with Desloreline implants, antibiotics, and homeopathic drugs led to an improved general condition of the elephant. In July 2005, the elephant was suddenly found dead. During necropsy, the severely enlarged uterus contained about 250 L of purulent fluid, and histopathology revealed ulcerative suppurative endometritis with high numbers of Streptococcus equi ssp. zooepidemicus and Escherichia coli identified on aerobic culture. Additional findings at necropsy included: multifocal severe pododermatitis, uterine leiomyoma, and numerous large calcified areas of abdominal fat necrosis. Microbiologic culture of the pododermatitis lesion revealed the presence of Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus equi ssp. zooepidemicus, Staphylococcus sp., Corynebacterium sp., and Entercoccus sp.
20096063|Reproductive tracts or tissues from five male black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis), two male white rhinoceroses (Ceratotherium simum), two male one-horned Asian rhinoceroses (Rhinoceros unicornis), seven female black rhinoceroses, and six female white rhinoceroses from multiple institutions were examined to characterize their anatomy and histology. Some observations and measurements were obtained from in situ tracts of intact animals before or during necropsy. Formalin-fixed tissues were dissected and examined histologically. Retrospective reproductive data from each rhinoceros was obtained from the institutions of origin. Reproductive histology of these species was similar to that of other mammals. Male accessory gland structure varied among species, and the Asian rhinoceros epididymis was more loosely attached and had larger duct diameters than did the epididymides of the African species. Although histology was typically mammalian, rhinoceros reproductive morphology combined chacteristics of several different mammals. Defining this unique morphology of rhinoceroses may help in understanding their reproductive physiology and will effect the development of appropriate reproductive techniques.
27751713|In June and July 1995, 98 breeding common terns (Sterna hirundo) were captured, weighed, and bled as a part of ongoing research on the population health and reproductive biology of this species of special concern. Packed cell volume, total and differential white blood cell counts, and blood smears were obtained. Blood smears from 75 terns were examined. No hemoparasites were found. There were some significant differences among hematologic parameters in birds from different islands, and between birds nesting earlier versus later in the season, but there were no significant differences associated with body mass, sex, or age. The absence of hemoparasites in the blood smears of these terns is noteworthy, especially because other studies of seabirds (including Charadriiformes) have revealed low prevalences of hematozoa.
20460329|Bacterial cultures from 32 living and dead farmed white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) with necrobacillosis yielded Fusobacterium necrophorum from nine individuals, F. varium from six individuals, and Arcanobacterium pyogenes from 16 individuals. The isolates were characterized biochemically using automated identification systems. Gram-stained smears suggested the presence of Fusobacterium spp. in eight cases from which organisms were not cultured. Minimum inhibitory concentration determinations in 23 strains of gram-negative anaerobic bacteria detected resistance to enrofloxacin and clindamycin. Enrofloxacin resistance was detected in A. pyogenes isolates, and although biochemical profiling indicated that the deer strains of A. pyogenes could be grouped, it is uncertain whether these biochemical characteristics correlate with antigenic or virulence factors. Deer-specific or autogenous vaccines may provide a useful alternative to generic vaccines.
20095465|Moisture, crude and bound protein, cell wall constituents (neutral and acid detergent fiber [NDF and ADF], lignin [Lig]), vitamin E, total ash, macrominerals, and selected trace elements were analyzed in 26 browse species eaten by black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) in the Zambezi Valley, Zimbabwe. Leaves contained higher levels of water, protein, and ash than did stem fractions of the same plant and lower levels of all cell wall constituents. Browses consumed by black rhinoceros comprised on a dry matter (DM) basis 4-20% available protein, 34-72% NDF, 21-53% ADF, 7-21% Lig, and 3-12% ash. Lig/NDF was 14-32%; Lig/ADF was 18-47%; differences in lignification index between leaves and twigs were not significant. Vitamin E concentrations ranged from 9.6 to 286.7 IU/kg DM and were higher in leaves than in twigs of the same species. Mineral concentrations (DM basis) varied widely: Ca (0.55-4.27%), K (0.28-1.77%), and Mg (0.12-0.65%) appeared present in relative excess, but Na (0.001-0.094%), P (0.06-0.19%), and Zn (2.5-67.4 g/g DM) were marginal to low compared with known dietary requirements for domestic herbivores. Cu (3.0-12.2 g/g DM), Fe (29.0-215.0 g/g DM), and Mn (10.8-269.0 g/g DM) levels encompassed ranges known to adequately support livestock and wildlife. Although specific nutrient requirements of rhinoceros are currently unknown, chemical analyses from field samples may provide useful guidelines for dietary management of this species.
20094941|A yellow-backed duiker (Cephalophus sylvicultor) was diagnosed as having bilateral laryngeal paralysis. A midline incision was made over the larynx. Each arytenoid cartilage was lateralized to the thyroid cartilage using 00 wire mattress sutures. The vocal folds were resected on both sides and the remaining defects closed with 00 vicryl sutures. A laryngostomy stoma was created at the surgical site.
20096050|Marsh deer (Blastocerus dichotomus) were captured for a research program in Brazil and maintained in quarantine stations. After 60 days, fleas were detected on animals and identified as Ctenocephalides felis felis. Elimination of the infestation was difficult. Animal treatment with a fipronil-based compound was effective, and subsequently captured animals were treated prophylactically. Some animals remained infested, and some died from the infestation.
20096463|Mycoplasma alligatoris causes acute lethal infection of alligators (Alligator mississippiensis). The objective of this study was to assess the current seroprevalence of M. alligatoris among free-ranging, juvenile and subadult alligators in Florida. Thirty-two of 592 (5.4%) plasma samples from alligators at 12 of 20 sites (60%) in April and October 2003 were tested seropositive (titer 1: 32) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for anti-M. alligatoris antibodies. These results show that alligators throughout Florida have a recent history of exposure to M. alligatoris and suggest that contact with free-ranging alligators may constitute a risk of lethal infection of susceptible crocodilians.
20096476|A prospective clinical trial evaluating efficacy and long-term outcome of treatments for lymphoplasmacytic gastritis in cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) was conducted. The study evaluated efficacy of 11 different antibiotic and antiinflammatory treatment protocols in 32 cheetahs (19 male, 13 female) for reducing gastric inflammation and Helicobacter colonization and monitored the course of disease through histologic grading of gastric biopsies. All cheetahs were biopsied up to 1 wk before treatment and then rebiopsied within 1 mo after treatment. Most animals were reassigned to a second treatment regimen within 6 mo. Each animal received from one to three treatments during the study period. After the trial, gastric biopsies were obtained from each cheetah annually until death or transfer from the facility to assess disease progression. The trial and follow-up period spanned 10 yr. At onset of the trial, all 32 cheetahs had some degree of gastritis, and 26 cheetahs (81%) were colonized with Helicobacter. Inflammatory lesions worsened regardless of treatment or the presence of Helicobacter. No treatment had a significant effect on inflammatory changes except the lansoprazole/clarithromycin/amoxicillin treatment group, which produced a short-term decrease in inflammation when compared to controls. Prednisone had no effect on gastric inflammation. Overall, 65% of colonized cheetahs were initially cleared of histologic evidence of Helicobacter by treatment, with short-term eradication occurring in 100% of the animals treated with omeprazole/clarithromycin/amoxicillin or tetracycline/metronidazole/Pepto-Bismol for 28 days. Long-term follow-up of treated animals in this study clearly demonstrated that these treatments had little effect on life-long progression of gastritis or on Helicobacter burden in individual cheetahs, although some treatments provided short-term reduction in gastritis and Helicobacter. These results provide evidence that Helicobacter alone is not the cause of gastritis in cheetahs and do not support the use of antibacterial treatments in cheetahs unless significant clinical signs (e.g., frequent vomiting/regurgitation, weight loss) are apparent.
20096453|A virus was isolated from the liver and stomach of a leaf-tailed gecko (Uroplatus fimbriatus) with granulomatous lesions on the tongue and hepatitis. The virus was identified as an iridovirus on the basis of morphology by electron microscopy, restriction endonuclease assay, and sequencing of a large portion of the major capsid protein gene. Comparative analysis revealed that this isolate is related to frog virus 3, the type species of the genus Ranavirus.
40665146|In India, leopards (Panthera pardus fusca) inhabit human-dominated landscapes, resulting in encounters that require interventions to prevent harm to people, as well as the leopards. Immobilization is a prerequisite for any such intervention. Such emergency field immobilizations have to be carried out with limited tools, often amidst large uncontrollable crowds. An effective and practicable approach is discussed, based on 55 wild leopard immobilizations undertaken between January 2003 and April 2008. A xylazine hydrochloride (1.4  0.3 mg/kg)-ketamine hydrochloride (5  2 mg/kg) mixture was used for immobilization of leopards, based on estimated body weight. When weight could not be estimated, a standard initial dose of 50 mg of xylazine150 mg of ketamine was used. Supplemental doses (50-75 mg) of only ketamine were used as required. No life-threatening adverse effects of immobilization were documented for at least 1 mo postimmobilization.
41262592|The histologic and immunohistochemical features of a case of mammary gland carcinoma are described in a 14-yr-old female tiger (Panthera tigris). Immunoreactivity to estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), tumoral protein 53 (p53), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2), and cyclooxigenase-2 (COX-2) was investigated. Neoplastic cells were negative for ER, PR, and p53 but showed positivity for VEGF, HER-2, and COX-2, both in the primary and the metastatic lesions. Histopathologic findings and lmmunohistochemistry results suggested that the malignant behavior of the reported case could be comparable with some aggressive cat mammary carcinomas.
20095388|The purpose of this project was to develop a reliable, safe, and efficient technique for surgical castration of the elephant (Elephas maximus and Loxodonta africana). To achieve this, there have been several modifications in surgical technique. Initially, sterilization by injecting caustic agents into the testicles via laparotomy was attempted, but results were unpredictable and had serious side effects. Castration of young males under 5 yr of age was relatively easy using a standard equine chain ecraseur through a single laparotomy incision. For larger males, most cases required two laparotomy incisions with several variations in techniques for removal of the testicles. Initially, self-locking stainless steel bands were placed on the cord as ligatures, and the testicles were removed with an obstetrical wire saw. Because of technical difficulties, this method was abandoned, and an alternative technique was developed. The testicle was removed with an obstetrical wire saw, and then the artery was isolated by digital palpation. A Kelly forceps was secured on the vessel. The forceps was passed through a loop of an equine chain ecraseur and the chain positioned over the artery. The ecraseur was then closed, crushing the vessel. Currently, the most promising technique is the development of a large chain ecraseur that will allow removal of both testicles through a single laparotomy approach.
41417186|Spontaneous endometriosis is an estrogen-dependent, progressive and painful disease that affects a variety of nonhuman primates, including several species of baboons (Papio sp.). This case documents multimodal management of severe endometriosis in a captive female baboon within a zoological institution. An 18-yr-old, intact female Guinea baboon (Papio papio) was found to have an enlarged uterus. Fifteen months post ovariohysterctomy, scarring associated with endometrial tissue resulted in ureteral strictures, bilateral hydronephrosis, and azotemia. Cystoscopic placement of bilateral ureteral stents with fluoroscopy was performed and resulted in short-term clinical improvement. The animal's condition declined and euthanasia was elected 4 mo after ureteral stent placement. Severe endometriosis with secondary inflammation resulting in bilateral hydroureter and hydronephrosis, as well as concurrent cystitis, ureteritis, and pyelonephritis were confirmed at necropsy. Despite possible complications, ureteral stents can be considered a useful therapeutic option in patients with ureteral disease.
20095524|Three juvenile colobus monkeys (Colobus guereza kikuyuensis) ranging from 2 to 10 mo old were diagnosed with primary vitamin-D-deficiency rickets at the Toledo Zoo from 1989 to 1991. Clinical signs varied according to the age of the animal but included difficulty climbing and walking, decreased activity, swollen joints, and bowing of the long bones. Radiographic changes, also dependent on the age of the animal, included cupping of the metaphyses, widening radiolucent epiphyseal plates, and thinning of the cortices. Euthanasia was performed on one animal due to the severity of the clinical signs, and the others were treated with 15,000-30,000 IU ergocalciferol i.m. weekly for 2-8 wk. Subsequent radiographs and vitamin D levels showed improvement 4 and 8 wk after initial examination.
20096603|The pharmacokinetic parameters of carfentanil and naltrexone were determined in the common eland (Taurotragus oryx). Six adult females were immobilized with xylazine (0.23  0.03 mg/kg i.m.) and carfentanil (0.0169  0.0005 mg/kg i.m.) for a 45-min period, during which time routine health care procedures were performed. Heart and respiration rates and body temperatures were monitored throughout the immobilization period. A single intramuscular injection of naltrexone (1.66  0.08 mg/kg i.m.) was sufficient for reversal. The eland were intermittently restrained in a hydraulic squeeze chute for serial blood sample collection via jugular venipuncture during immobilization and up to 48 hr post-immobilization. The quantification of carfentanil and naltrexone in the plasma was performed by liquid chromatography and mass spectroscopy methods. Carfentanil was rapidly absorbed following administration, with the peak plasma concentration (
20096234|Blood samples were collected from 121 individuals of three species of wild-caught nonhuman primates from Kenya, including African green monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops), Syke's monkeys (C. mitis), and olive baboons (Papio cynocephalus anubis), and were examined for circulating Trypanosoma brucei and for T. brucei antigen and anti-trypanosome antibody. Indirect antibody enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay detected titers of anti-T. brucei antibodies in 13 of the primates sampled, and field-oriented latex agglutination test detected invariant T. brucei antigens in 10 (8.3%) of the primates. However, no trypanosomes were visible in blood smears, on wet blood films, or by buffy coat technique, nor were they demonstrable in a subset of C. aethiops individuals that were studied using mouse subinoculation.
20460273|An outbreak of chlamydiosis in newly acquired columbiformes at the San Diego Zoo demonstrated the inability to adequately screen for chlamydiosis by clinical signs alone. Serology using the latex agglutination (LA) test identified 10.1% (31/306) positive or suspicious quarantined columbiformes during this 21-mo survey. Using clinical signs as the sole diagnostic tool, 87.1% of these birds would have been missed. Acquisitions originating from foreign sources accounted for 30 of 31 (96.7%) seropositive or suspicious birds. One-third (9/27) of all the foreign shipments contained at least one positive animal; therefore, pigeons and doves from international sources were considered highly suspect for chlamydiosis. The LA-positive and suspect birds were treated with oral doxycycline (50 mg/kg) s.i.d. for 45 days. Eighteen of 21 serologically positive birds converted to LA-negative status posttreatment, resulting in an 85.7% treatment "success" rate. Current treatment protocols are labor intensive, stressful to the bird, and do not offer satisfactory results. A combination of diagnostic tests may offer best results for individuals but was considered economically impractical for the screening of a large number of birds. A reliable protocol for the management of chlamydiosis in a large number of quarantined columbiformes has been developed using the LA test for the serologic diagnosis of chlamydiosis and evaluation of treatment success.
20096640|Nine marine otters (Lontra felina) were anesthetized 15 times with a combination of ketamine (5.3  0.9 [range: 4.5-8.0] mg/kg) and medetomidine (53  9 [range: 45-80] g/kg) i.m. by hand syringe for the placement of radiotransmitters. Times to initial effect and induction period ranged from 1.1 to 5.0 min and 1.8 to 5.4 min, respectively. Minor complications did occur, including mild hypothermia in six otters and severe hypoxemia in one otter. After 34 and 63 min, anesthesia was antagonized with atipamezole (226  29 [range: 179-265] g/kg) and all otters recovered within 3.3-26.8 min.
20460375|Chemical restraint is an important tool for the management and medical care of both captive and free-ranging rhinoceroses. Current anesthetic protocols for the white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum) are reported to cause varying degrees of hypertension, tachycardia, muscular stiffness and fasciculation, acidosis, and, most importantly, respiratory depression with resulting hypoventilation, hypoxia, and hypercapnea. To assist in the assessment and development of new and improved anesthetic techniques for the white rhinoceros, the following cardiopulmonary reference parameters for standing, unrestrained white rhinoceroses were generated (mean  standard error [minimum - maximum]): heart rate = 39  0.8 beats/min (32-42), respiratory rate = 19  0.6 breaths/min (16-23), corrected indirect systolic blood pressure = 160  2.9 mm Hg (146-183), corrected indirect diastolic blood pressure = 104  2.3 mm Hg (88-117), corrected indirect mean blood pressure = 124  2.2 mm Hg (108-135), end tidal CO = 45.1  0.7 mm Hg (41.7-48.0), rectal temperature = 36.8  0.1C (36.6-37.2), arterial blood pH = 7.391  0.007 (7.346-7.431), arterial partial pressure of oxygen = 98.2  1.4 mm Hg (90.2-108.6), arterial partial pressure of CO = 49.0  0.9 mm Hg (44.4-53.7), base excess = 3.5  0.4 mmol/L (1.9-5.9), bicarbonate = 29.3  0.4 mmol/L (27.3-32.2), and arterial hemoglobin oxygen saturation (
20095302|Immobilization records (n = 33) for captive male giant panads (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) at the China Conservation and Research Centre for the Giant Panda were examined retrospectively. Four different drug combinations (mean dose  SD) were used, including ketamine alone (4.5  1.3 mg/kg), ketamine (7.1  2.1 mg/kg) with diazepam (0.2 mg/kg), ketamine (4.8  1.0 mg/kg) with xylazine (0.43 mg/kg), and tiletamine/zolazepam (5.8  1.3 mg/kg). Use of diazepam with ketamine resulted in an increased dose of ketamine used for immobilization, and tiletamine/zolazepam usage resulted in higher heart rates compared to either ketamine alone (90  26 beats/min) or ketamine with xylazine (82  26 beats/min).
20095550|Severe anemia was documented in a 19-yr-old female chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) in association with excessive serum lead concentrations and heavy menstrual bleeding secondary to a uterine leiomyoma. The anemia was characterized as normocytic, normochromic anemia with reticulocytosis apparent on cytologic examination of peripheral blood. Although these findings are suggestive of regenerative anemia, a bone marrow aspirate could not be obtained to confirm this. After 14 days of chelation therapy with 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid and cessation of menstruation, a reduction in the severity of the anemia was noted. The remaining clinical and clinicopathologic abnormalities dissipated after ovariohysterectomy.
27751702|A 2-yr-old female captive-born Hoffmann's two-toed sloth (Choloepus hoffmanni) presented with respiratory disease. A severe inspiratory dyspnea with nasal congestion was observed with open-mouthed breathing and bilateral mucopurulent nasal exudate. Despite initial treatment with broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy and anti-inflammatory and supportive care, the dyspnea persisted. The animal was anesthetized for bronchoscopy to obtain a deep tracheal sample. Based on culture of Bordetella bronchiseptica and sensitivity, a combination of systemic enrofloxacin, dexamethasone, and coupage with nebulization of saline, gentamicin, and albuterol as well as supportive care resulted in full recovery after 6 weeks of treatment.
20460566|An adult, hermaphroditic Tridacna crocea ornamental clam imported from Vietnam into the USA became terminally moribund with sloughed byssal tissue and incomplete extension of the poorly responsive mantle and was necropsied. Necropsy findings included emaciation, visceral mass edema, and rare multifocal, 1-mm diameter, off-white to light tan gill nodules. Histopathology revealed marked inflammation and necrosis within the visceral mass and gills, with interstitial edema and atrophy of glandular, gonadal, and muscular tissues. Inflamed tissues contained large numbers of 10-15 m extracellular, spherical organisms with a signet-ring morphology consistent with Perkinsus spp. trophozoites. The organisms often formed clusters of two to four cells and were surrounded by a host reaction consisting of a 1-4 m rim of amorphous eosinophilic material and two to four host hemocytes. Incubation of infected host tissues in alternative Ray's fluid thioglycollate medium (ARFTM) confirmed the presence of Perkinsus sp. hypnospores that stained blue-black with Lugol's iodine. Polymerase chain reaction assays with sequencing of products revealed a high level of nucleotide similarity, but no exact match, to known P. olseni isolates. Perkinsus sp. organisms, including P. olseni and P. marinus, which are internationally reportable, are highly pathogenic destructive protozoa capable of disrupting ecosystems populated by nave mollusks within the USA and negatively affecting both domestic and international shellfish industries. This is the first report of an exotic Perkinsus sp. pathogen in an imported ornamental clam maintained long term in a home aquarium. However, ongoing research indicates that T. crocea from Vietnam are commonly infected by such organisms. Veterinarians, aquarium facility mangers, and veterinary clients with hobby aquariums should use appropriate caution and responsible disposal practices for clam carcasses and for water in which imported ornamental clams have been housed. Such practices will reduce the possibility of dispersing viable, exotic Perkinsus sp. organisms into domestic waters.
20095433|A multidisciplinary nonsurgical approach was used to collect oocytes from a 12-yr-old Bornean orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus), perform in vitro fertilization, and attempt embryo transfer into a surrogate hybrid orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus). A donor oocyte stimulation protocol similar to one used for women was followed. The donor orangutan was trained to present her arm for daily injections of leuprolide acetate and menotrophins. Urinary hormone levels as well as transvaginal ultrasound examinations were utilized to monitor the donor's cycle and determine the appropriate time for oocyte retrieval. Three mature oocytes were collected transvaginally from the Bornean orangutan. They were further matured and fertilized in vitro, resulting in two embryos with one polar body each and a third with two faint pronuclear structures and two polar bodies. Thirty-six hours after insemination, all three embryos were transferred transcervically into a 25-yr-old hybrid orangutan recipient who had been treated with an injection of leuprolide acetate in a depot suspension and daily oral estradiol to synchronize her estrous cycle. Implantation did not occur. Clinical and laboratory methods for sperm collection, oocyte retrieval, in vitro fertilization, and transcervical embryo transfer are described.
20096080|Fourteen captive and five free-ranging Minnesota gray wolves (Canis lupus) were tested for the presence of rabies virus neutralizing antibodies (RVNA) after vaccination with an inactivated canine rabies vaccine. Blood was collected from all wolves prior to vaccination and at 1 mo postvaccination (PV) and from all captive and three wild wolves at 3 mo PV. In addition, one free-ranging wolf was sampled at 4 mo PV, and two free-ranging wolves were sampled at 6 mo PV. All wolves were seronegative prior to vaccination. RVNA were detected in 14 (100%) captive wolves and in four of five (80%) free-ranging wolves. The geometric mean titer of the captive wolves at 1 mo PV was significantly higher (P = 0.023) than in the free-ranging wolves. Five of 13 (38.5%) captive wolves and none of the three (0%) free-ranging wolves had measurable RVNA at 3 mo PV. No measurable RVNA were detected in the serum samples collected from the free-ranging wolves at 4 and 6 mo PV. These results should be interpreted with caution because of the small number of free-ranging wolves tested. Further research is needed to properly assess immune function and antibody response to vaccination in captive wolves in comparison with their free-ranging counterparts.
20095570|A male Pallas' cat (Felis manul) was housed under natural lighting conditions in an outdoor pen for 20 mo and subjected to bimonthly reproductive evaluations consisting of blood sampling for hormonal analysis, testicular volume and body weight measurement, and electroejaculation. Distinct seasonal reproductive patterns were identified; sperm production and quality in the breeding season (December-April) was significantly higher (P &lt 0.01) than that in the nonbreeding season (June-October). Testicular volume did not differ (P &gt 0.05) between seasons, but body weight gain and loss occurred (P &lt 0.01) 1-2 mo before the breeding and nonbreeding seasons, respectively. Although serum testosterone concentrations were similar (P &gt 0.05) in both seasons, serum luteinizing hormone (LH) concentrations were greater (P &lt 0.01) during the breeding season, and sperm concentration, total number of sperm per ejaculate, percentage of morphologically normal sperm, sperm motility, and serum LH concentration were correlated (r = 0.60-0.99; P &lt 0.05). The male Pallas' cat exhibits a pronounced reproductive seasonality, which has important implications for captive breeding management and genome resource banking.
20095468|A total of 4,066 serum samples from 20 species of wildlife were collected from several game areas in Zimbabwe during 1990 and 1991. The samples were tested for antibodies to Brucella by rose bengal, tube serum agglutination, and complement fixation tests. Antibodies were detected in 29 of 444 (6.5%) African buffalo (Syncerus caffer), eight of 555 (1.4%) eland antelope (Tragelaphus oryx), two of 222 (0.9%) giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis), and one of 2,068 (0.05%) impala (Aepyceros melampus). Contact with livestock was likely in the case of seropositive eland antelope, impala, and giraffe, whereas 14 of 29 (48%) samples from positive buffalo were collected from game areas where contacts with domestic cattle, sheep, and goats could be excluded. These serologic data document the exposure of Zimbabwean wildlife to Brucella spp. and demonstrate that the infection may be able to cycle independently in African buffalo populations, which consequently should be considered a possible source of reinfection for domestic stock.
20096621|An adult female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) presented with an enlarging nasal limbal mass of the left eye. The mass was excised and the surgical bed treated with liquid nitrogen cryotherapy. Histopathologic examination of the excised tissue showed the mass to be a superficial dysplastic ocular lesion, or conjunctival intraepithelial neoplasm. A 5-yr follow-up period has passed without complications or recurrence, suggesting that as is the case in humans (Homo sapiens), excision and cryotherapy is an effective treatment for these lesions in elephants. This is the first report of any ocular neoplasia in an elephant.
20095792|From 1993 to 1995, approximately 10% of the clinically healthy northern elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris) at The Marine Mammal Center in California exhibited a large unexplained increase in their white blood cell (WBC) count. In these animals, WBC counts ranged from 28,780 to 125,000/mm, with a mean of 50,087/mm. Significant correlations between the leukocytosis and weight gain and day of admittance were identified, but no correlation existed between leukocytosis and general state of health, sex, length of stay, or diet. Bone marrow contamination of blood samples, erroneous automated leukocyte counts, and leukogram changes consistent with subclinical inflammation were the major factors contributing to the elevated WBC counts in these apparently clinically healthy animals.
20095077|A 4-day-old bongo antelope (Boocerus eurycerus) was examined because of depression, inability to rise, hypothermia, dehydration, and swelling of the right side of the pelvis. Failure of passive transfer of immunoglobulins, neonatal septicemia due to Escherichia coli, and coxofemoral luxation were diagnosed. A systolic murmur was detected upon cardiac auscultation. Echocardiography demonstrated an atrial septal defect of the ostium secundum type. Necropsy confirmed the diagnosis of E. coli septicemia and atrial septal defect. Suppurative omphalophlebitis, polyarthritis, and patent urachus were also found at necropsy.
20095791|Serum and plasma samples were collected from 92 gray seal (Halichoerus grypus) pups, all less than 5 wk old, and from 21 yearlings during the breeding season at the Isle of May, Firth of Forth, Scotland, for hematologic and clinical chemistry analysis. In the pups, total WBC, total protein, and glucose values increased until weaning and declined during the postweaning fast. Liver enzymes, particularly alkaline phosphatase, were high at birth and decreased steadily with age, most rapidly during the postweaning fast. In the yearlings, total WBC, erythrocyte sedimentation rates, and rectal temperatures were significantly higher than in the pups and glucose levels were significantly lower. Therefore, consideration should be given to the growth phase of gray seal pups (lactation or postweaning fast) or stage of development when hematology and clinical chemistries are used for diagnostic purposes.
20460573|An adult male, wild-caught fairy bluebird (Irena puella) was evaluated after diagnosis of hepatic mycobacterial disease in a bird sharing the same quarantine space. Initial results did not reveal leukocytosis or acid-fast organisms in a liver biopsy. However, Mycobacterium avium was found in the liver via polymerase chain reaction (PCR). After euthanasia, acid-fast stains remained negative in the liver, although PCR was positive and M. avium complex (identified by high-performance liquid chromatography) was isolated from the liver. PCR could offer a relatively sensitive and rapid diagnostic test in the investigation of mycobacterial disease in avian patients.
40665087|A 2.5-yr-old female llama (Lama peruana) with skin lesions was presented to the Animal Health Center in Seoul Grand Park Zoo, Korea. Mites of the genus Demodex in the absence of other mites or fungi were identified from the lesions by skin scrapings. The bodies were elongated, tapered, and 200-280 um in length; four pairs of stumpy legs were present at the front of the body, and the striated opisthosoma constituted about half of the body length. Histologic examination of the skin biopsy showed typical folliculitis, hyperkeratinization of epidermis, and infiltration of inflammatory cells, consisting mainly of eosinophils and monocytes, in dermis. Although mites were undetected in the dilated hair follicles, the histologic features are consistent with descriptions of infestation by Demodex spp. This is believed to be the first case of skin lesions associated with Demodex sp. in L. peruana. Incidental findings were previously described in a different species of llamas (Lama glama) without any recognized symptoms. Treatment with amitraz (0.025%) eliminated the mites and resolved the clinical signs.
27751754|Urine was collected from 22 healthy female adult Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) and analyzed for the purpose of determining normal biochemical and microscopic parameters. Findings included urine that was less concentrated compared to other mammals, predominantly alkaline pH, crystalluria of varying types in all samples, and minimal cellularity. Glucose and urobilinogen were not detected in any samples. Trace ketones and trace bilirubin occurred in two different samples. Trace blood was identified in another sample. Three samples tested positive for protein via dipstick but were confirmed negative through the sulfosalicylic acid test. Two samples contained mucus threads. Bacteria were seen microscopically in four samples, and could be cultured from six others, but, because of the lack of an associated inflammatory response and the heterogeneous populations of organisms observed, were considered to be contaminants from distal urethra, the vestibulovulva, or the environment. Because of the variability in elephant urine, baseline values for elephants within captive herds should be obtained and regular assessments should be performed over time to allow trending of data. Establishment of normal urine values provides an important tool in elephant health care.
20096658|The relationship between end-tidal partial pressure of carbon dioxide (
20095928|Reported herein are hematocrit and total and differential WBCs obtained from 132 clinically healthy male and female white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) of four different age groups: 4, 5-8, 9-20, and &gt32 wk old. Minimal differences were identified between the age groups. The number and percentage of neutrophils in the 4-wk-old mice were significantly higher than those in the other groups; the relative percentage of lymphocytes in the 4-wk-old mice was significantly lower than in the 9-20-wk-old mice. The only significant gender effects identified were higher numbers of WBCs and lymphocytes in females of the 4-wk-old group and higher hematocrits in males of the 5-8- and &gt32-wk-old groups.
41262589|Individual dietary preferences and difficulty with animal training create challenges and nutritional concerns when evaluating a captive sea otter (Enhydra lutris) diet. The importance of vitamin A within the body reflects the necessity that it be ingested in adequate amounts to ensure optimal health. To compare levels of serum vitamin A concentrations from captive sea otters on daily oral vitamin A supplementation, serum samples from eight adult sea otters from three institutions were evaluated for serum vitamin A concentrations. The eight animals were fed a total of four different diets and received oral supplementation via three different methods. Multiple diet items were analyzed for vitamin A content and were found to have low to nondetectable levels of vitamin A. Oral vitamin A supplementation, as a slurry with dietary items, was shown to be effective and a mean serum concentration of approximately 170  51 g/L was obtained for serum vitamin A concentrations in captive sea otters. Captive diets can be modified to increase vitamin A concentration and supplementation and, if accepted, can be used as a means to ensure adequate vitamin A intake.
20095994|An oral mass was observed in a Malayan tapir (Tapirus indicus). Squamous cell carcinoma was diagnosed by histologic examination of a biopsy specimen. A series of intralesional injections using fluorouracil resulted in complete regression of the neoplasm with no recognized adverse effects.
20096696|Iron overload was induced by iron dextrain i.v. in clinically healthy adult pigeons, Columbia livia, (n = 8). Hemosiderosis was induced in all treated birds. Two control pigeons received no iron injections. Pigeons did not show clinical signs of iron overload during the 6-wk study. Ultrasound examination of the liver in the pigeons receiving iron dextran was performed on days 0, 13, 28, and 42. No ultrasound images were collected on the control pigeons. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed on days 0, 13, 28, and 42 on all study pigeons and imaging sequences were collected in three different imaging formats: T1, T2, and gradient-recalled echo (GRE). Surgical liver biopsies were performed on pigeons receiving iron dextran on days 2, 16, and 45 (at necropsy). A single liver sample was collected at necropsy from the control birds. Histologic examination, quantitative image analysis, and tissue iron analysis by thin-layer chromatography were performed on each liver sample and compared to the imaging studies. Although hemosiderosis was confirmed histologically in each experimental pigeon, no significant change in pixel intensity of the ultrasound images was seen at any point in the study. Signal intensity, in all magnetic resonance imaging formats, significantly decreased in a linear fashion as the accumulation of iron increased.
27751739|A captive fallow deer (Dama dama) in a zoo was spontaneously poisoned after consumption of Sida carpinifolia. The paddock where cervids were kept was severely infested by S. carpinifolia. The deer developed a neurological syndrome characterized by muscular weakness, intention tremors, visual and standing-up deficits, falls, and abnormal behavior and posture. Because a severe mandibular fracture and the consequent deteriorating condition, it was euthanized. Main microscopic findings were swelling and multifocal cytoplasmic vacuolation in the Purkinje cells. The cytoplasm of multiple cells of the cerebellum, especially the Purkinje cells, stained with the lectins Concanavalia ensiformis, Triticum vulgaris, and succinylated Triticum vulgaris. Diagnostic possibilities such as bovine diarrhea virus, rabies, and transmissible spongiform encephalopathy were excluded. The report focuses on the risk of maintaining S. carpinifolia populations in zoo enclosures of wild herbivores.
20095515|Fourteen African elephants (Loxodonta africana africana) were immobilized with either etorphine hydrochloride (3.2  0.5 g/kg i.m.) or carfentanil citrate (2.4 g/kg i.m.). Induction time with etorphine was significantly longer (30  21 min) than with carfentanil (8  2 min). Immediately following immobilization all elephants were placed in lateral recumbency and respiratory rate, heart rate, and rectal body temperature were monitored every 5 min throughout the immobilization period. Arterial blood samples, collected from an auricular artery, were taken 10 min after immobilization and every 15 min thereafter for up to 1 hr. At the first sampling, mean values for arterial blood gas variables for etorphine immobilized elephants were pHa, 7.29  0.03; Paco, 53.4  5.2 mm Hg; Pao, 71.8  13.8 mm Hg; standard base excess (SBE), -1.6  2.9 mEq/L; and
20095235|A subadult African lioness (Panthera leo) was presented with excessive salivation, star gazing, high-stepping gait, abnormal behavior, and loss of consciousness. Antibiotic treatment resulted in only temporary improvement. Clinical examination revealed a mild hypoalbuminemia and an elevated fasting blood ammonia concentration of 292 mol/L. During laparotomy, a large tortuous vein was found that entered the vena cava caudal to its confluence with the renal veins. An intraoperative mesenteric portography was performed, and the vein was identified as an extrahepatic solitary portopostcaval shunt. While the basal mesenteric pressure was being monitored, the shunt was ligated. Postligational portal angiography revealed the portal blood flow passing through the liver. Blood ammonia concentration decreased to 52.6 mol/L within 2 hr after surgery and to 37.1 mol/L 8 days postoperative. No further signs have been observed in the lioness.
20460491|The introduction of a new group of dendrobatid frogs to an established captive amphibian collection was followed by several acute mortalities in both resident and introduced frog populations. Chytridiomycosis, caused by Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, was diagnosed by histology in two of the dead frogs. Following the diagnosis, all amphibians were moved to a specially made quarantine room with strict handling protocols and treated with itraconazole. Frogs, being terrestrial amphibians, were treated with itraconazole (Sporanox, 10 mg/ml) at 0.01% in 0.6% saline in a 5-min bath for 11 consecutive days. Axolotls (Ambystoma mexicanum) and Kaup's caecilians (Potymotyphlus kaupii), being aquatic amphibians, were treated with itraconazole administered directly in their primary tank water to achieve a concentration of 0.01% for 30 min every 5 days for four treatments. Itraconazole was removed from the tank water after 30 min by high-rate-of-flow activated charcoal filters. The treatment and quarantine procedures were successful in eradicating the disease. The few amphibian mortalities that occurred in the 18 mo after the start of the treatment have been histologically negative for the presence of chytrid fungi. The collection is now considered free of chytridiomycosis.
40665151|A 7-yr-old female western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) shared an enclosure with 10 other gorillas at the Limbe Wildlife Centre (LWC), a wildlife rehabilitation centre in Cameroon. The gorilla had been living at the LWC for more than 6 yr prior to the exhibition of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)-like clinical signs. The gorilla improved dramatically after metronidazole therapy. The report suggests that metronidazole was effective because it eliminated the protozoa, Dientamoeba fragilis. Dientamoeba fragilis should be considered on the differential diagnosis list of any captive gorilla with IBS-like symptoms.
20079487|The pharmacokinetics of amikacin in emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) was examined following parenteral administration. A mean 7.2  0.12 mg/kg dose was administered as a single i.v. bolus, and serum samples were collected at predetermined intervals over a 24-hr period. Amikacin levels were measured using a fluorescence polarization immunoassay, and the resulting concentration-versus-time curve was analyzed using nonlinear regression with least squares parameter estimation. The data were best represented by a three-compartment model with a mean elimination half-life (
20096591|Nonhuman primates can be naturally infected with a plethora of viruses with zoonotic potential, including retroviruses. These simian viruses present risks to both captive nonhuman primate populations and persons exposed to nonhuman primates. Simian retroviruses, including simian immunodeficiency virus, simian type D retrovirus, simian T-lymphotropic virus, and gibbon ape leukemia virus, have been shown to cause clinical disease in nonhuman primates. In contrast, simian foamy virus, a retrovirus that is highly prevalent in most nonhuman primates, has not been associated with clinical disease in naturally infected primates. Although it has been shown that human retrovirus infections with human T-lymphotropic virus and human immunodeficiency virus originated through multiple independent introductions of simian retroviruses into human populations that then spread globally, little is known about the frequency of such zoonotic events. In this article, exogenous simian retroviruses are reviewed as a concern for zoo and wildlife veterinarians, primate handlers, other persons in direct contact with nonhuman primates, and other nonhuman primates in a collection. The health implications for individual animals as well as managed populations in zoos and research institutions are discussed, the cross-species transmission and zoonotic disease potential of simian retroviruses are described, and suggestions for working safely with nonhuman primates are provided.
20460390|A 12-yr-old, intact male squirrel (Sciurus sp.) presented with a 15 mm--by-20 mm area of alopecia and plaque-like dermal thickening over the left caudolateral thorax. Routine diagnostic tests ruled out more common conditions that result in alopecia, such as dermatophytosis and acariasis. A punch biopsy was obtained under anesthesia and submitted for histopathologic evaluation. The diagnosis of epitheliotropic lymphoma was made, and follow-up surgical excision was performed. Histopathologic features were consistent with epitheliotropic lymphoma, and immunohistochemistry confirmed a T-cell origin. There was no local recurrence, new lesions, or evidence of metastasis 10 mo after surgical excision. To our knowledge, to date, epitheliotropic lymphoma has not been described in a squirrel.
20095279|Diseases in free-ranging wildlife, other than those in species of economic importance or diseases of public health significance, have long been overlooked and thus are rarely monitored. Recent findings, however, demonstrate that disease agents must be considered as integral in shaping many aspects of wildlife behavior and ecology. Very few scientists are trained in or function specifically with the study of diseases of free-ranging wildlife, and funding for such projects is difficult to obtain. The application of new biotechnological tools will no doubt contribute considerably to the rapid advancement of this field. The consideration of disease in all stages of species conservation projects is especially important because of the possibilities of genetic depression of immunity and the introduction of diseases into wild populations.
20095656|Three cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) had a clinical history of chronic spiral bacteria-associated gastritis and three cheetahs had no clinical history of gastritis. Gastric biopsies were obtained from all six cheetahs prior to treatment for gastritis and 3 wk and 1 yr posttreatment. The cheetahs were treated with tetracycline hydrochloride 500 mg p.o. q.i.d., metronidazole 250 mg p.o. q.i.d., and bismuth subsalicylate 300 mg p.o. q.i.d. Each drug was administered concurrently for 7 days. Following this treatment, each cheetah was maintained on 300 mg bismuth subsalicylate p.o. s.i.d. for 1 yr. The three cheetahs with a history of gastritis were culture positive for Helicobacter acinonyx and remained positive during the entire study. The three cheetahs with no clinical history of gastritis were culture negative for H. acinonyx, but gastric biopsies revealed Gastrospirillum-like bacteria (tentatively named Helicobacter heilmannii) pre-treatment. Gastric biopsies were negative for H. heilmannii on subsequent examinations. Although the treatment did not eradicate H. acinonyx, it did provide symptomatic relief from the vomiting, anorexia, and weight loss associated with clinical gastritis. The use of endoscopically guided gastric mucosal biopsies for urease testing and histopathologic examination of Warthin-Starry-stained sections is a sensitive and specific method of diagnosing spiral bacteria-associated gastritis. Treatment of spiral bacteria-associated gastritis in cheetahs should include the rational use of antibiotics (tetracycline or amoxicillin and metronidazole), bismuth compounds, and omeprazole and evaluation of husbandry methods to reduce stress.
20096241|Cerebral arteriosclerosis was observed upon necropsy of a 36-yr-old female captive polar bear (Ursus maritimus) that developed a sudden onset of seizure-like activity and died. The medium and large cerebral arteries of the meninges had moderate to severe diffuse discoloration and mineralization of the matrix of the tunica media, with little or no associated cellular reaction. Scanning electron microscopy of the affected arteries showed discrete crystalline calcified deposits in the media and sclerosis of the arterial wall. There were no lesions in the brainstem. The findings suggested a sudden and rapidly fatal loss of blood flow to the brain caused by long-standing arterial lesions. Incidental findings included numerous 0.1- to 10-cm-diameter, hepatic cysts lined with hyperplastic biliary epithelium, a unilateral, unipolar, 3-cm-diameter renal tubular adenoma, and approximately 250 active Baylisascaris sp. nematodes in the intestines.
20095883|Management of the endangered black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis michaeli) in Africa frequently involves translocation. These procedures are not without risk, and protocols must be critically examined. Hematologic analyses can be used to evaluate the effects of translocation on animal health. Hematologic data obtained during routine translocation of free ranging black rhinoceros (n = 74) in Kenya between 1991 and 1995 were examined, and subsets of data from rhinoceros (n = 43) that were translocated to different regions of Kenya were compared. All animals showed an increase in total blood protein. Animals transported for longer periods and to lower altitude zones with higher ambient temperatures and trypanosomiasis developed anemia and showed neutrophilia, lymphopenia (males), and eosinopenia. The changes in packed cell volume (PCV), hemaglobin, and neutrophils were more marked in females, and the PCV drop was more significant in subadults. The red cell changes were most probably pathologic, involving the loss of red cells from circulation through sequestration or hemorrhage. The changes in white cell parameters are consistent with the effect of endogenous corticosteroids as a result of stress. Transport and confinement stress might lead to gastric ulceration with hemorrhage. In many animals, exposure to trypanosomes contributes to anemia.
20096177|An infestation by the parasitic copepod Pennella balaenopterae was found in a stranded, 8-mo-old, female northern elephant seal (Mirounga angustirostris). Diagnosis was based on the finding of the cephalothoraxes of 14 adult female copepods from three subcutaneous sites. Bacteria cultured from lesion exudate included Arcanobacterium phocae, Escherichia coli, Edwardsiella tarda, an Enterococcus sp., and Proteus mirabilis. The lesions were drained and irrigated with chlorhexidine, and the seal was treated with a subcutaneous injection of ivermectin. The seal recovered and was released after 43 days.
20096304|One hundred and five wild-caught emerald tree boas (Corallus caninus) were added to a collection of 15 others, in Central Florida, during a 4-mo period. Eighty-one boas (67%) developed repetitive regurgitation during the 23-mo period after the initial introduction, and 61 (75%) of these died. Regurgitation occurred 3-4 days after feeding. Prevalence of regurgitation in this population of snakes was 25%/mo (range 0-42%), and incidence was 3.52/mo (range 0-13/mo). The cumulative mortality for those boas developing repetitive regurgitation (61 of 120) during the 23-mo epizootic was 51%. Hematologic findings included anemia and leukocytosis, with lymphocytosis, monocytosis, and azurophilia. Histologic evaluation of the gastrointestinal tract showed multifocal to diffuse lymphoplasmacytic inflammation with granuloma formation and positive immunohistochemical staining for chlamydial antigen. Electron microscopic evaluation of granulomas showed organisms consistent with Chlamydophila sp.
40665080|This study was performed to determine the histologic structure of the uropygial gland in an osprey. The gland was composed of two elongated lobes which were enclosed in a capsule of connective tissue. Each lobe of the gland had a large central cavity with one excretory duct. The secretory tubules consisted of four cell types: basal, intermediate, secretory, and degenerative. The intermediate cells in the osprey were few in number and did not form a layer, while secretory and degenerative cells consist of 2-3 strata, indicating a high level of lipogenesis. The membranes and peripheral cytoplasm of degenerative cells located in the base of the lobes revealed calcium (Ca) deposition and an intense acidophilic reaction.
20095695|Four of five golden lion tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia) died after a brief period of illness 13 to 21 days following the consumption of a feral mouse by the group. There of the four animals died within hours after being observed as clinically healthy. The fourth animal became weak, failed to respond to treatment, and died several hours after treatment. At necropsy, there were bands of serosal and mucosal hemorrhages of the intestines, and the lungs were mottled. Histologically, necrosis and acute inflammation associated with tachyzoites of Toxoplasma gondii were found in intestines, liver, heart, lung, and eyes. The communally consumed mouse was presumed to be the source of T. gondii infection in this exhibit. The surviving tamarin probably did not share food.
20079482|Pharmacokinetics has been extensively utilized to calculate safe and effective drug dosages for many exotic animal species. This practice is optimal when the complete pharmacokinetic profile is determined from an intravenous study in the target species. Extrapolation across species using allometric techniques also requires precise yet robust intravenous pharmacokinetic data from the species for which the analyses is made. The report is an overview of the design and analysis of such pivotal pharmacokinetic experiments, taking into consideration the use of pilot studies to determine optimal sampling times, the true purpose of the study (determine model structure vs. estimating a known model's parameters), and strategies of data analysis. By following these simple guidelines, the exotic animal community should benefit by having reliable data on drug disposition for their species of interest.
20460330|Thirty-five anesthetic events involving 15 captive addax (Addax nasomaculatus) were performed between August 1998 and February 2002 using a combination of etorphine (33.7  7.9 g/kg) and detomidine (21.9  4.6 g/kg) or a combination of medetomidine (57.4  8.6 g/kg) and ketamine (1.22  0.3 g/kg), with or without supplemental injectable or inhalant anesthetic agents. Etorphine-detomidine anesthesia was antagonized with diprenorphine (107.1  16.4 g/kg) and atipamezole (100.9  42.4 g/kg). Medetomidine-ketamine anesthesia was antagonized with atipamezole (245.3  63.4 g/kg). Animals became recumbent within 5 min when the combination of etorphine and detomidine was used and within 11 min when the combination of medetomidine and ketamine was used. Both drug combinations were suitable for use as primary immobilizing agents producing short-duration restraint and analgesia. Bradycardia was noted with both combinations. Further investigation of the cardiopulmonary effects of both combinations is warranted.
20096641|A 3.5-yr-old, 2.5-kg female African penguin (Spheniscus demersus) was diagnosed with a choanal squamous cell carcinoma on the basis of biopsy after a history of choanal ulceration and anorexia with weight loss. Therapeutic modalities included the use of intralesional cisplatin followed by localized, topical cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen. The penguin remained free of clinical disease for a period of 9 mo, at which time a second cryotreatment was performed. The patient has remained free of all signs of choanal carcinoma for a period of 13 mo since the second cryotreatment.
40665142|A 3-yr-old, female captive golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia) developed an abscess initially within the oral cavity that progressed to the cheek. Treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, enrofloxacin, and sulfamethoxizole/trimethoprim resulted in temporary resolution of the abscess. Cultures from the abscess included Escherichia coli, Enterobacter cloacae, hemolytic Staphylococcus, and Serrada marcescens. Histopathology was consistent with chronic cellulitis. Ceftazidime mixed with a thermoreversable polymer gel was surgically placed in the wound to provide long-term local antibiotic therapy. This provided complete resolution of infection without the need for additional surgical procedures.
20096420|The western barred bandicoot (Perameles bougainville) is an endangered species, free ranging on only two islands off the coast of Western Australia (Dorre and Bernier Islands). Conservation efforts are currently directed at reintroducing these marsupials into predator-proof enclosures and habitats in historical distribution ranges on the mainland in the southwest of Western Australia and in South Australia. In September 2000, 19 western barred bandicoots were captured on Bernier Island for translocation, and 11 of these had evidence of at least one of the following eye conditions: corneal opacity, conjunctivitis, ocular discharge, and blepharitis. Five bandicoots were examined, and conjunctival and cloacal swabs were collected. Polymerase chain reaction for Chlamydiales was positive in four bandicoots. Four Chlamydiales types were identified by gene sequencing, including a strain of Chlamydia pecorum different from strains previously found in koalas and several new Chlamydiales genotypes. The bandicoots responded excellently to treatment with oxytetracyline weekly for 6 wk, and topical oxytetracycline and neomycin were administered topically to both eyes s.i.d. for 4 mo.
20096531|Twenty-four juvenile to subadult Anegada iguanas (Cyclura pinguis), captive-reared in a propagation facility, were designated by a coordinated recovery program for release in the summer of 2003. To facilitate postrelease monitoring, a radiotransmitter device was placed within the coelomic cavity of each animal under general anesthesia before release. The equipment sterilization technique and the method of attachment of the transmitters to the coelomic body wall resulted in functional transmitters and acceptably low rates of mortality associated with the procedure.
20096530|Uterine leiomyomas occurred in three eastern bongo (Tragelaphus eurycerus isaaci) 10, 15, and 16 yr of age at three separate zoological institutions. Two animals were nulliparous, and one had given birth to 14 calves over its lifetime. Two of the leiomyomas originated in the cervix. The third originated in the uterine wall and incorporated the body of the uterus and both uterine horns. The tumors in the two animals that had never calved were large and nonresectable. They were associated with gastrointestinal clinical signs including diarrhea, anorexia, and the inability to defecate. The tumor in the animal that had calved was an incidental finding at necropsy. Uterine leiomyomas have not been previously documented in the literature on eastern bongo.
20460523|Health and nutritional assessments of wildlife are important management tools and can provide a means to evaluate ecosystem health. Such examinations were performed on 37 white-fronted brown lemurs (Eulemur fulvus albifrons) from four sites in Madagascar. Comparison of health parameters between sites revealed statistically significant differences in body weight, body temperature, respiratory rate, hematology parameters (white cell count, hematocrit, segmented neutrophil count, and lymphocyte count), serum chemistry parameters (aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, serum alkaline phosphatase, total protein, albumin, phosphorus, calcium, sodium, chloride, and creatinine phosphokinase), and nutrition parameters (copper, zinc, ferritin, retinol, tocopherol, and 25-hydroxycholecalciferol). Two of 10 lemurs tested were positive for toxoplasmosis; none of 10 were positive for Cryptosporidium or Giardia. Enteric bacteria and endo- and ectoparasites were typical. Statistically different values in hematology and chemistry values probably do not reflect clinically significant differences, whereas nutrition parameter differences are likely related to season, soil, and forage availability.
20094974|Six captive-born puff adders (Bitis arietans), housed together in a fiberglass reptile cage, died within 4 mo of acquisition. All snakes occasionally regurgitated mice within 2 days of feeding and one snake manifested a mild respiratory disease preceding death. At necropsy, all snakes had exudate within the pericardial sac and two snakes had multifocal white nodules in their livers. Histologic examination revealed granulomatous peri- and myocarditis, pneumonia, hepatitis, splenitis, and enteritis with basophilic inclusion bodies of various sizes within the caseated centers of the granulomas. The inclusions were found by electron microscopy and consisted of pleomorphic bodies typical of the developmental stages of the genus Chlamydia.
20095394|Morphometric, hematologic, and serum chemistry reference values were determined for 12 clinically normal male and female Antillean manatees (Trichechus manatus manatus) captured from a zoological park in Guyana. The goals of this study were to establish reference values for this endangered species and to compare the results with published values for the Florida manatee (Trichechus manatus latirostris). Average total body length and fluke length of male and female Antillean manatees were smaller than those of the Florida manatee. In addition, visual comparison of the two subspecies revealed differences in intraocular eye distance, orbital placement, and snout size. The majority of hematologic and serum chemistry measurements in this study were similar to those reported for the Florida manatee. Microscopic assessment of blood films revealed that Antillean manatees had neutrophils rather than heterophils that have been observed in Florida manatees. Barr bodies were identified in neutrophils of all adult female Antillean manatees. In addition, some neutrophils had hypersegmented nuclei (more than five lobes), and most eosinophils had hyposegmented nuclei with cytoplasmic granules that were small, round, and bright pink. Wide variation in creatine kinase values was attributed to blood collection technique and the muscle exertion that occurred during capture. Serum values for total CO (TCO) were lower and those for calculated anion gap were higher than reported values for Florida manatees and other mammals. The reduction in TCO concentration was indicative of metabolic acidosis. Two mechanisms for the acidosis are suggested. The increase in anion gap demonstrated an accumulation of organic acids in the blood. Lactic acidemia from muscle exertion was suspected. Acidosis could also have been a compensatory response to a respiratory alkalosis caused by hyperventilation and heat stress. Laboratory and morphometric data from a juvenile female Antillean manatee are reported.
40962256|In this study, the authors describe a simple, nontraumatic procedure for ultrasound-guided placement and maintenance of jugular and cephalic vein catheterization. The ultrasound scans were performed with a GE Logiq 400 machine connected to a multifrequency (7-11 MHz) linear-array transducer. To find the cephalic vein, longitudinal and transverse color-Doppler ultrasonographic scans were made of the dorsal surface of the flipper. To find the jugular vein, scans of the midline of the lateral surface of the neck were performed. Once the vein had been located, a 16-to 22-gauge 51 -mm needle catheter was inserted into the skin beneath the ultrasound probe, inclined at 15-25 degrees to the skin surface. The successful insertion of the catheter inside the vein was monitored by ultrasound. The authors believe that the procedure described offers a good option for fashioning a simple, nontraumatic, and durable vascular access in sea turtles compared with previously described techniques.
20096396|A 4.5-yr-old male dromedary camel (Camelus dromedarius) was evaluated for a mass on the right side of the face. A complete blood count and blood chemistry revealed anemia and hypoproteinemia. Radiographs did not reveal bony involvement. The mass was resected and Pythium insidiosum was cultured. The camel was treated with an experimental immunotherapeutic vaccine and with sodium iodide and ceftiofur. The camel began to lose weight postoperatively and died 6 mo later. At necropsy, the camel was found to have gastritis of the thrid compartment of the stomach with intralesional hyphae of this oomycete pathogen.
20095639|A 5-yr-old captive-born reticulated giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis reticulata) was tranquilized with i.m. xylazine 34 times in a 39-day period to allow nursing by her calf. Xylazine administered at approximately 0.16 mg/kg i.m. provided adequate sedation of the dam without detrimental side effects to the dam or the calf. While the dam was sedated, the calf was able to ingest adequate amounts of milk to produce acceptable weight gains until he was consistently eating solid foods.
20096100|Heparinized blood samples from 15 adult small island flying foxes (Pteropus hypomelanus) were stored at 22C for 0-, 6-, and 24-hr intervals prior to centrifugation and separation of plasma from erythrocytes. Mean plasma biochemical values of 16 analytes were determined from all samples. Mean values of blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, total protein, albumin, globulin, alkaline phosphatase, alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase, cholesterol, calcium, sodium, and bilirubin did not change significantly over 24 hr at 22C. Glucose was decreased at 6 and 24 hr. Potassium and phosphorus increased and chloride decreased, respectively, between 6 and 24 hr.
20096677|The aim of this research was to obtain basic values for the evaluation of thyroid function in nondomestic felids. Serum thyroid hormone concentrations (thyroxine, T4; triiodothyronine, T3) were measured by radioimmunoassay in 145 cats, representing nine species of captive nondomestic felids: jaguar (Panthera onca), n = 49; puma (Puma concolor), n = 10; ocelot (Leopardus pardalis), n = 22; oncilla (Leopardus tigrinus), n = 12; geoffroy (Oncifelis geoffroyi), n = 4; jaguarundi (Herpailurus yaguarondi), n = 8; margay (Leopardus wiedii), n = 7; lion (Panthera leo), n = 26; and tiger (Panthera tigris), n = 7. For each species, mean  SEM of T3 and T4, respectively, were as follows: jaguar, 0.56  0.03 and 9.7  0.8 ng/ml; puma, 0.67  0.04 and 11.2  1.2 ng/ml; ocelot, 0.48  0.03 and 13.8  1.5 ng/ml; oncilla, 0.43  0.03 and 10.0  1.6 ng/ml; geoffroy, 0.44  0.04 and 8.0  0.16 ng/ml; jaguarundi, 0.7  0.03 and 5.0  1.0 ng/ml; margay, 0.48  0.04 and 12.2  2.3 ng/ml; lion, 0.43  0.02 and 5.7  2.6 ng/ml; and tiger, 0.66  0.03 and 12.6  0.9 ng/ml. Within species, T3 and T4 concentrations did not differ (P &gt 0.05) between males and females.
20460476|A web-based survey was presented to 158 Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA)--accredited zoos and 31 AZA-accredited aquariums or marine-life parks in the United States and Canada via e-mail. The survey included questions about veterinary employment and salaries. Representative from 124 zoos and 15 aquariums responded. Zoos and aquariums with higher operating budgets were more likely to employ full-time veterinarians. The number and percentage of zoos employing full-time zoo veterinarians have increased since the previous job survey that took place in 1988, with 59.6% of all responding zoos employing at least one full-time veterinarian. During the same time span, the proportion of male to female zoo veterinarians has shifted from a predominantly male group to an almost equal ratio. Salaries for full-time zoo and aquarium veterinarians ranged from $20,800 to $150,000.
20096172|Superficial and systemic mycotic infections are common among clinically ill sea turtles, which places growing importance on the establishment of pharmacokinetic-based dosage regimens for antifungal drugs. The pharmacokinetic properties of the antifungal drug fluconazole, after intravenous (i.v.) and subcutaneous (s.c.) injections, were studied in juvenile loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) housed at 23.0-26.5C. Fluconazole pharmacokinetic properties were further assessed in a multiple-dose s.c. regimen derived from the pharmacokinetic parameters determined in the single-dose study. Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated, using a two-compartment model, from plasma concentration-time data obtained after single i.v. and s.c. administrations of fluconazole at a dosage of 2.5 mg/kg body weight in six juvenile sea turtles. Blood samples were collected at intervals through 120 hr after each dose, and the concentration of fluconazole in plasma was measured by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. The i.v. and s.c. elimination half-lives were 139.5  36.0 and 132.6  48.7 hr (mean  SD), respectively. Systemic clearance of fluconazole was 8.2  4.3 ml/kg-hr, and the apparent volume of distribution at steady state was 1.38  0.29 L/kg. A multiple-dose regimen was derived, which consisted of a loading dose of 21 mg/kg body weight and subsequent doses of 10 mg/kg administered through s.c. injection every 120 hr (5 days). This regimen was administered to four juvenile sea turtles for 10 days, and blood samples were taken to determine peak and through plasma concentrations of fluconazole. The mean concentrations for the two peak concentrations were 16.9  1.1 and 19.1  2.8 g/ml 4 hr after dosing, and the mean concentrations for the three trough concentrations were 7.2  2.2, 10.4  2.7, and 10.7  2.9 g/ml 120 hr after dosing. The terminal half-life after the last dose was calculated at 143 hr. Throughout the multiple dosing, fluconazole concentrations remained above approximately 8 g/ml, a concentration targeted when treating mycotic infections in humans. The results of this study suggest that fluconazole can be effectively administered to sea turtles at a dosage of 10 mg/kg every 5 days after a loading dose of 21 mg/kg.
20460377|Striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) from Cape Cod, Massachusetts, USA were necropsied (n = 34; 1995-1997) or clinically evaluated (n = 25, 2002-2003) to characterize a lameness and polyarthritis, reported by wildlife veterinarians and rehabilitators, and unsuccessfully treated with antibiotics. Overall, 22 affected skunks had one or multiple swollen joints, swollen paws, and subcutaneous abscesses. Purulent exudate was located in joint spaces, in periarticular connective tissue between muscle fascicles and tendons, and between and along flexor and extensor tendons of the paws. Histologic examination revealed suppurative arthritis, with necrosis and erosion of articular cartilage, and suppurative osteomyelitis. Special stains failed to reveal a causative microorganism within affected joints, and routine bacteriologic cultures failed to isolate a pathogen with any significant frequency or consistency. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) experiments were performed using DNA extracted from archived, formalin-fixed joint samples of 11 affected skunks, and DNA from joints of 7 of 11 affected skunks yielded amplicons with sequences highly similar to sequences of Mycoplasma fermentans within the Mycoplasma bovis cluster, whereas DNA samples from joints of four unaffected skunks were negative by PCR. Skunks from Connecticut, USA (n = 21; 1995-2003) were similarly examined and were found not to have suppurative polyarthritis, suggesting a unique geographic distribution of this condition. Concurrent pathologic conditions in adult skunks from both Cape Cod and Connecticut included verminous pneumonia, gastric nematodiasis, arthropod ectoparasitism, and canine distemper. Amyloidosis was present in skunks with and without suppurative polyarthritis, and the amyloid was immunohistochemically identified as AA-amyloid. This is the first report of suppurative polyarthritis in wild skunks with evidence of a mycoplasmal etiology.
20095615|Five intact male hand-raised adult (&gt2 yr) gray wolves (Canis lupus) were given hand-held i.m. injections of 50 g/kg medetomidine (group 1) or 50 g/kg medetomidine plus 27 g/kg atropine (group 2). Heart rate, percent pulse oximetry-derived oxygen saturation, respiratory rate, and body temperature were recorded every 5 min for 30 min. After 30 min, wolves were given either 250 g/kg atipamezole or 0.2 mg/kg yohimbine i.v. Times to sternal recumbency were 5.8  1.9 min for group 1 and 4.4  0.8 min for group 2 (P = 0.50). Induction times were 13.2  2.8 min for group 1 and 11.2  1.7 min for group 2 (P = 0.56). There were no differences between the two groups in oxygen saturation (P = 0.21), respiratory rate (P = 0.67), or rectal temperature (P = 0.09). Group 2 (with atropine) had significantly increased heart rate (P = 0.0001). Wolves given atipamezole showed complete recovery in 2.8  0.8 min: yohimbine appeared to have little effect on medetomidine at the dosage used. Based on the results of this study, 50 g/kg medetomidine provided effective chemical restraint and caused some degree of cardiopulmonary impairment based on oximetry-derived oxygen saturation values. Atropine increased heart rate but did not improve oxygen saturation. Atipamezole effectively antagonized the medetomidine sedation, whereas yohimbine did not. Medetomidine provided better and safer sedation than xylazine has been reported to provide.
20096512|To provide proper medical evaluation and care for the endangered California condor (Gymnogyps californianus), veterinarians need accurate hematologic and biochemical reference ranges. A retrospective study of blood samples from captive California condors housed at the San Diego Wild Animal Park assessed the samples by sex and age of condor to determine serum biochemical and hematologic reference ranges, including lead and zinc levels. Condors were grouped by age as follows: group 1 included birds less than 30 days of age; group 2 included birds between 30 days and 6 mo of age; group 3 included birds between 6 mo and 5 yr of age; group 4 included all birds greater than 5 yr of age. Significant differences between sexes included higher chloride, cholesterol, and total plasma protein concentration in males as compared to females (P &lt 0.05). Significant differences between age groups were identified in glucose, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, albumin, total plasma protein, globulin, cholesterol, bile acid, and zinc concentrations, as well as aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase, and creatine phosphokinase activities (P &lt 0.05). Additionally, significant differences between age groups were noted in white blood cell count, hematocrit, heterophils, lymphocytes, and eosinophils (P &lt 0.05). A steady increase in glucose and a decrease in alkaline phosphatase and lactate dehydrogenase activities, as well as cholesterol, bile acid, calcium, and phosphorus concentrations, were correlated with age (P &lt 0.05). Following application of statistical analysis, condors less than 6 mo of age were identified as unique compared to older cohorts; therefore, two reference ranges are proposed by calculating a 90% confidence interval. Reference ranges obtained from other published avian data, including those for psittaciformes, ratites, galliformes, anseriformes, and raptors, were similar to condors in this study.
20095498|Several cases of didelphostrongylosis (lungworm infection) were diagnosed in opossums (Didelphis virginiana) at a wildlife rehabilitation center in California. A study was initiated to determine the source and distribution of infection in resident and newly arriving opossums and the efficacy of fenbendazole in treating the infection. Fecal samples were collected before treatment and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 8 wk after the start of a 14-day course of fenbendazole. The Baermann procedure was performed for the detection of lungworm larvae. Lungworm infection was diagnosed in 13 (65%) of 20 resident opossums and 10 (77%) of 13 newly arrived opossums, for an overall pretreatment prevalence of 70%. Four uninfected animals housed with infected animals did not become infected. These observations and others suggested that most infections were acquired in the wild rather than in the rehabilitation center. Fourteen days of oral fenbendazole treatment at 50 mg/kg/day eliminated larval shedding in the feces of 11 (73%) of 15 infected animals from which individually identifiable fecal samples had been collected. Information from this study should be of use to those responsible for the care of captive marsupials.
20096568|Wildlife Safari, a zoo located in Winston, Oregon, has fed donated carcass meat as a diet to carnivores for over 30 yr. Carcass meat is an alternative to commercially prepared meat. Donated meat arrives at Wildlife Safari as an entire animal. Cattle (Bos taurus), horse (Equus caballus), deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and elk (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) have been donated. Bacterial testing was performed on site with the use of Neogen Reveal immunosorbent assays. Testing focused on Salmonella spp., Listeria spp., and Escherichia coli O157:H7. Twenty-five meat samples were randomly selected from 50 meat samples for the bacterial detection tests. Twenty-eight percent of the meat samples were positive for Salmonella spp. (n = 25). One sample was positive for Listeria spp. None of the meat samples were positive for Escherichia coli O157:H7 (n = 25). Thirty-two meat samples were analyzed off site for organic contaminants with the use of gas chromatography/mass spectrometry at Michigan State University's Diagnostic Center for Population and Animal Health. Specific organic contaminants tested for were barbiturates, phenylbutazone, flunixin meglumine, and xylazine. None of the meat samples were found to have evidence of these or any other common organic toxicants. As monitored, carcass meat appears to be a reasonably safe food source for carnivores.
20095816|Mycobacterium avium is the causative agent of the avian mycobacteriosis commonly known as avian tuberculosis (ATB). This infection causes disseminated disease, is difficult to diagnose, and is of serious concern because it causes significant mortality in birds. A new method was developed for processing specimens for an antemortem screening test for ATB. This novel method uses the zwitterionic detergent
40665069|Hiatal hernia was diagnosed in three exotic felines lynx (Lynx lynx), cougar (Puma concolore), and lion (Panthera led). All cats had a history of anorexia. Thoracic and abdominal radiographs showed evidence of a soft tissue mass within the caudal mediastinum suggestive of a hiatal hernia in all animals. A barium esophagram was performed in one case. All animals underwent thoracic or abdominal surgery for hernia reduction. Surgical procedures included: intercostal thoracotomy with herniorrhaphy and esophagopexy (lynx and cougar), and incisional gastropexy (lion). Concurrent surgical procedures performed were gastrotomy for gastric foreign body removal and jejunostomy tube placement. Clinical signs related to the hiatal hernia disappeared after surgery and recurrence of signs was not reported for the time of follow-up.
20095637|Samples taken from seven male and seven female adult American bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) were evaluated by complete blood count and serum chemistry to establish baseline data on commercially available frogs destined for laboratory use. Differences between sexes were analyzed and females had higher plasma protein, calcium, and sodium levels.
41262588|A 14-yr-old male, prehensile-tailed porcupine (Coendou prehensilis) presented for an ulcerated, bleeding lesion of the right flank. The wound presented similar to a bite wound and was treated with antibiotics. After 2 mo, the lesion had increased in size and was nonhealing, so surgical excision was elected. Histopathology diagnosed this lesion as a malignant melanoma with incomplete margins. Radiographs showed no evidence of pulmonary metastasis. At 6 mo, another skin lesion was removed and was diagnosed as malignant melanoma with clean surgical margins. At 8 mo, another four dermal masses were surgically excised and, again, these were melanomas that were completely excised. The animal was euthanized approximately 15 mo after initial presentation due to continued growth of dermal masses, dyspnea, and decreased appetite. Necropsy and histopathology revealed metastatic melanoma present in skin, kidneys, and lung.
20096454|Five giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) died peracutely within an 8-yr period. The giraffe were maintained in an outside enclosure during the day and moved under shelter at night. All the deaths occurred in winter. All the dead giraffe had serous fat atrophy at postmortem. The giraffe were fed good quantities of browse, together with alfalfa hay and commercial supplements. Retrospective analysis of the dietary ingredients showed that the diets were energy deficient. Subsequent additional high-energy feeds have caused a marked increase in surviving giraffe body weights although energy levels consumed were at the lower end of current recommendations. The relationship between low-energy reserves, high-energy demand in colder temperatures, and the possibility that hypoglycemia is a credible cause of the collapse of giraffe in these circumstances, is postulated to be the likely pathogenesis of giraffe deaths, previously reported elsewhere under the generic term "peracute mortality syndrome."
20096659|The phylogenetic order Squamata has many representatives that could benefit from the use of semen preservation as a tool for assisting conservation. To date, few studies have been made evaluating the potential for collecting and preserving semen from snakes. The objectives of this study were to characterize semen parameters of the corn snake (Elaphe guttata), including appearance, volume, concentration, sperm motility, and sperm morphology, and to determine the longevity of corn snake sperm motility stored at 4C. Single semen samples were collected from 22 adult corn snakes. The appearance of the corn snake semen was generally cloudy, and the color was white to tan. Corn snake spermatozoa initially exhibited a median motility of 92.5%. Corn snakes were found to produce small-volume ejaculates (median 0.01 ml). However, the overall concentration of the snake ejaculate was high (x = 852  10  585  10 spermatozoa/ml). Morphologically, a mean of 75.7  9.3% of the sperm cells in an ejaculate were normal. Snake ejaculate with a white appearance had significantly higher sperm concentrations (x = 1,859  10  1,008  10 sperm cells/ml; F = 15.74, P = 0.001) than tan ejaculates (x = 601  10  439  10 sperm cells/ml). Sperm motility decreased significantly in samples that were stored at 4C for greater than 48 hr in a refrigerator or Equitainer I. This is the first study to characterize semen volume, appearance, and concentration; sperm motility; and sperm morphology in captive corn snakes. The information derived from this study can be used to develop a model for a collection, cooled storage, and shipping program for semen from endangered or threatened captive and wild snakes.
20095117|Using techniques developed for the domestic cat, two female caracals (Felis caracal) and four aged female cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) were treated with pregnant mares' serum gonadotropin (PMSG) and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) to determine the effectiveness of exogenous gonadotropins on follicular stimulation, laparoscopic oocyte recovery rates, and ova quality. Female caracals treated three times each with either 200 or 400 IU PMSG followed by 200 IU hCG responded with an average (SEM) of 7.2  1.8 follicles/female. However, on each of six occasions, females had begun to ovulate at the time of oocyte collection (23.5-25 hr post-hCG). The laparoscopic recovery rate was 72.1% (31 oocytes from 43 follicles aspirated). Based on cumulus cell expansion and cytoplasmic integrity, 74.2% of the oocytes were judged to be mature, 12.9% were immature, and 12.9% were degenerate. The four cheetahs receiving 800 or 1,600 IU PMSG followed by 750 IU hCG produced a total of 20 oocytes collected laparoscopically from 29 follicles (69.0% recovery; x: 5.8  1.2 follicles and 4.0  1.2 oocytes/animal) on a total of five occasions. Based on cumulus cell mass expansion and cytoplasmic integrity, 85.0% were judged to be mature, 10.0% immature, and 5.0% degenerate. One of four cheetah oocytes cocultured with homologous spermatozoa became fertilized in vitro and developed to the eight-cell stage. These data demonstrate that ovaries of the caracal and aged cheetah are responsive to PMSG treatment and that mature oocytes can be collected effectively from each species using laparoscopic techniques. Although preliminary, the cheetah data suggest that successful gamete interaction can occur in vitro.
27751685|West Nile virus was introduced into the United States in the vicinity of New York, New York, USA in 1999. The virus has since killed large numbers of birds nationwide, especially, but not limited to, crows (Corvus brachyrhinchos). One sandhill crane (Grus canadensis) at the Bridgeport Zoo (Bridgeport, Connecticut, USA) reportedly died from West Nile virus, so sandhill cranes and endangered whooping cranes (Grus americana), both in the wild and in captive breeding colonies at United States Geological Service (USGS) Patuxent Wildlife Research Center (Laurel, Maryland, USA) were considered at risk. A killed vaccine in sandhill cranes was evaluated by vaccinating and then challenging these cranes with live West Nile virus. No sandhill cranes inoculated with the killed vaccine developed significant titers when compared with unvaccinated controls. No sandhill cranes inoculated with the vaccine and challenged with the virus died from West Nile virus infection. In addition, no unvaccinated challenged sandhill cranes died. However, 2 days postchallenge, vaccinated cranes had significantly less viremia (P &lt; 0.05) than unvaccinated cranes. Seven days postchallenge vaccinated cranes had significantly less cloacal shedding of the virus (P &lt; 0.05) than unvaccinated cranes and significantly less weight loss (P &lt; 0.05) as compared with unvaccinated cranes. Vaccinated sandhill cranes developed significantly higher titers 14 days postchallenge and were viremic for shorter periods of time after challenge than unvaccinated individuals. Unvaccinated challenged cranes had glial cell aggregates in both the brain and brain stem areas, and this was not observed in vaccinated challenged cranes or in vaccinated unchallenged cranes.
20096308|Organophosphate and carbamate pesticides inhibit acetylcholinesterase (AChE) at nerve synapses. Blood samples from 22 Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) were assayed for cholinesterase levels by two different techniques. Using the modified Michel method, the whole-blood cholinesterase activity levels ranged from 0.082 to 0.616 pH/hr with a mean value of 0.35 pH/hr. A reference range (0.08-0.62 pH/hr) for cholinesterase was established in birds. The modified Ellman spectrophotometric method was used to measure AChE activity by adding acetylthiocholine or pseudocholinesterase (plasma cholinesterase) activity by adding butyrylthiocholine. The reference range of the AChE activity using the modified Ellman spectrophotometric method was 0-1.12 mol/ml/min with a mean of 0.48 mol/ml/min, and for pseudocholinesterase the range was 0.09-0.98 mol/ml/min with a mean of 0.53 mol/ml/min.
20095884|Radiotelemetry is an essential tool in the study of free-ranging bird populations, and a variety of transmitter-attachment methods have been developed. A promising new method is abdominal implantation of a transmitter with a percutaneous antenna. Researchers using this technique should be concerned about and aware of mortality during surgery and during the immediate postrelease period (the 14-day period following surgery). Of 307 radio-implant surgeries performed between 1995 and 1997 in harlequin ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus), 7 (2.3%) deaths were documented during surgery or anesthetic recovery. Of 295 birds released with implanted radios, 10 (3.4%) died during the immediate postrelease period. Modifications to anesthetic procedures used in the 204 surgeries performed in 1996 and 1997 reduced mortality to 1.5% during surgery and 1.5% during the immediate postrelease period. Anesthetic modifications included intubation of all birds, placement of birds on an elevated platform that allowed the head to rest at a level lower than the body during surgery, placement of a heated water blanket under the birds during surgery, monitoring of body temperature, and use of electrocardiogram and Doppler ultrasound to monitor heart rates and arrhythmias. Low levels of mortality associated with abdominal implantation of radio transmitters may be unavoidable, but mortality can be minimized with adjustments to anesthetic technique.
20095437|In vervet monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops), gastric erosions and ulcers occurred throughout all regions of the stomach but were most common in the body, either alone or in combination with other sites. Grossly, the erosions and ulcers were circular, slightly depressed, dark red to black foci, which ranged from 0.05 to 1 cm in diameter and numbered from 1 to more than 100. Histologically, lesions in the gastric mucosa were characterized by a regional loss of tissue that varied from partial in erosions to total in ulcers. The stomach lesions were negative for bacteria by Warthin-Starry silver stain and were similar in morphologic appearance and anatomic distribution to acute mucosal lesions referred to as "stress ulcers" in human beings. The brains of a subset of these animals had hippocampal changes in addition to adrenal cortical changes, both of which have been associated with an elevation of serum corticosteroids, suggesting that stress may have been contributory to the gastric lesions.
20096413|Fecal 17-estradiol and progestogens excretion was monitored in adult, female cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus; n = 2), ZGG-12301 (born 3 April 1993), gonadotrophin treated and ZGT-3301, (born 19 August 1993), nontreated, for 120 days using commercially available plate enzyme immunoassay kits prepared for human serum or plasma. There were significant differences (P &lt 0.001) between baseline and peak concentrations of both hormone measures. Female ZGG-12301, which conceived, but this pregnancy resulted in an unobserved spontaneous abortion, showed no significant difference (P &gt 0.05) between baseline and gestation 17-estradiol values; fecal 17-estradiol excretion during pregnancy was statistically different (P &lt 0.001) from excretion during the nonpregnancy period. Baseline progestogen concentrations were different from pregnancy (P &lt 0.001) and postovulatory (P &lt 0.01) concentrations, and progestogen concentrations during pregnancy period were different (P &lt 0.001) from postovulatory concentrations. In the nontreated cheetah (ZGT-3301), basal and increased progestogen concentrations were statistically different (P &lt 0.01). On the basis of 17-estradiol excretory patterns, duration of the estrous cycle (x  SEM) was 13.2  2.2 days. These results suggest that the enzyme-linked immunosorbent methods reported in this study were capable of quantifying reproductive hormones in fecal extracts of cheetahs and could be a practical alternative to other enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays which require more complex procedures.
20095377|An adult jaguar (Panthera onca) from a small zoo became anorectic and deteriorated rapidly despite antibiotics and supportive therapy. Masses were identified on necropsy in the liver, lungs, spleen, mammary glands, inguinal, abdominal, and thoracic lymph nodes, and uterus. Histological appearance and immunohistochemical staining were consistent with a mammary gland carcinoma that had metastasized to the liver, lungs, and lymph nodes and a metastatic leiomyosarcoma of possible uterine origin in the abdominal lymph nodes. Comprehensive immunohistochemical screening was used to confirm that the tumors were of separate tissue origin.
41262627|A 14-yr-old female eastern black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis michaeli) presented with progressive suppurative osteomyelitis in her left hind lateral toe. -Hemolytic Streptococcus sp. was isolated. The animal was treated with multiple systemic antibiotics, and topical wound cleansing. Repeated debridements and nail trimmings were performed for 5 mo prior to electing amputation. The toe was surgically amputated under general anesthesia between the first and second phalanges. Analgesia was diffused into the wound topically via a catheter and elastomeric pump. The open amputation site was covered with adherent drapes and a negative-pressure wound therapy device provided vacuum-assisted closure (V.A.C.) for 72 hr. Three months later this animal developed a deep dermal ulcer on the lateral aspect of the right hind limb, at the level of the stifle. Methicillinresistant Staphylococcus aureus was isolated. The wound was managed by initial daily lavage, followed by 1 mo V.A.C. therapy, with 72 hr between dressing changes. Clinically, this therapy expedited the formation of healthy granulation tissue and overall healing was accelerated. The animal tolerated the machine and bandage changes well via oprant conditioning. The use of negative-pressure wound therapy appeared to shorten time to resolution of slow-healing wounds in black rhinoceros.
20460295|The effects of combined tiletamine and zolazepam immobilization on 23 individuals belonging to 11 marsupial species are described. Overall, individuals displayed poor relaxation and analgesia and experienced prolonged recovery times. Four deaths were recorded, three of which occurred in seemingly healthy squirrel gliders.
41417165|Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a zoonotic disease with worldwide distribution. The crab-eating fox (Cerdocyon thous) is considered a wild reservoir of many zoonotical diseases, particularly VL. This study reported the presence of Leishmania infantum amastigotes in different organs of one captive C. thous found dead in a zoo. This animal was positive by the indirect fluorescence antibody test and had many clinical signs of VL. Intracellular amastigote forms of L. infantum were seen in neutrophils and macrophages in sample tissues from skin, lymph nodes (popliteal, submandibular, prescapular, and mesenteric), spleen, and liver. The numbers of positive cells and intracellular parasites were higher in macrophages than in neutrophils. In addition, polymerase chain reaction demonstrated extensive distribution of Leishmania DNA in C. thous tissues from multiple organs. The presence of intracellular amastigotes in neutrophils and macrophages as well as DNA of the parasite in tissues, specifically skin demonstrate that this crab-eating fox is an adequate host for L. infantum and reinforce the importance of VL for symptomatic wild canids kept in captivity in endemic areas.
20096098|An outbreak of mycoplasmosis caused by Mycoplasma alligatoris resulted in the death or euthanasia of 60 American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) from a population of 74 captive bull alligators in Florida in 1995. The natural reservoir, routes of transmission, and host range of M. alligatoris are unknown. This study was undertaken to determine whether crocodilian species other than American alligators are susceptible to M. alligatoris. Six broad-nosed caimans (Caiman latirostris) and six Siamese crocodiles (Crocodylus siamensis) were experimentally inoculated with 10 colony forming units (CFU) of M. alligatoris instilled through the glottis. Two caimans and two crocodiles were used as negative controls. Six and four American alligators were used as positive and negative controls, respectively. Three of six (50%) inoculated caimans died within 10 wk postinoculation (PI) of severe mycoplasmosis. Gross necropsy, histopathologic, and culture results were similar for broad-nosed caimans and American alligators. None of the inoculated Siamese crocodiles developed mycoplasmosis, though M. alligatoris was isolated from the tonsils in three of six (50%) animals at necropsy. All the inoculated crocodilians that survived showed significant seroconversion by 6-8-wk PI (P &lt 0.05). The infective dose 50% (
27751704|A caracal (Caracal caracal) was bitten on the lower lip by a southern Pacific rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis helleri) and quickly developed progressive, severe soft tissue swelling and bruising of this site. Initial laboratory results revealed prolonged clotting times within the first hour of envenomation, followed by signs of vasculitis and anemia. The caracal was successfully treated with intravenous crystalloids, four vials of polyvalent crotalidae antivenom, and transfusions of bovine hemoglobin glutamer-200 (Oxyglobin) and fresh whole blood. The progressive soft tissue swelling and bruising halted and the coagulation parameters improved after administration of antivenom; however, the caracal continued to show neurologic dysfunction, including depression, weakness, muscle fasciculations, anisocoria, and ataxia. Administration of an additional vial of antivenom 72 hr after envenomation quickly corrected the weakness and muscle fasciculations, whereas the anisocoria and mild ataxia persisted for another 24 hr. The caracal remains clinically normal 3 yr after the envenomation.
20095919|Different subtypes of Listeria monocytogenes were isolated from various animal and environmental samples during an episode of increased mortality on a fallow deer (Dama dama) farm. During a 4-wk period, six fallow deer died, including four does, one fawn, and one adult buck. Prior to death, one of the does had exhibited central nervous system signs characteristic of listeriosis. Postmortem examination of the six deer showed no histologic changes typical of listeriosis, although inflammatory changes were present in several organs. Different subtypes of L. monocytogenes were isolated from brain samples from six deer, from fodder and soil from the deer feeding area, and from faces of some healthy animals on the farm. Listeria monocytogenes, which was frequently isolated in the environment of the farm, was considered the probable major cause of mortality in these fallow deer.
41262628|A 4.5-yr-old, captive-bred, male bearded dragon (Pogona vitticeps) presented for lethargy, anorexia, and increased mucoid salivation with upper respiratory clicks. Diagnostics were declined and the bearded dragon was prescribed ceftazidime 20 mg/kg i.m. q 72 hr. The patient presented again 1 wk later with a marked monocytosis, heterophilia, and lymphocytosis, and a clinical diagnosis of chronic monocytic leukemia was made. Chemotherapy with cytosine arabinoside (100 mg/m over 48 hr i.v.) was initiated. Forty-four hours into the treatment the dragon became acutely unresponsive and died within 1 hr. Adverse effects as a result of i.v. cytosine arabinoside therapy were not identified despite previous reports suggestive that the drug induces renal failure.
20094916|Marine mammal nutrition is a relatively unexplored area. In this report, nutritive values are presented for several major marine food items: five species of fish, one species of squid, and one species of clam. Nutrient concentrations determined by analysis include protein, ether extract (primarily triglycerides), calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, sodium, potassium, iron, copper, manganese, zinc, and selenium. Nutrient concentrations derived from the literature include linoleic acid; lysine; methionine plus cystine; tryptophan; arginine; threonine; isoleucine; iodine; vitamins A, B,
20095614|A trial of the efficacy and safety of the male oral contraceptive bisdiamine (WIN 18,446) was conducted using 10 male gray wolves (Canis lupus) (six treated, four control). During phase I, treated wolves were fed 9 g bisdiamine daily for 5 mc, beginning in early November 1992 before the onset of spermatogenesis. During phase II, two of the previous control males were given bisdiamine daily, beginning in January 1994 after sperm were detected in semen, to determine whether this dosage was sufficient to suppress ongoing spermatogenesis. In addition, reversibility was evaluated in the six previously treated males. Wolves were anesthetized for electroejaculation and blood collection monthly during both phases. At the end of phase I, testicular biopsies were taken for histology. During phase I, sperm first appeared in the semen of control wolves in early December and continued through April. Sperm were seen in five of the six treated wolves, but at very low concentrations compared with controls and after cessation of treatment. All treated males were housed with females, but although at least one was seen mating, none of the females gave birth. Hematologic values remained within the normal range for domestic dogs. Serum chemistry values did not differ between treatment and control wolves, although some values fell outside the normal range for domestic dogs. During phase II, sperm were found in semen samples of all males, although at much lower numbers in those of wolves being given bisdiamine. No deleterious effects were found. These results suggest that the bisdiamine WIN 18,446 is a safe, effective, and reversible oral contraceptive when administered daily to gray wolves. Further work is necessary to clearly establish the minimum dosage required to accomplish infertility.
20095095|Comparative hematologic and serum biochemical profiles were determined in captive neonatal (1-30 days), juvenile (2-8 mo), and adult (9-72 mo) blue duikers (Cephalophus monticola bicolor) to evaluate differences related to age and sex in clinically healthy animals over a 2-yr period. Blood samples were obtained via jugular venipuncture from awake neonatal duikers within 24 hr of birth or on day 2-7 and repeated between 14-21 and 22-30 days of age. Samples were also taken from juveniles at 2-8 mo of age and from randomly sampled adults at 3-5-mo intervals. Blood analyses revealed no sex difference (P &gt 0.05) for neonates and juveniles. Adult female duikers had higher (P &lt 0.05) total leukocyte and neutrophil counts and glucose, triglyceride, total protein, globulin, alanine aminotransaminase, -glutamyltransferase (GGT), very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), and anion gap values than males. Hematocrit, hemoglobin, erythrocyte counts, serum urea nitrogen: creatinine ratio, albumin, albumin: globulin ratio, iron, aspartate transaminase, and total CO were lower (P &lt 0.05) in adult females than in males. Elevated GGT and high total protein values in young neonates (as compared with juvenile and adult duikers) may be a useful indicator of colostral intake. Neonatal duikers exhibited a microcytic hypochromic anemia at 2-4 wk of age associated with low serum iron values. Young duikers also appeared to have a physiologic anemia related to the hyperphosphatemia of growth. Duikers exhibited a 20-30% neutrophil: 70-80% lymphocyte ratio similar to other ruminants after 1 mo of age. Adult erythrocyte values and indices were most similar to those of equine species. Younger duikers had higher (P &lt 0.05) enzyme activities, triglyceride, VLDL, total and direct bilirubin, and glucose concentrations than adults. Differences in electrolytes, glucose levels, and lipid products between young and adult duikers appeared to be associated with dietary intake and ruminant maturity. These data demonstrate that, with the exception of calcium and phosphorus levels, blue duikers have serum and leukocyte values similar to those of domesticated ruminants and erythrocytic indices similar to those of equine species.
20096449|Atoxoplasma spp. (extraintestinal Isospora spp.) are coccidian parasites that infect a variety of passerine species. Atoxoplasmosis has been difficult to diagnose using buffy coat and organ impression smear examinations or histopathologic examination of tissues at necropsy. The prevalence of this parasite was studied in the tanager collection of a zoological park after the death of several tanagers from confirmed and suspected infections. A polymerase chain reaction assay was used to test blood, feces, or tissue samples (or all) from 88 individuals representing 18 species. Twenty-three of 60 (38.3%) blood samples from clinically healthy birds tested positive for Atoxoplasma, and one of six fecal samples was positive. Nineteen of 32 (59.4%) tissue samples from deceased tanagers tested positive. A total of 57 other institutions were also queried regarding the presence of Atoxoplasma. The high number of Atoxoplasma-positive clinically healthy birds suggests that the parasite is prevalent subclinically within tanager collections, with young birds and stressed adults being the most likely to develop clinical disease. Thorough disinfection of enclosures, consideration of enclosure designs, and preventing fecal contamination of food and water are important methods of decreasing transmission. Selective breeding programs and regular screening of breeding pairs may be recommended to decrease transmission to susceptible offspring. Care should also be taken when housing tanagers in mixed species or in outdoor enclosures because the transmission risks between species have not been well established.
20096593|The effects of the anticoagulant sodium heparin and time of centrifugation on 20 biochemical analytes in the blood of Malaysian flying foxes (Pteropus vampyrus) were evaluated. Paired plasma and serum samples were centrifuged at 1 hr and 6 hr postcollection. Heparinization and time of centrifugation did not significantly affect albumin, cholesterol, triglycerides, amylase, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransaminase, alkaline phosphatase, calcium, sodium, and total carbon dioxide levels. Plasma was associated with higher globulin and lower potassium values. Glucose and chloride levels decreased significantly over time, whereas phosphorus levels increased. Serum creatine kinase activity at 6 hr postcollection was significantly higher than the other creatine kinase means. Sodium levels were not significantly affected by sodium heparin as used as an anticoagulant in this study.
41417185|A disseminated infection caused by Mycobacteriwn avium subspecies avium (MAA) was diagnosed in a 57-yr-old male Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) housed at the Seoul Zoo, Gyeonggi, Republic of Korea. An apparent granulomatous inflammation with central caseous necrosis was evident in the lung sections. To confirm mycobacterial infection, polymerase chain reaction-restriction enzyme polymorphism analysis (PCR-RFLP) of the rpoB and hsp65 genes was performed from multiple organs and cultured bacteria. The PCR-RFLP revealed a M. avium subspecies. MAA was identified by multiplex PCR for detection of 1S901 and 1S1311. Thus, it is believed that MAA caused the disseminated infection in this case. Although the source of infection was not determined, the elephant may have become infected through contamination of soil and feed by free-living birds infected with MAA. This is the first reported case of disseminated infection due to MAA in a captive elephant in the Republic of Korea.
41262599|Two adult male Crimson rosellas (Platycercus elegans) and an adult female eastern rosella (Platycercus eximius) were found dead in their cages in a private aviary in March 2009, April 2010, and February 2010, respectively, without premonitory signs. Their postmortem examination showed pectoral muscle atrophy and a distended proventriculus. The proventricular mucosal surface was covered with a gelatinous, whitish material, where a large number of nematode parasites identified as Dispharynx nasuta were present. A histologie examination revealed a hyperplastic mucosa, spirurid nematodes in the mucosal layer and inflammatory mononuclear cells in the lamina propria. This is the first report of a D. nasuta infection associated with proliferative proventriculitis and subsequent death in psittacine birds.
20096456|An 11-yr-old, female Arizona ridge-nosed rattlesnake (Crotalus willardi) had a 1-yr history of retained egg masses and decreased mobility in the caudal two-thirds of the body. The snake was euthanized when it became unable to right itself. At necropsy, the caudal portion of the spinal cord was found to be enlarged, soft, and translucent pale gray. Microscopically, the caudal portion of the spinal cord was segmentally replaced by a neoplastic mass composed of cells resembling glia (oligodendrocytes and astrocytes). Immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein was positive in the astrocytelike neoplastic cells. The gross, microscopic, and immunohistochemical findings were consistent with a diagnosis of spinal cord glioma. This is the first report of a central nervous system tumor in a reptile.
20095750|An adult white-handed gibbon (Hylobates lar) at a zoo in eastern Kansas was euthanized after developing a head tremor, generalized motor incoordination, and partial paresis of the right arm that persisted over 2 yr. Magnetic resonance imaging early in the course of the disease demonstrated a localized left frontal lobe cerebritis. Larvae morphologically consistent with a Baylisascaris species were seen in tissue sections of the cerebrum and cerebellum. Epizootiologic investigation, which included qualitative fecal flotations, evaluation of soil samples for nematode eggs, and necropsy examination of livetrapped raccoons (Procyon lotor), indicated that Baylisascaris procyonis was most likely to have caused the cerebrospinal nematodiasis in this gibbon.
20095071|Normal hematologic and serum chemistry values are presented for the red panda (Ailurus fulgens). Data were prepared from 219 samples collected from 50 clinically normal individuals. Statistical comparisons were made for differences in values between male and female, adult and juvenile animals, and among anesthetic agents used. Generalized hematologic and serum chemistry profiles for abnormal animals prepared from 153 samples taken from 30 animals with various health problems were also examined. A variety of blood parameters showed statistically significant age, sex, anesthetic agent, and health status related differences. Females had lower values for neutrophils and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and higher values for lymphocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and cholesterol. Adults had greater red blood cell (RBC), lymphocyte, protein, cholesterol, creatinine, and sodium values and lower calcium, phosphorus, and alkaline phosphatase values than juveniles. Juvenile males had lower hematocrits and juvenile females had lower white blood cells (WBC) values than their adult counterparts. Blood values altered by different anesthetic agents included WBC, hematocrit, protein, BUN, creatinine, glucose, serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST), serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and alkaline phosphatase. Clinically abnormal animals had greater total WBC, neutrophils, absolute lymphocytes, monocytes, fibrinogen, mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), AST, ALT, glucose, bilirubin, cholesterol, and sodium and lower relative lymphocyte, eosinophil, hemoglobin, RBC, hematocrit, mean corpuscular volume (MCV), albumin, and creatinine.
20096609|A high intake of easily fermentable carbohydrates and a low intake of fiber material are generally regarded as major factors affecting the health of captive langurs. The effect on fecal consistency of excluding fruits and vegetables from the diet was evaluated in Javan langurs (Trachypithecus auratus auratus). Cross-over trials were carried out at Rotterdam Zoo and at the Apenheul Zoo, The Netherlands. During the first and third dietary period, the langurs were fed their usual diet, which contained fruits, vegetables, langur pellets, and browse. During the second period, the vegetables and fruits were excluded from the diet and the diet essentially consisted of pellets and browse. Feces consistency was scored using a fecal score chart developed for langurs. During the second feeding period the feces consistency improved significantly in animals at both zoos. Across all trials, a firmer feces consistency was correlated with an increase in dietary cell wall (measured as neutral detergent fiber) and a decrease in dietary water. It is suggested that the combined decrease in the intake of soluble sugars, the increase of fiber intake, and a lower amount of dietary water in the diet resulted in more solid stools. The results indicate that a dietary neutral detergent fiber content of approximately 46% in dry matter will result in a feces consistency indicative of undisturbed gut function.
20096384|Standard limb, six lead (I, II, III, aVR, aVL, and aVF) electrocardiograms (ECGs) were recorded in 10 awake mature rock partridges (Alectoris graeca) and 10 chukar partridges (Alectoris chukar). Durations and amplitudes of P and T waves and QRS complexes, durations of P-Q and Q-T intervals, and mean heart rates were calculated from the lead II ECGs. All observable P and T waves were negative in aVR and aVL, whereas they were positive in all remaining leads. The most frequent forms of QRS complex were r-s (r-S) and q-r (q-R). A Q wave was observed in all aVR and aVL leads in both species. Chukar partridges had significantly higher amplitudes of P and T waves and QRS complexes than rock partridges. Mean heart rates were 310  15 beats/min and 317  19 beats/min for chukar partridges and rock partridges, respectively. Mean electrical axes, calculated from leads II and III, were -99  6.3 and -95  1.7 for chukar partridges and rock partridges, respectively. Clear ECGs were easily obtainable without anesthesia or sedation.
20096511|Complete medical examinations were performed on 20 wild Decken's sifaka (Propithecus verreauxi deckeni) and 20 wild red-fronted brown lemurs (Eulemur fulvus rufus) from western Madagascar. Each animal received a complete physical examination, and weight, body temperature, heart rate, and respiratory rate were recorded and ectoparasites collected. Blood samples were collected for complete blood cell count, differential white blood cell count, hemoparasite examination, serum biochemical profile, fat-soluble vitamin analysis, trace mineral analysis, and toxoplasmosis and viral serology. Fecal samples were collected for bacterial culture and endoparasite examination. Significant differences exist between the species for serum chemistry values for creatine phosphokinase, glucose, total protein, albumin, globulin, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, phosphorus, potassium, and chloride; for fat-soluble vitamins 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, retinol, retinyl palmitate, -tocopherol, -tocopherol, and lutein + zeaxanthin; and serum copper. Parasites detected include Lemurostrongylus spp., Lemuricola spp., Trichurus spp., and ectoparasites Haemaphysalis lemuris, Psoroptes, and mites identified to the family Laelapidae. Enteric bacterial flora included Escherichia coli, Citrobacter ssp., Enterococcus faecalis, Bacillus cereus, Klebsiella ozaenae, Acinetobacter lwofii, and Enterobacter amnigenus.
20095308|Callitrichid hepatitis (CH) occurs in sporadic epizootics in marmosets and tamarins in zoos and animal parks. This disease is caused by accidental infection of callitrichids with an arenavirus, lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), derived from persistently infected murine reservoirs. In callitrichids, LCMV infection is associated with a high case/fatality ratio. The rate of LCMV exposure of callitrichids and other nonhuman primates in 31 zoos and animal parks, 6 primate research centers, and a wild golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia) reserve in Brazil was determined by detection of LCMV-specific antibody using a solid-phase immunoassay. Sera from 15 New World and 12 Old World primate species were tested, and 33 of 730 animals (4.5%) were LCMV seropositive. These seropositive animals were all located at 10 domestic zoos and animal parks; 32/33 (97.0%) of the animals were housed at, or transferred from, locations that had experienced CH outbreaks. Three of the seropositive animals (9.1%) had a clinical history of CH. Among the golden lion tamarins in zoos, 11 of 88 (12.5%) were seropositive for LCMV. None of the sera from 211 primates in the primate research centers and the golden lion tamarin reserve had detectable LCMV antibodies. Our data demonstrate that rates of LCMV infection differ among primate species and among primates maintained under different conditions. The data indicate that Callitrichidae are highly susceptible to LCMV infection, often resulting in fatal hepatitis. Consequently, the common practice of feeding neonatal mice to nonhuman primates should be discontinued, and wild mice should be eradicated from cages housing callitrichids because of the risk that the mice may have inapparent LCMV infections.
20095005|Metabolic bone disease resulting in fibrous osteodystrophy of the leg and facial bones was diagnosed in two dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius). Both camels were from the same herd and received a diet that may have been associated with the development of the disease. Nutritional and medical management were used to correct the metabolic component of the problem. Nutritional management consisted of dietary changes to a good-quality alfalfa or oat hay to increase the protein and calcium intake. Reduction or elimination of the supplemental grain concentrate was also recommended because the camels were not heavily worked. Medical management ranged from parenteral injections of vitamins and anti-inflammatory medications to i.v. calcium administration and a supportive body sling. Permanent bony deformities of the mandible occurred in both camels; however, the treatment halted the progression of the disease and allowed the camels to be returned to the herd.
20460392|Physical examination of an asymptomatic 20-yr-old intact female spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta) revealed a midabdominal mass. A complete blood count (CBC) revealed peripheral lymphocytosis. Abdominal ultrasonography and laparoscopy confirmed severe splenomegaly. Cytologic examination of a bone-marrow core and histologic examination of spleen and liver biopsy samples revealed neoplastic small lymphocytes. Immunohistochemical staining of liver and spleen samples with the use of leukocyte-specific monoclonal antibodies showed that the neoplastic lymphocytes were immunoreactive to T-lymphocyte CD3 receptor and immunonegative to B-lymphocyte CD79a receptor. The morphology and distribution of neoplastic T-lymphocytes within the spleen, liver, peripheral blood, and bone marrow was most consistent with chronic T-lymphocytic leukemia. Treatment with chlorambucil and prednisone effectively decreased the lymphocyte count, but was associated with thrombocytopenia, which resolved after chlorambucil treatment was temporarily discontinued. Chemotherapy was resumed with a single dose of L-asparaginase, followed by a lower dosage of chlorambucil and continued prednisone. Two years after initial diagnosis, the hyena developed a hemoabdomen and was euthanized. Neoplastic T-lymphocytes were present in spleen, liver, visceral and peripheral lymph nodes, lungs, heart, kidney, adrenal glands, mesentery, intestines, pancreas, brain, and bone marrow.
20095682|Ten North American river otters (Lutra canadensis) were anesthetized with Telazol and instrumented with ingestable radiotelemetry temperature sensors for measuring core body temperature. The otters were then subjected to a washing protocol to simulate rehabilitation following an oil spill contamination. This protocol consisted of a 30-min wash in a 1:16 dilution of dishwashing liquid using either cold (24C) water or water near baseline core body temperature (38.4C), followed by a 30-min rinse with water of the same temperature, followed by 10 min of forced hot air drying. Core body temperatures of the otters washed in cold water fell at a median rate of 0.1C/min, whereas otters washed in warm water maintained stable core temperatures until the completion of the protocol, at which time their core temperatures began to drop at a similar rate. Core temperatures restabilized in both groups, and no statistical difference in core temperature between groups remained 180 min after initiation of the protocol. Efforts to examine the efficacy of supplemental squalene administration to speed the recovery of fur condition and waterproofing were unsuccessful because the washing protocol did not cause loss of coat waterproofing in 8 of the 10 subjects.
20095716|A 6-yr-old male pale-headed saki monkey (Pithecia pithecia), born at the Dallas Zoo, reentered the collection in 1994 after it was housed for 4 yr in Rhode Island and 2 yr in Florida. The monkey tested negative for both Dirofilaria immitis microfilariae and D. immitis adult antigens (via commercially available tests) upon return. However, it tested positive for adult antigens 1 yr later, and additional testing, including ultrasonography, suggested a diagnosis of aberrant dirofilariasis. Relevant evidence of previous microfilaremia in pale-headed saki monkeys at the Dallas Zoo is reviewed. Dirofilaria immitis infection should be included in the differential diagnosis list for any nonhuman primate with cardiopulmonary disease wherever the parasite is enzootic.
20095127|A female klipspringer (Oreotragus oreotragus) died after being treated for pregnancy ketosis. Follicular oocytes were recovered from the ovaries postmortem. Following in vitro oocyte maturation and fertilization, a single embryo developed to the 16-cell stage after coculturing with cryopreserved/thawed klipspringer oviductal cells. This report suggests that it may be feasible to salvage gametes from small antelope after death.
20095573|An 18-yr-old female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) gave birth to a 120-kg female calf following 22 mo of gestation. Immediately after parturition, the cow became agitated and aggressive towards the calf. Before the keepers were able to safely intervene and remove the calf, the cow stepped on the calf's head and right front leg. Within 30 min, the cow calmed down, allowing the calf's safe reintroduction under close keeper supervision and control. The cow had a retained placenta, poor mammary development, and low milk production. The calf's injuries, in combination with the cow's low milk production, impeded the calf's ability to nurse and gain weight. Within 10 days, the calf lost 10% of its weight. Serum protein electrophoresis indicated failure of passive transfer of maternal immunoglobulin. On day 10, the calf received a transfusion of concentrated immunoglobulin extracted and concentrated from the cow's previously banked plasma. On day 13, the calf developed a urinary tract infection, as diagnosed by white blood cells and bacteria in the urine. Following immunoglobulin administration and antibiotic therapy, clinical signs slowly resolved and the calf gained weight. The cow passed the fetal membranes during parturition, but the placenta was retained. Despite prophylactic systemic antibiotics and vaginal flushing, the cow became depressed and developed a leukocytosis and an anemia. A mucopurulent vaginal discharge and ventral edema were noted on day 3, and milk production was minimal. Because decreased milk production has been reported as a common sequel to retained placenta, efforts were focused on removing the placenta. Intermittent oxytocin therapy on days 2-14 did not result in expulsion of the placenta and produced only transient abdominal contractions and minimal increases in milk letdown. On day 15, 10 mg estradiol cypionate was administered i.m. followed by 200 IU oxytocin i.v. An additional 10 IU oxytocin was administered i.v. on day 16. The friable placenta was palpable within the vaginal vault on day 17. The remaining placenta was removed by gentle traction applied by a modified weighted blood pressure cuff. Once the placenta was removed, the cow's clinical problems slowly resolved and the calf continued to gain weight.
20096013|A longitudinal study was conducted of the prevalence and characteristics of Escherichia coli in mammals, birds, and reptiles housed at the Emperor Valley Zoo, Trinidad. During a 6-mo study period, swabs were obtained from fecal samples that were randomly collected from the enclosures of animals from these three taxonomic groups every 3 wk. With snakes, both cloacal and fecal swabs were obtained. Fecal and cloacal swabs were cultured for E. coli on eosin methylene blue agar. The production of mucoid colonies and hemolytic colonies and non-sorbitol fermenter status were identified. The occurrence of O157 strains was determined amongst E. coli isolates that were non-sorbitol fermenters, and the disc diffusion method was used to determine the antibiograms of isolates. The frequency of E. coli isolation was significantly higher in mammals compared with birds and reptiles. Overall, the frequencies of isolation of E. coli from omnivores, herbivores, and carnivores, 87.2%, 70.0%, and 57.3%, respectively, regardless of animal class, were significantly different. Most (99.6%) of the E. coli isolates tested for antibiotic sensitivity exhibited resistance to one or more of the eight antimicrobial agents used. The possession of phenotypic virulence markers by the E. coli isolates studied and the generally high resistance to antimicrobial agents may have health implications for the zoological collection.
20095618|Five free-ranging adult African wild dogs (Lycaon pictus), 24-31 kg, were darted with 35-50 mg ketamine, 60 mg xylazine, and 1.25 mg atropine. Four of five immobilizations had no dart failures, with times to sternal recumbency between 9 and 13 min. Immobilized dogs exhibited complete skeletal muscle relaxation, and none exhibited any signs of arousal during physical examination or sampling. Continuous monitoring of pulse rate and percent oxygen saturation of hemoglobin (Spo) trends, in addition to other anesthesia monitoring procedures, indicated no adverse physiologic responses unique to this drug combination. All dogs exhibited relatively stable Spo profiles for the duration of monitoring, with a mean (SD) Spo of 89%  4.9%. Yohimbine administration (2.5 mg i.v., 2.5 mg i.m. or s.c.) 30-37 min after darting provided effective reversal, with times to standing after yohimbine ranging from 2.0 to 10.2 min. All dogs appeared behaviorally normal and returned to their packs after the procedures.
20095387|The stages of the reproductive cycle and pregnancy of 15 Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) at Busch Gardens in Tampa, Florida were determined by measuring serum progesterone concentrations using a commercial radioimmunoassay (RIA) kit with a sensitivity of 40 pg/ml of serum. Blood samples were collected and analyzed weekly for a 45-mo period. Serum progesterone concentrations ranged from nondetectable (&lt40 pg/ml) in nonpregnant elephants to 2,110 pg/ml in pregnant elephants. The highest concentration of progesterone during the estrous cycle was 1,490 pg/ml. The length of the estrous cycle ranged from 10 to 23 wk, with an average (SEM) of 15.1  0.3 wk for 103 estrous cycles. One elephant had a consistently longer estrous cycle length (18.6 wk). The duration of the nonluteal phase was 4.6  0.2 wk, and the duration of the luteal phase was 10.5  0.2 wk. The serum progesterone concentration during the estrous cycle was 214.0  5.2 pg/ml. The individual elephant average cycle length was used to estimate the time of estrus and ovulation. During the nonluteal phase, elephant cows were placed with a bull for mating. Two weeks after estrus began (based on rising progesterone at the end of the nonluteal phase), the cow was separated from the bull. Ovulation was predicted to occur during the first week after estrus began. Serum progesterone analyses were continued weekly to determine pregnancy or the next estrus. Eight elephants became pregnant, with a serum progesterone concentration of 554.6  16.4 pg/ml and a range of &lt40-2,110 pg/ml. These results confirm that weekly measurement of serum progesterone by RIA can be used to characterize the luteal and nonluteal phases of the Asian elephant estrous cycle. Using this information, cows can be managed and placed with a bull at the appropriate time for breeding. Serum concentrations of progesterone also can be used to confirm pregnancy and to monitor and evaluate potential problems during pregnancy. The approximate date of parturition can then be predicted from average gestation length data, thus allowing staff to prepare facilities and be ready to assist with delivery.
20096309|Esophageal-pharyngeal fluids from 53 free-ranging marsh deer (Blastocerus dichotomus) captured for a research program in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil, were assayed for tuberculosis. Total DNA was extracted, amplified by polymerase chain reaction using specific primers for Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (M. tuberculosis, M. bovis, M. microti, and M. africanum), and observed by agarose gel electrophoresis stained with ethidium bromide. All samples were negative. This, along with necropsy and histopathology data, suggests that these animals are not shedding and probably do not have active disease.
20096613|Vascular myelopathies of the spinal cord have not been described in Suidae, and are a rare finding in companion animals. An 8.5-yr female African warthog (Phacochoerus africanus) presented with an acute onset of tetraparesis. Based on neurologic findings, a cervical spinal cord lesion between C7-T2 was suspected. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed severe intramedullary hemorrhage with suspected abnormal vessels in the spinal cord at the level of the seventh cervical vertebrae. The acute onset of clinical signs and rapid deterioration of neurological status precluded surgical managements. A vascular anomaly was suspected on gross pathology and histology. Immunohistochemistry identified the lesion as a spontaneous intramedullary hematoma. Spontaneous intramedullary hematomyelia should be considered as a differential for acute onset of paresis in suid species.
20460552|This study compared the physiologic effects of carfentanil-xylazine anesthesia in elk administered nasal oxygen or medical air. Eight female 5  2-yr-old (mean  SD) captive elk (Cervus canadensis manitobensis) weighing 245  20 kg and habituated to chute restraint were studied in a randomized crossover. Nasal insufflation of oxygen or medical air (10 L/min) was provided prior to and throughout anesthesia. Baseline data were collected before i.m. injection of carfentanil (10 g/kg) and xylazine (0.2 mg/kg). Arterial blood gases (PaO and PaCO), arterial blood pressure, heart and respiratory rate, and observations of muscle rigidity and movement were collected every 3 min for 30 min. Drugs were antagonized at 30 min with i.m. naltrexone (1 mg/kg) and tolazoline (2 mg/kg). Induction and recovery were significantly faster (mean  SD) in elk receiving oxygen (208  39 and 333  63 sec, respectively), vs. medical air (306  84 and 532  201 sec). Elk receiving oxygen had a significantly higher PaO and PaCO, and significantly lower pH and heart rate. Minimum PaO was 75  30 mm Hg (oxygen), and 28  6 mm Hg (air). Maximum PaCO was 89  5 mm Hg (oxygen), and 64  4 mm Hg (air). Frequency of rigidity and movement decreased when PaO  70 mm Hg. Animals breathing air demonstrated slower inductions and recoveries, severe hypoxemia, and increased rigidity and movement. Oxygen administration reduced hypoxemia and improved anesthesia quality, but caused prolonged periods of apnea, and moderate to severe hypercarbia and respiratory acidosis.
20096475|The anticoccidial efficacy of amprolium, clazuril, and monensin were studied in sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) infected with a mixture of Eimeria spp. oocysts. Five groups of four 1-day-old sandhill crane chicks were maintained on a crumbled ration containing no coccidiostat, amprolium at 2.2 ppm, clazuril at 1.1 ppm, clazuril at 5.5 ppm, or monensin at 99 ppm. After 2 wk on their respective feeding regimens, birds in each of the five groups were administered 25  10 pooled sporulated Eimeria spp. oocysts per os and observed for another 3 wk. A sixth group of four chicks served as nonmedicated, nonchallenged control during the study. Clinical signs and lesions consistent with disseminated visceral coccidiosis were observed in all challenged controls and birds fed amprolium and clazuril. Birds in these groups died 9-10 days after challenge. In contrast, only one monensin-medicated bird had clinical signs of disseminated visceral coccidiosis, and it died 13 days after challenge (DAC). This and an asymptomatic bird that were necropsied at study termination had less-severe gross and microscopic lesions of disseminated visceral coccidiosis. Two of three monensin-treated birds that survived challenge passed from 50 to 500 coccidial oocysts 11 to 18 DAC but were negative at study termination. Of the coccidiostats tested, monensin, at the dietary level of 99 ppm, was the only anticoccidial drug that provided protection against experimentally induced disseminated visceral coccidiosis in sandhill cranes.
20096675|Nephrolithiasis has rarely been reported in marine mammals. During 2004 and 2005, two cases of nephrolithiasis were diagnosed during routine necropsy examination, one in a northern elephant seal (Mirounga angustirostris) and one in a California sea lion (Zalophus californianus). Nephroliths were found throughout both kidneys during necropsy examination, varying in size from 1-10 mm in diameter in the northern elephant seal and from 1-15 mm in diameter in the California sea lion. Necropsy and histopathology revealed nephroliths in association with renal pelvic dilation and pyelonephritis in both animals. In addition, hydronephrosis was noted in the sea lion. Nephroliths were composed of uric acid and ammonium urate in the northern elephant seal and of ammonium urate in the California sea lion. The underlying disease leading to nephrolith formation was not determined; however, it is hypothesized that unknown metabolic derangements due to morphologic or physiologic differences may have played a role. This is the first report of urate nephrolithiasis in the California sea lion and northern elephant seal.
20096437|The health of a population of free-ranging tapirs (Tapirus bairdii) inhabiting Corcovado National Park, Costa Rica, was assessed as part of an ongoing ecologic study. Nineteen tapirs were immobilized between March 1997 and February 2000, and samples of blood, skin biopsies, and ectoparasites were collected. Ticks were identified as Amblyomma oblongoguttatum or A. coelebs. Hematology and serum biochemistry results suggest statistically significant differences between free-ranging and captive populations that should be interpreted with caution in view of inherent environmental differences between the two populations. Five of 17 animals tested positive for Leptospira bratislava, and 12 individuals tested positive for Venezuelan equine encephalitis. One of nine skin biopsies examined was abnormal and diagnosed as leukoderma. This report represents the first health assessment of a free-ranging population of tapirs.
20096229|Blood samples, fecal samples, and cloacal swabs were collected from 42 bog turtles (Clemmys muhlenbergii), including 14 wild males, 22 wild females, three captive males, and three captive females, in Virginia and North Carolina, USA. Samples were analyzed for hematologic and plasma chemistry values, Mycoplasma sp. antibodies, intestinal parasites, and normal cloacal flora.
20095217|Serum protein electrophoresis from a 7-day-old black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) calf demonstrated failure of passive antibody transfer from the dam. The calf failed to thrive and died at 9 days of age. Mammary fluid samples taken 10 days prior to calving suggested that the dam was accumulating antibodies at a rate comparable to that of domestic species and further suggested that the failure to transfer this protection to the calf may be related to the lack of ingestion and/or absorption of normal colostrum.
20095307|Twelve nonhuman primates of four species (two black and white ruffed lemurs [Varecia v. variegata], seven ring-tailed lemurs [Lemur catta], one white-handed gibbon [Hylobates lar], and two greater spotnose guenons [Cercopithecus n. nictitans]) developed typhoidal tularemia during a 6-wk tularemia epizootic in a zoological collection. Six died despite antibiotic treatment. An additional 13 asymptomatic primates of four species (three brown lemurs [Lemur macaco mayottensis], six thick-tailed bushbabies [Galago crassicaudatus], three greater spotnose guenons, and one white-handed gibbon) housed with or adjacent to symptomatic primates were prophylactically treated and did not develop illness. Seventy-three primates in the facility were not treated and did not develop tularemia nor did any other zoo animal. Clinical signs ranged from peracute death to varying degrees of lethargy and depression. Most ill primates were febrile (40.4-41.4C). Consistently observed serum biochemical abnormalities included elevations of blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, total bilirubin, lactate dehydrogenase, and creatine phosphokinase. Two black and white ruffed lemurs had radiographic evidence of pneumonia. Gross necropsy abnormalities of the six primates (four ring-tailed lemurs, one greater spotnose guenon, one white-handed gibbon) included marked splenomegaly with 1-2-mm pale parenchymal foci, livers that were friable or had rounded or blunted margins, and pulmonary consolidation. Significant histologic findings included diffuse, acute, necrotizing splenitis with focal microabscess formation, hepatic necrosis with microabscesses, and acute bronchopneumonia. Francisella tularensis Type B was isolated in pure culture from the liver and lung of each primate that died. All but one of the six surviving symptomatic primates seroconverted or developed a fourfold rise in antibody titer. Two (a brown lemur and a thick-tailed bushbaby) of the 13 prophylactically treated asymptomatic primates and 3 asymptomatic untreated lion-tailed macaques (Macaca silenus) were also seropositive. For several weeks prior to the nonhuman primate tularemia epizootic, multiple house mice (Mus musculus) had been found dead in the building in which the primates were housed. Indigenous rodent populations also appeared to be decreased. Francisella tularensis Type B was isolated from three of six mice collected in the building suggesting a local epizootic of murine tularemia. The likely infection route was through the ingestion of food that had been contaminated by infectious mouse feces, urine, or saliva after it was distributed in the enclosures. The tularemia epizootic was controlled by antibiotic treatment of ill and potentially exposed primates, management and husbandry alterations designed to decrease rodent access to primate diets, and elimination of rodent vectors.
40665072|A 39-yr-old, acyclic, uniparous, female white rhinoceros with a history of recurrent vaginal bleeding was euthanized following a period of respiratory distress and ill-thrift. The rhinoceros' uterus had previously been evaluated by ultrasound and diffuse endometrial hyperplasia and two benign uterine leiomyomas had been diagnosed. At necropsy examination, a large, infiltrative, metastatic uterine adenocarcinoma was found multifocally throughout the uterus, scattered within the peritoneal cavity, on the diaphragm, the splenic capsule, the pleural surface of the lung and mesenteric lymph nodes. A large volume (100 L) of ascites fluid was present in the abdominal and pleural cavities.
20095341|Follicular stasis was diagnosed in three green iguanas (Iguana iguana) and one savannah monitor (Varanus exanthematicus) by history, physical examination, survey radiography, and serum biochemical analyses. Ultrasonography was helpful in confirming radiographic findings. Elevated serum calcium levels, radiographic evidence of multiple round coelomic opacities, and a history of lethargy and partial to complete anorexia were considered diagnostic in all four cases. Ovariectomy was considered the most viable therapeutic option because of the severity of the animals' clinical signs. The rapid response to surgical bilateral ovariectomy in these cases indicates ovariectomy is a valid therapy for singly housed, female pet lizards with follicular stasis.
20460455|The pharmacokinetic parameters of phenylbutazone were determined in 18 elephants (Loxodonta africana and Elephas maximus) after single-dose oral administration of 2, 3, and 4 mg/kg phenylbutazone, as well as multipledose administrations with a 4-wk washout period between trials. After administration of 2 mg/kg phenylbutazone, mean serum concentrations peaked in approximately 7.5 hr at 4.3  2.02 g/ml and 9.7 hr at 7.1  2.36 g/ml for African and Asian elephants, respectively, while 3 mg/kg dosages resulted in peak serum concentrations of 7.2  4.06 g/ml in 8.4 hr and 12.1  3.13 g/ml in 14 hr. The harmonic mean half-life was long, ranging between 13 and 15 hr and 39 and 45 hr for African and Asian elephants, respectively. There was evidence of enterohepatic cycling of phenylbutazone in Asian elephants. Significant differences (P &lt; 0.0001) in pharmacokinetic values occurred between African and Asian elephants for clearance (27.9 and 7.6 ml/hr/kg, respectively), terminal half-life (15.0 and 38.7 hr, respectively), and mean residence time (22.5 and 55.5 hr, respectively) using 2-mg/kg dosages as an example. This suggests that different treatment regimens for Asian and African elephants should be used. There were no apparent gender differences in these parameters for either elephant species.
20095502|Five adult cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) from an Austrian zoo demonstrated identical clinical symptoms within a period of 2 yr: progressive hind limb ataxia, loss of proprioception, and eventual recumbency. The progress of the disease could not be influenced by drug therapy. Hematologic, blood chemistry, and cerebrospinal fluid values were within normal ranges. Plain radiographs and contrast myelography were unremarkable. Following euthanasia, histologic examinations revealed a massive demyelination of the spinal cord in all five cheetahs. The lesions were most predominant in the medullary white matter from T6 to L3. The specific cause of this degenerative myelopathy could not be identified. Similar syndromes have been seen in other species. Various possible causes, such as vitamin
20095441|Sixteen silver leaf langurs, Trachypithecus cristatus ultimus, developed 22 cases of gastrointestinal linear foreign bodies (GIFB) in 8 yr (1986-1994). Fifty-one langurs older than 6 mo old were present in the colony during this period. Five langurs developed two or three recurrent episodes within 4-12 mo. Eight-six percent of the cases occurred from 1992 to 1994; 82% of the langurs were juveniles (2-6 yr old), and 10 were in three family groups. Seventeen antemortem diagnoses were made, of which 16 required surgery (25% died postoperatively), and one passed the GIFB in the feces. Five postmortem diagnoses were made. Clinical signs included vomiting, anorexia, depression, and abnormal postures suggestive of abdominal discomfort. Palpable intestinal impaction or plication was common. Radiographs, hematology, and serum biochemistry did not contribute to diagnosis. Surgical findings included gastric and/or intestinal foreign bodies. Intestinal perforations and intestinal plication were common. Surgical procedures included gastrotomy, enterotomy, and intestinal resection. Postoperatively, most langurs received i.v. fluids, antibiotics, and flunixin meglumine. Food and water was withheld for the first few postoperative days while i.v. fluids were administered, after which there was a gradual introduction of a normal diet. All five langurs diagnosed at postmortem examination had obstructive GIFB. Four had either abdominal adhesions, peritonitis, intestinal perforation, or plication or some combination of these; one had aspiration pneumonia. Postoperative deaths included two with aspiration pneumonia, one with neurologic disease suggestive of tetanus, and one with massive peritonitis. Foreign body composition was determined by microscopic examination. The majority of the foreign bodies were composed of fibers of screwpine, Pandanus utilis, alone, or with nylon rope. Pandanus utilis were exhibit plants and nylon ropes were in holding areas; both were removed. Due to the fiber length, indigestible nature, and retention in the stomach of both substances, langurs continued to develop obstructions for more than 2 yr after removal of Pandanus and 9 mo after the removal of nylon rope.
20095400|Two adult rosy boas (Lichanura trivirgata) from two different collections of snakes died without signs of illness. Gross lesions in one of the snakes were characterized by multifocal petechial hemorrhages on the serosa of the gastrointestinal tract and liver. Histologic examination of multiple tissues demonstrated basophilic intranuclear inclusion bodies in hepatocytes, renal tubular epithelial cells, and endocardium of one snake. The other snake had no gross lesions, but basophilic intranuclear inclusions were found in hepatocytes and heterophils within sinusoids of the liver. Electron microscopic examination of sections of the liver of one snake demonstrated inclusions that contained viral particles. The particles were not enveloped, were 65-70 nm in diameter, had hexagonal outlines, and in some nuclei, were arranged into paracrystalline arrays. Based upon morphological characteristics and location, these viral particles were most similar to those of the Adenoviridae.
20460464|Carbon dioxide (CO) laser was used to treat multiple cutaneous papillomas on an adult female common snapping turtle, Chelydra serpentina serpentina. A combination of excisional and ablative techniques provided excellent intraoperative visibility and postoperative results due to the laser's unique ability to incise and vaporize soft tissue.
20460307|Sixteen adult female free-ranging African elephants (Loxodonta africana) were immobilized in July 1990, using a mean (SE) dose per animal of 11.6  0.3 mg of etorphine (M99) mixed with a standard dose of hyaluronidase (4,500 IU), at the Sengwa Wildlife Research Area, Zimbabwe, to attach telemetry and infrasound detection collars. The 16 elephants were reimmobilized in December 1990, using higher doses of etorphine (standardized at 15 mg total dose) with hyaluronidase (4,500 IU), to remove the collars. The higher doses of etorphine produced more rapid inductions (P &lt; 0.03) when significant outliers were removed. Biological data were collected on both occasions. Significant differences in selected measures that were indicative of stress, including lactic dehydrogenase and aspartate transaminase, were seen between immobilizations. Comparisons were made of selected health measures between samples collected in the early winter and late winter/early spring season in Zimbabwe. Significant differences were seen with total protein, albumin, urea nitrogen, creatinine, calcium, magnesium, inorganic phosphorus, chloride, and alanine transaminase.
20094975|Systemic infections were observed in three 1-mo-old impala (Aepyceros melampus) calves following ear tagging. All three animals presented with infections of the pinna at the site of the ear tag and polyarthritis. At necropsy, two of the animals also had extensive necrotizing hepatitis. One animal had rumenal ulceration and necrosis and two animals had multifocal chronic coagulative pulmonary necrosis. A presumptive diagnosis of systemic Fusobacterium necrophorum infection was made based on the coagulative nature of the lesions, the morphology of the organisms seen in histology sections, and on one positive Fusobacterium sp. culture.
20460450|A visual health assessment and survey questionnaire was conducted on 81 Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) housed in 10 animal facilities throughout India between November 2004 and February 2005. The survey questionnaire consisted of 10 questions that evaluated the health of the elephants, and they were completed after visually assessing each individual elephant. The information collected was ranked on a scale that was used to statistically compare the health among the study subjects. This study documented that 43.21% of the captive elephants surveyed exhibited hyperkeratosis. A significant proportion of the elephants owned by tourist camps had poor skin condition when compared with elephants from zoos and at a forest camp. Similarly, captive-born individuals were found to have better skin condition than animals that were caught from the wild. Sixty (74.1%) of the captive elephants that were observed during this study had fissures in their footpads, 20% of which were severe. The prevalence of foot fissures was significantly higher in females. A greater proportion of elephants owned by tourist camps displayed vertical and horizontal toenail cracks in comparison with the forest camp and zoo elephants. It was noted that 76.9% of the wounded animals and 80% of those having abscesses were housed at temples and tourist camps. Also, approximately 8.5% of the captive elephant population observed during this study had eye-related problems, and they were all housed at temples and tourist camps. In conclusion, it was evident that elephants housed at temples or tourist camps exhibited poor skin condition with wounds and abscesses. These findings suggest that the overall condition of the elephants housed at tourist camps was poor compared with elephants housed at zoos and at the forest camp.
20096006|Nine of 74 American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) from a captive Florida herd of 3-4-m-long, 200-350-kg, adult males greater than 30 yr of age died within a 10-day period during 1995. Nonspecific clinical signs included anorexia, lethargy, muscle weakness, paraparesis, bilateral white ocular discharge, and various degrees of periocular, facial, cervical, and limb edema. Pneumonia, pericarditis, and arthritis were found on postmortem evaluation of the spontaneously dead and euthanatized alligators. Rapidly growing mycoplasmas were identified by culture, and mycoplasma nucleotide sequences were identified by polymerase chain reaction testing of fresh lung and synovial fluid from an affected alligator. Culture of banked frozen lung from necropsy specimens and fresh lung and fresh synovial fluid from newly affected alligators confirmed the presence of a new mycoplasma species in seven of eight individuals. Oxytetracycline was administered, but related deaths continued for 6 mo until only 14 of the initial alligators remained. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect antibody was developed, and the organism was transmitted experimentally to naive juvenile alligators, although the source of the organism, Mycoplasma sp. (ATCC 700619), has not been identified. The alligator isolate is a novel species in the mycoplasma family because its nucleotide sequence does not match those of over 75 characterized mycoplasma species. Such factors as population density, animal age, and mycoplasmal virulence likely contributed to the course of disease.
20460495|Intravenous regional perfusion is a common technique for treating infections of the extremities in humans and horses. It has the advantage of achieving very high antibiotic concentrations in affected tissues. This technique was used to clinically resolve deep, mixed infections involving bones and joints in a swamp wallaby and a lesser kudu. Both infections were severe and considered life-threatening, because amputation was not feasible, systemic antibiotic treatment hat failed, and both animals were in pain and had evidence of the systemic effects of the infections. In the wallaby, once daily treatments with imipenem for 5 days resulted in a return to normal function within 1 mo. In the kudu, four treatments using both ampicillin/sulbactam followed by enrofloxacin were performed every 2 days, followed by two treatments with ampicillin/sulbactam alone 2 wk later. Resolution of this case was achieved in less than 2 mo. The only adverse effect noted was phlebitis in the kudu, which resolved with conservative therapy. Healing was rapid in both cases and was apparent after two treatments. This report demonstrates the efficacy and flexibility of intravenous regional perfusion for the treatment of severe infections of the digits in nondomestic species.
20095817|As part of annual colony counts in Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, a health survey of rockhopper penguins (Eudyptes chrysocomes) was conducted in 1994. Forty-five birds were examined during handling procedures, and blood and fecal samples were collected for laboratory analysis. All birds appeared to be in good condition. No ecto- or endoparasites were found. Hematology, plasma chemistry, and plasma mineral levels were measured and correlated with the results of bacterial and viral serology. Antibodies against Chlamydia sp., avian adenovirus, avian encephalomyelitis virus, infectious bronchitis virus, avian reovirus, and paramyxovirus-1, -2, and -3 were found. Mean plasma chemistry and mineral values differed between individuals testing positive and negative on serologic tests. There was no serologic evidence of exposure to avian influenza virus, duck viral enteritis, infectious bursal disease, infectious laryngotracheitis, Aspergillus sp., or Salmonella pullorum. Trace amounts of endrin were found in the plasma of one bird, but all other chlorinated pesticide and polychlorinated biphenyl levels were below detectable limits.
20460554|Previous studies support the possible application of galactomannan, a major antigen of Aspergillus sp., to aspergillosis diagnosis in avian and other animal species. An assay is commercially available for use with human serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples. In the current study, galactomannan results from plasma samples were compared between birds with histologically confirmed aspergillosis and those that were clinically normal presumptively non-Aspergillus infected birds per submitting practitioners' responses to a questionnaire. It was observed that infected birds demonstrated a 2.6-fold increase in galactomannan over birds without evidence of aspergillosis. With the use of a galactomannan index of 0.5 as a cutoff, the sensitivity and specificity of the test were found to be 67% and 73%, respectively. In addition, plasma samples were analyzed for abnormalities in protein electrophoretic patterns. Infected birds had a higher incidence of increased beta and/or gamma globulin concentrations. Test sensitivity and specificity were 73% and 70%, respectively. If the 2 tests were used as a panel, then the sensitivity was 89% and specificity was 48%. These data indicate that both galactomannan and protein electrophoresis may be valuable tools in the diagnosis of avian aspergillosis.
20095366|North American river otters (Lutra canadensis) were anesthetized in cooperation with an otter restoration program administered by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission during winter 1993. Five doses of medetomidine (10, 25, 50, 75, and 100 g/kg, i.m.) in combination with ketamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.m.) were evaluated in 41 river otters. Heart rate and rhythm, respiratory rate, rectal temperature, relative oxyhemoglobin saturation, systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial blood pressures were monitored at 5-min intervals for 30 min. Otters were anesthetized at all but the lowest dose (medetomidine 10 g/kg--ketamine 2.5 mg/kg), which produced heavy sedation of short duration. We recommend medetomidine 25 g/kg combined with ketamine 2.5 mg/kg, i.m., in river otters for anesthetic induction prior to inhalation anesthesia or for short procedures, including minor surgery. A higher dose of medetomidine (50 g/kg) in combination with ketamine (2.5 mg/kg) is required for procedures of 25 min or longer, but respiratory depression may occur. Atipamezole (50-200 g/kg, i.m.) reversed the effects of medetomidine--ketamine in otters. Total recovery time was shorter with higher doses of atipamezole relative to the medetomidine dose, and a ratio of 4:1 (atipamezole: medetomidine) worked best in these trials.
20095591|Sixteen adult white-throated monitors (Varanus albigularis), three Gila monsters (Heloderma suspectum), and 10 Mexican beaded lizards (H. horridum) of known sex were given ultrasound examinations to determine the value of two-dimensional ultrasound imaging technology for the purpose of determining sex in monomorphic lizards. Each animal in the study was examined only once. In every case, the sexes of V. albigularis and H. suspectum were correctly determined by abdominal ultrasound imaging. Images of three of the 10 H. horridum were not adequate for sex determination because of excessive bowel gas, which impeded ultrasound imaging. The sexes of the remaining seven H. horridum were correctly determined using abdominal ultrasound imaging. To confirm ultrasound determination, the sexes of the male H. horridum and H. suspectum were confirmed by digital hemipenis eversion immediately after the ultrasound procedure. The results clearly reveal that two-dimensional ultrasound imaging is useful for determining the sex of mature white-throated monitors and heloderms.
40665143|A 17-yr-old Western Hognose snake (Heterodon nasicus) presented with a prominent midcoelomic swelling. Surgical exploration revealed a large, multicystic, irregular, tan, and firm mass grossly effacing the splenopancreas. The mass was subsequently removed. Histologically, the mass was composed of tubules of columnar to flattened neoplastic cells with an abundant stroma and moderate cellular atypia consistent with a scirrhous adenocarcinoma, likely ductal in origin, given the location of the neoplastic mass. Bloodwork revealed anemia, monocytosis, marked hypercalcemia, and, postoperatively, persistent hyperglycemia. After postoperative recovery, the snake was diagnosed with iatrogenically induced diabetes mellitus and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. Due to the inability to clinically control the diabetes mellitus and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and when additional palpable masses were noted, the snake was euthanatized. Necropsy and histopathologic examination confirmed metastasis of the previously removed adenocarcinoma to the liver, right kidney, and large intestine.
20096560|Steller sea lions (Eumetopias jubatus) rarely strand in areas monitored by humans, and there is little published data on the diseases, parasites, nutritional state, and stress levels of Steller sea lions in the wild. In May 2002, a female Steller sea lion pup (EJS-02-01) was sighted separated from her mother after strong storms in Southeast Alaska. After 5 days of observations, EJS-02-01 was transferred to the Alaska SeaLife Center (ASLC) in Seward, Alaska. During 11 mo of rehabilitation at ASLC, body weight was monitored and opportunistic fecal samples (n = 86) were analyzed for corticosterone concentrations. Fecal corticosterone concentrations ranged from 15 to 3,805 ng/g for EJS-02-01. Peak corticosterone values reflected responses to acute stressors during rehabilitation. EJS-02-01 was successfully released at Gran Point, Alaska, in April 2003. Fecal corticosterone assay monitoring provided a valuable tool to monitor various stressors and is useful in monitoring long-term situations like rehabilitation.
20095014|A disease of caliciviral etiology was first described in swine in 1932. The virus was host specific and naturally infected only swine. Later, a calicivirus of cats was discovered, and again, it was thought to be host specific. In 1972, caliciviruses were the first viruses to be isolated from pinnipeds (California sea lions [Zalophus californianus]). Shortly thereafter, additional calicivirus types were isolated from northern fur seals (Callorhinus ursinus) and other marine species. During this time, a complex picture of antigenic diversity and host nonspecificity emerged for the marine calciviruses. These agents infected and produced disease in marine mammals as well as terrestrial animals. The viruses causing the devastating epidemics of caliciviral disease in swine, which occurred subsequent to 1932, were eventually shown to be present in the ocean. The caliciviruses of ocean origin are known to naturally infect at least one ocean fish (opaleye fish [Girella nigricans]), 12 species of marine mammals, and 18 species of terrestrial animals, including humans.
20095589|Fecal samples were collected from 100 raptorial birds representing 12 species of falconiforms and six species of strigiforms. Twenty-three percent of falconiforms and 44% of strigiforms were infected with at least one internal parasite genus, for an overall infection rate of 32%. Residency status (free living vs. captive) or age (adult vs. juvenile) did not predict infection rate in either falconiforms or strigiforms. Infection with internal parasites was considered common in Northern California raptors, and strigiforms were more commonly infected than were falconiforms.
20095065|Biological data were collected from free-ranging black rhinoceroses (Diceros bicornis) that were chemically immobilized for capture and translocation. Physiologic and hematologic data were collected from 31 and 53 rhinoceroses in 1986 and 1988, respectively. Biochemical data, including cortisol, creatine phosphokinase (CPK), lactic dehydrogenase (LDH), aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), gamma gluteryl transaminase (GGT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), total protein (TP), albumin, globulin, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, glucose, magnesium, phosphorus, calcium, sodium, potassium, chloride, total bilirubin, cholesterol, thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), triiodothyronine (T3), and thyroxine (T4), were collected from 53 rhinoceroses in 1988, and TP and cortisol data were collected from 29 rhinoceroses in 1986. Differences (P &lt 0.05) between adult and subadult rhinoceroses were found for CPK, ALP, GGT, glucose, TP, phosphorus, creatinine, cholesterol, T3, and T4. Significant differences between male and female rhinoceroses were found for CPK, ALP, albumin, globulin, calcium, and phosphorus. Age differences were measured with selected hematologic values, including hemoglobin, mean cell volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, total white blood cell count and absolute lymphocyte and monocyte counts. Hematologic parameters did not differ between sexes. These results provide baseline reference values for determining deviations from normal health in the black rhinoceros.
20460382|The Massachusetts population of the northern red-bellied cooter (Pseudemys rubriventris) is listed as federally endangered due to its extremely restricted geographic range and low population. A captive rearing program has been used since 1984 to augment the population. Blood from 30 juvenile specimens from three rearing institutions was collected prior to release, and hematologic and plasma biochemical data were analyzed. Results were generally consistent with previously published data for other species of the family Emydidae. Basophils were the most numerous type of leucocyte. Results for some values varied significantly between institutions, possibly due to unrecognized differences in husbandry at each facility.
41417190|In this study, the occurrence of antibodies to Toxoplasma gondii in Brazilian agouti (Dasyprocta agut) was compared by modified agglutination test (MAT) and indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) using anticapybara conjugate. Sera from 109 animals were tested using MAT (1:25 cut-off) and IFAT (1:16 cut-off); 19% were positive by MAT, and 18% were positive by IFAT. Overall, the 17 IFAT-positive samples were also positive for MAT. The four positive MAT samples with a titer < 200 were IFAT negative. All negative samples obtained by MAT matched with the results of the IFAT. Comparing both tests, and considering MAT as the gold standard, the sensitivity of IFAT was 81%, the specificity was 100%, the accuracy was 97%, the positive predictive value (PPV) was 100%, and the negative predictive value 96%. The kappa value agreement was 87.3% (75.1-99.6%). The anticapybara conjugate can be successfully used to perform IFAT in Brazilian agouti with maximum specificity and PPV.
41262625|Penicillium mycosis, or penicilliosis, is rare in animals. This report describes the clinical signs and pathological, immunohistochemical, and biomolecular findings in a case of avian penicilliosis in a Congo African grey parrot. On gross necropsy, pyogranulomatous changes were identified in the lung, liver, and kidney. Histopathology demonstrated periodic acid Schiff (PAS) and Grocott-positive hyphae in these tissues. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the genus of the fungus and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) confirmed a high homology with Penicillium chrysogenum.
20096197|Two Asian small-clawed otters (Amblonyx cinereus) died acutely in their exhibit within a 4-day period. Neither animal had significant gross lesions at necropsy. Histologic findings were consistent with acute vascular shock and disseminated intravascular coagulation, and a toxic etiology was suspected. The animals' exhibit contained opened, uneaten loquat (Eriobotrya japonica) fruit with the seeds removed and large quantities of undigested loquat seed material in the feces of the remaining animals. Cyanide was detected in the stomach contents collected at necropsy and in fresh loquat seeds from the exhibit. Loquat is related to other cyanide-containing fruit trees, including cherries, peaches, and almonds.
41262647|A potential cause of pododermatitis ("bumblefoot") was investigated in captive-reared juvenile black stilts at the Department of Conservation "Kaki Recovery Program" at Twizel, New Zealand. To address the importance of substrate, the development of clinical signs in individuals was compared among aviaries that contained rubber matting and/or salt footbaths, and controls. No effect of either experimental manipulation of the environment was apparent on pododermatitis development. With the substrate appearing not to be an initiating factor, and a previous study that indicated that the birds' diet fulfills the nutritional requirements for rearing black stilts in captivity, results of this study suggest that insufficient space for exercise may instead be the cause.
20095592|A simple, rapid method of endotracheal intubation of nondomestic bovids and cervids uses a human endotracheal tube exchanger (19 Fr.  80 cm) placed in the trachea during direct visualization with a straight long-bladed laryngoscope. A "Murphy eye" endotracheal tube can be placed into the trachea by placing the exchanger through the "eye" of the tube. The lubricated tube is passed along the exchanger toward the trachea. Passage into the trachea is facilitated by advancing and slightly rotating the endotracheal tube when the animal exhales.
20094918|Blood clotting abnormalities occurred in six pink-backed pelicans (Pelecanus rufescens) at the National Zoological Park. Three birds died and had extensive subcutaneous, intramuscular, and internal hemorrhages. Three surviving pelicans had prolonged blood clotting times that normalized after the birds were treated parenterally with vitamin K. The coagulopathy was attributed to excessive supplementation of the pelicans' diet with vitamin E (550-10,560 IU/kg dry matter), although excessive amounts of vitamins A and D also may have been involved. The dietary vitamin supplementation was greatly decreased, and signs of coagulopathy did not recur in the pelicans.
41262664|A 2-yr-old male intact alpaca (Vicugna pacos) was admitted for a 4-day history of anorexia and colic. Five months prior, the alpaca had undergone surgical removal of a duodenal trichophytobezoar and had recovered uneventfully. The alpaca died under anesthesia, and diaphragmatic herniation of the third gastric compartment (C3) was diagnosed at necropsy. A defect was identified in the left dorsal hemidiaphragm accompanied by herniation of 80% of C3 and the aboral portion of the second gastric compartment into the pericardial sac. The smooth margins and dorsal location of the diaphragmatic defect suggested a congenital origin. Diaphragmatic herniation is uncommon in camelids, and only one other case has been reported. Due to the dorsal location of the diaphragmatic defect in this animal, positioning during the previous surgery may have initiated a partial entrapment of gastric compartments, leading to a more complete incarceration between when the animal was discharged and presented again.
20096180|Lincoln Park Zoo acquired five intact, male rock hyraxes (Procavia capensis) from three separate institutions to exhibit as a group. The animals were of varying ages at the time of acquisition. During quarantine, all five were surgically castrated via a midline laparotomy technique in an attempt to reduce expected aggression within the group. Recommendations for successful castration, based on these five procedures, include performing the procedure on sexually immature hyraxes or sexually inactive adults, the use of a second surgeon during the procedure, and the use of stainless steel surgical clips for ligation of vessels and spermatic cord. Although combinations of the castrated animals coexisted for longer periods than those documented for other nonrelated male groups, aggression was significant and resulted in the death of one individual. Ultimately, all animals were housed individually.
20460425|In domestic animal medicine, changes in serum enzyme levels are routinely used as diagnostic tools to detect liver disease. Hepatic disease occurs in pinnipeds, but limited data are available on the tissue distribution of serum enzymes in marine mammals. The objectives of this study were to determine the tissue distribution of seven serum enzymes in three pinniped species. Enzymes evaluated were alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine kinase (CK), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) in tissues from California sea lions (Zalophus californianus) (n = 5), harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) (n = 5), and northern elephant seals (Mirounga angustirostris) (n = 5) that stranded and then died at a rehabilitation center. Samples were evaluated in duplicate from liver, skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, kidney, adrenal, spleen, pancreas, lung, lymph node, and intestine. Patterns of tissue enzyme distribution were similar in all species, with SDH activity highest in liver and kidney, CK activity highest in skeletal and cardiac muscle, ALP activity highest in adrenal, and GGT activity highest in the kidney. Aspartate aminotransferase and LDH activities were less specific, with high activity in multiple tissues. Tissue ALT activity was high in the liver of all species, but was also high in cardiac muscle (California sea lions), skeletal muscle (harbor seals), and kidney (elephant seals). These results suggest that concurrent analysis of SDH, ALT, and CK would provide high specificity and sensitivity for the detection of hepatic lesions, and allow differentiation of liver from skeletal muscle lesions in pinniped species.
20095826|Serum samples from captive giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) were tested to assess passive transfer of immunoglobulins using in vitro methods developed for domestic ruminants. Estimated immunoglobulin levels were compared using five tests (protein electrophoresis, total protein refractometry, zinc sulfate turbidity, glutaraldehyde coagulation, and sodium sulfite turbidity). A linear relationship was observed among total protein, gamma globulin (electrophoretic measurement), and immunoglobulin level based on spectrophotometric measurement of zinc sulfate turbidity. Nonquantitative assays also demonstrated statistical correlation with the quantitative methods. Using criteria similar to those established for domestic species, cutoff values for failure of passive transfer (FPT) were established for these tests in neonatal giraffe: 1) total protein &lt6.0 g/dl; 2) gamma globulin &lt 0.5 g/dl; 3) estimated immunoglobulin level &lt 1,000 mg/dl (zinc sulfate turbidity); 4) glutaraldehyde coagulation test negative; or 5) no visually detectable turbidity in 16% sodium sulfite or Bova-S negative. Retrospective examination of the medical histories showed a strong statistical association between animals designated as having FPT and those that were removed from their dams based on clinical assessment to be hand-reared. Application of these tests in the field should allow earlier detection and intervention for FPT in neonatal giraffe.
20095748|A case of disseminated coccidioidomycosis caused by a dimorphic fungus Coccidioides immitis in a mandrill baboon (Mandrillus sphinx) was diagnosed following radiography, ultrasound-guided aspiration of thoracic lesions, and aspiration cytology of skeletal lesions of the left sixth rib. The diagnosis was confirmed by fungal culture and serum quantitative immunodiffusion for antibodies against C. immitis.
20096707|Over a 3-yr span, two juvenile lesser flamingos (Phoeniconaias minor), two green jays (Cyanocorax yncas glaucescens), and two Montezuma oropendolas (Psarocolius montezuma) died peracutely with no premonitory signs at a zoological park in the southern United States. At necropsy, the birds were in excellent body condition. Except for one green jay, the coelomic cavities were filled with a dark serosanguineous fluid. Splenomegaly and hepatomegaly were present. The livers were tan to purple with numerous, randomly distributed red-to-black foci, ranging in size from 1 to 4 mm. The predominant histopathologic finding, except in one green jay, was large protozoal cysts in the hepatic parenchyma. Histologically, the protozoal cysts were restricted to the liver, and none were identified in the skeletal muscle, spleen, or other tissues. Frozen tissue samples harvested at necropsy had a nested polymerase chain reaction assay performed to amplify the mitochondrial cytochrome B gene of the protozoa. The amplified gene sequences were compared with reference cytochrome B gene sequences for avian Plasmodium spp., Haemoproteus spp., and Leucocytozoon spp. The protozoal parasite within the hepatic parenchyma from the Montezuma oropendolas and the lesser flamingos was identified as Haemoproteus spp. Both green jays had Plasmodium spp. isolated from the submitted tissue samples. The peracute nature of the infections precluded any successful medical intervention, making prevention by exclusion the principal means to control hemoprotozoal transmission. There are no reports in the literature documenting identified fatal hemoprotozoal infections in oropendolas, green jays, or lesser flamingos.
20096332|Fifteen captive female African hedgehogs (Atelerix albiventris), 3- to 5-yr-old, were diagnosed with proliferative uterine lesions (n = 28). Lesions were associated with vaginal bleeding in all cases, hematuria in 11 of 13 cases, and weight loss in 7 of 12 cases. Lesions were multiple in eight cases and single in seven cases. The lesions identified were 13 adenosarcomas, 7 endometrial stromal sarcomas, 6 endometrial polyps, 1 adenoleiomyosarcoma, and 1 adenoleiomyoma. In one animal with adenosarcoma, peritoneal seeding was detected at the time of hysterectomy. Mean survival time was 303 days (n = 10). Ovariohysterectomy allows prolonged survival of hedgehogs with uterine tumors.
20096020|A 12-yr-old captive intact male maned wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus) was diagnosed with a fibrosarcoma of the incisive bones. The mass was excised by rostral maxillectomy, and the wolf remained normal and on display with good function and cosmetics for 7 mo. Subsequently, it became weak, ataxic, and dyspneic and was euthanatized. At necropsy, there was a small regrowth of the maxillary tumor, a metastatic mediastinal mass, and multiple metastatic lung masses, suggesting that oral fibrosarcoma in maned wolves behaves similarly to oral fibrosarcoma in domestic canines. Aggressive surgical treatment of oral fibrosarcoma in this species can achieve good functional and cosmetic results.
20095115|Methods for monitoring and assessing reproductive status have been developed to allow both captive and free-ranging wildlife to be evaluated while avoiding chemical immobilization or physical restraint. The broad application of these methods to a wide range of species is related to the conservation of the steroid hormone molecule across taxa and the stability of steroid hormone metabolites in the excreta. In general, conjugated steroid hormone metabolites of the sex steroids are measured in the urine, whereas the unconjugated metabolites are measured in feces; both methods are used to monitor gonadal function or pregnancy. Most methods are appropriate for monitoring females and measure metabolites of estradiol or progesterone. The measurement of metabolites of testosterone to monitor testicular activity in males has been used, but to a lesser degree. When correctly applied, these approaches allow the assessment of reproductive function for prolonged time periods, which permits the objective description of cyclic physiologic processes or the detection of infrequent events. A relatively large number of zoo species have been studies, and valid methods and baseline data exist for many nondomestic primates and ungulates. Although a smaller number of free-ranging wildlife species have been characterized at this time, the current trend indicates increased application of these methods in this research area.
20095447|Coarctation of the aorta was associated with chronic cerebral infarction and atrophy in a young adult male lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla). Aortic obstruction resulted in chronic cerebrovascular disease and lesions compatible with hypertension, including arteriosclerosis of the circle of Willis and acute and chronic ischemic changes in the cerebrum. Clinical signs developed at 7 years of age as progressive left focal seizures, eventually culminating in status epilepticus.
20096443|A retrospective study was conducted on free-ranging raptors (n = 402) presented to the Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital, School of Veterinary Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece, during a 3-yr period (1997-2000). Representatives of 19 species were admitted from taxonomic orders Accipitriformes (n = 295), Falconiformes (n = 35), and Strigiformes (n = 72). Traumatic injuries (n = 305, 75.8%) were the most common cause of presentation in all raptors. Starvation (n = 38 birds, 9.4%) was the second most common reason, whereas toxicoses (n = 28, 6.9%) were suspected in a limited number of birds. Orphans (n = 31, 7.7%) were presented during breeding season primarily because of inappropriate human intervention. Surgical and medical treatment was given to all birds when necessary. In total, 229 (56.9%) of the presented raptors were successfully rehabilitated and released, 121 (30%) were rehabilitated but nonreleasable, whereas 52 (12.9%) of them died despite treatment. Human intervention (79.2%) plays the most important role in birds of prey morbidity and mortality.
20096009|Seven (three male and four female) 4-7-yr old captive servals (Felis serval) weighing 13.7  2.3 kg were used to evaluate the cardiopulmonary and anesthetic effects of combined intramuscular injections of medetomidine (47.4  10.3 g/kg), ketamine (1.0  0.2 mg/kg), and butorphanol (0.2  0.03 mg/kg). Inductions were smooth and rapid (11.7  4.3 min) and resulted in good muscle relaxation. Significant decreases in heart rate (85  12 beats/min) at 10 min after injection and respiratory rate (27  10 breaths/min) at 5 min after injection continued throughout the immobilization period. Rectal temperature and arterial blood pressure did not change significantly. The PaO decreased significantly, and PaCO increased significantly during immobilization but remained within clinically acceptable limits. Hypoxemia (PaO &lt 60 mm Hg) was not noted, and arterial blood oxygen saturation (SaO) was greater than 90% at all times. Relative arterial oxygen saturation (SpO) values, indicated by pulse oximetry, were lower than SaO values. All animals could be safely handled while sedated. Administration of atipamezole (236.8  51.2 g/kg half i.v. and half s.c.), and  antagonist, resulted in rapid (4.1  3 min to standing) and smooth recoveries.
20095047|Examination of a juvenile western cougar (Felis concolor) presented for routine vasectomy revealed thoracic and abdominal effusions. After a thorough diagnostic workup, the cause of the effusions remained unclear and the animal was euthanized. Coccidioidomycosis was diagnosed on necropsy, and postmortem serologic testing was positive for precipitating antibodies to Coccidioides immitis. Twenty other cougars from the same population were negative for precipitating antibodies to C. immitis. Coccidioidomycosis is a rare disease in cats, and this is believed to be the first case reported in a cougar. The unusual findings of thoracic and abdominal effusions presented similarities to feline infectious peritonitis and made antemortem diagnosis difficult.
20095520|This article reports an outbreak of fatal cryptosporidiosis in captive ferrets (Mustela putorius furo) that was diagnosed by structural and ultrastructural studies. The ferrets were infected by Cryptosporidium sp. from goats and the fatal course of this outbreak may have been related to stress.
20095183|Three healthy captive female African elephants (Loxodonta africana) were used to determine the pharmacokinetics of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) after a single i.v. and a single oral dose of 3.7 mg/kg TMP and 18.3 mg/kg SMZ. A 2-mo wash-out period was allowed between the i.v. and oral trials. An adult female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) was also used in this investigation; however, pharmacokinetic parameters calculated from data from this animal were not used to calculate mean pharmacokinetic parameters for TMP-SMZ in African elephants. Serum concentrations of TMP-SMZ were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography on blood samples collected via venous catheterization predose, and over 12 hr after i.v. drug administration, and over 24 hr after oral drug administration. For African elephants, the mean terminal half-life (
20096534|A juvenile male green iguana (Iguana iguana) died 5 days following movement to a room 3-5C cooler than its previous housing. Gross necropsy lesions were limited to thin body condition. Histologically the animal had multifocal, random, moderate to severe, acute hepatocellular necrosis with intranuclear inclusion bodies at the periphery of the necrotic areas. Electron microscopy of the liver revealed icosahedral viral particles approximately 110 nm in diameter, consistent with a herpesvirus infection. Characteristics of the herpesvirus are similar to those described for iguanid herpesvirus 1.
41417156|Analysis of reproductive hormones in fecal samples is necessary for the noninvasive monitoring of reproductive status in free-ranging species. The aim of the present study was to establish an easy noninvasive method to monitor reproductive status in wild ungulate females. Feces were collected daily, weekly, or three or four times a week directly from the soil for a period ranging from 1 to 9.8 mo. Fecal estradiol and progestagens were monitored in nine wild ungulate females (Barbary sheep, Ammotragus lervia [n = 3]; European bison, Bison bonasus [n = 1]; auroch, Bos taurus primigenius [n = 2]; sitatunga, Tragelaphus spekii gratus [n = 2]; and Indian rhinoceros, Rhinoceros unicornis [n= 1]) by using commercially available enzyme immunoassay kits prepared for human serum or plasma. In the species evaluated in this study, luteal phase, abortion, and gestation patterns corresponded closely with changes in fecal progestagens. Luteal phase and gestation values differed significantly (P < 0.001) from basal values, whereas progestagens values after abortion were not significantly different (P > 0.05) from basal values. For estradiol excretory patterns, follicular phase and pregnancy values differed significantly (P < 0.001) from basal values, but differences between values after abortion and basal values were not significant (P > 0.05); length of estrous cycles were clearly defined through estradiol data. This study demonstrates that ovarian function in the wild ungulate females studied can be monitored by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Therefore, ELISA methodologies used here could be a practical alternative to other ELISAs that require more complex procedures or whose commercial availability is difficult.
20096307|Detomidine (0.17  0.03 mg/kg, p.o.) followed in 20 min by carfentanil (7.88  1.85 g/kg, p.o.) reliably restrained an adult Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestrus) eight times for short medical procedures. Detomidine caused head droop, sawhorse stance, ataxia or head pressing (or both). Sternal or lateral recumbency was reached within 10.75  7.6 min of carfentanil administration. Recoveries after i.v. and s.c. administration of yohimbine and naltrexone were smooth and rapid, with the tapir standing within 2-5 min.
20460463|Umbilical hernias were diagnosed in two captive-born, female Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) calves several weeks after birth. Daily manual reduction of the hernias for 5 wk in the first case and for 5 mo in the second resulted in complete closure of the defects. Nonsurgical repair of uncomplicated, fully reducible umbilical hernias in Asian elephants can be an alternative to surgery.
20460535|Four species of artiodactylids (scimitar-horned oryx [Oryx dama]), roan antelope [Hippotragus equinus], blackbuck [Antilope cervicapra]), and blesbok [Damaliscus pygargus phillipsi]) totaling 13 animals were treated with a one-time 12.5-g dose of copper oxide wire particles (COWPs) in a bolus form. Pretreatment, individual trichostrongyle fecal egg counts (FECs) were performed using the McMaster technique. Individual posttreatment FECs were performed every 7 days for 35 days beginning 7 days after bolus administration, and FEC reduction ratios (FECRRs) expressed as percentage reductions from pretreatment values were calculated every 7 days. Mean FECRRs for the 13 animals were 93%  16%, 98%  7%, 91%  28%, 94%  16%, and 90%  13% at 7, 14, 21, 28, and 35 days posttreatment, respectively. These data demonstrate that COWPs in a bolus form were an effective method for reducing FEC in exotic artiodactylids. Based on this limited data, COWPs show promise as an anthelmintic alternative for exotic artiodactylids in zoologic collections.
40962326|Ultrasonography, and, to a lesser extent, echocardiography are now well-established, noninvasive, and painless diagnostic tools in herpetologic medicine. Various cardiac lesions have been previously described in reptiles, but valvulopathy is rarely documented in these animals and, consequently, is poorly understood. In this report, sinoatrial and atrioventricular insufficiencies were diagnosed in a 5-yr-old captive dyspneic Burmese python (Python molurus bivittatus) on the basis of echocardiographic and Doppler examination. This case report is the first to document Doppler assessment of valvular rgurgitations in a reptile.
20460393|A radio-collared adult female coyote (Canis latrans) from South Carolina was found dead with no apparent signs of trauma or struggle. Necropsy revealed a ruptured aortic aneurysm within the thoracic cavity as well as severe heartworm infection, with parasites present in the caudal vena cava. Histologically, inflammatory cell infiltrates were frequent in the aneurysm and consisted of eosinophils, neutrophils, lymphocytes, plasma cells, and macrophages. Bacteria, fungi, and parasites were not found in the aneurysm. Death was due to exsanguination. This represents a first report of an aneurysm in a coyote.
27751707|An 8-yr-old castrated male slender-tailed meerkat (Suricata suricatta) was anesthetized for physical examination and dental prophylaxis. To facilitate intubation, two short bursts of benzocaine spray were applied topically to the glottis. Shortly thereafter, the meerkat developed a muddy, blue-gray mucous membrane color and low oxygen saturation readings measured via pulse oximetry. Despite positive pressure ventilation and treatment with doxapram, the cyanosis and hypoxemia did not improve. Blood collected during the procedure was noticeably dark brown and a clinical diagnosis of methemoglobinemia was made. Because of persistent cyanosis and prolonged recovery, the meerkat was anesthetized a second time to facilitate treatment for methemoglobinemia via a slow intravenous bolus of methylene blue and subcutaneously administered dextrose. Within 20 min, the tongue and gingival color normalized. This is the first report of methemoglobinemia in this species. Although it is commonly used in small animal practice and in humans undergoing certain endoscopic procedures, and present in numerous over-the-counter preparations, the risk of topical benzocaine inducing methemoglobinemia is well described. Administration of topical benzocaine in all mammalian species, particularly small patients, should be done with caution. If it is utilized in zoo practice, clinicians are encouraged to administer benzocaine judiciously to avoid accidental overdose, and be familiar with the signs of methemoglobinemia and its treatment.
40665058|Antibiotic resistance in bacteria is a growing problem in both human and veterinary medicine. Several studies documented the presence of resistant bacteria in humans, livestock, and domestic animals; however, limited research is available on the presence of antibiotic drug resistance in wildlife species. A cross-sectional study was conducted to estimate the prevalence of resistant bacteria collected from wild-caught, marine predatory fishes. Seven species of sharks and a single teleost species were opportunistically sampled from six different study sites in coastal Belize, coastal and nearshore waters of Louisiana, the Florida Keys, and Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts. A total of 134 viable bacteria samples were isolated from the cloacal swabs of predatory fishes. Isolates were characterized by Gram-stain morphology and tested for resistance by using the Kirby-Bauer disc diffusion method. Thirteen drugs (penicillin G, piperacillin, ticarcillin, cefotaxime, ceftazidime, ceftiofur, amikacin, gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, enrofloxacin, doxycycline, chloramphenicol, and sulfamethoxazole) were selected for this study. Prevalence was calculated as the total number of isolates resistant to one or more drugs against the total number of samples in that study area or fish population. Sharks sampled in the Florida Keys exhibited the greatest resistance to a wide selection of drugs. Resistance to at least one drug was found in each of the six study sites and in all of the fish species sampled. Multidrug resistance was also documented in most of the study sites. Interspecific comparisons between redfish, Sciaenops ocellata, and sharks from Louisiana offshore waters (which represent species of the Carcharhinus genus) demonstrated a significantly higher prevalence in redfish, which may be because of the older age of the population. The findings of this study confirmed the presence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in marine predatory fishes from multiple taxa and multiple geographic locations.
20095640|Physical examination of an adult female white-faced saki (Pithecia pithecia) revealed midabdominal multiple cystic structures. The animal developed a grade 3/4 reaction to old mammalian tuberculin injected into the right eyelid. Significant clinicopathologic findings included marked hyperproteinemia (9.2 g/dl), hyperglobulinemia (6.1 g/dl), and hypoalbuminemia (3.1 g/dl). Ultrasonography revealed multiple abdominal masses of varying echogenicity. The animal was euthanized and necropsied. Significant histopathologic findings included multifocal lymphadenitis with cystic degeneration of multiple visceral lymph nodes. Mycobacterium avium--intracellulare was cultured from a mesenteric lymph node.
20095193|An adult wild pigeon (Columba livia) was submitted for postmortem examination after being found dead. Histologic findings included large basophilic intranuclear inclusion bodies in hepatocytes and random areas of hepatic necrosis. Ultrastructurally, inclusions were composed of icosahedral virions, 70-78 nm in diameter, arranged in crystalline lattices. These findings are compatible with adenovirus infection and represent the first report of adenoviral inclusion body hepatitis in a pigeon in North America.
20095116|Ovarian activity was stimulated in four nonreproductive western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla) (ages 33, 32, 34, and 18 yr; Studies 1-4, respectively), using exogenous human gonadotropins. Two ovarian stimulations were performed on two different occasions on the 34-yr-old gorilla within a 4.7-mo interval (studies 3 and 5). Human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) was administered at three to four ampules per day for 6-7 consecutive days. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG; 17,500 or 20,000 IU) was administered 36 hr after the final hMG injection, and oocytes were recovered 32 hr after hCG treatment. In Studies 1-3, a total of eight oocytes were recovered from follicles  14 mm in diameter. In Study 1, one ovum was fertilized (based on extrusion of the second polar body and the formation of two pronuclei) following 18 hr of coculture with 2.0  10 motile gorilla spermatozoa (20% morphologically normal), but cleavage did not occur. In Study 2, gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) was performed using an immature oocyte and 2.5  10 motile gorilla spermatozoa (77% morphologically normal); however, pregnancy was not established. In Study 4, an endogenous luteinizing hormone (LH) surge was detected when follicles averaged 10.2  0.5 mm (range: 8-13 mm, n = 14), as determined by transrectal ovarian ultrasonography. On this occasion, oocyte recovery was performed 28 hr after the estimated onset of the endogenous LH surge. A total of eight oocytes were recovered and, after 18 hr of coculture with 9.5  10 motile gorilla spermatozoa (56% morphologically normal), three ova were fertilized and cryopreserved. In Study 5, GIFT was performed using a mature oocyte combined with 3.6  10 motile gorilla spermatozoa (52% morphologically normal), and a cryopreserved zygote from Study 4 was thawed and transferred into the opposite oviduct; however, pregnancy was not established. These results suggest that hMG and hCG are effective for stimulating ovarian activity in nonreproductive gorillas and that the recovered oocytes are capable of being fertilized in vitro.
20096483|In this study, an attempt was made to use vaginal electrical impedance to predict calving in a female white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum) and to determine the relationship between vaginal electrical impedance and hormonal profiles during pregnancy. The principle behind vaginal electrical impedance is that a change in the ionic balance of vaginal and cervical mucus occurs in response to changes in reproductive hormones. Three times weekly vaginal electrical impedance readings and fecal samples were collected from midgestation to calving (a 6-mo period). The extracted fecal samples were analyzed for immunoreactive estrogens, progestagens, and corticoids by RIA. Vaginal electrical impedance readings did not decrease before calving but remained consistent throughout the last 140 days of pregnancy. Fecal progestagens in the white rhinoceros decreased between day 17 and day 1 before calving, whereas estrogens increased between 4 and 2 mo before calving, with an additional increase occurring 1 mo before calving. Fecal corticoids increased 5 mo before calving, slowly declined, and increased again within 3 wk before calving. A decline in vaginal electrical impedance was noted 168 days before calving and remained at low levels for 4 wk. At the time of this decrease, the female became aggressive toward the male and began lactating. Fecal progestagens and estrogens did not change during this time; however, fecal corticoids increased as vaginal electrical impedance readings returned to normal along with her behavior and cessation of lactation. In summary, the use of vaginal electrical impedance could not predict parturition in the white rhinoceros. However, an anomaly occurred during pregnancy that was supported by vaginal electrical impedance readings, a change in female behavior, premature lactation, and a subsequent increase in fecal corticoids. The etiology of this physiological anomaly is unknown, yet it did not compromise pregnancy.
20095775|In November 1996, a 14-yr-old captive male African lion (Panthera leo) had sudden onset of left-sided hemiparesis and mydriasis of the left eye. After 24 hr of supportive care, the lion showed no improvement and was euthanized. At necropsy, the right cerebral hemisphere was diffusely and irregularly swollen and malacic. Histopathology revealed extensive acute necrosis and edema of the portion of the right cerebral hemisphere that received blood from the right middle cerebral artery. Gross and histopathologic cerebral findings resembled those of feline ischemic encephalopathy.
20096133|Multiple bilateral fractures of the lumbar transverse processes were radiographically identified postmortem in a recently captured roe deer (Capreolus capreolus). These fractures were probably caused by an avulsion of the psoas major occurring during introduction into the transport box. The deer probably died from shock caused by the fractures, muscle damage, and subsequent hemorrhage. Although easily overlooked, fractured lumbar transverse processes may indicate inadequate postcapture management practices.
20460311|The Pennsylvania River Otter Reintroduction Project (PRORP) was initiated in 1982 to restore river otters (Lutra canadensis) to portions of their historic range in Pennsylvania. To date, 75 otters have been successfully reintroduced to five watersheds in north-central and western Pennsylvania. Otters were obtained by live trapping in northeastern Pennsylvania and Maryland or were purchased from commercial dealers and trappers in Louisiana, New York, Michigan, and New Hampshire. Prior to reintroduction, otters usually underwent a period of captivity of 10-14 days to facilitate clinical evaluation, treatment of injuries, convalescence following surgical implantation of radio transmitters, and prerelease conditioning. Captive management techniques for physical and chemical restraint, evaluation of health status, housing, and nutrition were developed and refined by a team of wildlife biologists and laboratory animal veterinarians to enhance reintroduction success by promoting the release of healthy, well-conditioned otters. The incorporation of a captive management plan within the framework of otter relocation efforts has contributed to successful restoration of otter populations in Pennsylvania.
20096325|The type of equipment used to transport circus tigers, environmental factors experienced during transport, and resultant body temperatures of tigers transported were surveyed during hot and cold weather conditions with six different circus tiger acts. Dataloggers recorded interior and exterior temperatures, relative humidity, and radiant heat at 5-min intervals during each trip. Microdataloggers fed to the tigers recorded body temperature and were recovered from eight Bengal (Panthera tigris tigris), Siberian (P. t. altaica), or Bengal-Sumatran (P. t. tigris-P. t. sumatrae) cross tigers from four different circuses. Three basic types of systems were used by circus acts to transport tigers: freestanding cages mounted on wheels that were winched or pushed into a semitrailer for transport, cages built into the trailer itself, and weather-resistant units transported on flatbed railcars or flatbed truck trailers. The highest temperature encountered inside a trailer was 37.3C in hot weather conditions, but overall, temperatures were usually between 21.1-26.7C. Temperature inside the trailers did not appear to be affected by movement and did not generally exceed ambient temperatures, indicating adequate insulation and passive ventilation. During cold weather trips, the lowest temperature inside the trailers was -1.1C, occurring during an overnight stop. Interior temperatures during cold weather transport stayed 2-6C warmer than ambient temperatures. The body temperatures of the tigers were unaffected by extreme temperatures. The only changes observed in body temperature were increases of 1-2C caused by activity and excitement associated with loading in several groups of tigers, regardless of whether it was hot or cold weather. Whenever measured, carbon monoxide and ammonia were below the detectable concentrations of 10 and 1 ppm, respectively. Overall, transport did not appear to have any adverse effects on the tigers' ability to thermoregulate.
20460480|Eleven juvenile Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) were evaluated radiographically to determine the relative times of growth plate closure and phalangeal ossification in the bones of the distal forelimb. Specifically, the first, second, and third phalanges of the third digit (D3) were evaluated, as well as the third phalanx of digits 1, 2, 4, and 5. All elephants were healthy at the time of examination. A retrospective evaluation of radiographs from six of the 11 juvenile elephants was also completed to augment the data set. This study reports the methods used to obtain high-quality radiographs of the distal juvenile elephant limb, ossification characteristics of the phalanges, relative times of growth plate closure within the proximal phalanges of D3, and a method for age estimation based on radiographic findings. This study will help clinicians in conducting elephant foot radiography, in evaluating foot radiographs in juvenile elephants, in recognizing normal versus pathologic change, and in estimating juvenile elephant age based on radiographic ossification characteristics and growth plate closure times. Consistent use of the proposed foot radiograph technique is recommended to facilitate foot disease recognition and as part of the annual examination of captive Asian elephants.
20095927|Streptococcus uberis was cultured from vegetative endocarditis lesions in a scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx dammah) from the Parc de la Haute Touche, France. This is the first reported single isolation of S. uberis from an oryx with vegetative endocarditis leading to fatal congestive heart failure.
20460581|This case report describes acariasis in captive, wild-caught, fat-tailed jirds (Pachyuromys duprasi). All animals within the cage (n = 4) were examined for pruritus and alopecia and subsequently found to be infested with the mite Pyroglyphis morganii. All life stages of the mite were identified on animals and within the nesting materials. Treatment, including repeated subcutaneous ivermectin administration and husbandry practice modifications, proved effective in eradicating the mites and in subsequent amelioration of clinical signs.
20096173|Sixteen captive and wild-caught American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis), seven juveniles (1 m total length [TL]; 6.75  1.02 kg), and nine adults (2 m TL; 36.65  38.85 kg), were successfully anesthetized multiple times (n = 33) with an intramuscular (i.m.) medetomidine-ketamine (MK) combination administered in either the triceps or masseter muscle. The juvenile animals required significantly larger doses of medetomidine (x = 220.1  76.9 g/kg i.m.) and atipamezole (x = 1,188.5  328.1 g/kg i.m.) compared with the adults (medetomidine, x = 131.1  19.5 g/kg i.m.; atipamezole, x = 694.0  101.0 g/kg i.m.). Juvenile alligators also required higher (statistically insignificant) doses of ketamine (x = 10.0  4.9 mg/kg i.m.) compared with the adult animals (x = 7.5  4.2 mg/kg i.m.). The differences in anesthesia induction times (juveniles, x = 19.6  8.5 min; adults, x = 26.6  17.4 min) and recovery times (juveniles, x = 35.4  22.1 min; adults, x = 37.9  20.2 min) were also not statistically significant. Anesthesia depth was judged by the loss of the righting, biting, corneal and blink, and front or rear toepinch withdrawal reflexes. Recovery in the animals was measured by the return of reflexes, open-mouthed hissing, and attempts to high-walk to the opposite end of the pen. Baseline heart rates (HRs) were significantly higher in the juvenile animals (x = 37  4 beats/min) compared with the adults (x = 24  5 bpm). However, RRs (juveniles, x = 8  2 breaths/min; adults, x = 8  2 breaths/min) and body temperatures (juveniles, x = 24.1  1.1C; adults, x = 25.2  1.2C) did not differ between the age groups. In both groups, significant HR decreases were recorded within 30-60 min after MK administration. Cardiac arrhythmias (second degree atrio-ventricular block and premature ventricular contractions) were seen in two animals but were not considered life-threatening. Total anesthesia times ranged from 61-250 min after i.m. injection. Although dosages were significantly different between the age groups, MK and atipamezole provided safe, effective, completely reversible anesthesia in alligators. Drug-dosage differences appear to be related to metabolic differences between the two size-classes, requiring more research into metabolic scaling as a method of calculating anesthetic dosages.
20460407|A comprehensive study of a pneumonic epizootic was initiated when the first signs of disease were noted in a metapopulation of bighorn sheep inhabiting Hells Canyon, bordering Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. A total of 92 bighorn sheep were tested for etiologic agents during the following 6-mo study period. The study population included bighorn sheep believed to be the subpopulation in which disease was first noted, and these sheep were translocated to a holding facility in an effort to contain the disease (group A, n = 72); bighorn sheep in other subpopulations (group A) with evidence of clinical disease were captured, sampled, given antibiotics, and released (n = 8) and those that were found dead were necropsied (n = 12). Samples, including oropharyngeal and nasal swabs, and lung and liver tissue were collected from the bighorn sheep identified above. Tissue was collected at necropsy from 60 group A bighorn sheep that died following translocation, and samples were cultured for bacteria and viruses. Blood samples were tested for antibodies against known respiratory viruses, and histopathology was conducted on tissue samples. The major cause of death in both group A and group A bighorn sheep was a rapidly developing fibrinous bronchopneumonia. Multiple biovariants of Pasteurella were isolated from oropharyngeal and nasal samples from both groups, and Mycoplasma ovipneumonia was isolated from five group A oropharyngeal samples. Organisms isolated from lung tissue included Pasteurella multocida multocida a and Pasteurella trehalosi, both of which differentiated into multiple strains by restriction enzyme analysis, and parainfluenza-3 virus (PI-3). Paired serum samples revealed &gt;fourfold increases in titers against PI-3 and bovine respiratory syncytial viruses. It was concluded that this epizootic resulted from a complex of factors including multiple potential respiratory pathogens, none of which were identified as a primary pathogen, and possible stress factors.
20096579|Herpesviruses and herpes-like viruses have been reported in only a small number of species of cetaceans, and, to date, clinical manifestations have been either as a life-threatening, disseminated infection or as a non-life-threatening dermatitis. A stranded juvenile Atlantic bottlenose dolphin, Tursiops truncatus, was admitted to the Dolphin and Whale Hospital for rehabilitation. On initial physical examination, the rostral skin had multifocal regions of hyperplasia, and the skin of the dorsum contained a large number of small papules. Histologically, epithelial hyperplasia was evident, and clusters of epithelial cells contained 5-15-m intranuclear inclusion bodies. Transmission electron microscopic investigation revealed numerous 170-190-nm enveloped virions in both the intracellular spaces and the cytoplasm of epithelial cells, with numerous nucleocapsids noted in epithelial cell nuclei. Consensus primer polymerase chain reaction identified the presence of a novel herpesvirus associated with the lesions. Phylogenetic analysis of the deduced amino acid sequences of the herpesvirus DNA polymerase gene fragment showed it to align with alphaherpesvirus sequences from humans and domestic animals. Although clearly distinct, it was most closely related to two previously described alphaherpesviruses of dolphins. This case represents the first documentation of herpesvirus dermatitis in the Atlantic bottlenose dolphin.
27751718|A study was conducted to determine the health status of the free-living spiny-tailed lizard (Uromastyx spp.) population at Wrsan, Al Ajban, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. A total of 90 spiny-tailed lizards, 61 males and 29 females, were examined from June to August 2006. Mean body weights were 1,564.4 g and 809.4 g for males and females, respectively. Mean body lengths were 62.1 cm and 49.4 cm for males and females, respectively. Fourteen lizards were found with abnormalities including abscesses, bite wounds, and deformed or missing tail ends, digits, or claws. Radiographic examination revealed osteomyelitis, arthritis, and healed fractures. Reference hematology and chemistry values were obtained from the 76 clinically normal lizards. Hemoparasitemia included possible new species of Karyolysus and Hepatozoon. The most common oropharyngeal organisms isolated were Escherichia coli, Providencia spp., and nonhemolytic Staphylococcus; and the most common cloacal organisms were E. coli, Proteus spp., Providencia spp., and nonhemolytic Staphylococcus. Ascarids were the only endoparasites found. This is the first biomedical data published for the spiny-tailed lizard.
20096672|The Asiatic or Himalayan black bear (Selenarctos thibetanus) is an endangered species. In South Asian countries, captive tamed Himalayan bears are commonly used by roving bear-charmers to entertain the people in rural and urban areas. In captivity, this species confronts several psychophysical traumas and communicable diseases, which are prevalent in other domestic species. The present report describes four cases of Trypanosoma evansi infection in live Himalayan charming bears, which originated from the Faisalabad and Jhang districts of Pakistan. The condition was characterized by pyrexia, accelerated pulse, tachypnea, depression, anemic mucous membranes, and ataxia (n = 3). Microscopic examination of peripheral blood films revealed moderate (n = 2) or high (n = 2) numbers of T. evansi. All four bears were treated twice at 3-day intervals with suramin sodium by using almost twice the dosage recommended for common domestic animals (10 mg/kg). The treated bears were found aparasitemic on repeat blood testing on days 5, 7, and 10 post-treatment. No adverse effects were noted and all four cases recovered in 3-7 days after completion of the second round of treatment. One bear died 8 days after the second treatment (day 11). This is the first report of T. evansi in bears.
20094933|Seven captive snow leopards (Panthera uncia) were immobilized on 11 occasions with xylazine 2.2  0.2 mg/kg and ketamine 10.9  1.0 mg/kg (mean  SD) for various clinical procedures. Based on clinical, hematological, serum chemical, cardiovascular, and respiratory parameters monitored during the procedure, the immobilizations were physiologically appropriate, although some statistically significant changes occurred. Packed cell volume, serum protein, alanine aminotransferase, creatinine, Na, and Cl decreased while alkaline phosphatase and glucose increased. Paired arterial blood samples revealed stable high Po and low Pco values, and an apparently normal pH during the monitoring period. The parameters used to evaluate effects of xylazine--ketamine were compared to previously reported results in snow leopards immobilized with medetomidine 63.8  9.5 g/kg and ketamine 2.6  0.4 mg/kg. In xylazine--ketamine-treated animals, mean time until deep sedation was longer, myorelaxation was inferior, duration of useful immobilization was shorter, and total recovery time was longer than respective values using medetomidine--ketamine. Hematology, serum chemistry, and arterial blood gas values were usually similar with both drug combinations. More statistically significant changes in serum chemistry values occurred in xylazine--ketamine-treated animals. They also had higher arterial Po and lower Pco values, with less changes in arterial blood gases and acid--base status during the monitoring period. The noted differences may have occurred due to a lighter plane of immobilization after xylazine--ketamine or because of a more "dissociative" type of chemical restraint with this combination using higher doses of ketamine.
40962324|A 3-yr-old intact female snow leopard (Uncia uncid) was evaluated for progressive apathy, lethargy, and decreased appetite. Cardiac auscultation revealed a left basal grade IV/VI systolic ejection murmur, and an echocardiogram confirmed a severe pulmonic valvular stenosis (pressure gradient of 98 mm Hg). The lesion was managed by balloon valvuloplasty, resulting in a marked pressure gradient reduction (30 mm Hg). The cat recovered well, and clinical signs resolved. This is the first description of a pulmonary valve stenosis and management with balloon valvuloplasty in a wild felid.
20460561|Loxodonta africana are susceptible to a wide variety of parasites that are often treated with the broad spectrum antiparasitic ivermectin (IVM) based on empirical knowledge. The objectives of this study were to 1) measure plasma IVM levels following administration of 0.1 mg/kg IVM p.o., 2) compare plasma IVM levels following administration with regular versus restricted feed rations, 3) measure IVM excretion in feces, and 4) use these findings to generate dosing recommendations for this species. Using a crossover design, six African elephants were divided into two groups. Ivermectin was administered and typical grain rations were either provided or withheld for 2 hr. Blood and fecal samples were collected for 7 days following drug administration. After a 5-wk washout period, groups were switched and the procedure repeated. Plasma and fecal IVM were analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography. There was no statistically significant difference detected in the pharmacokinetic data between the fed and fasted groups. Peak plasma concentration, area under the curve, and half-life for plasma ranged between 5.41-8.49 ng/ml, 17.1-20.3 ng  day/ml, and 3.12-4.47 day, respectively. High IVM concentrations were detected in feces. The peak concentration values in feces were between 264-311-fold higher than those obtained in plasma. The comparatively large area under the curve and short time to maximum concentration in feces indicate elimination prior to absorption of much of the drug. Plasma IVM concentrations were low when compared to other species. Based on these findings, administration of 0.2-0.4 mg/kg p.o. should be appropriate for eliminating many types of parasites in elephants, and could minimize development of parasite resistance.
20095818|The pharmacokinetics of ceftazidime in yearling loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) following single i.m and i.v. injections were studied. Eight juvenile 1.25  0.18 kg turtles were divided into two groups. Four animals received 20 mg/kg of ceftazidime i.v. and four received the same dose i.m. Plasma ceftazidime concentrations were analyzed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. The i.v. and i.m. administration half-lives were 20.59  3.24 hr and 19.08  0.77 hr, respectively. The volume of distribution was 0.42  0.07 L/kg, and the systemic clearence was 0.217  0.005 ml/min/kg. Ceftazidime was detected in all blood samples and its concentration exceeded the minimum inhibitory concentration for Pseudomonas for 60 hr after i.m. and i.v. injections.
