10.2307/4110581|Somatic chromosome counts are presented for four previously uncounted species of Psophocarpus (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae) from material collected in the Republic of Zaire and Ghana. The basic chromosome number is 2x = 2n = 18 for the species Psophocarpus grandiflorus, P. lancifolius, P. lecomtei, and P. palustris, and these counts are consistent with previously published counts for P. scandens and the cultivated winged bean, P. tetragonolobus.
23216081|A new species of Moldenhawera is described from the state of Bahia in Brazil. Moldenhawera intermedia differs from all other species in the genus by its combination of pinnate leaves with acute to caudate apices, its pink petals, pentamerous flowers, and the staminode filaments 1.5 to 2.5  longer than the anthers which dehisce by slits not pores. The species has a suite of morphological characters that place it intermediate between all three described sections of the genus, suggesting that the supra-specific taxonomy of Moldenhawera will benefit from a future reappraisal.
10.2307/4109799|The 8 species of the genus Anogeissus are recognized with a key for identification of the species and varieties. One new species, A. dhofarica, is described from Dhofar Province in Oman; Finetia is treated as a new section. Lectotypes are selected for A. schimperi, A, harmandii, and A. pierrei.
10.2307/4110703|A new combination, Oryzopsis holciformis subsp. abyssinica is made. Six new species, Lepturus calcareus, Sporobolus gloeoclados, S. minimus, Stipagrostis dhofariensis, S. xylosa and Tripogon oliganthos, are described from the Arabian Peninsula, two of them (Sporobolus minimus and Stipagrostis xylosa) also from Somalia. Keys to species of Sporobolus, Stipagrostis and Tripogon in Arabia are provided.
10.2307/4129961|The genus Holmskioldia Retz. (Verbenaceae) is reported from Tropical East Africa for the first time, and H. gigas Faden is described.
4110888|Two new species of Oxypetalum R. Br., O. fuscum and O. flavopurpureum, from Bolivia and Peru are described and illustrated, Gothofreda pearsonii Rusby is transferred to Oxypetalum, and O. apoloense (Rusby) Dorr is placed in synonymy under O. balansae Malme. The latter name is lectotypified.
10.2307/4111003|A new perennial species of the New World genus Porophyllum, P. bahiense, is described and illustrated from the campo gerais of the state of Bahia, Brazil.
10.2307/4110145|The 23 species of Rhodamnia are described including 8 new species. A key to the species and distribution maps are given.
10.2307/4110664|An account of the 13 species of Mucuna Adans. found in Thailand, Indochina and the Malay Peninsula is offered, with keys and distribution maps. Three new species, M. stenoplax and M. revoluta Wilmot-Dear, and M. thailandica Niyomdham & Wilmot-Dear, are described. One previously recognized species, M. brevipes Craib, is reduced to synonymy under M. bracteata DC. ex Kurz. New species records for E. Asia and Burma, and additions to E. Asian distributions, are also noted. All specimens cited have been seen.
10.2307/4109171|Mammea usambarensis and Garcinia semseii are described as new species from Tanzania and a new name is proposed for a South American species of Garcinia.
10.2307/4114515|A New Species of Xylopia L., X. involucrata, from Bahia, Brazil, is described.
10.2307/4119338|Notes on the taxonomy and nomenclature of the genus Sphaerosporella are presented. Only one species, S. brunnea, is recognised. Sphaerosporella hinnulea is reduced to synonymy with S. brunnea. The habitat of S. brunnea is considered to be burnt sites of various age. Peziza schizospora, here lectotypified, and P. confusa are confirmed to be synonymous with S. brunnea. Sphaerosporella phillipsii is considered to be a nomen dubium.
23489048|Hanguana major Airy Shaw, a highly distinctive but hitherto taxonomically confused species is re-delimited and shown to be restricted to a highland area centred on Gunung Kinabalu, Sabah, with a single collection from the highlands of Limbang, Sarawak. Airy Shaw's original Latin description is amended to omit spurious morphological data, and is presented in English. One element of the plate accompanying the original publication, determined by Airy Shaw as Hanguana malayana (Jack) Merr., is described as a novel species: H. loi Mohd Fahmi, Sofiman Othman & P. C. Boyce, endemic to SW Sarawak. A key to the described Bornean Hanguana species is provided; H. major and H. loi are illustrated. Lastly, the hitherto unknown male inflorescences and flowers of H. bakoensis Siti Nurfazilah, Sofiman Othman & P. C. Boyce are described.
20443256|Two new species and a new variety of Cineraria L. from tropical Africa are described: C. pulchra Cron from the Nyanga and Chimanimani Mountains of Zimbabwe and Mozambique (Mount Gorongoza), C. huilensis Cron from the Serra da Chela in the Huila Province of Angola and C. mazoensis S. Moore var. graniticola Cron from the granite domes of Zimbabwe.
10.2307/4111002|A new alpine species of Ixeridium, I. sandsii, (Compositae: Lactuceae) is described and illustrated from Mt Jaya, Papua (Irian Jaya - Indonesia). It is one of five species now recognized from alpine New Guinea and its relationship to the other alpine species is discussed, as are the differing concepts of Ixeridium. A new section of the genus is created to include the two solitary-headed caespitose alpine species, Ixeridium sect. Monocephala.
10.2307/4109617|Gasteroid, hypogeal Basidiomycota allied to the ballistosporic families of the Boletales, and to the Agaricales and Aphyllophorales occurring in Victoria State, Australia, are described and illustrated. The following families are recognized. Rhizopogonaceae with two species of Rhizopogon and three species of Alpova, and Chamonixiaceae with three species of Chamonixia. Alpova grandisporus, A. lignicolor and Chamonixia vittatispora are described as new species, and two new combinations are proposed: Alpova clelandii and Chamonixia pachydermis. In Agaricales, two species of Hysterogaster in Secotiaceae and two species of Richoniellaceae are recognized, and two new combinations are proposed for Hysterogaster fusisporus (Hysterangium) and H. tasmanicus (Hymenogaster). In Aphyllophorales, Stephanospora flava of Stephanosporaceae is recognized and described.
10.2307/4110332|Two morphological forms of Oropetium were collected from a single locality in India. One of them, O. thomaeum, is a known Indian native and is diploid (2n =18). The other is tetraploid (2n = 36). Their nuclear DNA amounts are in a simple 1:2 ratio and, together with morphological characters, suggest a close diploid/autotetraploid relationship between the two forms. The tetraploid is morphologically indistinguishable from O. minimum, which is native in East Tropical Africa and southern Arabia. It either constitutes a new record for O. minimum in India, or it is an autotetraploid O. thomaeum which resembles O. minimum because of morphological changes brought about by its polyploidy.
20649660|Merremia pacifica Ooststr. is found to be more widespread than previously recognised, ranging from Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia, southward to Vanuatu. A full description and illustrations are provided for this species, previously known only from the type collection (Fiji). Notes and observations are reported on three other taxa of Merremia in the Pacific.
20443273|A new species of Chlorophytum, C. kolhapurense (Anthericaceae) is described and illustrated from Western Ghats, India.
24717345|Parrya is broadly circumscribed to include 42 species previously assigned to Achoriphragma, Neuroloma, and Pseudoclausia. An expanded generic description, synopsis of all taxa previously assigned to Parrya, and key to all species herein assigned to it are presented. Fourteen new combinations: Leiospora beketovii (Krasn.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, L. saposhnikovii (A. N. Vassiljeva) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, Parrya glabra (Royle) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. gracillima (Popov ex Botsch. & Vved.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. hispida (Regel) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. mollissima (Lipsky) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. olgae (Regel & Schmalh.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. papillosa (Vassilcz.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. pazijae (Pachom.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. pjataevae (Pachom.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. podlechii (Dvok) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. sarawschanica (Regel & Schmalh.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, P. tschimganica (Popov ex Botsch. & Vved.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz, and P. vvedenskyi (Pachom.) D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz] and two new names [P. junussovii D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz and P. lipskyi D. A. German & Al-Shehbaz] are proposed. Thirty-eight names are excluded from Parrya (tribe Chorisporeae) and assigned to various genera of the tribes Anchonieae, Arabideae, Boechereae, Camelineae, Erysimeae, Euclidieae, and Smelowskieae, thus reflecting the former broad and artificial circumscription of the genus. Seven taxa are reduced to synonymy with what follows them in parentheses: Neuroloma botschantzevii Pachom. (Parrya pinnatifida Kar. & Kir.), N. griffithii Botsch., N. kunawarense (Royle ex Regel) Botsch., and P. nudicaulis var. dasycarpa Regel (P. glabra), P. angrenica Botsch. & Vved. (P. albida Popov), P. korovinii A. N. Vassiljeva (P. pulvinata Popov), and P. simulatrix Nikitina (P. alba Nikitina). Lectotypes are designated for 19 names, including four partially typified before.
10.2307/4115692|Clerodendrum brunsvigioides Baker from Madagascar is shown to be a synonym of Boutonia cuspidata DC. in Acanthaceae.
10.2307/4110340|West Himalayan Schulzia baltistanica (H. Wolff) Farille, comb. ined. (Ligusticum baltistanicum H. Wolff) is shown to be identical with S. albiflora (Kar. et Kir.) Popov from Middle Asia. This is the only species of Schulzia in the Himalaya. S. garhwalica (H. Wolff) P. K. Mukh. & Constance and S. hameliana (Farille & Malla) P. K. Mukh. & Constance are separated into a new genus Indoschulzia Pimenov & Kljuykov. S. dissecta (C. B. Clarke) C. Norman seems to be a taxon closely related to Sinocarum, Dactylaea, and Tongoloa.
10.2307/4117852|Eight new combinations are made in Elatostema monandrum (Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don) H. Hara at varietal level. A table of distinguishing characters of the different varieties and a key to the varieties are provided.
10.2307/4103032|New combinations are proposed in Diplazium, Ctenopteris, Xiphopteris, Crypsinus, Microsorum and Amauropelta, and several names reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/4103003|Four new species of Gramineae are described from Ethiopia and adjacent parts of neighbouring countries: Poa chokensis, Alopecurus baptarrhenius, Pentaschistis gracilis and Aristida ferrilateris (also in Yemen).
10.2307/4117009|A succinct revision of the genus Polysphaeria is given; it is considered to include 24 species in tropical Africa, Madagascar and the Comoro Is., 6 being described as new and one of uncertain position. Six new infraspecific taxa are also described. A key is given and all the material seen cited.
10.2307/4118753|A chemotaxonomic and cladistic study of Aloe series Asperifoliae and related species is presented. The leaf exudate of most species included in, or pertaining to series Asperifoliae have littoraloin, deacetyllittoraloin and 10-hydroxyaloin B. Aloe viridiflora is misplaced in series Asperifoliae, as the chemical composition of the exudate and morphological characters are remarkably different from all other members of the group, but similar to the more distantly related A. hereroensis (both have homonataloin as major anthrone). Aloe littoralis is a logical outgroup for the series Asperifoliae because it is chemically identical to most members of the group. A cladistic analysis, based on chemical and morphological data, is presented, together with an interpretation of distribution patterns. Our results give a new perspective on natural relationships and are consistent with the hypothesis that the Asperifoliae is an extremely xerophytic southern clade of tropical origin, with A. littoralis as the basal species.
10.2307/4117700|New records of Lotus hebranicus, L. lalambensis, L. laricus, L. torulosus, and L. discolor subsp. mollis are listed. The distribution of other species is discussed. A key to the species of the Lotus arabicus group is presented.
10.2307/4119736|A second species of Aristogeitonia, A. magnistipula, is described for Tanzania.
10.2307/4111157|Five collections of fungi have been rediscovered at Kew associated with James Bolton, a pioneer of British mycology.
10.2307/4118073|Scindapsus lucens is described and its relationships discussed.
10.2307/4109867|8: Additional taxa-Setchelliogaster tenuipes (Cortinariaceae), Leucogaster meridionalis (Leucogastraceae), and Octavianina tasmanica (Octavianinaceae) are described and illustrated from Victoria State, Australia. 9: an account is given of the methods used for collecting hypogeal Basidiomycota, their ecology and distribution in Victoria State, Australia, and their taxonomic relationships. A key to families and the technique involved for SEM examination of the basidiospores is provided.
10.2307/4118063|A new genus of Burseraceae, Rosselia Forman, is described. Its single species R. bracteata Forman is known from only two collections made on Rossel I. in the Louisiade Archipelago off the southeastern end of Papua New Guinea. The genus is distinctive in the conspicuous foliaceous bracts borne along the elongate inflorescences. The gross morphology is discussed; features of the trimerous flowers and the endocarps composed of three fused pyrenes indicate that Rosselia belongs in the tribe Canarieae. The anatomy of the leaf and young stem is described and the presence of features typical of Burseraceae is confirmed. A comparison is made of four significant anatomical characters of Rosselia and their distribution in the rest of Burseraceae; the greatest resemblance is found to be with tribe Canarieae, followed by Protieae. The pollen morphology is described and the pollen is found to be a distinctive type dissimilar to all known pollen types in the Burseraceae. Certain features, however, notably the lalongate, costate endoapertures, occur in other genera of the family. The unusual pollen of Rosselia is considered in the light of other pollen types unique to particular genera of Burseraceae. Reasons for the disparity of the pollen of Rosselia within the family are suggested.
10.2307/4102976|The massive, terminal inflorescences of Arthrophyllum diversifolium and Arthrophyllum crassum show four orders of branching; Arthrophyllum montanum and Arthrophyllum stonei three orders of branching and Arthrophyllum alternifolium two orders of branching. The tree architecture of A. alternifolium conforms to Chamberlain's model while the other 4 species belong to Leeuwenberg's model. The structure of the pedicel in the 5 species studied is similar; the epidermis shows the presence of multicellular, glandular trichomes and the vascular tissue is composed of 10 free bundles. The vascular cylinder of the bigger inflorescence branches is made up of a varying number of free bundles and often enclosing several medullary bundles except in the secondary inflorescence branches of A. montanum and the primary inflorescence branches of A. diversifolium. Perivascular fibres occur as bundle caps other than in the secondary inflorescence branches of A. stonei. The cortex and pith are scattered with secretory ducts and druses.
10.2307/4118897|Allexis zygomorpha, a new species from the littoral forest of Cameroon is described.
10.2307/4107959|Two species of Sida and two varieties of Urena lobata L. are described. The combination Sida cordifolia L. subsp. maculata (Cav.) Marais is published. A key is given to the species of the Sida acuta and S. rhombifolia complexes which are recognised for the Mascarenes, as well as a key to the subspecies and varieties of Urena lobata.
23489199|A new one-flowered species of Nervilia is described and illustrated from plants collected in Nakhon Ratchasima Province, eastern Thailand. The glabrous, angular leaf of Nervilia khaoyaica Suddee, Watthana & S. W. Gale affiliates it to the taxonomically difficult and widespread Nervilia adolphi  punctata species alliance of Section Linervia, but it is otherwise readily distinguished by its broad, oblong-obovate lip with a saccate base and obscure, rounded side lobes below the middle, and by the striking colouration of the disk.
10.2307/4111168| A new rosulate species of Vernonia, V. ganevii is described and illustrated from Catols, Municpio Abara, Bahia, Brazil. Affinities with similar species in Bahia are discussed, especially in relation to pollen morphology. 
10.2307/4110881|The new species Squamanita granulifera is described. It is the first Squamanita species recorded from South America and is known from a single collection from the Amazonian part of Ecuador.
10.2307/4119310|The two new species Boswellia bullata and B. dioscoridis from Socotra (Yemen) are described and illustrated.
20649587|Achillea sivasica elik & Akpulat sp. nov. (Asteraceae) from Turkey is described and illustrated. Diagnostic characters, a description and taxonomic comments on the species are given. It is compared with the closely related A. magnifica. The geographical distribution of the new species and related species is shown. IUCN threatened category and observations on the population are noted.
23216202|An explanation for the attribution to Joseph Banks of two species names, the only two (besides one genus name) so attributable to him alone, is provided: currently the species concerned are correctly referred to as Phaius tankervilleae (Banks) Blume (Orchidaceae) and Strelitzia reginae Banks (Strelitziaceae).
10.2307/4107862|The taxa within the Ilex aquifolium - I. perado complex are revised and their interrelationships discussed. Two new combinations are published: I. perado var. lopezlilloi (Kunkel) S. Andrews and I. perado subsp. iberica (Loes.) S. Andrews.
10.2307/4108575|The large and unnatural grouping 'Schizoglossum E. Meyer' is reviewed. Schizoglossum sensu stricto comprises 12 species endemic to southern Africa; these are keyed out, described, mapped and illustrated. The account includes two new species, four new subspecies and seven new combinations at subspecific rank. Most of the species formerly regarded as members of Schizoglossum are excluded. Miraglossum Kupicha is described; it comprises seven species endemic to southern Africa, including two new species and five transferred from Schizoglossum. These are keyed out, described, mapped and illustrated. Aspidoglossum E. Meyer is distributed throughout southern and tropical Africa, with its centre of diversity in Natal and the Transvaal. Four sections are recognised, each including both southern and tropical members. The genus comprises 34 species: three original, six new to science and 25 with basionyms in Schizoglossum; of the latter, 21 names are newly combined here. The species are keyed out, described and illustrated. 58 names in Schizoglossum are left without generic position as a result of the three revisions above. Over half of these names are here tentatively allocated to Glossostelma Schltr., Pachycarpus E. Meyer or Stenostelma Schltr.; others are distributed among a miscellany of genera; and the remainder are listed but unassigned to genus.
10.2307/4117967|Three species of Ceratolobus are each shown to have 2n = 26 chromosomes.
10.2307/4114445|Forty-five species of agaricoid fungi described from Brazil by J. P. F. C. Montagne, based upon field-notes and water-colour illustrations provided by H.-A. Weddell, are considered and their taxonomic position established. Revised descriptions and illustrations are provided.
10.2307/4119777|The taxonomy, nomenclature and distribution of a number of Asiatic Bignoniaceae are considered, especially from Thailand. Two species of Radermachera are transferred to a new genus Barnettia; Spathodeopsis collignonii is recorded for the first time from Thailand; the names Stereospermum grandiflorum and S. wallichii are sunk under S. neuranthum; the confused nomenclature of S. chelonoides and S. personatum is elucidated, with a new varietal combination; new records of Nyctocalos shanica are established from Thailand and collections of the other species reviewed; and, finally, the status of the genus Saritaea, naturalized in Thailand, is maintained after review.
10.2307/4109550|Crocus laevigatus, C. tournefortei and C. boryi constitute a small group of allied species inhabiting southern Greece, Crete and the islands of the Aegean. The relationship between the species and their position within the genus are discussed. The chromosome numbers of a wide range of wild material are published and the nature of the karyotype of each species is described, demonstrating that the species are distinct and stable in spite of being morphologically very similar and having overlapping distributions. A map showing the known distribution of each species and the localities of those specimens studied cytologically is published.
10.2307/4119076|The well-known name Alkanna tinctoria is shown to be illegitimate and is replaced by a new combination based on Anchusa tuberculata Forssk.
10.2307/4110025|Nine new combinations in Asiatic grasses (Kengia gatacrei, Chrysopogon gryllus subsp. echinulatus, Saccharum wardii, S. williamsii, S. velutinum, S. beccarii, Dichanthium oliganthum, D. tuberculatum and Euclasta clarkei) are made.
10.2307/4102985|Saccolabium B1., long a catch-all for saccate-lipped taxa in the subtribe Sarcanthinae (subfamily Vandoideae tribe Vandeae), is reviewed. Although 348 taxa have been proposed, Saccolabium, as currently understood, comprises 4 species. The 27 sections formerly proposed and 6 series are here typified and an index provided to the excluded species.
23044995|A new species of Kerianthera, K. longiflora Zappi & C. T. Oliveira (Rubiaceae), has been discovered in relicts of Atlantic Forest in Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo, Brazil. This genus was, until now, thought to be monotypic and to occur only in the Amazon. The morphology, phenology and habitat of the new species are discussed and the IUCN conservation status of this and K. preclara are provided. Uma nova espcie de Kerianthera, K. longiflora Zappi & C. T. Oliveira, foi descoberta em remanescentes de floresta Atlntica em Minas Gerais e Esprito Santo, Brasil. At o presente momento o gnero era tratado como monotpico e com ocorrncia conhecida apenas para o estado do Amazonas. A morfologia, fenologia e o habitat da nova espcie so discutidos e as categorias de conservao da IUCN da nova espcie e de K. preclara so apresentadas.
10.2307/4118884| The pantropical genus Microstachys A. Juss. is reconsidered, including, among other genera, Elachocroton F. Muell. and Sebastiania sect. Microstachyopsis (Mll. Arg.) Pax as synonyms. It is distinguished from Sebastiania Spreng. A lectotype is chosen for Cnemidostachys Mart. & Zucc., another synonym. New combinations are provided for species from Africa (Microstachys acetosella (Milne-Redh.) Esser, M. dalzielii (Hutch.) Esser, M. faradianensis (Beille) Esser) and South America (M. bidentata (Mart. & Zucc.) Esser, M. ditassoides (Didr.) Esser, M. heterodoxa (Mll. Arg.) Esser, M. nummularifolia (Cordeiro) Esser, M. revoluta (Ule) Esser, M. uleana (Pax & K. Hoffm.) Esser). 
23045003|Vernonia excelsa Jongkind, a liana from Central Africa, is described here as new and the closely related species V. doniana DC. and V. andohii C. D. Adams, with more westerly distributions, are resurrected as separate species.
24717382|Three new species of Symplocos sect. Hopea (Symplocaceae) from Brazil are described and illustrated. Symplocos inopinata is endemic to the southern portion of Chapada Diamantina in the state of Bahia, S. kleinii to the state of Paran, and S. occulta to the state of Rio de Janeiro. For each species, we provide taxonomic comments, notes on habitat and distribution, phenological data, conservation status, and a list of specimens examined. Trs novas espcies de Symplocos sect. Hopea (Symplocaceae) do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas. Symplocos inopinata  endmica da poro sul da Chapada Diamantina, estado da Bahia, S. kleinii do estado do Paran e S. occulta do estado do Rio de Janeiro. Para cada espcie, ns tambm fornecemos comentrios taxonmicos, notas sobre o habitat e distribuio, dados fenolgicos, estado de conservao e uma lista de materiais examinados.
10.2307/4118858|Omegandra kanisii gen. et sp. nov. is described from the Northern Territory and Queensland, Australia.
10.2307/4111181|Byttneria cristobaliana (sect. Crassipetala) from Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed.
20649572|Five new species are described within the genus Dicliptera Juss. (Acanthaceae) from eastern Africa: D. inconspicua I. Darbysh., D. cordibracteata I. Darbysh., D. latibracteata I. Darbysh., D. cicatricosa I. Darbysh. and D. vollesenii I. Darbysh. The Dicliptera maculata Nees and D. carvalhoi Lindau complexes are reassessed with emphasis upon eastern Africa, resulting in two new statuses and two new subspecies being formalised: D. maculata Nees subsp. usambarica (Lindau) I. Darbysh., D. carvalhoi Lindau subsp. nemorum (Milne-Redh.) I. Darbysh. and D. carvalhoi subsp. laxiflora I. Darbysh. and D. carvalhoi subsp. erinacea I. Darbysh. D. nilotica C. B. Clarke and D. colorata C. B. Clarke are lectotypified and the past confusion over these names is discussed. The description of D. grandiflora Gilli is amplified and its affinities discussed. An assessment of the conservation status of each taxon is made.
10.2307/4109455|Two taxa are distinguished in Erythrina melanacantha on fruiting characters and are given subspecific rank. The typical form of the species is found in Kenya and Tanzania while subsp. somala occurs in Somalia and Ethiopia.
10.2307/4110362|Dinochloa darvelana, a new species from Borneo, is described.
10.2307/4107955|An account of the Aloe species occurring in the Yemen Arab Republic is given; their taxonomy is discussed, a key is provided, the identity of one of Forsskal's types is clarified and two new species, A. castellorum and A. yemenica are described.
20649576|Descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps and conservation assessments are provided for two new species of Cunonia from New Caledonia. Cunonia dickisonii Pillon & H. C. Hopkins is endemic to montane ultramafic scrub at high elevation on Mts Humboldt and Kouakou. Cunonia koghicola H. C. Hopkins, J. Bradford & Pillon is from wet forest at low to medium elevation in the region of Mt Koghi, and irregularities in leaf shape and venation suggest it may be of hybrid origin. Microendemism on Mt Humboldt and Mt Kouakou is briefly discussed.
10.2307/4118749|The stigmas of 65 species from 32 genera representing all tribes in the subfamily Caesalpinioideae have been studied using light and electron microscopy. Stigmas differ greatly in size but all are papillate. The number, size, and morphology of papillae is variable both between genera and species. Two types of stigma have now been recorded in Caesalpinioideae, wet papillate and wet, non-papillate, and these morphological characters may help in classification. All stigmas examined from freshly collected and unfixed flowers were wet, the secretion accumulating in the interstices between papillae and sometimes flooding the stigma surface. The secretion is heterogeneous containing protein, lipid and carbohydrate.
20443407|A revision of the genus Vitex is presented for the Flora Malesiana region excluding New Guinea. A key to all 16 species and two subspecies for the Flora Malesiana is provided. Descriptions are given of species, notes on ecology, distribution, local uses, vernacular names and conservation status are given for all species from the Flora Malesiana region which were not included in the species treatment for New Guinea, and those that were included in the latter treatment are usually expanded. Vitex medusaecalyx H. J. Lam, V. siamica F. N. Williams and V. vestita Wall. ex Walp. are lectotypified in this paper and 18 names are placed into synonymy for the first time. Seven names are treated as doubtful names and 35 names are excluded from the present definition of the genus.
10.2307/4107995|Euphorbia petiolata Banks & Sol. is shown to belong to subgenus Cystidospermum (Prokh.) Prokh., and not to subgenus Esula Pers.; E. postii Boiss. is reduced to varietal rank under E. petiolata.
10.2307/4115657|A new variety of Monadenium pudibundum from Zambia is described as var. lanatum. A new tuberous-rooted species, Monadenium rugosum is described from Mozambique and Tanzania. A thick-stemmed succulent species hitherto confused with the East African M. schubei is described as M. spinulosum. Monadenium fanshawei and M. depauperatum are reduced to synonymy under M. capitatum and M. parviflorum respectively. Synadenium gazense is reduced to synonymy under S. kirkii.
10.2307/4117826|A new Cameroonian species, Coffea montekupensis (Rubiaceae, Coffeeae) is described and morphological and ecological documentation supplied. C. montekupensis is endemic to the Bakossi Mountains and all but one of the known collections are from Mount Kupe. It resembles the more widely distributed C. brevipes Hiern which also occurs on Mount Kupe, although the two are not sympatric.
10.2307/4109000|A new species, Lindernia manilaliana, from Calicut on the Malabar Coast of India, is described.
10.2307/4118845|Five new species of South American Panopsis Salisbury are described, with illustrations, a distribution map and a key of the genus, as part of a taxonomic revision of the family Proteaceae for Flora Neotropica.
10.2307/4117057|A key is offered to nineteen species of Humariaceae, three of them new, assigned to the genus Octospora Hedwig ex Gray and to six species transferred to Inermisia Rifai.
10.2307/4117579|A new species of Alistilus N.E.Br., A. magnificus, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4118781|A systematic overview is presented of the fleshy-fruited genera of Australasian Myrtaceae traditionally assigned to subtribe Myrtinae (= Pimentinae). Three flushes of research activity during the Twentieth Century regarding these genera are summarized; namely those of Burret, Scott, and Guymer and Snow. Two and probably three new genera are soon to be described, as well as approximately thirty new species from various genera. Emerging data support the observation by Landrum & Stevenson (1986) that Xanthomyrtus is aberrant in this group of genera and possibly related to Tristania. The monophyly of traditionally recognized subfamilies Leptospermoideae and Myrtoideae, and even some of the tribes and subtribes, is increasingly challenged by molecular data, although the molecular data also support some traditionally recognized groups or alliances of genera, such as those clustering around Eucalytpus, Melaleuca, Leptospermum, and Myrtus. Priorities for future research are suggested, the most prominent being the need for a reassessment of generic relationships between Rhodomyrtus, Archirhodomyrtus, and an undescribed genus from New Caledonia.
10.2307/4115651|A new species of Lychnophora, L. sericea, is described and illustrated from the Chapada Diamantina of Bahia State, Brazil. Its relationship to the closely related L. morii and L. triflora is discussed.
10.2307/4107841|Three new combinations are made, two of them involving changes of rank, in Phyllo-stachys, Pleioblastus and Sasa; a new variety of Chusquea is described.
10.2307/4115824|Ruellia boranica Ensermu, a new species of Acanthaceae endemic to southern Ethiopia, is described. The new species is compared to the presumably allied R. insignis Balf. f., a taxon endemic to Socotra. The pollen morphology of the new species is described.
10.2307/4115746|Lachnocladiales and Hymenochaetales are redefined, hymenial development and context construction being considered important criteria for separation of the orders. Lachnocladiales, with the families Lachnocladiaceae and Dichostereaceae, are characterized by dicho- or dendrohyphae, and the presence of hyphidia, plus catahymenial development. Hymenochaetales, comprising Hymenochaetaceae and Asterostromataceae, are euhymenial, and develop setal structures. SEM observations of the surfaces, sections, and basidiomes dissected by a push/pull technique confirm the distinctions between asterosetae and dichohyphidia.
4110885|The tribe Ocimeae subtribe Ociminae is fully revised for continental South East Asia (Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam). Descriptions, full synonyms relevant to South East Asian Floras, maps, line drawings, information about ethnobotany, distributions, habitats, ecology, endemism and conservation, vernacular names, specimens examined and index to accepted names and synonyms are given. Four genera are covered here: Basilicum, Orthosiphon, Ocimum and Platostoma. In Orthosiphon, Orthosiphon lanatus Doan ex S. Suddee & A. J. Paton, O. rotundifolius Doan ex S. Suddee & A. J. Paton, O. truncatus Doan ex S. Suddee & A. J. Paton are validated and O. pseudoaristatus S. Suddee is described as a new species. Orthosiphon aristatus var. velteri S. Suddee & A. J. Paton is described as a new variety. In Platostoma, Platostoma becquerelii S. Suddee & A. J. Paton, P. cambodgense S. Suddee & A.J. Paton, P. grandiflorum S. Suddee & A.J. Paton, P. kerrii S. Suddee & A.J. Paton, P. rubrum S. Suddee & A. J. Paton and P. taylorii S. Suddee & A. J. Paton, are valid names for species previously described by Doan in Flore Indo-Chine. P. mekongense S. Suddee is described as a new species. Platostoma coloratum var. minutum S. Suddee and P. cambodgense var. subulatum S. Suddee are described as new varieties.
10.2307/4109626|A new herbaceous species of Psychotria is described from the Central African Republic and Sudan.
10.2307/4109165|The cytology of Crocus olivieri and its allies is discussed with reference to karyotype drawings and distribution.
10.2307/4109835|Cissampelos hispida Forman and Stephania suberosa Forman are described and illustrated. Cyclea atjehensis Forman is recorded from Thailand and illustrated; female flowers are described for the first time.
10.2307/4118069|The genus Urceola Roxb. in Thailand is revised and six species are recognized. The genera Chavannesia A. DC., Ecdysanthera Hook. & Arn., Parabarium Pierre ex Spire, Xylinabaria Pierre and Xylinabariopsis Pitard are reduced to synonymy in Urceola. Three new combinations are made and a key and descriptions of the species are given.
10.2307/4108109|Section Latouria of Dendrobium Sw. is revised here. Forty eight species are recognised and a key is provided for their identification. Several names are reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/4117071|Eriope horridula Epling, described from Brazil is shown to belong to another family and is probably a species of Lippia, near L. grandiflora Mart. & Schauer.
10.2307/4117688|The new combination Galanthus xvalentinei nothosubsp. subplicatus is made to provide a name for hybrids between G. nivalis and G. plicatus subsp. byzantinus. The morphological differences between the new hybrid and its parents are discussed. Information on the morphology and distribution of G. nivalis and G. plicatus in Turkey is given. A nothoneotype is designated for G. x valentine.
10.2307/4115687|Two new species (and one new combination) are published. In addition, four genera and numerous species are recorded in the Hebrides for the first time, and added to the Host Index. Eight hosts new to the area are added.
10.2307/4108269|Five species of Hysterangium order Phallales, are described from Victoria State, Australia. Hysterangium salmonaceum is proposed as new.
10.2307/4108992|The pollen morphology of 85 species of the tribe Vernoniae has been investigated, and six main pollen types have been distinguished. The grains fall into a continuum of decreasing tectum cover from the more primitive echinate type, through subechinolophate types to a variety of echinolophate and psilophate forms. (Terminology according to Wodehouse, 1928). A brief discussion of possible taxonomic implications of these pollen groupings is included.
10.2307/4115696|The present paper deals with a revised taxonomic treatment of the genus Trichopus Gaertn. (Trichopodaceae). The genus is treated as having only one polytypic species with three distinct subspecies, viz. subsp. zeylanicus, subsp. angustifolius and subsp. travancoricus. Nervation of the leaves together with the leaf size and shape have been found to be reliable characters for subspecific classification.
10.2307/4110372|Cultivars of the putative hybrid Skimmia japonica Thunb. subsp. japonica x subsp. reevesiana (Fortune) N. P. Taylor & Airy Shaw have 2n = 30, regular meiosis (15 bivalents) and are highly fertile; they are best assigned to S. japonica subsp. japonica. It is doubtful whether this hybrid has ever been in cultivation. S. x confusa N. P. Taylor (S. japonica x anquetilia N. P. Taylor & Airy Shaw) has 2n = 30 and forms 15 bivalents at metaphase 1; it is, however, largely sterile.
20649548|Three new species of the Brazilian genus Luetzelburgia Harms (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Sophoreae sensu lato (Vataireoid clade) are described and illustrated under the names Luetzelburgia harleyi D. Cardoso, L. P. Queiroz & H. C. Lima, L. neurocarpa D. Cardoso, L. P. Queiroz & H. C. Lima and L. purpurea D. Cardoso, L. P. Queiroz & H. C. Lima. All three occur in the caatinga vegetation of the State of Bahia, Eastern Brazil. A discussion of the morphological characters distinguishing the new species from their close relatives, as well as an identification key to all known species of Luetzelburgia, are presented. /// Trs espcies novas do gnero Luetzelburgia Harms (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Sophoreae sensu lato (clado Vataireide) so descritas e ilustradas sob os nomes de Luetzelburgia harleyi D. Cardoso, L. P. Queiroz & H. C. Lima, L. neurocarpa D. Cardoso, L. P. Queiroz & H. C. Lima e L. purpurea D. Cardoso, L. P. Queiroz & H. C. Lima. Todas elas ocorrem na vegetao de caatinga do Estado da Bahia, Brasil. Uma discusso dos caracteres morfolgicos que distinguem as novas espcies das mais relacionadas, bem como uma chave de identificao para todas as espcies de Luetzelburgia, so apresentadas.
10.2307/4109581|The genus Nichallea Bridson (Rubiaceae-Coffeeae) is described, one new combination is made, a full synonymy is given and notes on infra-specific variation are included.
10.2307/4109857|Chromosome numbers and karyotypes of 17 species of Amorphophallus are given and the DNA amount is recorded of 13 of them. The data are used to suggest an evolutionary scheme for the species studied.
23489241|Four new species of Lamiaceae from Bolivia are described and illustrated: Hyptis kempffiana, H. grisea, H. woodii and H. tuberosa.
23216741|Desmos caudatus C. E. C. Fisch. (Annonaceae), a species of small tree known only from a couple of collections from the south of Burma, is transferred to Meiogyne. This is the first record of the genus from Burma.
10.2307/4108498|I, Jasminum sessiliflorum Vahl is reduced to a variety of J. angustifolium (L.) Willd. and a new variety hirsutum from Ceylon added; II, the Ceylon representative of J. bignoniaceum Wall, ex G. Don is recognized as a new subspecies zeylanicum.
10.2307/4110364|Vallisneria spiralis L. is typified.
10.2307/4110401| A new species, Philodendron guaraense, is described from Central Brazil in the Federal District (Braslia). Field observations of its ecology and reproductive biology are reported, together with some information on cultivation. 
20443262|Pineda is a small neotropical genus of Salicaceae found in high altitude, semi-arid scrub of Bolivia, Ecuador, and Peru. One northerly species, Pineda incana Ruiz & Pavn, is recognized, and a new species from Bolivia, Pineda ovata M. H. Alford & Zmarzty, is described. The two allopatric species are distinguished by leaf shape, sepal size, and frequencies of 4- and 5-merous flowers. The new species significantly alters the generic description, eliminating stellate pubescence and pinnate venation as generic characters. Rather, the genus is now more accurately characterized by the combination of 4-5-merous hermaphroditic flowers and presence of receptacular disk glands and outer filamentous staminodes. /// Pineda es un gnero pequeo neotropical de Salicaceae que se encuentra en matorrales semi-ridos de grandes altitudes de Bolivia, Ecuador y Per. Se reconoce una especie del norte, Pineda incana Ruiz & Pavn, y se describe una especie nueva de Bolivia, Pineda ovata M. H. Alford & Zmarzty. Las dos especies aloptricas se pueden distinguir por la forma de las hojas, el tamao del cliz y la frecuencia de flores tetrameras/pentameras. La especie nueva altera la descripcin del gnero, eliminando la pubescencia estrellada y venacin pinnatinervia como caractersticas del gnero. Mas bien, el gnero se caracteriza por flores hermafroditas tetrameras y pentameras y la presencia de glndulas en el receptculo y estaminodios filiformes externos a los estambres.
10.2307/4117919|Coelogyne kaliana, an attractive new species of orchid from the Malay Peninsula, is described.
10.2307/4119060|The use of the Scanning Electron Microscope for examining seeds of Crassula is briefly discussed. The use of seed characters as a supplement to traditional taxonomy has confirmed the synonymy of C. granvikii, and the following new taxa are proposed: C. hedbergii, C. rhodesica; C. alata subsp. phamaceoides and C. volkensii subsp. coleae.
20649657|Lecomtedoxa plumosa Burgt (Sapotaceae), a new tree species from the southern part of Korup National Park in Cameroon, is described and illustrated. The flowers show the characteristics of the genus Lecomtedoxa: for example the staminodes are free and placed alternately to the stamens and corolla lobes. The leaves of the new species are clearly different from other Lecomtedoxa spp., but they look similar to the leaves of Gluema ivorensis, especially to those of the collections from Cameroon. In total 26 trees  10 cm dbh were found. The largest trees found were 36 m high and 74 cm dbh. The trees grow in primary rain forest, in clusters of up to 10 trees on 2 ha, mixed with many other tree species. The seed dispersal is ballistic. The conservation status of the species is assessed as Endangered, EN D.
10.2307/4117018|The floral vascular anatomy of Impatiens L. is discussed with special reference to I. glandulifera Royle.
24717343|A taxonomic revision of the genus Callicarpa L. (Lamiaceae) in the Philippines is presented here. Twenty seven taxa are recognised, and thirteen names newly reduced to synonymy. A key to all species is included, as well as distribution maps and a preliminary conservation status for each species. This account forms part of a treatment of Callicarpa for the Flora Malesiana project.
10.2307/4119008|The Arundinoideae is established on the basis of leaf-blade anatomy, the characters of the component genera being scored and the data subjected to numerical methods of analysis. Characters from the leaf-blade anatomy are used as the principle means of defining the sub-families as recognized here.
10.2307/4110834|In a precursor to the treatment of Compositae for the Flora of Somalia, Vernonia sabulosa is described and illustrated. It is endemic to an area of bushland in central Somalia. A new name for V. lanata Mesfin is proposed.
10.2307/4108373|The itinerary of a collecting trip in S. and SE. Iran and Afghanistan in 1971 is presented with notes on the vegetation of Makran (Iranian Baluchistan), the Wakhan and Pamir regions of NE. Afghanistan and other areas of particular interest. Annotated lists of species collected are given where these are of special interest, including many new records and the descriptions of the following new species: Aquilegia helmandica Grey-Wilson; Astragalus bahrakianus Grey-Wilson; Cousinia niveocoronata C. Jeffrey; Dionysia afghanica Grey-Wilson; Iris heweri Grey-Wilson & Mathew; Iris kuschkensis Grey-Wilson & Mathew; Iris wendelboi Grey-Wilson & Mathew; Jurinea perulaorientis C. Jeffrey; Tulipa banuensis Grey-Wilson & Viola maymanica Grey-Wilson.
27821993|The results of this study show that Polygala communis A. St.-Hil. & Moq., P. lindenii Chodat, P. diversa S. F. Blake, and P. urbanii Chodat are synonyms of P. monninoides Kunth. The identity of Polygala monninoides Kunth is discussed. An epitype for P. monninoides is designated and an illustration and comments about its distribution are provided.
10.2307/4110211|Cyananthus cronquistii K. K. Shrestha sp. nov. from N. W. Yunnan is described and illustrated. Its relationship with C. hookeri C. B. Clarke is discussed in terms of gross and pollen morphology.
10.2307/4111097|Sohmer (1988) reduced P. lolokiensis S. Moore to P. bracteosa Valeton. This latter name is, however, a later homonym of P. bracteosa Hiern (now Peripeplus bracteosus (Hiern) E. Petit), a species of equatorial tropical Africa originally described from Gabon. The name P. lolokiensis has therefore to be restored for the Papuasian plant.
10.2307/4117979|Iguanura curvata and I. chaiana are described as new species and I. borneensis listed as a new record for Sarawak; I. polymorpha and I. wallichiana are listed as new records for Thailand.
10.2307/4110522|Hildegardia gillettii is described and compared with the other species of the genus. The correct tribal placement of Hildegardia also is discussed.
23489051|Two new species of Myrcia from Bahia are described and a new combination and status of Myrcia from southern Brazil is proposed. Their diagnostic characters and habitat are discussed and IUCN categories of threat are assigned.
20443321|A justification for the amalgamation of the genus Peristrophe Nees into Dicliptera Juss. is presented. Particular attention is paid to the mechanism of capsule dehiscence and its taxonomic significance. Four new combinations are made for Dicliptera taxa occuring in the Flora of Tropical East Africa and Flora Zambesiaca regions: D. paniculata (Forssk.) I. Darbysh., D. gillilandiorum (K. Balkwill) I. Darbysh., D. decorticans (K. Balkwill) I. Darbysh. and D. serpenticola (K. Balkwill & Campb.-Young) I. Darbysh. A new species, D. brevispicata I. Darbysh., is described from Tanzania and Zambia and its taxonomic placement and conservation status are discussed. The differences between Dicliptera, under its broadened delimitation, and the closely related Hypoestes Sol. ex R. Br. are considered.
27821982|A revision of the genus Teijsmanniodendron Koord. (Lamiaceae) is presented with a summary of its taxonomic history, keys, full descriptions, distribution maps, conservation assessments, ecological information and ethno-botanical notes. In this treatment, 23 species are recognised, one new combination is made: Teijsmanniodendron havilandii (Ridl.) G. Rusea, 14 names are placed into synonymy for the first time, one species is neotypified, five are lectotypified and six new species are described: T. bullatum G. Rusea, T. latiffii G. Rusea, T. obscurinerve G. Rusea, T. punctatum G. Rusea, T. renageorgeae G. Rusea and T. zainudinii G. Rusea. One species name is validated, T. scaberrimum Kosterm. ex G. Rusea and one species is excluded from the genus: T. petelotii Moldenke.
20649634|The new species Eugenia pallidopunctata, E. caducibracteata, E. tenuiflora and E. breviracemosa from the Brazilian Amazon, all belonging to Eugenia sect. Racemosae (Myrtaceae), are described, illustrated and compared with their putative close relatives. Data on the geographic distribution and habitat are given for the new taxa, as well as illustrations.
10.2307/4113744|The Justicia capensis group in tropical Africa is revised. The following taxa are recognised: J. capensis Thunb., J thomeensis Lindau, J. euosmia Lindau and J. brevipila sp. nov. J. sansibarensis Lindau is regarded as a synonym of J. capensis.
23489054|Two new species of Acanthaceae, Stenandrium villarroelii J. R. I. Wood and Ruellia beniana J. R. I. Wood, are described from Bolivia. Both species are illustrated, differences with similar species are discussed, their distributions are mapped and their conservation status is assessed. These two species bring the total number of native Acanthaceae known from Bolivia to 172 species and five additional subspecies.
10.2307/4108004|A synopsis is presented to the 69 species of Salsola from S. and SW. Africa, together with a key to their identification.
10.2307/4111028| The names Plectranthus barbatus Andrews and P. comosus Sims have been applied to different species (or different forms of the same species) and are here epitypified by collections from Eritrea and Nepal respectively. A collection assigned to P. barbatus sensu lato is selected as epitype for Coleus coerulescens Grke. The material from Somalia and Yemen that has been known as Plectranthus coerulescens (Grke) R. H. Willemse in recent literature is described as a new species, P. argentifolius Ryding. P. bariensis Ryding is described as a new species from Somalia. The monotypic genus Capitanya is included in Plectranthus, and the following new combinations are made: P. cuneatus (Baker, f.) Ryding, P. otostegioides (Grke) Ryding and P. scebeli (Chiov.) Ryding. 
10.2307/4117915|Seychellaria africana Vollesen is described from Tanzania. It is the first record of the family Triuridaceae from East Africa, and the first record from the African continent of Seychellaria, a genus hitherto only known from Madagascar and the Seychelles. The phytogeographical affinities between East Africa and Madagascar are discussed briefly.
23489141|Encyclia chloroleuca (Hook.) Neumann is reported for the first time in Panama. E. chloroleuca has been previously misidentified as E. amanda (Ames) Dressler but morphological characters associated with the flower and inflorescence, and blooming season can be used to separate these two species across its broad distributional range. Our observations serve as evidence for closing the distributional gap between South and Central America.
10.2307/4120616|The taxa of the nine genera of Oleaceae native to the Indian Subcontinent are reviewed, with synonymy and distribution. These genera are: Olea, Chionanthus, Osmanthus, Ligustrum, Syringa, Schrebera, Fraxinus, Myxopyrum and Jasminum. Jasminum cardiomorphum, J. kaulbackii and J. matthewi are described as new species.
10.2307/4109742|Ilex auricula, a new species of holly from Bahia, is described.
10.2307/4110811|Two new combinations are proposed in Astrotrichilia (Harms) Pennington & Styles and seven in Humbertioturraea Leroy.
10.2307/4103086|Listera divaricata sp. nov. is described from Arunanchal Pradesh, India.
10.2307/4108609|Backhousia floribunda and Tristaniopsis parvifolia are described from New Guinea
20649668|In preparation for two major regional Flora accounts, Asclepias has been reassessed in tropical Africa. 38 species not assigned to the allied genera Aspidoglossum, Glossostelma, Gomphocarpus, Margaretta, Pachycarpus, Stathmostelma, Stenostelma or Xysmalobium are recognised in the region. Nine species and one subspecies are described for the first time. The inclusion of Trachycalymma again within Asclepias requires four new combinations. A further three new names or combinations are required for the transfer of Odontostelma welwitschii, Schizoglossum alpestre and Stathmostelma verdickii to Asclepias. Five names are lectotypified, and a neotype proposed for Gomphocarpus meliodorus. The conservation status of all species is assessed.
23216094|The holomycotrophic terrestrial orchids of tropical Africa are reassessed. Two new species of Gastrodia from tropical Africa are described, G. rwandensis from Rwanda and G. ballii from south-central Africa. The genus now comprises three species in tropical Africa. A key is provided to distinguish them from Gastrodia africana Kraenzl.
20649672|A new species of yam (Dioscorea orangeana Wilkin) is described and illustrated. It differs from D. comorensis R. Knuth by having undulate leaf margins and a broader torus and tepals in both the male and female flowers. In female flowers of D. orangeana the floral stipe between the ovary and the torus is shorter than in D. comorensis. The tuber morphology of the species is atypical among Malagasy species in that there are several digitate lobes rather than a single tuber per growing season, although more research is needed on tuber morphology. D. orangeana is reported to be edible. It is endemic to the Fort d'Orangea near Diego Suarez (Antsiranana) in Antsiranana Prfecture. Its conservation and sustainable use are thus matters of concern.
10.2307/4110804|Two species are transferred to Diaphananthe: M. caffra from Margelliantha, and M. millarii from Mystacidium; a new subspecies of Tridactyle bicaudata, subsp. rupestris Linder, is described; and Cyrtorchis praetermissa Summerh. var. zuluensis Harrison is changed to subspecific rank.
10.2307/4117598|The two species from St Helena usually included in Trochetia differ sufficiently from the Mascarene species to constitute a distinct genus. Trochetiopsis is described and the combinations T. erythroxylon (Forst. f.) Marais and T. melanoxylon (R. Brown ex Ait. f.) Marais are made.
10.2307/4110822|A revised taxonomy is presented for the rattans of Indochina, defined here as Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, Xishuangbanna Prefecture (Yunnan, China) and Thailand (excluding the South-west and Peninsula). The study is based on extensive recent collections from Laos, together with examination of existing herbarium material from the rest of Indochina and surrounding regions. The quality of coverage is reviewed. Twenty-one species are still known in Indochina from five or fewer specimens; these require further collecting, as do some taxa where taxonomic difficulties remain. Coverage of Vietnam is relatively poor in this study and a review of in-country herbarium material there is recommended. Further fieldwork is most needed in and around the Annamite mountains of Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia. On the basis of morphological comparisons, fifty species are now confirmed to occur in Indochina, plus one distinctive, as-yet unnamed taxon of Korthalsia ('taxon A') which probably merits species status. Eight of these fifty species have been discovered recently and named elsewhere. Many taxa previously recorded from Indochina have been placed in synonymy, mainly as a result of better understanding of the range of variation in living individuals and wild populations. Some taxonomic changes cover Sundaic forms or Chinese forms not occurring in Indochina. Six names of uncertain application are discussed. Taxonomic difficulties remain for several taxa, especially the larger cirrate Calamus species and those species close to Calamus tetradactylus. A list of all identified specimens is given. Distributions are reviewed in detail, based on a re-examination both of specimens and of published locality data. New records are provided for many species for many parts of Indochina, especially Laos but also other countries. Some new island records are also given for Calamus tenuis and C. viminalis in Sumatra, Java and Ball. A number of past published country records for Thailand, Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia are now considered to be misidentifications or a result of geographical errors. There are ten valid species for which all published reports for Indochina are now thought to be in error. In addition to taxonomic and distributional information the first full, published description of Calamus rhabdodadus is given and substantial modifications are made to previous descriptions of Calamus dioicus and C. kingianus. Identification criteria are discussed and refined for many species. A key to fertile herbarium material is given and five species are illustrated. Information from Indochina on habitat, local names, uses and conservation status is given where available. As well as several very localised species the conservation status of the widespread, heavily-harvested, solitary-stemmed Calamus poilanei is also believed to be especially poor.
27822008|A field-based comparative study of leaflet outline shape in five populations of Anthurium sinuatum Benth. ex Schott from Amazonia and humid brejo forests of Cear, Northeast Brazil, and ten populations of A. pentaphyllum (Aubl.) G. Don var. pentaphyllum from Amazonia and the Brazilian Atlantic forest is reported. 1,120 leaflets from 561 individuals in 15 populations were sampled. Using images, leaflet outlines were captured by digitisation and subjected to Elliptic Fourier Analysis (EFA) to produce matrices of Fourier coefficients based on 40 harmonics; lateral and central leaflets were analysed separately. Twelve shape variables, extracted from the Fourier coefficient matrices, described the leaflet outlines of 531 individuals. Between-population relationships were estimated using cluster analysis, Canonical Variates Analysis and non-parametric MANOVA. Amazonian populations showed the greatest within-population variability. In A. sinuatum the Pacatuba population was the most distinct in Cear and the Par population (Amazonia) was not significantly different from those at Ibiapaba and Maranguape (both Cear). In A. pentaphyllum 80% of population pairs were significantly different and three significantly different groups of populations were observed. Although the populations of A. pentaphyllum displayed considerable variation, the morphological patterns did not correlate with previously reported molecular ones. The two species were found to be slightly but significantly different on leaf outline data.
10.2307/4110670|Baphia madagascariensis Stirton & Du Puy, endemic to Madagascar, is described as new. It represents the second known species of Baphia Lodd. from Madagascar; all other species occur in Africa.
10.2307/4113613|The 23 species of Tinospora Miers which occur in Asia to Australia and the Pacific are revised. Fawcettia F. Muell. is regarded as a synonym and the resulting new combination T. tinosporoides (F. Muell.) Forman is made. Three new species are described: T. angusta, T. baenzigeri and T. neocaledonica. The leaves of T. arfakiana Becc. are described for the first time.
10.2307/4109620|A new genus of Scrophulariaceae is here named Hoshiarpuria with the single species H. minutiflora Hajra, Daniel & Philcox described and illustrated.
10.2307/4118755| The need for these 13 new names and 8 new combinations has come to light during the course of preparation of the account of the subfamily Phyllanthodeae for 'Genera Euphorbiacearum.' 
10.2307/4110646|Amorphophallus longiconnectivus Bogner is described and its taxonomic and phylogenetic significance discussed.
10.2307/4115745|A new species of Mucuna Adans., M. oligoplax Niyomdham & Wilmot-Dear, is described from Thailand. Keys to distinguish it from other species found in Thailand, Indochina and the Malay Peninsula are appended.
20443261|The combination Psidium ovale (Spreng.) Burret, based on one of the first Brazilian species of Psidium to have been described as Myrtus, has been largely ignored. The name is reinstated for the species which is better known in Brazil as P. spathulatum Mattos; two other names are new synonyms of this species: P. hagelundianum Mattos and P. imaruinense Mattos. An expanded description of P. ovale, including the fruits that were previously unknown, is also provided. A new combination is proposed, Psidium reptans (D. Legrand) Soares-Silva & Proena, based on Myrcianthes reptans D. Legrand, a rare species from southern Brazil. It was previously known only from the type, but two new collections have been found.
10.2307/4110136| Nelsonia smithii rsted is recognized as a distinct species which has for many years been overlooked or ignored by previous workers. It is distinguished from the pan-tropical weed N. canescens (Lam.) Spreng. on the basis of corolla, leaf, petiole, pubescence and habitat. N. smithii grows in moist places in the tropical forest regions of Africa from Guinea to the Sudan, southwards to Tanzania and Angola. The close similarity of N. pohlii Nees, which occurs in Brazil, to N. smithii is noted. 
23216392|We describe and illustrate Coccinia pwaniensis Holstein from eastern Tanzania and southeast Kenya, and C. samburuensis Holstein from the Samburu area in Kenya. The new species were already recognised by Charles Jeffrey in 1967 and are now known from eight and four collections, respectively. Ongoing monographic work also revealed three new synonyms and the need for a new combination, Coccinia heterophylla (Hook. f.) Holstein.
10.2307/4119386|A list of 50 fungi associated with Pinus sylvestris and P. nigra in the Netherlands is given.
10.2307/4117914|Some extra material and synonymy are added to the author's original treatment of this formerly commonly grown ornamental species. The identity of Dolichos funarius Molina is also discussed.
10.2307/4110083|A new genus, Euthryptochloa, and a new species, E. longiligula, are described from Szechuan Province, China.
23489333|A revision of the genus Premna is presented for the Flora Malesiana region. A key, descriptions, notes on ecology, distribution, local uses and names and conservation status are given for all 14 species occurring in the Flora Malesiana area. One new species, Premna clavata de Kok, is described. Four names are lectotypified, one neotypified and 71 names are placed into synonymy for the first time. Three names are treated as doubtful and four are excluded from the present definition of the genus.
10.2307/4115848|The monotypic genus Novaguinea (Compositae: Astereae: Lagenophorinae), is described and illustrated from Mount Jaya, Papua, Indonesia. The single species, Novaguinea rudalliae, is a small herb of alpine bogs. The genus clearly has affinities with Lagenocypsela but features of the capitula, involucres, receptacles, ray floret corollas, achenes and fertile disc florets, demonstrate its unique position. Generic affinities within the subtribe Lagenophorinae are discussed.
10.2307/4109904|Using morphological (inflorescences, flowers, fruit), anatomical (seed-coat) and palynological data it is shown that the Australian endemic species Lasianthus graciliflorus (Rubiaceae), despite some anomalies, is better placed in the genus Ixora. The combination I. graciliflora being preoccupied, a new name, I. baileyana, is provided.
10.2307/4113876|Calliandra hygrophila, and Calliandra involuta, two new species from Bahia, Brazil, are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117034|A detailed description and illustration are provided of the little-known legume, Derris ovalifolia (Wight & Arn.) Benth. from new collections from an unlikely habitat.
23216090|The largest genus of the Eriocaulaceae, Paepalanthus, presents many taxonomic problems. Some of these were identified during studies of Eriocaulaceae from the flora of So Paulo State and Capara National Park. Here, we propose changes in nomenclature as a solution to such issues, based on type collections, recent collections and field observations. These changes are in agreement with the taxonomic species concept, and the rules established by the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature. We define six lectotypes: P. gneissicola, P. caparoensis, P. caldensis, P. lundii, P. oerstedianus and P. striatus, and six synonyms: P. gneissicola = P. acantholimon, P. loefgrenianus = P. aequalis, P. multicostatus = P. calvus, P. scopulifer = P. caparoensis, P. neocaldensis = P. flaccidus and P. macrotrichus = P. lundii. We also present comments on morphology, protologue and type collections.
10.2307/4110540|Plectranthus seyanii is described, an annual species common and widespread in Malawi and recorded sparingly also from Tanzania, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. A distribution map is given, and relationships of the species are discussed.
10.2307/4110044|It is argued that Acacia oerfota (Forssk.) Schweinf. is the correct name for the plant currently called A. nubica Benth. and that the Arabian species known at present as A. oerfota is conspecific with A. hockii De Wild.
10.2307/4115717|The taxonomy and morphology of the Calamus longipinna {Arecaceae) group is revised and discussed. This group of rattan species from New Guinea and the Solomon Islands is defined by the possession of a distinctive, inflated ocrea at the mouth of the leaf sheath and rather uniform inflorescence morphology. Five species are recognised here, C. longipinna, C. vestitus, C. reticulatus and two new species, C. bankae and C. wanggaii.
10.2307/4110367|Two new species, Ampelocissus wightiana Shetty & P. Singh and cissus arnottiana Shetty & P. Singh from india, discovered duringh investigation of the nomenclature and identity of Ampelocissus erioclada sensu Planchon and Cissus pallida sensu Planchon are described. Three new combinations, viz. Cissus elongata Roxb. subsp. littoralis (Talbot) shetty & P. Singh, Cyphotesmma megabotrys (Collet & Hemsley) Shetty and Tetrastigma nilagiricum (Miq).Shetty are made. Cissus thwaitesii Planchon is consedered conspecific with Cissus heyneana Planchon. The nomenclature of Cayratia roxburghii (Planchon) Gagnepain is discussed.
10.2307/4118855|Recent taxonomic investigations have shown that the genus Philippia must be reduced to synonymy under the genus Erica on the grounds of morphological overlap and polyphylesis. The nomenclatural changes for the region covered by the Flore des Mascareignes are formalized here.
10.2307/4111180|A new species of Serjania, S. brevipetiolata Ferrucci & Somner from Bahia, Brazil is described, illustrated and discussed.
23216744|Two new combinations are made in preparation for a forthcoming checklist of the plants of Sudan and South Sudan: Dicliptera lanceolata (Lindau) I. Darbysh. & Kordofani (Acanthaceae), a South Sudan endemic, and Campylospermum likimiense (De Wild.) I. Darbysh. & Kordofani (Ochnaceae), recorded from South Sudan and Ethiopia to Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Lectotypes are designated for each name. The habitat and ecology, distribution within South Sudan and conservation status are presented for each species.
20443353|Pistillate flowering material of monospecific Paranecepsia Radcl.-Sm. (Euphorbiaceae sensu stricto) was examined for the first time. The presence of well-developed petals is reported and illustrated.
10.2307/4110628|The genus Becium is revised within the areas covered by the Flora of Tropical East Africa and Flora Zambesiaca. The recent revisions of Sebald (1988 & 1989) and Ayobangira (1987) are compared and their limitations discussed. Taxonomic delimitation most closely follows Sebald but there are important differences. Taxa are recognized at specific or subspecific rank rather than as varieties. In all 17 species are recognised including B. fastigiatum A. J. Paton, B. virgatum A. J. Paton and B. pyramidatum A. J. Paton, described for the first time. Suggestions are made regarding the delimitation of taxa outside the areas covered by these African Floras so that Sebald's work can be used as the basis for identification of taxa in these areas. This allows such taxa to be named using a species concept comparable to that employed here.
10.2307/4110034|Three new species are described from Australia: Tiliacora australiana, the first record of the genus from Australia, Carronia pedicellata and Hypserpa reticulata. A probable new record for Australia of Hypserpa polyandra Becc. is noted.
10.2307/4111200|The monophyletic Gymnosporia mossambicensis group occurs in eastern tropical and southern Africa, nearby Indian Ocean Islands and on Madagascar. Members are characterised, among other characters, by 3-locular capsules and seeds completely enveloped by an orange or bright yellow aril. Eleven species and four subspecies are recognised. Diagnostic characters to differentiate among species include growth form, hairiness of leaves, branches and peduncles, orientation of spines, presence and shape of stipules, colour of the flowers (white or red) and the shape of the capsules. Two species and one subspecies from Tanzania are newly described (G. livingstonei, G. schliebenii and G. gradlis subsp. usambarensis). G. harveyana Loes. [previously considered conspecific with Maytenus mossambicensis (Klotzsch) Blakelock)] is reinstated as a distinct species. Maytenus mossambicensis var. stolzii N. Robson is treated as a subspecies of G. harveyana. G. bachmannii Loes., G. mossambicensis sensu stricto and G. nemorosa (Eckl. & Zeyh.) Szyszyl. retain their specific status in Gymnosporia. Maytenus drummondii N. Robson & Sebsebe, M. vanwykii R. H. Archer, M. mossambicensis var. gurueensis N. Robson and var. ruber (Harv.) Blakelock are transferred to Gymnosporia and the latter two varieties raised to species level. Maytenus mossambicensis var. ambonensis (Loes.) N. Robson is transferred to Gymnosporia and becomes G. gracilis Loes. subsp. gracilis. Two neotypes and two lectotypes are selected. A key to species and subspecies, distribution maps, and illustrations of all the taxa are provided.
27822016|A new species of Microlicia (Melastomataceae) from Diamantina, Minas Gerais, Brazil is described and illustrated and a conservation assessment based on IUCN criteria is given. Uma nova espcie de Microlicia (Melastomataceae) de Diamantina, Minas Gerais, Brasil  descrita e ilustrada e tem o seu grau de conservao fornecido baseado nos critrios da IUCN.
10.2307/4113880|Vitex ugogoensis is described as new from the Central Province of Tanzania.
10.2307/4119725|The African genus Margaretta Oliv. is revised using macromorphological and micromorphological characters. The study supports Bullock's (1952, 1953) treatment of the genus as monotypic but results from a numerical analysis of the morphometric data conflict with his treatment of infraspecific variation. The three subspecies recognised here are further supported by pollinarial characters, actively used for the first time in the genus. In addition, 2 flavonoid glycosides are reported from Margaretta for the first time.
10.2307/4110539|In order to support and recognise the segregates for the former neotropical Pithecellobium sensu lato new species, combinations and synonyms are presented for four legume genera:-Zygia, Cojoba, Marmaroxylon and Pithecellobium (Leguminosae-Mimosoideae, Ingeae).
10.2307/4114507|A key to the twenty-four species of Swertia (Gentianaceae) occurring in East and northeast tropical Africa is provided. Two new subspecies and one new variety are briefly described. Seven taxa have had their taxonomic status changed. Alterations to the nomenclature of the taxa are made preliminary to the account of the family for Flora of Ethiopia and Flora of East Tropical Africa. Ecological notes and distribution are given for each species. Brief taxonomic comments are given on some critical species. Recent chromosome counts of some species are provided.
10.2307/4119304|The genus Merremia (Convolvulaceae) is revised for the Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea. A total of 16 species are recognized, of which M. warderensis Sebsebe, and M. dimorphophylla (Verdc.) Sebsebe, M. candei (A. Terracc.) Sebsebe and M. subpalmata subsp. tenuisecta (Verdc.) Sebsebe.
27821999|A new species of Chlorophytum is described and illustrated. It is adapted to grow on the open, exposed lateritic plateaus in the Northern Western Ghats of India. The chromosome number of the species is 2n = 28.
10.2307/4109905|Two new species of Aerangis from Malawi are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115647|In a precursor to the treatment of Helichrysum for the Flora of Tropical East Africa, two new taxa are described: H. cataractarum from southern Tanzania, and H. korongoni from upland Uganda and Tanzania. Five species are reduced in rank to varieties of H. nudifolium, H. mechowianum and H. kirkii, and six more species are brought into synonymy of these taxa; the necessary new combinations are made and the types and full synonymies are given.
23216736|Corydalis nana Royle in the western Himalaya is found to be a complex of three species, including two hitherto undescribed. The true C. nana is a yellow-flowered species. The most common, greyish-blue or white-flowered species in the Sino-Indo-Nepal Himalaya, hitherto mistaken as C. nana, is a new species described here as Corydalis magni. An additional related species, Corydalis devendrae, characterised by tuberous roots and dorsally wingless/non crestate upper and lower petals is also described and illustrated from Uttarakhand state, India. A table comparing diagnostic characters, along with keys to taxa of the complex and a distribution map, are also included.
10.2307/4110809|42 species originally described under Arundinaria by Munro, Gamble, A. Camus and others in Asia and Africa have been revised by the authors. Only two species are considered to be true Arundinaria, the rest have been, or are here, transferred into seven other genera (Sinarundinaria, Thamnocalamus, Racemobambos, Chimonobambusa, Indosasa, Sinobambusa and Acidosasa). A key to the related genera, based on the flowering and vegetative state is given separately, and the differences between Arundinaria and related genera are discussed in detail.
10.2307/4117028|One new name and three new combinations are made in Euphorbia, two of the latter of taxa described under the by-no-means-universally-accepted segregate genus Chamaesyre.
23489128|Baphia rosa Mackinder & R. Clark is described as new and illustrated. The species is known from a single collection from the Kabompo District of NW Zambia and is assessed here as Vulnerable (Vu D2) under the criteria of IUCN. An updated key to the species of Baphia in the Flora Zambesiaca region is provided. We judge B. rosa as closest morphologically to B. chrysophylla and propose that B. claessensii, previously classified as a subspecies of B. chrysophylla be reinstated at specific rank. We suggest that true B. chrysophylla is known only from a population at Mukenge in SE Democratic Republic of Congo. Whilst we speculate that some collections currently identified as B. chrysophylla may represent B. gilletii, we maintain B. gilletii in synonymy under B. chrysophylla due to insufficient evidence to reinstate the former as a distinct species. A distribution map of all taxa included in this study is provided.
10.2307/4117760|The fruits of 9 of the 13 indigenous species of Boehmeria in the New World were examined. Fruits were found to be either 'achene-like' with thin dry exocarp, or 'drupe-like' with slightly fleshy, mostly mucilaginous, exocarp. Achene-like fruits, found so far only in the New World representatives of the genus, exhibit putatively primitive pericarp structure; drupe-like fruits appear to be a derived condition. The tubular fruiting perianth consists of much-compressed cells and is usually difficult or impossible to detach from the pericarp, especially in drupe-like fruits. Considerable diversity of pericarp structure is found: exocarp with or without mucilage and tannins; mesocarp of 1 - 6 layers of cells, partly or entirely crystalliferous; ribs, formed by the pericarp on the narrow sides of the fruit and consisting usually of sclerenchymatous or lignified parenchymatous tissues, are developed to different degrees between species or within one species, and are sometimes expanded into wings. Fruit structures were classified into two main groups; these and their subgroups correlate with, and add to, the earlier classification based on gross morphology; certain evolutionary trends are suggested and compared with previous findings.
10.2307/4117788|As a result of wood anatomical studies in the tribe Dipterygeae the species Taralea casiquiarensis Pittier, described from Venezuela, needs to be transferred to the genus Dipteryx. Morphological studies of the type of this taxon support the generic replacement.
10.2307/4119017|Published here prior to their use in the Flora of Trinidad and Tobago are: Commelinopsis glabrata D. R. Hunt, sp. nov., effectively a new name for C. persicariifolia sensu Pichon; C. rufipes (Seub.) D. R. Hunt, comb. nov.; and Tradescantia pendula (Schnizl.) D. R. Hunt, comb. nov., necessitated by the proposed union of Zebrina and other small genera with Tradescantia.
10.2307/4110399|Sarcostemma antsiranense Meve & Liede from the northernmost part of Madagascar is newly described and illustrated. This very floriferous and intensely fragrant species is a distinct representative of the S. viminale complex.
10.2307/4108496|Cucumis insignis C. Jeffrey from southern Ethiopia, the first species of Cucumis known to have sometimes bifid tendrils, is described as new, and the new combination Dactyliandra stefaninii (Chiov.) C. Jeffrey is made.
10.2307/4103087|Chlorophytum orchidastrum Lindley sens. lat., known to possess several chromosome races, can be divided morphologically into four species whose nomenclature is here clarified.
10.2307/4110397|A new combination Dendrocalamus copelandii (Gamble ex Brandis) N. H. Xia & Stapleton is made for a Burmese bamboo, according to a new circumscription of the genera Bambusa and Dendrocalamus based upon keeling of the synflorescence prophylls.
10.2307/4103045|The southern Indian Umbellifer previously named Heracleum concanense is shown to have neither a close affinity to Vanasushava nor to belong to Heracleum, but to constitute a distinct monotypic endemic genus Pinda, which is here described. Var. ? stocksii Clarke is referred to the earlier described monotypic genus Polyzygus.
10.2307/4109662|Two new species (Chaetopoa pilosa and Schizachyrium tomentosum) are described, and six new combinations (Dichanthium paranjpyeanum, Echinochloa brevipedicellata, Loxodera caespitosa, L. rhytachnoides, Pennisetum laxior and P. procerum) are made.
20443371|The latest update of the Kew World Grass Species database coded in DELTA format consists of 10,805 species, using 1,090 characters (Clayton et al. 2002a onwards). AusGrass (Sharp & Simon 2002) is a subset of the first release of this dataset in Lucid format, with an information system of fact sheets, photographs, distribution maps and dichotomous keys. An online global interactive key and information system for the grasses, with AusGrass as a possible model, was discussed as a valuable resource for agrostologists at Monocots 3 in 2003. GrassWorld is the name of the package being developed at the Queensland Herbarium (BRI), and the database in DELTA format presently consists of morphological data compiled at Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew (K) and ancillary data compiled at BRI. The latter comprises International Working Group on Taxonomic Databases for Plant Sciences (TDWG) geographic coding, bibliographic details (author, place of publication and locality of type specimen of basionym), chromosome numbers, and derivation of botanical names. Entry for data at generic rank and the mapping of grasses presents challenges and different approaches are suggested. The ultimate aim of GrassWorld is an online interactive key of world grasses, together with accompanying fact sheets, as a global grass flora in a number of languages, of which the first will be English, Spanish, French and possibly Portuguese.
10.2307/4110111|Eugenia elliptica Lam. is discussed and a new variety described.
10.2307/4110570|Dinochloa robusta (Gramineae-Bambusoideae) is described as new and distinguished from related species.
10.2307/4108001|The importance of examing fresh seeds to distinguish species of Anthericum and Chlorophytum is stressed. C. affine Bak. is broadened with the inclusion as synonyms of A. pubirachis Bak., A. taylorianum Rendle, A. pubiflorum Peter ex Poelln., A. curviscapum Poelln., A. ciliare Peter ex Poelln., A. turuense Poelln., A. pendulum Engl. & Krause, A. ledermannii Engl. & Krause, and C. conspicuum Poelln. A map of the E. African distribution and two figures are provided.
20443298|A new species of Leucochloron Barneby & J. W. Grimes (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae), L. bolivianum C. E. Hughes & Atahuachi, from the eastern Andean slopes of Bolivia is described and illustrated. This is the first record of Leucochloron for Bolivia and the first definitive record for the genus outside Brazil.
10.2307/4118076|Pseudocalyx libericus is described from Liberia and illustrated. It is the first record of this genus from West Africa. The generic delimitation of Pseudocalyx from Mendoncia and Thunbergia is discussed. A key to the species is given.
10.2307/4108885|Dirichletia Klotzsch is reduced to a section of Carphalea Juss.; three African species are recognized and enumerated. All the names proposed in Dirichletia have been accounted for.
10.2307/4110439|The phenetic relationship between Psophocarpus palustris Desv. and P. scandens (Endl.) Verde, was investigated. Morphological data were gathered from 54 herbarium specimens belonging to the complex. Each specimen was scored for 36 vegetative, 34 inflorescence and 5 legume characters. The subsequent data matrix was analysed using a cluster analysis method and two ordination methods. The results indicate that two species are discernible from the complex, though rare intermediate forms can be found. A key and a list of characters and character states is provided to facilitate future recognition of the species.
10.2307/4103001|The leaf anatomy of Hyptis section Pachyphyllae and section Eriosphaeria subsection Gnidiifoliae is described. The two groups differ in several aspects of leaf anatomy, which suggests that close similarities in vegetative morphology are a result of convergent evolution. Leaves of Pachyphyllae are strongly xeromorphic, and show closer similarity to those of species of section Induratae.
10.2307/4115650|A new annual species of Porophyllum, P. cabrerae, from the Province of Salta, northern Argentina, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117116|Eight new species and eight new infraspecific taxa are dealt with; these taxa were found to require description during the preparation of a Manual of the Leguminosae of New Guinea. The genera discussed are Macropsychanthus, Strongylodon, Mucuna, Derris, Crudia, Acacia and Albizia.
20649540|A revision of the Asian genus Cissampelopsis (DC.) Miq. is presented. Two sections with ten species and two varieties are recognised. These are sect. Buimalia C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen with C. buimalia (Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don) C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen, C. calcadensis (Ramaswami) C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen and C. erythrochaeta C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen and sect. Cissampelopsis with C. ansteadii (Tadul. & K. C. Jacob) C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen, C. corifolia C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen, C. corymbosa (Wall. ex DC.) C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen, C. glandulosa C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen, C. spelaeicola (Vaniot) C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen, C. volubilis (Blume) Miq. and C. walkeri (Arn.) C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen with var. walkeri and var. floccosa Vanijajiva & Kadereit (var. nov.). Keys, descriptions, photographs of floral characters and distribution maps are provided.
10.2307/4118045|Three new taxa in Eleocharis R. Br. from Brazil are described, and a new combination made. E. setifolia (A. Rich.) Raynal is also referred to, being new to Brazil.
10.2307/4109737|It is shown that Peziza as delimited by Linnaeus in 1753 does not accord with Peziza as commonly accepted today. Previously, such a statement had no effect upon the nomenclature of the group; by the abandoning (at the 1981 Sydney Congress) of the 1821 starting point for names of Fungi Caeteri (including Ascomycetes) in favour of 1753, many such examples of confusion can now be expected. A proposal is made to conserve the current usage (Peziza Willd.) against Peziza L. in order to avoid wholesale name changes in both Peziza and Tarzetta.
10.2307/4114606|The taxonomy of Bornean Trigonostemon is updated, with T. pierrei, T. hirsutus, T. merrillii, and T. longipedunculatus identified as new to the island, the last with a new variety described. T. merrillianus, T. acuminatus and T. villosus var. borneensis are reduced to T. polyanthus, with two new varieties described. Bornean material of T. villosus is given subspecific distinction from Malayan material. T. diffusus is restored from synonymy in T. capillipes to specific level, and a new subspecies is described from the Philippines. T. arboreus of Malaya is reduced to a synonym of Omphalea malayana.
10.2307/4117266|Revised, illustrated descriptions are provided for the species of Entolomataceae known to occur in India or Sri Lanka. A full synonymy is included and keys are provided to all taxa. Nolanea maderaspatana is described as new, and the following combinations are proposed: Alboleptonia stylophora, Leptonia elaphines, L. incongrua, L. iodnephes, Nolanea brunnea, N. cystopus, N. mazophora, Pluteus argilophyllus, Pouzaromyces lasius, P. myodermus, Rhodocybe retroflexa and R. subgilva.
10.2307/4108547|This important collection of 6492 numbers, with over 400 new species, was destroyed in Berlin and only a few duplicates exist elsewhere. A list of the known extant types is given, as well as an outline of the Expedition, an annotated gazetteer with collector's numbers and dates, and two maps showing the route followed.
10.2307/4118720|The leaves of 27 field-collected species of Caladenia R. Br. (Caladeniinae, Orchidaceae) were examined anatomically to determine diagnostic characters that might be used in a broader, forthcoming cladistic analysis. Those features that are most useful in demonstrating similarities and differences among the taxa are presence, types, and cuticular patterns of trichomes; cuticular structure over epidermal surfaces; presence of sinuous anticlinal epidermal walls; distribution and length-to-width ratios of stomata; and presence of palisade mesophyll. On the basis of these and other characters, it is recommended that Caladenia be circumscribed more narrowly with the segregation of (1) C. menziesii and (2) C. gemmata and C. sericea.
10.2307/4108264|The typification of Solanum incanum L., S. sanctum L., S. insanum L., S. macrocarpon L., and S. aethiopicum L. is discussed and lectotypes are chosen. A previously nominated lectotype of S. bonariense is rejected and an alternative is proposed.
20649575|Four new Psychotria species with conspicuous bacterial nodules in their leaf-blades, P. njumei Cheek, P. ngollengollei Cheek, P. darwiniana Cheek and P. babatwoensis Cheek are described, mapped and illustrated from the submontane forests of the Cameroon Highlands. Their taxonomic and conservation status are assessed.
10.2307/4119720|Six species are recognised from Malesia, and the possibility of relationship with groups from Sulawesi, Australia and Madagascar mentioned. Elaeocarpus clementis Merr. var. kostermansii Coode is described as new. Elaeocarpus clemensiae R. Knuth is reduced to a variety of E. clementis and E. polystachyus var. borneensis Ridl. transferred to the same species. The five other species are briefly discussed.
4111063|The African genus, Riocreuxia Decne., is revised. Eight species, R. aberrans, R. chrysochroma, R. flanaganii, R. picta, R. polyantha, R. splendida, R. torulosa, and R. woodii, all of them restricted to Africa south of the Sahara, are recognised. R. aberrans occupies an isolated position. The relationship between Riocreuxia and the morphologically similar genera Ceropegia L. and Emplectanthus N. E. Br. is briefly discussed based on a comparison of morphological characteristics. Nearly all the characters comprising the combination that circumscribes Riocreuxia and Emplectanthus are also found in Ceropegia. Ceropegia is a large and morphologically diverse group that accommodates several morphologically well defined sub-groups. Riocreuxia is most similar to Emplectanthus and the presumed primitive group of non-succulent Ceropegia with fusiform roots and twining leafy stems. The only main morphological character that separates Emplectanthus from Riocreuxia is the somewhat rotate corolla with an indistinct short tube. The apparent basal position of Riocreuxia is supported by the fact that vegetative and floral parts are much less differentiated in comparison with Ceropegia, and the often poorly developed coronal parts represent developmental stages for several Ceropegia species. The question of maintaining Riocreuxia or including it in Ceropegia remains open, although a morphological comparison favours the inclusion of Riocreuxia in Ceropegia.
23489056|Two new species of Eriocaulon (Eriocaulaceae) from the Sula Mountains in northern Sierra Leone are described and illustrated. Eriocaulon petraeum S. M. Phillips & Burgt is a perennial herb forming dense clumps on bedrock and boulders in the riverbed of the Tonkolili River in the Sula Mountains. Eriocaulon sulanum S. M. Phillips & Burgt is a perennial herb forming dense cushions in muddy/sandy patches between rocks at the edge of the same river. Both species flower and fruit during the dry season, when the plants are above the water level. Both species are assessed as Critically Endangered.
10.2307/4118748| Six new species of Dinochloa Bse are described: D. malayana from Peninsular Malaysia, D. oblonga from Palawan (Philippines), D. kostermansiana from East Lesser Sunda Islands (Indonesia) and D. cordata, D. hirsuta and D. barbata from Sulawesi (Indonesia). A new combination, D. palawanensis, is proposed, based on Schizostachyum palawanense Gamble from Palawan. The vegetative morphology and distribution of D. scandens are revised. 
10.2307/4110412|Three new Bornean palms, Pinanga cucullata, P. rupestris and P. pachyphylla, are described and P. malaiana var. barramensis included in synonymy with P. mirabilis.
10.2307/4118861|Two new subspecies of the economically important legume species Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. are described.
27822002|In order to bring the names of two Rubiaceae taxa into current usage, two new combinations are proposed in Pyrostria: P. brunnescens (Craib) Utteridge & A.P.Davis, and P. cochinchinense (Pierre ex Pit.) Utteridge & A.P.Davis. Pyrostria brunnescens occurs in Thailand and P. cochinchinense in Indo-China (Thailand, Vietnam) and Malesia (Malaysia, N Borneo).
23216397|Recent studies of extra-Amazonian species of Copaifera revealed several nomenclatural problems. We choose lectotypes for C. cearensis Huber ex Ducke and C. cearensis var. arenicola Ducke from amongst the available syntypes, and propose the lectotypification of C. langsdorffii Desf. with its original plate. Comments are made about the correct spelling of the specific epithet of C. langsdorffii and the typifications of C. elliptica Mart. and C. luetzelburgii Harms are clarified.
10.2307/4115665| Philodendron venustifoliatum E. G. Gon. & Mayo, an ornamental new species, is described from central Brazil and compared to its closest relative, P. simmondsii Mayo. The new species is tentatively assigned to subgenus Philodendron section Polytomium (Schott) Engl. 
10.2307/4110595|In preparation for an account of the Oleaceae for "Flora Mesoamericana": Linociera oblanceolata Robinson is transferred to Chionanthus as C. oblanceolatus comb. nov.; the identity of Chionanthus domingensis is elucidated; Fraxinus dubia (Willd. ex Schult. & Schult.f.) P. S. Green & M. Nee comb. nov. is proposed for the plant previously known as F. schiedeana Schlecht. & Cham.; F. vellerea Standl. & Steyerm. is reduced to a variety of F. purpusii Brandegee, with F. bicolor Standl. & Steyerm. as a synonym; and F. cavekiana Standl. & Steyerm., F. chiapensis Lundell and F. hondurensis Standl. are treated as part of F. uhdei (Wenzig) Lingelsh. sens. lat.
10.2307/4107857|Revisions are provided for Aspidocarya Hook.f. & Thorns. (1 sp.), Parabaena Miers (6 spp.) and Chlaenandra Miq. (1 sp.). Corrections and additions to the previously published revision of Tinospora Miers in Asia etc. include the record of T. baenzigeri Forman on Christmas I. (Indian Ocean). A note on the phytochemistry of the tribe by Dr N. G. Bisset is included.
23216093|Oliganthes anjanaribensis Beentje & D. J. N. Hind (Compositae: Vernonieae), a forest shrub from a protected area in NE Madagascar, is described and illustrated. Both species and genus are endemic to Madagascar. The conservation status of the species is briefly discussed.
10.2307/4119424|One new species is described from each of the following genera: Cortinarius (subgen. Myxacium), Omphalina, Phaeocollybia and Pholiota. Eleven new records are made of species of Cortinarius (subgen. Cortinarius), Galerina, Leptonia (one new combination), Naucoria, Pholiota (one new combination), and Psilocybe; an additional record is made of Galerina heimansii and a correction is made to a previously published key to the species of Psilocybe.
10.2307/4110052|1 genus, comprising the tribe Garnotieae is surveyed and a description of its leaf-blade anatomy is provided.
10.2307/4119368|In a precursor to the treatment of Compositae part 3 for the Flora of Tropical East Africa, Senecio kayomborum is described and illustrated. It is endemic to an area of grassland in southern Tanzania.
10.2307/4119010|In Zimmermannia, the identity of a hitherto unidentified entity is established, and two new species are described.
10.2307/4109622|An account with key of Hyptis sect. Cyanocephalus Benth. in DC. subsect. Lobatae Briq. is given, in which three new species with divided leaves are described and illustrated. Relationships within the group are discussed.
10.2307/4109770|The genus Rhytachne Desv. is reviewed, and a new species, R. latifolia, is described.
10.2307/4117849| Aerisilvaea and Zimmermanniopsis, two phyllanthod genera described as new in 1990, are shown to be referable to the genera Lingelsheimia (including Danguyodrypetes) & Meineckia respectively; Zimmermannia is also subsumed under the latter, the necessary new combinations are made, and a key to the sections of Meineckia is presented. 
10.2307/4117039|Acacia polyphylla var. giganticarpa, a new taxon from Bahia and Minas Gerais, Brazil is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117012|The principles of chorological mapping are examined, and the special problems associated with endemic species are discussed. A series of maps is presented, showing the generalized distribution patterns of grass species in the Old World.
10.2307/4117115|The monotypic genus Milula spicata from the Himalayan region has been examined cytologically, and the results compared with Allium.
10.2307/4110106|Two new species, one new subspecies and one new variety of papilionate legumes are described from poorly collected areas of Cameroun.
10.2307/4118857|Himalayan "Seseli sibiricum Benth." and Afghan S. cyclolobum (Gilli) Pimenov & Sdobnina are shown to be identical with S. buchtormense (Fisch.) Koch.
10.2307/4109453|From additional specimens now available it is apparent that 5 species of Legnephora, of which 3 are new, must be recognized instead of one as in the previous revision. L. minutiflora in E. Malesia is now distinguished from L. moorei in Australia.
10.2307/4114360|The pollen morphology of Saxifraga nathorstii, a putative allotetraploid hybrid between S. aizoides and S. oppositifolia, is examined and the characters of the sexine pattern are found to be intermediate between those of the putative parents. In addition the pollen of the different genotypes of the very polymorphic S. oppositifolia are examined and the sexine pattern is found to be more or less uniform throughout.
20443327|The identity of Lindley's Eulophia filicaulis, said to have been collected by Karwinsky in Mexico, is discussed. It is confirmed as belonging to the genus Eulophia and to be conspecific with the West African E. ramifera Summerh. However, its presence in the Mexican orchid flora is seriously questioned.
10.2307/4111045|Euphorbia lancasteriana, a very distinctive new species belonging to the Section Tulocarpa, is described from W Sichuan, China.
10.2307/4111085|Justida leucoxiphus is described. This striking new species belongs in sect. Betonica, but is not clearly related to any other species.
10.2307/4119422|Records are made of Calvatia fragilis and Tulostoma volvulatum from the Mongolian People's Republic.
10.2307/4115725|The characterization of Hyperacanthus is discussed and a key to the Gardenieae-Gardeniinae of Madagascar is provided. Hyperacanthus grevei is described as a new species for Madagascar.
10.2307/4113742|A check-list of the wild, naturalised, and commonly planted species of Cassia (sens. lat.) in Africa is presented, divided into the segregate genera Cassia (sens. strict.), Senna and Chamaecrista as defined by Irwin and Barneby for the New World. New combinations are made where necessary in the segregate genera for the African species. 26 new combinations are made at specific level in Chamaecrista, and 11 in Senna. Additionally, a combination in Senna is made for Cassia divaricata, a south-east Asian species cultivated in the Mascarene Islands.
10.2307/4118849|A revision of the genus Paracroton Miq., earlier known as Fahrenheitia Reichb. f. & Zoll. ex Muell. Arg., for India and adjoining countries is presented. Three species are recognized. Desmostemon zeylanicus Thwaites is reduced to a subspecies of Paracroton pendulus (Hassk.) Miq.
10.2307/4109970|Theriophonum Bl., most closely related to Typhonium, is endemic to South and Central India and Sri Lanka. Five quite distinct species (four have been treated as genera) are accepted: T. dalzellii, T. fischeri, T. infaustum, T. minutum (the most variable species), and T. sivaganganum.
10.2307/4109623|Foetidia africana sp. nov. is described from Tanzania, the first species of the genus from the African mainland.
10.2307/4102992|Corchorus brevicornutus is described as new. It has so far been collected in Ethiopia and Tanzania.
10.2307/4114728|The sheet numbered Wallich 8001 in the Wallich Herbarium at Kew (K-WALL) is shown to contain two taxa, one of which is here described as Trigonostemon praetervisus Airy Shaw, a new species.
10.2307/4108268|A numerical taxonomic analysis of Cymbidium Sw. section Iridorchis P. Hunt, (Orchidaceae) from SE Asia is presented. Results from cluster analysis, principal components analysis and minimum spanning trees are discussed. Hybridisation is proposed for the origin of two species: C. wilsonii Rolfe and C. schroederi Rolfe. C. i'ansonii Rolfe is reduced here to varietal status within C. lowianum Reich b.f. The applicability of the techniques to the Orchidaceae is demonstrated.
10.2307/4110613|A new combination in the genus Wattakaka Hassk. (Asclepiadaceae) is made.
10.2307/4111111|Isolepis R. Br. is a predominately southern hemisphere genus of Cyperaceae. It comprises 69 species which are recognised by having terete spikelets, bisexual flowers that lack perianth segments and the absence of a gynophore. The genus was segregated from the heterogeneous Scirpus L., and there has been much disagreement as to whether Isolepis is distinct or part of Scirpus. The phylogeny of Isolepis is reconstructed using cladistic analysis of morphological and DNA (rbcL, trnL intron and trnL-F spacer) sequence data. Isolepis is sister to Ficinia, and together these form a clade (with Scirpoides) sister to Cyperus sensu lato in subfamily Cyperoideae. The genus Isolepis, as currently delimited, is not monophyletic as some species (e.g. I. marginata) are grouped with the Ficinia clade whereas another species (I. humillima) is closer to Cyperus. The removal of the these species from the genus would make Isolepis monophyletic. Three infrageneric clades observed in Isolepis are recognised as subgenera, namely Isolepis (e.g. I. setacea), Fluitantes (e.g. I. fluitans), and Micranthae (e.g. I. hystrix). In addition, subgen. Isolepis has three well supported subclades, recognised here as sections (i.e. sect. Isolepis, Cernuae and Proliferae). The I. fluitans clade has been considered by some authors as a separate genus, Eleogiton Link, but segregating the clades in Isolepis into genera creates groups with obscure limits and minor delimiting characters. The taxonomy of the genus is revised to determine species limits and nomenclature. A full taxonomic account is presented. Two new species and a new variety are described.
10.2307/4110678| Spigelia flava Zappi & Harley, a remarkably distinct new species from the Pico das Almas, Bahia, Brazil, is described, and placed in Section Speciosae Progel. Its differentiating characters and the habitat where it occurs are discussed. /// Spigelia flava Zappi & Harley, espcie nova para o gnero,  descrita para a regio do Pico das Almas, Bahia, Brasil, sendo includa na seco Speciosae Progel. So apresentadas consideraes sobre seu habitat e caracteres morfolgicos que a separam das outras espcies do gnero. 
10.2307/4119394|Revised descriptions of the Pleurotus species known from the Indian subcontinent are presented, together with a key to their identification.
23489122|The Podostemaceae of Laos are much less understood than those of adjacent Thailand. Comparative morphology using new materials, together with the latest molecular phylogenetic studies, have revealed a high diversity in subfamily Podostemoideae in Laos. This subfamily comprises five genera and 15 species. The genus Hydrobryum Endl. is enlarged, and found to be remarkably diverse in root and shoot morphology. We describe two species, H. subcylindricum sp. nov. and H. taeniatum sp. nov., with subcylindrical and ribbon-like roots, respectively; H. austrolaoticum sp. nov., H. verrucosum sp. nov. and H. subcrustaceum sp. nov. with crustose roots, and H. takakioides sp. nov. with crustose roots and elongate shoots. Diplobryum C. Cusset, comprising four species and characterised solely by the nearly 20-ribbed capsule, is polyphyletic. Two Lao and a Vietnamese species of Diplobryum are transferred to Hydrobryum: H. ramosum (C. Cusset) Koi & M. Kato comb. nov., with floating subcylindrical roots and anchoring disk-like bases, and H. vientianense (M. Kato & Fukuoka) Koi & M. Kato comb. nov. and H. minutale (C. Cusset) Koi & M. Kato comb. nov. with crustose roots. The rootless D. koyamae M. Kato & Fukuoka was recently combined as Hydrodiscus koyamae (M. Kato & Fukuoka) Koi & M. Kato. Cladopus (sect. Griffithella) pierrei (Lecomte) C. Cusset is not segregated even at a sectional rank. We also describe Polypleurum pluricostatum sp. nov., and add Hydrobryum tardhuangense M. Kato, Paracladopus chiangmaiensis M. Kato and Polypleurum schmidtianum Warm. as new records to Laos, and Polypleurum wallichii (R. Br. ex Griff.) Warm. from new localities in Laos.
24717387|Brachystelma penchalakonense, a new species from the Nellore District of Andhra Pradesh, India is described and illustrated. This large-flowered species is related to B. maculatum.
10.2307/4120619|Four new species (M. kinabaluensis R. C. K. Chung, M. malayana R. C. K. Chung, M. membranifolia R. C. K. Chung, M. subcordifolia R. C. K. Chung) and one new subspecies (M. henrici (Baker f.) Burret subsp. acuta R. C. K. Chung) of Microcos are described and illustrated. All the new species and the subspecies are from Borneo except M. malayana, which is from Peninsular Malaysia. New combinations are made for M. triflora (Blanco) R. C. K. Chung and a variety of it, and their full synonymies are given.
10.2307/4109658|The genus Coleus in Sri Lanka is critically reviewed. Its delimitation from Plectranthus is considered and upheld for the Sri Lankan species. 11 species and 2 varieties are recognized, including two new species C. grandis and C. kanneliyensis. A key to the species and descriptions of new taxa are provided and the combination Coleus zeylanicus made.
10.2307/4114574| Paspalum petrense is described from the state of Gois, Brazil. 
10.2307/4110994| One new species of Rafflesia, R. speciosa, from Panay Island, Philippines is described. A discussion of its similarities with two other species, R. patma Blume from Borneo and Sumatra, and R. kerrii Meijer from S Thailand and Malay Peninsula, is provided. The conservation status of the two other Philippine species, R. manillana Teschem. and R schadenbergiana Gpp. is also discussed. 
10.2307/4110491|Four new species of the genus Doliocarpus (Dilleniaceae) from the Amazonian region of Brazil are described and illustrated (D. aracaensis, D. aureobaccus, D. kubitzkii and D. pruskii) and the relationships with their allied species are discussed. D. pruskii is remarkable for its opposite leaves in an otherwise predominantly alternate-leaved family.
23489057|Ardisia ebo Cheek sp. nov. (Myrsinaceae) is described as a creeping African subshrub. Its taxonomic affinities are discussed and its conservation status assessed using the IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria (2001) as Endangered.
10.2307/4110097|A new genus Arnhemia and new species A. cryptantha (Thymelaeceae, and a new sepcies Flacourtia territorialis (Flacourtiaceae) are described, and new localities for hanguana malayana (Jack) Merr. (hanguanaceae) are recorded.
10.2307/4110634|Types in Kew Herbarium of 28 species of agarics supposed to belong to the genus Psathyrella and described by Berkeley, Berkeley & Broome and Berkeley & Curtis in Agaricus and by A. A. Pearson in Psathyrella have been examined. Twelve types represented recognisable species of Psathyrella, of which five could be identified with species with older names and seven had correctly been transferred to Psathyrella before. Three types belong to species of Lacrymaria, one to a species of Conocybe and one to the well-known Panaeolus acuminatus. Four new combinations are made: Lacrymaria atricha (Berk.) Kits van Wav., L. castanophylla (Berk.) Kits van Wav., L. hemmisodes (Berk.) Kits van Wav., and Conocybe sonderiana (Berk.) Kits van Wav. In eleven cases no identification was possible because insufficient information could be extracted from type and protologue, although in seven of these cases species of Psathyrella were certainly involved.
20649690|The fruit of Mucuna thailandica is described for the first time. Information on flower colour and inflorescence architecture of M. oligoplax is amended. A white colour variant of M. revoluta is recorded.
10.2307/4109574|New taxa in Euphorbia and Phyllanthus are described and combinations in Margaritaria are made for the first time.
10.2307/4110018|On the basis of a cytological and morphological examination of living material of Disporum luzoniense Merr. from its type locality in the Philippines the transference of the taxon to the genus Disporopsis Hance is upheld.
20443403|Due to an oversight, the name Cineraria anampoza forma hygrophila was not validly published in a recent paper by Cron et al. (2006). This error is corrected here, as is the designation of the type. A duplicate citation is also clarified.
10.2307/4108877| Five cases of hybridity for chromosomal interchange in Aloneae cultivated at Kew are described. An equal interchange was found in Astroloba foliolosa, and unequal interchanges in Alo gloveri, Haworthia browniana, H. umbraticola var. hilliana and H. reinwardtii var. chalumnensis. The distribution of interchanges within the chromosome complement was found to be non-random. The evolutionary significance of interchanges in the tribe is discussed. 
10.2307/4115731|Five new combinations are made in Hirtella Dactyladenia (Chrysobalanaceae).
10.2307/4109706|Examination of a collection in the Kew Herbarium revealed 6 species & 1 hybrid of introduced Quercus galled by 2 species of cynipid gall-wasp.
20443358|New material permits: for Borneo, the description of the flowers of Elaeocarpus cristatus Coode and to place the species in the 'Verticillatae subgroup', together with E. truncatus Weibel and others; for Sulawesi, the description of fuller variation in E. musseri Coode and E. takolensis Coode. Attention is drawn to two Kjellberg collections from Sulawesi which, while representing a distinctive new species, are insufficient for formal naming and description.
10.2307/4107870|Six new species are described and a review of the whole group is provided.
24717348|The identity of Cosmos herzogii (Compositae: Heliantheae: Coreopsidinae), from the Department of Santa Cruz, eastern Bolivia, is discussed. Field observations of critical characters of the rootstock, anther filaments and achenes, of plants identified as Cosmos herzogii, indicated that the material does not belong to Cosmos but rather to Bidens; the relevant combination is made, an English description and a black and white illustration are provided.
10.2307/4118996|The Osmunda native to Ceylon is considered to be distinct; the new name O. collina is proposed.
10.2307/4114366|Aponogeton ranunculiflorus, sp. nov., is described from Lesotho.
23216088|Prescottia mucugensis C. O. Azevedo & van den Berg, a new orchid species from the district of Guin, municipality of Mucug, Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated and a key for the related species is presented. Prescottia mucugensis C. O. Azevedo & van den Berg, espcie nova do distrito de Guin, municpio de Mucug, Bahia, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada, e uma chave de identificao para as espcies afins  apresentada.
10.2307/4110100|Despite a recent publication to the country, Vigna speciosa (H.B.K.) Verdc.is shown to be a true Vigna.
23489338|Three new species of Mucuna from South America are described and illustrated. All present a morphological characteristic that is restricted to some neotropical species of this genus: a condensed primary inflorescence axis, with all the flowers closely inserted at the inflorescence apex. M. argentea occurs in Colombia, Ecuador and Peru, M. klitgaardiae in Ecuador and Peru, whilst M. cajamarca is endemic to Peru. These three new species highlight the diversity and high endemism of Mucuna in South America.
10.2307/4108895|A new species of Hyacinthella, H. siirtensis, is described from eastern Turkey, and its position in the genus discussed.
23489046|Orania Zipp. (Oranieae: Arecoideae: Arecaceae) is a genus of solitary, single stemmed tree palms consisting of 28 species, of which 11 species are new and described for the first time in this paper. The genus has an interesting disjunct distribution, with 25 species found in Malesia and three species confined to Madagascar. The 11 new species, O. bakeri A. P. Keim & J. Dransf., O. dafonsoroensis A. P. Keim & J. Dransf., O. deflexa A. P. Keim & J. Dransf., O. ferruginea A. P. Keim & J. Dransf., O. grandiflora A. P. Keim & J. Dransf., O. littoralis A. P. Keim & J. Dransf., O. longistaminodia A. P. Keim & J. Dransf., O. subdisticha A. P. Keim & J. Dransf., O. tabubilensis A. P. Keim & J. Dransf., O. timikae A. P. Keim & J. Dransf. and O. zonae A. P. Keim & J. Dransf. are found in New Guinea. A determination key is produced and detailed descriptions provided for all taxa.
10.2307/4109769|Synopses are given of the African species with superposed stems or pseudobulbs and of species of sect. Isochiloides; three new sections and five new species are described, and other taxonomic notes are given.
10.2307/4114485|Crudia Schreb. - a new generic record for India with a new species (C. balachandrae) from Great Nicobar Island is described and illustrated.
23045002|The new species Vernonia bayensis Thulin & Beentje from southern Somalia is described and illustrated, and a new key to the Somali species of the genus is presented.
10.2307/4107866|Tolpis mbalensis Pope and Lactuca mwinilungensis Pope are described from Zambia.
10.2307/4109173|The new combination Angophora hispida (Sm.) Blaxell is published for the species common in the Central Coast region of New South Wales, Australia.
10.2307/4110391|Two closely related species of Crotalaria, both from the highlands of Central Madagascar, are separated. The more widespread species is given the new name C. tanety nom. nov., based on the illegitimate species name C. cytisoides Hils. & Bojer ex Benth. The more restricted species maintains the name C. ibityensis R. Vig. & Humbert.
27821997|Hierochloe quebrada, Anthoxanthinae, Aveneae, Poaceae, of steep, tropicalpine granitic ravines in northern Peru is described as new; plants had formerly been referred to H. juncifolia but differ from that southern South American species especially in a shorter lemma with long white ascending marginal hairs, and the lemma of the middle floret with a compound awn inserted mid-point, with a long, brown, twisting colum bearing, inflexed or reflexed, a straw-coloured, straight, equally long arista; the flat leaf-blade is deeply grooved adaxially with simple furrows, and lacks a prominent midrib; ecologically H. quebrada on steep tropicalpine granitic soils to 4600 m is in contrast to H. juncifolia of temperate southern latitudes on volcanic, stony, or sandy soils to about 1750 m. Monoecism is exclusive to all species of Hierochloe in South America; pathways towards its evolution are outlined.
10.2307/4113632|This is the first revision of the African species of Ancistrocladus Wall. (Ancistrodadaceae), a genus of lianas restricted to evergreen forests of the Old World. 13 species are recognized in Africa, including Ancistrodadus grandiflorus, here described as a new species from the east of Mt Cameroon. A key and synoptic accounts of the African species are presented and infra-generic groupings, geography, ecology and conservation are discussed.
10.2307/4118071|Four new species of Pinanga (Palmae: Arecoideae) from Luzon Island, Philippines are described, viz. Pinanga egregia, P. glaucifolia, P. sierramadreana and P. sobolifera.
10.2307/4111147|A taxonomic treatment is provided for the Marantaceae of the Malaysian state of Sabah in northern Borneo. Thirteen species are recognised, four of which are described as new to science: Phacelophrynium aurantium, Phacelophrynium laxum, Phrynium grandibracteatum and Phrynium stenophyllum. One new combination is made: Stachyphrynium placentarium (Lour.) Clausager & Borchs. Keys to the genera and species are provided together with illustrations of the four new species.
10.2307/4117104| A new species of Alo is described from Zare. It is the only species known from Africa which produces young plants in the axils of the lower bracts of the inflorescence. The only other species having this feature is the unrelated Madagascan A. bulbillifera H. Perrier. 
10.2307/4111021|On the basis of morphological data the compound-leaved yams of Africa are shown to comprise six species; Dioscorea cochleari-apiculata De Wild., D, dregeana (Kunth) T. Durand & Schinz, D. dumetorum (Kunth) Pax, D. knuthiana De Wild.,D, quartiniana A. Rich. and D. retusa Mast. The species are best placed in two sections: the former three in Dioscorea sect. I.asiophyton Uline, with 3 leaflets, each with 3-7 main veins, 6 stamens and capsules 31 - 58 mm long, and the latter three in Dioscorea sect. Botryosicyos (Hochst.) Uline, with 3 - 5 or more leaflets, each with a single main vein, 3 stamens, 3 staminodes and capsules 15 - 34 mm long.
10.2307/4110877|The new agaricoid genus and species Rapacea mariae is described from Australasia where it has been recorded in nNothofagus forests in New Zealand (type), Tasmania and Papua New Guinea. The taxon belongs to the Cortinariaceae and is notable for its unique set of distinguishing characters, viz. non-gelatinised pileipellis, presence of both cortina and velum universale, large amygdaliform to sublimoniform basidiospores with marbled to asperulate walls, argillaceous spore print with distinctive olive tinge, and articulate cheilocystidia. Based upon field data, R. mariae is considered to be a putative ectomycorrhiza-former, entering facultative symbiosis with several different species of Nothofagus as host trees.
10.2307/4108592|The anatomy of leaf, and in some species root and peduncle was examined for over 100 species of Amaryllidaceae from America and southern Africa. The results are reported.
20443275|A new species of Eriocoelum Hook. f. (Sapindaceae) from the Dzanga-Sangha reserve, Central African Republic is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110699|The pollen morphology of Trichaulax mwasumbii Vollesen is described and illustrated. The pollen is highly distinctive and of a type previously undescribed in the family Acanthaceae. It is subprolate to prolate, (4-)5(-6)-colporate, with complex and rather variable ornamentation, consisting of areas of semitectate, coarse rugulate exine in the centres of the mesocolpia, surrounded by alternating fine and coarse rugulate bands. Occasional grains with abnormal ornamentation were observed. The ectexine consists of fairly short, well spaced columellae, with a granular foot layer. Pollen was stained, according to availability, using the method of Alexander, to test for potential fertility. The pollen morphology is compared with that of Ecbolium Kurz and Megalochlamys Lindau, the nearest known relatives. It is distinguished from both of these by several important features and this supports placing this species in a new genus, Trichaulax.
23489143|A new orchid species from Assam, Ornithochilus cacharensis Barbhuiya, B. K. Dutta & Schuit., is described. It differs from the other species in the small genus Ornithochilus (Lindl.) Benth. in floral morphology and in the uniformly red-purple flowers. The taxonomy of the genus is discussed and a key to the known taxa of Ornithochilus is presented.
10.2307/4110455|Two new species of the Monocera group of Elaeocarpus (E. chewii Coode and E. nooteboomii Coode) from Borneo are described, one new name (E. cristatus Coode) is provided for E. magnifolius R. Knuth non Guillaumin. E. obtusus Blume sensu lato is discussed, and the combination subsp. apiculatus (Mast.) Coode made. The description of E. truncatus Weibel is amplified. In the Coilopetalum group, a key to the Bornean species is given and difficulties in the interpretation of E. conoideus, E. petiolatus, E. pseudopaniculatus, E. palembanicus and E. griffithii are discussed and three new species, E. jugahanus, E. renae and E. subisensis, are described. Material previously identified as 'sp. nov. near conoideus' by Weibel (and others) is identified with the type of E. glaberrimus R. Knuth. E. penibukanensis R. Knuth is reduced to synonymy under E. sadikanensis R. Knuth which is kept separate from the superficially similar E. validus R. Knuth.
10.2307/4110722|Bauhinia loeseneriana (Leguminosae: Caesalpinioideae), which has been included in B. mombassae, is a distinct species. Its ecology is discussed, and the composition of the Rondo Plateau forests is considered in the context of the phytogeography of SE Tanzania.
20649664|Corticioid fungi from the Kimberley Region of Western Australia are reviewed. 31 species are reported, of which five, Aleurodiscus kimberleyanus, Athelopsis vesicularis, Dendrothele cornivesiculosa, Hyphoderma tubulicystidium, and Phanerochaete subcrassispora are described as new. Grandinia glauca is given the new combination Grammothele glauca, and Hydnum investiens the new combination Phanerochaete investiens. A further eight species are recorded which have not previously been reported from Australia.
10.2307/4118041|Echinops armatus Boiss. & Hausskn. is relegated to the synonymy of haussknechtii Boiss.; a new species, E. fraudator C. C. Townsend, is described to accommmodate E. armatus vars. cryptadenus Rech.f. and papillosus Rech.f.
10.2307/4115646|An affinity of Nemopanthus mucronatus (Aquifoliaceae) to Ilex has been suggested, based on floral morphology, wood anatomy and molecular data. Phylogenetic analysis of molecular data, using six plastid and three nuclear DNA regions, shows that Nemopanthus is clearly embedded within Ilex. Nemopanthus has free petals, stamens distinct from the petals and the calyx lobes are deciduous or semi-persistent in fruit; some Ilex species also share these characters. Elsewhere within the Aquifoliaceae there are many other exceptions to the generalised characters that define the family. A new combination Ilex mucronata (L.) M. Powell, V. Savolainen & S. Andrews is thus proposed.
10.2307/4114482|Four new species of the genus Zygia from Central and South America are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115715|A taxonomic account of Hemigraphis Nees from the Philippines is provided. A pattern-based species concept is adopted and 18 species of Hemigraphis from the Philippines are recognised. Six species have an extended distribution beyond the Philippine archipelago. Three species are archipelagic endemics and nine species are restricted island endemics. One new species, Hemigraphis zwickeyae, is described from the islands of Luzon and Mindanao.
20443417|Barnebydendron J. H. Kirkbr. (Leguminosae - Caesalpinioideae - Detarieae), when first described under the name Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Tul. (1843), was considered to be a monospecific genus restricted to the Atlantic forest in the vicinity of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. A later collection from Guatemala in 1908 expanded the genus to two species. Many collections have been made since then in other parts of Central and South America and the distribution of the genus merits close examination. Recent publications have not provided full descriptions or illustrations, or cited specimens seen. A reappraisal of the genus is presented here and the monospecific status of the genus is confirmed.
10.2307/4110823|Calamus temii T. Evans from Phu Luang Wildlife Sanctuary, north-east Thailand is described as a new species. It is distinctive in its combination of arborescent habit, grouped, concolorous leaflets less than 40 cm long, laminar, black rachis spines, strongly tattering primary and secondary inflorescence bracts (unusual in the genus), short, stout, appressed female rachillae and dark, almost globose fruits with a ruminate endosperm. It seems most similar to the poorly known Chinese species C. melanochrous Burret.
10.2307/4113602|The genus Anisocycia Baill. is recorded for the first time from the area of Flora of Tropical East Africa. The East African collections are described as a new subspecies of A. blepharosepala Diels, a species hitherto only known from southern Mozambique and Zimbabwe.
20443349|21 accepted names and synonyms of 13 Dioscorea L. species present in the Thai flora are lectotypified.
20443400|Thalia marantifolia Vell. is identified as a member of the genus Ctenanthe Eichler and hence a new combination is proposed. The species inhabits the south-eastern and southern Brazilian Atlantic coast.
10.2307/4110262|Six new species and six new infraspecific taxa of Elaeocarpus sect. Elaeocarpus from the area covered by Flora Malesiana are described. Nine existing 'species' are reduced to infraspecific rank. Several other species or species groups are discussed.
10.2307/4110648|Boscia fadeniorum is described from Tana River District, Kenya.
10.2307/4117583|A new karyotype, with 2n = 14 chromosomes, is described in Hydrocleys. This is very similar to the karyotype of Butomopsis latifolia, and when compared to that of H. nymphoides (2n = 16), reveals a Robertsonian relationship with the latter. Meiotic pairing is similar in both the 2n = 14 and the 2n = 16 cytotypes. The possible significance of small C-banded areas in H. nymphoides is discussed.
10.2307/4108137|A description is given of a collection of drawings, in part evidently once C. H. Persoon's, recently added to the Kew Collections.
10.2307/4115658|Maesa beamanii and M. procumbens are described as new from New Guinea. Maesa procumbens has a unique anther arrangement not found in other members of the genus.
10.2307/4109996|The following notes result from revisional work carried out on the genus Gardenia in connection with the second volume of the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa: Rubiaceae'. One new species and a new subspecies are described from the Flora area. An attempt is also made to revise Gardenia ternifolia Schum. & Thonn. and its allies, for which group a new subgenus is proposed.
10.2307/4114357|The following new combinations are made: Agenium goyazense (Hack.) W. D. Clayton, A. leptocladum (Hack.) W. D. Clayton, Hemisorghum venustum (Thw.) W. D. Clayton, Parahyparrhenia bellariensis (Hack.) W. D. Clayton, Spodiopogon hildebrandtii (Hack.) W. D. Clayton. Andropogon polyptychos Steud. var. deccanensis Bor ex W. D. Clayton is validated. Cymbopogon tibeticus Bor and Andropogon tristis Hack, are reduced to synonyms of A. munroi C. B. Clarke. The nomenclature of Centotheca lappacea (Linn.) Desv. is discussed.
23216080|A new genus of Leguminosae in tribe Brongniartieae is proposed based on a new species endemic to the Caatinga of Bahia state. The new genus is named as Tabaroa L. P. Queiroz, G. P. Lewis & M. F. Wojc. and the new species as Tabaroa caatingicola L. P. Queiroz, G. P. Lewis & M. F. Wojc. A phylogenetic study of the Brongniartieae based on nuclear rDNA ITS and plastid matK sequences supports a closer relationship between Tabaroa and Harpalyce Moc. & Sess than to the two South American genera Poecilanthe Benth. and Cyclolobium Benth., which are more similar morphologically. Optimisation of selected morphological characters on one of the most parsimonious trees indicates that the sessile ovary and the explosive pollen presentation are putative synapomorphies of the Tabaroa-Harpalyce clade. The genus Tabaroa may be diagnosed by the absence of peltate glandular trichomes; leaves imparipinnate, exstipellate and with opposite leaflets; flowers sessile, not resupinate, grouped in panicles; anthers apiculate; and fruit indehiscent. The only known species inhabits areas of arboreal caatinga on sandy soil in southwestern Bahia, near the boundaries of Dom Baslio and Livramento de Nossa Senhora municipalities.
20443392|Cassipourea alternifolia Breteler (Rhizophoraceae) from the Campo Ma'an area in south Cameroon is described as new and illustrated. It belongs to subgenus Weihea (Spreng.) Alston.
10.2307/4110995|Two new orchids from Cameroon, Polystachya kupensis P. J. Cribb & B. J. Pollard and Angraecum sanfordii P. J. Cribb & B. J. Pollard are described and illustrated. Polystachya stauroglossa Kraenzl. is newly reported from Cameroon. Notes on their distribution, habitat and conservation are provided.
10.2307/4113634|Oxyanthus okuensis is described as a new species from Mt Oku and the Ijim Ridge in the Bamenda Highlands of western Cameroon. Its diagnostic characteristics are elucidated in relation to other taxa of the genus. Notes on its conservation status are provided.
10.2307/4103085|The species and varieties of Sopubia in Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania are keyed out, with the synonymy as exhaustively as possible from elsewhere. Comprehensive distribution maps are also included. Two new varieties, S. mannii Skan var. linearifolia and S. karaguensis Oliv. var. macrocalyx are described, a few new combinations are made and several synonyms mentioned.s
10.2307/4110488| Calea hatschbachii and Calea semirii of section Meyeria are described from Serra do Gro Mogol, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Both species are illustrated and their relationships are discussed. 
23489024|A new species of Myrcia, M. rosangelae NicLugh., from north-eastern Brazil is described and illustrated, and a conservation assessment based on IUCN criteria is given. A replacement name is also published, M. neoblanchetiana Sobral & E. Lucas.
10.2307/4117010|A brief synopsis is given of the genus Cremaspora Benth. with special reference to Tropical East Africa. C. triflora (Thonn.) K. Schum. is divided into three subspecies, subsp. triflora, subsp. confluens (K. Schum.) comb. nov. and subsp. comorensis (Baill.) comb. nov.; C. thomsoni is the only other species recognized.
10.2307/4110641|A new genus, Youngiomyces, is proposed to accommodate a hitherto undescribed species from North America, Y. carolinensis, together with three species having discrete gametangial elements attached to the zygosporangia at more than one site, previously placed in Endogone. Accordingly, two new combinations, Y. multiplex and Y. stratosus, are made after examination of the type material, and Y. aggregatus is proposed as a new species as the name Endogone aggregate, seems not to have been validly published. Endogone crassa is considered to be a nomen dubium.
10.2307/4115817|Hyptis section Polydesmia subsection Malvastra, with two species, is revised and a key to species provided. Evidence is presented for the hybrid origin of certain taxa formerly included in synonymy. The putative parents include H. althaeifolia and species from other subsections.
23489203|Typifications are proposed to facilitate ongoing studies in Cordiaceae and to maintain current usage. Lectotypes are designated for the following 13 names: Cordia ecalyculata, C. digyna, C. diospyrifolia, C. exaltata var. melanoneura, C. magnoliifolia, C. obscura var. tomentosa, C. obscura var. magnifolia, C. salicifolia, C. sellowiana, C. silvestris, C. ulei, C. ucayaliensis, and Patagonula glaziovii. Two new synonyms are proposed: C. crenatifolia Rizzini to C. glazioviana (Taub.) Gottschling & J. S. Mill. and C. araripensis Rizzini to C. bicolor A. DC. Additionally, nomenclatural notes on C. blanchetii are provided.
10.2307/4110987| Aragoa is a genus endemic to the pramos of Colombia and Venezuela. The systematic position of the genus has been controversial because of its peculiar morphological features, although many authors have placed it in Scrophulariaceae. Because of this and the fact that the delimitation of Scrophulariaceae and allied families has recently changed, a molecular analysis is used here to investigate the phylogenetic position of the genus. Both rbcL and ITS sequences show that Aragoa is sister to Plantago, in a clade including also Veronica, Hemiphragma and Digitalis. These results put in doubt previous hypotheses about the biogeography of this pramo genus and indicate that more phylogenetic analyses are necessary to study the history of the pramo biota. 
10.2307/4109963|The chromosome numbers of 45 named species of Bulbophyllum are given; also those of five unnamed species. All were diploid with 2n = 38 chromosomes, except for a triploid, B. patens (2n = 57), and a pentaploid, B. vagans (2n = 95).
10.2307/4107750|Seed of Dalbergia retusa has been found to contain 2-2% dry weight of L-DOPA, an amino acid previously found at this level only in seed of Mucuna spp.
10.2307/4118780|Phylogeny of the eucalypt group (sensu lato) is analysed using 6 regions of DNA: 5S rDNA repeat, ITS-1, ITS-2, psbA - trnH spacer, trnL intron, and trnL 3'exon - trnF spacer. Within the family Myrtaceae, the genus Lophostemon was used as the outgroup to root trees. The ingroup included Allosyncarpia, Arillastrum, Eucalyptopsis, an undescribed genus from Atherton, Queensland - Myrtaceae sp. (=RFK/2519), Angophora (3 species), Corymbia (3 species) and Eucalyptus (6 species). Levels of informativeness of each of the DNA regions are compared and the phylogenetic analyses are presented for each data set and a combined (total evidence) data set. Three monophyletic groups are well supported by the different data sets: Allosyncarpia, Eucalyptopsis and Myrtaceae sp. (basal clade); Angophora and Corymbia; and Eucalyptus sensu stricto. The position of the New Caledonian genus Arillastrum lacks jackknife support; although the total evidence tree places it as sister to the Australian genera Angophora, Corymbia and Eucalyptus.
10.2307/4110289| The account of Zingiberaceae and Costaceae for the Flora of Tropical East Africa is updated on the basis of new collections from Uganda. Two new species of Aframomum (one also found in Zare, the other also in Rwanda) are described and A. limbatum is newly recorded. A. usambarense is reduced to synonymy under A. corrorima. These records increase the number of species of Aframomum known from Uganda from nine to 14. One new species of Costus is described. Renealmia sp. A of the Flora is identified as R. bracteata. Chromosome numbers are given for four species of Aframomum. 
10.2307/4114468|Two new species of Trigonostemon are described from Borneo, a new species of Cleistanthus is described and the closely related C. pedicellatus Hook. f. is recorded as new to Borneo, and Macaranga calcicola Airy Shaw var. calcifuga Whitmore is raised to specific rank.
10.2307/4110910| Cleistes pusilla Pansarin, a new species of Orchidaceae, is described and illustrated. The relationship of this new species to other taxa of the genus and the need to preserve the natural habitat of some Cleistes species are discussed. /// Cleistes pusilla Pansarin, uma nova espcie de Orchidaceae,  descrita e ilustrada. As relaes da nova espcie com outros txons do gnero, bem como a necessidade de conservao do habitat natural de algumas espcies de Cleistes, so discutidas. 
10.2307/4118890| Spigelia cremnophila Zappi & E. Lucas, an unusual new species from the Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brazil, is described. Its diagnostic characters and habitat are discussed. /// Spigelia cremnophila Zappi & E. Lucas, uma nova espcie originria da Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brasil,  descrita, e suas caractersticas e habitat so aqui discutidos. 
10.2307/4109699|Crepis capillaris (L.) Wallr. is recorded from India for the first time, and distinguished from C. sancta (L.) Babc., with which it had previously been confused.
20443411|Twenty-eight species of heterobasidiomycetes (phylum Basidiomycota) belonging to the orders Auriculariales, Dacrymycetales, Exidiales, Platygloeales, Sebacinales, Septobasidiales and Tremellales from Belize are described or reported. Endoperplexa phlebioides, Heterochaete pentadelphai and Sebacina pileata are described as new. The genus Aphelariopsis is considered a possible synonym of Septobasidium and the new combination Septobasidium kupemontis is proposed. The new combination Endoperplexa obscura is also proposed.
10.2307/4117110|The name Paullinia pinnata has been used universally in a sense which excludes Linnaeus' primary element of this species. Typification by this element would result in the rejection of the name Paullinia. Alternative lectotypification is possible and reasons why this should be adopted are given.
10.2307/4111032|Three species of Brachystegia Benth. (Leguminosae: Caesalpinioideae: Amherstieae), B. astlei, B. michelmorei, and B. torrei, are described from south-central Africa.
10.2307/4114355|Chromosome number and ploidy of Hibiscus are reviewed and the chromosome numbers of six species are recorded for the first time.
10.2307/4102903|From Tanzania Disperis decipiens is described as a sp. nov. and D. macowanii Bolus and D. thomensis Summerh. recorded for the first time. New entries for the key in the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa' account of Disperis are provided.
10.2307/4117023|The Stachys aethiopica/aculeolata complex in tropical and southern tropical Africa is examined. The following new infraspecific taxa, S. aculeolata Hook. f. var. inermis Y. B. Harv., 5. pseudohumifusa Sebsebe subsp. minutiflora Y. B. Harv. and S. pseudohumifusa Sebsebe subsp. saxeri Y. B. Harv. are described, along with a new species, S. glandulibracteata Y. B. Harv. New locality records are noted for S. alpigena T. C. E. Fries subsp. alpigena from Rwanda, and for 5. aculeolata from Malawi.
10.2307/4103160|The Malesian and Pacific species of Craspedodictyum, Syngramma and Taenitis are discussed and new evidence presented. The species of the first are transferred to Syngramma (involving 3 new combinations, S. spathulata (G. Chr.) Holtt., S. coriacea (Copel.) Holtt. and S. magnifica (Copel.) Holtt.). S. trichophora sp. nov. is described from New Guinea and 3 species of Syngramma are newly rejected as possible Aspleniopsis. Two sections are recognized within Syngramma, Syngramma and Toxopteris, and 4 within Taenitis, Taenitis, Loxodictyum (sect, nov.), Platytaenia (stat. nov.) and Schizolepton (stat. nov.). The relationships of the two genera are considered.
10.2307/4108489|Fraxinus rotundifolia Mill. (Oleaceae) is shown to be the correct name for the plant from the Mediterranean region and SW Asia also known as F. parvifolia Lam. and F. angustifolia Vahl.
10.2307/4109166|The chromosome numbers of 2n = 24 + 2B and 2n = 24 + 5B are reported here for Crocus medius, correcting the previously reported counts of 2n = 28 and 2n = 30.
10.2307/4109999|Two Conyza species are described from Ethiopia. C. megensis is so far only known from southern Ethiopia while C. agrostophylla occurs also in Uganda and Kenya.
10.2307/4117824|Karyotypes of six species of Hippeastrum and one of Amaryllis were analysed. Except for one specimen of H. aulicum from Southern Brazil, all plants were from Bolivia. The basic chromosome number of every specimen was x = 11 and of 38 individuals examined from 19 sites, 20 were diploid (2n = 22) and 18 tetraploid (2n = 44), with both diploids and tetraploids present at two sites. No odd-number polyploids (3x, 5x, 7x) were found. The karyotypes were uniform and bimodal, with 7 pairs of large acrocentric chromosomes and 4 pairs of shorter metacentrics in the diploids, confirming the close alliance of the two genera. Overall chromosome size varied from one species to another. The karyotype of one diploid specimen of H. reginae was modified by a Robertsonian exchange affecting two homologous chromosomes.
10.2307/4118064|A revision is presented of the palm genus Ravenea, endemic to Madagascar and the Comoro Islands. Seventeen species are treated, including five new species and the three species of Louvelia, which is here formally reduced to Ravenea. The genus is of some importance in village-level economy, being used for food, in hat-making and as termite-resistant construction timber.
10.2307/4107749|Zalaccella, a monotypic Lepidocaryoid palm genus from Laos is reduced to synonymy in Calamus.
10.2307/4111123|Four new species of Xyris, X. ornithoptera, X. mallocephala, X. mentiens and X. porphyrea are described from Tanzania. Xyris ornithoptera is close to X. ednae Lock, X. mallocephala is Xyris sp. C sensu Lock (1999), and X. mentiens and X. porphyrea resemble X. schliebenii Poelln. These new taxa confirm the general species-richness of south-western Tanzania and northern Zambia.
10.2307/4115741| Doryopteris trilobata, a new endemic species from the Cadeia do Espinhao in the state of Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Its inclusion in the Section Doryopteris is also discussed. 
23489031|Schoenoplectus rhodesicus (Podlech) Lye is re-described with attention drawn to its variable morphology as both semi-terrestrial and submerged aquatic. Two 'forms' are recognised, these reflecting habitat conditions; the semi-terrestrial 'form' developed on lake margins in soft wet mud, later likely to be inundated and submerged as water levels increase rapidly under flood; the aquatic, rooted in substrate, or floating as result of uprooting during flooding, the plants submerged, leaf-bearing with long internodes and lateral stems mobile or procumbent, rooting from nodes (stoloniferous). Generic placement is questioned; as Schoenoplectus species, it is included in Fuireneae, but aquatic growth and morphology are suggestive of Isolepis (L.) R. Br. placed in Tribe Cypereae. Further study is required.
10.2307/4110796|Voanioala J. Dransf., a palm genus with a single species V. gerardii from the rain forests of the Masoala Peninsula, Madagascar, is described for the first time and its relationships with other members of subtribe Butiinae (Arecoideae: Cocoeae) discussed.
10.2307/4108884|Mitratheca K. Schum. is shown to be a synonym of Oldenlandia L. but the specific epithet must be retained for a characteristic herb of the northern Kenya sand dunes. The genus Eionitis Brem. is also reduced to Oldenlandia.
20443271|Satyrium aciculare from Angola and S. hallackii var. ballii from Zimbabwe are newly described and illustrated. Satyrium shirense is newly reported from Tanzania.
20443402|Recent revisions of Solanum sect. Solanum for several regional floras necessitated critical analysis of Forsskl's treatment of relevant taxa in his Flora Aegyptiaco-Arabica and the specimens in his herbarium. Solanum aegyptiacum Forssk. b) Fructo nigro; foliis integris, villosissimis is the basionym for several taxa, including S. memphiticum Gmel., S. nigrum L. var. hirsutum Vahl, S. nigrum L. subsp. hirsutum Pers. and S. hirsutum Dunal. There are three different specimens in Forsskl's folder of S. aegyptiacum Forssk. b) Fructo nigro, from which a lectotype has been selected for S. memphiticum Gmel., the first relevant epithet at specific rank for this species.
23044623|In light of the growing concern over the potentially devastating impacts on biodiversity and food security of climate change and the massively growing world population, taking action to conserve crop wild relatives (CWR), is no longer an option  it is a priority. Crop wild relatives are species closely related to crops, including their progenitors, many of which have the potential to contribute beneficial traits to crops, such as pest or disease resistance, yield improvement or stability. They are a critical component of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture (PGRFA), have already made major contributions to crop production and are vital for future food security; their systematic conservation in ways that ensure their continuing availability for use is therefore imperative. This is a complex, interdisciplinary, global issue that has been addressed by various national and international initiatives. Drawing on the lessons learnt from these initiatives we can now propose a global approach to CWR conservation, the key elements of which are: (1) estimating global CWR numbers, (2) assessment of the global importance of CWR diversity, (3) current conservation status, (4) threats to CWR diversity, (5) systematic approaches to CWR conservation, (6) CWR informatics, and (7) enhancing the use of CWR diversity.
10.2307/4109895|An account of the nine species of Mucuna Adans. found in the Indian subcontinent and Burma is offered, with keys and distribution maps. One species, M. hirsuta Wight & Arn., is reduced to a variety of M. pruriens (L.) DC. All specimens cited have been seen.
10.2307/4117036|Three new species of Polystachya are described here: P. anthoceros from Nigeria; P. armeniaca from Zambia; and P. valentina from Zimbabwe.
10.2307/4110702|Reynolds over-emphasized type localities at the expense of making full use of protologue descriptions and referring to original specimens. He misinterpreted Aloe pirottae, applying the name to an undescribed species here described as A. parvidens. Aloe boranensis was also misinterpreted and is here shown to be conspecific with A. otallensis and not of hybrid origin. Aloe otallensis var. elongata is renamed as a new species, A. rugosifolia. Aloe ruspoliana var. dracaeniformis is identified as A. retrospiciens.
10.2307/4109907|As a result of an investigation and detailed taxonomic studies of the genus Kielmeyera Martius (Guttiferae), four new species, namely K. abdita, K. bifaria, K. lathrophyton and K. regalis, are here described and illustrated. Their distributional geographical and ecological features, as well as their taxonomic relationship are also discussed.
10.2307/4119778|The pollen morphology of 7 Asiatic species of the genera Radermachera, Heterophragma and the new genus Barnettia is compared and found to support the taxonomic separation of the genera. Three distinct pollen types are found in 6 Asiatic taxa of the genus Stereospermum and the genus Nyctocalos is shown to have two pollen types. The pollen morphology of the widely introduced Saritaea magnified is demonstrated to be totally distinct from that of a random sample of 5 species of the genus Arrabidaea to which it has been assigned while the monotypic genus Macranthisiphon shows some similarities in pollen structure to that of Saritaea.
10.2307/4108134|Recent Dionysia collections from the Zagros Mountains of W. Iran are reviewed, including the description of D. zagrica sp. nov., an amplified description of the little known D. lamingtonii and the first record of a natural hybrid in the genus (D. bryoides x D. termeana).
10.2307/4110639|Two species of Eriochloa new to science are described, E. boliviensis Renvoize from Bolivia and E. multiflora Renvoize from Ecuador.
10.2307/4108377|The vegetative anatomy of Oliniaceae has been studied using optical and scanning electron microscopes. Secondary wood was available from few species. The leaf was found to contain most characters which might be of taxonomic interest. Two major groups of species are defined on a geographical basis, but there is a large degree of overlap in characters between them. Species are assigned to subgroups within the main groups. The relationship between Oliniaceae and Thymelaeaceae, Melastomataceae and Rubiaceae is briefly discussed.
10.2307/4114443| Aerisilvaea & Zimmermanniopsis, two new euphorbiaceous genera from Tanzania, are described, each with one species ascribed to it. A note on pollen of Zimmermanniopsis uzungwansis is added. 
10.2307/4109808|Eighteen orchid species have been collected so far in the Arabian Peninsula and nine of these are newly recorded. Three genera, Nervilia, Disa and Satyrium are also reported for the first time. The floristic affinities of the Arabian orchids are briefly discussed.
10.2307/4110456|An expanded infrageneric breakdown of Eragrostis, appropriate to Flora Zambesiaca, is presented. A key to the nine subdivisions of the genus and keys to species from the Flora Zambesiaca area within those subdivisions are provided. Nineteen new species of Eragrostis are described for the Flora: E. acamptoclada, E. anacrantha, E. anacranthoides, E. astreptoclada, E. divaricata, E. fastigiata, E. fimbrillata, E. latifolia, E. lepidobasis, E. leptotricha, E. milnei, E. oligostachya, E. phyllacantha, E. punctiglandulosa, E. sericata, E. spicigera, E. subglandulosa, E. sylviae and E. venustula.
10.2307/4119787|A lectotype is chosen for Vernicia fordii, the Tung Oil tree, Henry 878 from Ichang, China.
10.2307/4111004| Sauvagesia nitida Zappi & E. Lucas, a new species from Catols, Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Its diagnostic characters and habitat are discussed. A new combination, Sauvagesia alpestris (Mart.) Zappi & E. Lucas is made for a species formerly considered a synonym of Sauvagesia ericoides (A. St.-Hil.) Sastre. A key to the species from the states of Bahia and Minas Gerais is provided. /// Sauvagesia nitida Zappi & E. Lucas, uma nova espcie originria de Catols, Bahia, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada, e suas caractersticas e habitat so aqui discutidos. Uma nova combinao, Sauvagesia alpestris (Mart.) Zappi & E. Lucas,  publicada para possibilitar o reconhecimento de uma espcie anteriormente considerada como sinnimo de Sauvagesia ericoides (A. St.-Hil.) Sastre.  apresentada uma chave de identificao para as espcies de Sauvagesia da Bahia e de Minas Gerais. 
10.2307/4102951|Three taxa are considered native in Arabia: Jasminum grandiflorum subsp. floribundum comb. nov., J. fluminense subsp. gratissimum comb. nov. and J. abyssinicum. J. grandiflorum is believed to have originated in Arabia although subsp. grandiflorum is only known as a cultivated plant. J. sambac and J.fluminense subsp. gratissimum are also cultivated in Arabia.
10.2307/4119395|Mollisia fusco-paraphysata, Hysteropezizella hebridensis, Drepanopeziza schoenicola, Dibeloniella trichophoricola and Eupropolella celata are described.
10.2307/4118075|A new Kenyan species, Keetia lukei (Rubiaceae, Vanguerieae), is described and notes on collection localities, Kaya Muhaka and Kaya Jibana, are given.
10.2307/4117904|An uncommon drift seed of the western Indian Ocean formerly misidentified as a Mucuna is shown to belong to Gigasiphon humblotianum (Baill.) Drake.
10.2307/4113867| Delimitation of Persicaria attenuata (R. Br.) Sojk is discussed and two new subspecies are named. Nomenclatural notes are provided on P. senegalensis (Meissn.) Sojk (including forma albotomentosa (Graham) K. L. Wilson, comb. nov.), P. acuminata (Kunth) Gomez de la Maza, P. poiretii (Meissn.) K. L. Wilson, comb. nov., P. setosula (A. Rich.) K. L. Wilson, comb. nov., P. barbata (L.) H. Hara, P. glabra (Willd.) Gomez de la Maza, P. lapathifolia (L.) S. F. Gray, P. decipiens (R. Br.) K. L. Wilson, and P. dichotoma (Blume) Masamune. 
23489239|The neotype of Rhinacanthus gracilis Klotzsch is found to be in serious conflict with the protologue and so is rejected. The new name R. zambesiacus I. Darbysh. is proposed for the widespread Zambesian species previously misnamed R. gracilis. The possible identity of the true R. gracilis is discussed.
23216097|A new species of Eriocaulon, E. belgaumensis (Eriocaulaceae) is described and illustrated from the Western Ghats, India.
10.2307/4118874| Bambus diffusa Blanco published in 1837 is considered to be a name of dubious application, because it was not represented by any herbarium specimens, and the description was based on more than one taxon. Some of the characters apply to Schizostachyum acutiflorum Munro and Dinochloa luconiae (Munro) Merr., and others to Cyrtochloa toppingii (Gamble) S. Dransf.; for these reasons, the name is disregarded. S. acutiflorum is transferred to Dinochloa Bse as D. acutiflora (Munro) S. Dransf. This taxon is described and illustrated. 
10.2307/4109825|The preparation of spores for study under scanning electron microscopy is introduced and detailed, and the spores of 11 of the 12 species recognized in Pseudocyclosorus are described and discussed.
23489127|In a study designed to elucidate the taxonomy of Solanum incanum sensu lato, S. incanum L., S. campylacanthum Hochst. ex A. Rich., S. panduriforme E. Mey. ex Dunal and S. lichtensteinii Willd. from Africa and SW Asia were investigated using crossability and morphometric techniques. It is proposed that S. panduriforme is, in fact, a subspecies of S. campylacanthum (S. campylacanthum subsp. panduriforme) and that S. incanum and S. lichtensteinii are distinct species. Other information suggests that S. campylacanthum is more closely related to a common ancestor of S. incanum s.l. S. campylacanthum subsp. panduriforme and S. incanum are believed to have diverged away from S. campylacanthum-type predecessors in tropical E Africa, moving southwards or towards the Middle East, respectively. S. lichtensteinii probably evolved from an even earlier ancestor in its migration towards southern Africa.
10.2307/4110323|The genus Phylloxylon in the tribe Indigofereae (Leguminosae-Papilionoideae) is reassessed as comprising seven species, all confined to Madagascar. A key to the genus is given, three new species are described - P. phillipsonii, P. spinosa and P. arenicola all from N Madagascar and lacking the typical cladodinous stems of the other species - and two new combinations, P. xiphoclada and P. xylophylloides are made.
10.2307/4109168|During the preparation of an account for the forthcoming 'Flore des Mascareignes' Badula barthesia (Lam.) A.DC. var. nitida Coode, var. nov. was noted. Recombinations found to be necessary were: in Pittosporaceae, Pittosporum senacia Putterl. subsp. reticulatum (Tul.) Goode and in Myrsinaceae, Badula grammisticta (Cordemoy) Coode, B. decumbens (Cordem.) Coode & B. platyphylla (A.DC.) Coode.
10.2307/4117818|Five new species of Payena are described from Borneo: P. ferruginea, P. grandistipula, P. kapitensis, P. khoonmengiana and P. kinabaluensis. P. obscura Burck var. havilandii (King & Gamble) J. T. Pereira is a new combination. Notes on variation within P. acuminata (Blume) Pierre and P. microphylla (de Vriese) Pierre are provided. P. lowiana and P. glabra are reduced to synonymy under P. lucida (Wall, ex G. Don) A. DC. P. endertii H. J. Lam and P. lucida (Wall ex G. Don) A. DC. are excluded from Borneo. A key to the Bornean species of Payena is provided.
10.2307/4110431|The correct name is established for a relative of Trichodesma indicum (L.) Lehm.
10.2307/4110208|Albuca pendula, a very localised species recently discovered in Saudi Arabia, is described and its relationship with the widespread A. abyssinica is discussed.
10.2307/4103078|Sorghastrum tisserantii is described as a new species from the Central African Republic, and the new combinations S. fuscescens and S. pogonostachyum are made.
10.2307/4118853|'Crotalaria venusta Wall.', a Burmese plant which Baker (1876) included in C. sessiliflora L., is validated and re-established.
10.2307/4107843|Senecio asirensis from the mountains bordering Saudi Arabia and Yemen is described as a new species.
10.2307/4113638|A list of the species of Clinopodium and Obtegomeria (Labiatae), of tropical America is provided, with synonymy and types, and with 11 new combinations.
20649582|Tylophora tridactylata Goyder (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) is described from the Eastern Arc mountains of southern Tanzania and illustrated. Its conservation status is assessed.
10.2307/4117027|A revision of the genus Hildebrandtia from mainland Africa and Arabia is presented and a total of 8 species recognized. One species H. diredawaensis Sebsebe, one subspecies H. africana Vatke subsp. arabica Sebsebe, and one variety H. obcordata S. Moore var. puberula Sebsebe are described as new and Sabaudiella aloysii Chiov. is transferred to Hildebrandtia aloysii (Chiov.) Sebsebe.
10.2307/4108607|The plant cultivated usually under the name of Jasminum nitidum Skan is here considered to be forma nitidum (Skan) P. S. Green of J. laurifolium Roxb.
23044621|The latest IUCN statistics show that of over 12,000 plant species, 70% are threatened, 19% are critically endangered and 28 species are extinct in the wild. Target 8 of the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) highlights the importance of ex situ conservation of critically endangered plants. Long-term germplasm storage for species with recalcitrant seeds needs alternative measures. In vitro methods complement seed banking and other ex situ measures and are vital for long-term conservation. Conservation Biotechnology at RBG Kew is currently working on a number of rare and threatened recalcitrant species from biodiversity-rich areas of the world to develop good quality in vitro propagules for cryopreservation, recovery and restoration projects. The importance of successful in vitro propagation methods, transplantation technologies, cryopreservation and international networking for the integrated conservation of these species are discussed in detail.
10.2307/4110912|Further nomenclatural changes are proposed based on molecular phylogenies of Laeliinae. Re-inclusion of Schomburgkia in Laelia is proposed, with a new combination, and additional combinations in Sophronitis are proposed.
10.2307/4129969|Inga hedgerae, a new species from the coastal region of Ecuador is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4109961|This is an attempt to pull together what is known about that extraordinary tree, the African baobab (Adansonia digitata L.-Bombacaceae). There are many surprising gaps in our knowledge, which are most likely to be reduced by closer collaboration between fieldworker, laboratory and herbarium botanist.
10.2307/4119362|While most Melastomataceae have poricidal anthers, Miconia sect. Hypoxanthus (former sect. Chaenanthera) has anthers dehiscing by longitudinal pores, resembling rimose openings. Anther development of three species (Miconia pusilliflora and M. laticrenata from this section and M. cinnamomifolia from sect. Glossocentrum) studied through SEM and light microscopy showed that all have an epidermis with a thick and striate cuticle, except for the dehiscence area. This area is covered by a non-striate epidermis which is associated with the septum that lies between the two thecae. During dehiscence the septum holds the non-striate epidermis, which is torn at the margins of the dehiscence area. Since anther opening of all three species follows the same pattern, in terms of tissues and mechanisms, we conclude that the circumscription of Miconia sect. Hypoxanthus should comprise all species with stamens that dehisce along the septum, resulting in narrow openings that extend from the anther apex to the base (as in M. pusilliflora) or from the apex until half of the anther length (as in M. laticrenata). Miconia section Chaenopleura also has anthers opening by longitudinal slits, but these expose four locules, instead of the two in Hypoxanthus.
23489133|A remarkable new species of Anthurium, A. macropodum E. G. Gon., is here described, illustrated and compared to its closest relatives. This new species is known from a single locality in the Brazilian state of Esprito Santo (near the village of Vargem Alta), already reputed as the type locality of other recently described species.
10.2307/4110081|Two species of Polycarpaea, P. pulvinata and P. ventiuersa, are described. Both are endemic to Somalia.
10.2307/4107859|Oberonia bisaccata Manilal & S. Kumar from southern India is described and figured.
10.2307/4110023|Maps are presented to show the generalized distribution patterns of North American grasses. They are closely correlated with the major ecological formations.
10.2307/4111038|Omphalocarpum strombocarpum Y. B. Harv. & Lovett (Sapotaceae) is described from eastern Tanzania. It is the first record of this tropical African genus from Eastern Africa. The ecology and phytogeography of the tree are discussed.
10.2307/4102904| The species Parathelypteris salazica Holttum from Runion is transferred to Amauropelta, with illustration of a spore and reference to a recent publication on the species of this genus in America. Dryopteris odontosora Bonap. is also transferred to Amauropelta. 
10.2307/4108482|The chromosome counts for nine palm species are given. They include 2n = 34 for Sommieria affinis which is the first record of that number in the tribe Arecoideae. The taxon contains two pairs of telocentric chromosomes suggesting that it may differ from 2n = 32 plants by a Robertsonian fission.
10.2307/4108376|Arguments are presented for the conservation of S. sclerotiorum (Lib.) de Bary as lectotype-species of Sclerotinia Fuckel thus rendering Whetzelinia Korf & Dumont superfluous.
10.2307/4110387|The Madagascan species of Crossandra Salisb. are revised. A total of 25 species are recognised of which eight are described as new: C. acutiloba, benoistii, cinnabarina, flavicaulis, isaloensis, longehirsuta, multidentata and tsingyensis. The new combination C. pilosa (Benoist) Vollesen is proposed. A key to the species is provided.
10.2307/4119786|One new species and one new variety in Acalypha are described, four new records for East Africa are reported, and three species are reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/4119389|A new species, Phaeoseptoria musae Punith., is described and illustrated from culture derived from leaves of Musa sapientum.
10.2307/4119402|Four species of Cordyceps and Torrubiella from Japan are described, including C. nelumboides sp. nov., T. arachnophila f. alba f. nov. and T. leiopus stat. nov.
10.2307/4110771|Polypodium pustulatum Forst. f. is shown by spore morphology to be the same as P. diversifolium Willd. This is further supported by similarities in frond form between the type of P. pustulatum and specimens of P. diversifolium, and by differences in the distribution of the New Zealand taxa. The combination Microsorum pustulatum (Forst. f.) Copel. is reinstated and its synonyms given.
23489129|A photograph taken in the field of the amphicarpous Schoenoplectiella oxyjulos (S. S. Hooper) Lye provided evidence for the first time of a very close association between the 'basal' female floret and upper bisexual spikelet of an inflorescence. Dissections and observations show this affects development within the bisexual floret.
23044615|When Princess Augusta and Lord Bute, followed by Sir Joseph Banks and King George III, started gathering plants at Kew, conservation on the site can be said to have begun. Although the primary motive then was to assist the expansion of the British Empire and trade, rare plants were gathered and some became rare or extinct in the wild as their habitats were destroyed. The primary motive in the nineteenth century was not conservation, but the history of conservation at the Royal Gardens at Kew dates back to its very origins. Subsequent regimes at Kew maintained and added to the collections thereby adding to their conservation value. Many early collections are of species now listed within the IUCN categories of endangerment. Environmental awareness and concern had begun by the time that Professor Jack Heslop-Harrison became director and he was the first director actively to initiate specific conservation programmes such as seed banking and work on red data books. From then on conservation became an integral part of the work programme of Kew and the focus on conservation has increased with each subsequent director. This eventually led to the transformation of the embryonic seed banking activities into the Millennium Seed Bank, the largest and most important bank in the world for the conservation of the seeds of wild species. It currently holds just over ten percent of all seed plant species. Conservation at Kew over the past three decades has very much been a balance between ex situ work and in situ activities to help conservation in the overseas areas where Kew scientists have experience. Throughout the history of the gardens there has been a vital interest in economic botany that has developed from moving plants around the empire to much work on the sustainable use of plants and ecosystems thereby better equipping the institution to subsequently work on in situ conservation. Significant conservation activity at Kew has been possible because it is being supported by a solid research programme that includes such areas as systematics and molecular genetics and laboratories, a large herbarium and a large library. Kew has played an important role in stimulating conservation work elsewhere and such units as the Threatened Plants Unit of IUCN and Botanic Gardens Conservation International (BGCI) have their roots in Kew. Among other important conservation initiatives have been the creation of a unit to work with the implementation of the CITES treaty on the trade of endangered plants and a legal unit to work on issues of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). There is no doubt that the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew is at the forefront of plant conservation.
10.2307/4109768|A key to seven species and one variety is given, and accepted names with synonyms and distributions are enumerated.
20649680|Taxonomic and ecological notes on all species of Aloysia Palau occurring in Bolivia are provided together with a key to the species. Variation within several species is discussed and questions are raised about the status of many varieties recognised by earlier botanists. A. arcuifolia Nesom and A. herrerae Moldenke are treated as synonyms of A. fiebrigii (Hayek) Moldenke, A. beckii Moldenke and A. mizquensis Ravenna are treated as synonyms of A. gratissima (Gillies & Hook.) Tronc., A. boliviensis Moldenke, A. depressa Ravenna and A. peruviana Turcz. are treated as synonyms of a very variable A. scorodonoides (Kunth) Cham. ex Moldenke which intergrades with A. virgata (Ruiz & Pav.) Juss. ex Moldenke. A table of differences is provided to help distinguish these two ill-defined species. A. axillaris J. R. I. Wood, a Bolivian endemic is described as new, its solitary axillary flowers extending the definition of Aloysia to include species with this kind of inflorescence. The new species is illustrated.
10.2307/4115656|A new species of Dioscorea from Mt Vatovavy in Eastern Madagascar is described and illustrated, and its macromorphology and pollen morphology are presented. It is closely related to D. madecassa H. Perr. and belongs with it in Dioscorea sect. Campanuliflorae Burkill & H. Perrier.
23489036|Argostemma phyllocharis Sridith, a new species from Ban Pha Sue, Mae Hong Son province, Northern Thailand, is described and illustrated, and a chromosome number count is given.
10.2307/4109464|A new species from Brazil, Buchnera flexuosa Philcox, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4111114|Psychotria bimbiensis Bridson & Cheek and Psychotria moliwensis Bridson & Cheek are described as new species. The first appears to be nearly endemic to the foothills of Mt Cameroon and the second strictly endemic to the same area. The conservation status of both species is reviewed.
10.2307/4111079|Twenty species of heterobasidiomycetous fungi belonging to the orders Atractiellales, Ceratobasidiales, Dacrymycetales, Exidiales, Platygloeales, and Tremellales are described or reported from the Azores. The majority were collected during two visits in 1995 and 1996, but all previous known collections and records from the islands are also included. The new combination Tremella coffeicolor is proposed, with T. auricularia as a synonym.
10.2307/4113869|Aloe confusa Engl. from Lake Chala, east of Kilimanjaro, has recently been put into synonymy under A. penduliflora Bak. which was described from a cultivated plant sent by Kirk from 'Zanzibar'. Morphological differences and especially leaf-exudate colour show that they should be regarded as distinct. Chemical analyses of the leaf-exudate of A. confusa and of plants from Kasigau in southeast Kenya, tentatively identified as A. penduliflora, show that two distinct taxa are involved and that the Kasigau plants are more closely related to A. rabaiensis Rendle, a species widespread between Nairobi and the coast. Morphologically they are also similar to A. flexilifolia Christian, a species from the western Usambara Mountains related to A. rabaiensis.
10.2307/4119361| Two new varieties of Dorstenia poinsettiifolia Engl., var. achoundongiana Cheek & Bygrave and var. etugeana B. J. Pollard are described and illustrated from western Cameroon. In addition, Dorstenia astyanactis Ak Assi is newly reported from Cameroon, and notes on the distribution, ecology and conservation of all taxa are provided. 
10.2307/4109573|The species of Phacelurus are enumerated, and the following new combinations are made: P. cambogiensis, P.franksae, P. huillensis, P. schliebenii and P. zea.
27822011|After a systematic revision of Portulaca L. (Portulacaceae) from Brazil, which included field work, studying herbarium specimens and relevant literature and original elements, the taxonomic observations and nomenclatural notes are here reported. Types were sought and most of them located. Synonymies (20), lectotypes (5), epitype (1) and neotype (1) are designated and defined. Este trabalho apresenta as observaes taxonmicas e nomenclaturais resultantes da reviso de Portulaca L. (Portulacacae) do Brasil, que envolveu trabalho de campo e reviso de material de herbrio, incluindo tipos e todas as obras principes, e materiais originais relevantes do gnero, o que permitiu apresentar 20 sinonimizaes, 5 lecttipos, 1 epitipo e 1 netipo.
10.2307/4114725|A new species of Celosia is described from Angola, and a key to Hermbstaedtia supplied with a list of recognised species with synonymy. There are two nomenclatural changes.
4110890|Many have tried to estimate the number of species of organism already described, and those still awaiting description. A recent quantification of the species of asclepiad (Apocynaceae) increased the traditionally accepted totals of 2,000 - 2,500 to more than 3,000, 15% of which were described only in the 1990s - it was argued from this that the number of asclepiads could continue to rise to 4,000 species. We tracked the change in the number of Brazilian Asclepiadoideae (with type specimens from Brazil) by evaluating the difference between new species and synonyms. Of the 585 species described from Brazil, more than 35% are currently treated as synonyms and more than 10% of the remaining currently accepted names are potential synonyms. The greatest increase of species number in Brazilian Asclepiadoideae took place during the 19th century. Since the middle of 20th century, the number of accepted species started to decrease. The adoption of the type method in botanical nomenclature since 1935 is probably the main reason for such a change. The 1990s showed a slight increase in the number of accepted species, but this comes at the end of a half-century of overall decline. Trends in the number of species may vary according to the period examined, therefore estimates based on trends of just one 10-year period should be viewed with caution.
10.2307/4119332|Two new species, Acacia santosii and Acacia olivensana from Bahia, Brazil are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4111204|A new species, P. caespitosus Lukhoba & A. J. Paton, similar to P. pubescens Baker, is described. Two varieties within P. barbatus Andrews, namely P. barbatus var. barbatus and P. barbatus var. grandis (L. H. Cramer) Lukhoba & A. J. Paton are delimited. P. barbatus var. grandis is widely cultivated and its treatment here reflects the ease of its distinction from other forms in Africa south of Ethiopia, while recognizing the morphological continuity within the P. barbatus complex.
10.2307/4108891|The tropical species of Kniphofia are reviewed and many names are reduced to synonymy for the first time. Two new combinations are made, K. princeae (Berger) Marais and K. thomsonii Baker var. snowdenii (C. H. Wright) Marais, and one new species K. nana is described. A key to the species is provided.
20443315|New results from analysis using HPLC with photodiode array detection of chloroform or dichloromethane-soluble UV-absorbing compounds from the seeds of 38 Lonchocarpus species are presented and compared with results from the literature (complete up to 2004). The subgenus Paniculati is distinguished from others in the genus Lonchocarpus by having very low levels of extractives, in agreement with the previously noted distribution of amino acids and amines and the species have now been transferred to the African genus, Philenoptera. Similarly isoflavonoids occur widely, although not exclusively in the roots of species now separated as Deguelia. Stilbenes also occur in Deguelia roots and also in seeds of some species of Lonchocarpus sensu stricto. Chalcones and flavanones are the most widely distributed compounds but taxonomic correlations are not at present clear.
10.2307/4103033|A new species, Eragrostis petrensis Renv. & Longhi-Wagner, is described and its taxonomic position discussed.
23489147|A new species of Hubbardia Bor from the northern Western Ghats is described and illustrated. The new species differs from H. heptaneuron by its glumes with long tubercle-based hairs and two stamens in the fertile floret.
10.2307/4114648|Impatiens jurpia Buch.-Ham. and its closest allies are discussed. A new species is described, from Nepal, I. kathmanduensis Grey-Wilson.
10.2307/4111071|Morphological variation in the Strobilanthes kunthiana group is examined and species delimitation problems addressed. A taxonomic revision is presented recognising ten species from peninsular India. Two new species are described, Strobilanthes gamblei Carine, J. Alexander & Scotland and S. carnatica Carine, J. Alexander & Scotland.
10.2307/4113885|A new species of Malleastrum, M. rakotowfyi Cheek, discovered as a result of local flora work is described and illustrated; its relationships are discussed.
10.2307/4110465|A new species of discomycete with a blue-grey hymenium, Sorokina caeruleogrisea, is described and illustrated from Puerto Rico. Other known species of the genus are also compared.
20649573|A synoptic revision is presented for the genus Dacryodes Vahl in Africa. The studies are based on examination of herbarium material. Eighteen species are recognised, including two not well known due to poor material. The new species Dacryodes villiersiana Onana is described and illustrated. The conservation status of the species is discussed following the categories and criteria of IUCN (2001).
10.2307/4107987|Within the genus Aerva, the sexual and other diversity of A. lanata (L.) Juss. ex Schultes and A. leucura Moq. is discussed, A. sansibarica Suesseng. and A. incana Suesseng. being reduced to the synonym of A. lanata; variation in A. javanica (Burm. f.) Juss. ex Schultes var. bovei Webb is also discussed. Aerva curtisii Oliv. and A. cochinchinensis Gagnep. are transferred to a new genus Psilotrichopsis, and A. monsoniae Linn. f. to a new genus Trichurus. Psilotrichum is revised in SE. Asia. Pupalia orbiculata Heyne ex Wall. becomes a variety of P. lappacea (L.) Juss. The relationships of Digera Forssk., Neocentema Schinz and Pleuropteranthera Franchet are dealt with; finally, Amaranthus dubius Mart. ex Thell., A. lividus L. and Centrostachys aquatica (R.Br.) Wall. ex Moq. are typified. A new varietal combination is made for what has previously been thought to be the 'typical' variety of Achyranthes aspera L., and for two other varieties of this species.
20649616|Tradescantia zebrina Heynh. ex Bosse is found to be the correct citation for this common plant, although the older name Tradescantia zebrina Heynh. has been used for it in some recent publications and on-line databases. The Heynhold citation lacks a description and therefore it is an invalid name. Tradescantia zebrina is neotypified by a modern collection from Mexico.
10.2307/4109459| The supposed Flacourtiaceous genus Guya Frapp., of Runion, is found to be synonymous with Drypetes Vahl (Euphorbiaceae). A new combination is proposed. 
10.2307/4103111|Forty three species of Grammitidaceae (Filicales) are recorded from Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore, 14 of which are additional to Holttum's (1955) account of the family. These include Calymmodon curtus Parris, sp. nov., Ctenopteris malayana Parris, sp. nov., Grammitis rivularis Parris, sp. nov., Xiphopteris exilis Parris, sp. nov. and Ctenopteris davalliacea (F. Mueller & Baker) Parris, comb. nov. Keys are provided to genera and species, which are briefly described. Information on the distribution of species both within and beyond the area is given, together with a summary of their ecology.
10.2307/4119356|The species of Strobilanthes Blume in Java are revised and 25 species recognised. A brief history of the genus is given and the generic limits of Strobilanthes discussed. The morphological variation shown both within and between species is documented. Two new species are described (S. afriastiniae J. R. Benn., S. steenisiana J. R. Benn.), new combinations are made for 4 species (S. backeri (Bremek.) J. R. Benn., S. repanda (Blume) J. R. Benn., S. stenura (Bremek.) J. R. Benn. and S. winckelii (Bremek.) J. R. Benn.) and new names proposed for 3 species (S. autapomorpha J. R. Benn., S. coertii J. R. Benn., S. warburgii J. R. Benn.). Descriptions, distribution maps and a key to the species are presented and several species illustrated.
27822023|A critical study of literature coupled with the study of type and living materials has necessitated the transfer of Herminium angustilabre King & Pantl., Herminium josephi Rchb. f., Herminium kalimpongense Pradhan and Herminium monophyllum (D. Don) P. F. Hunt & Summerh. to the genus Androcorys Schltr. and Herminium orbiculare Hook. f. to the genus Peristylus Blume. The necessary new combinations are proposed.
10.2307/4119071|The typification and application of 92 names in the Cucurbitaceae applied to members of this family in the Indian Subcontinent are discussed and clarified. An annotated checklist, with selected synonymy, is provided, and determinations of numbered exsiccatae studied, arranged under countries and collectors, are given for Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Burma. Two new combinations are made: Zehneria wallichii and Schizopepon bicirrhosus (both on p. 802).
10.2307/4115729|Two new species of Pseudolithos (Apocynaceae-Asclepiadoideae), P. gigas and P. harardheranus are described, the former from the Ogaden, Harerge region, southeast Ethiopia, and the latter from Harardhere District, Mudug Region, Somalia.
4110940| Two new species of Psychotria (Rubiaceae) from western Cameroon are described and illustrated, their conservation status assessed and their taxonomic affinities discussed. Both species were discovered in Kupe and the Bakossi Mts. Psychotria geophylax Cheek & Sonk has affinities with sect. Flaviflorae E. M. A. Petit, whereas P. bakossiensis Cheek & Sonk falls near sect. Involucratae E. M. A. Petit & Verde. 
10.2307/4129967|The pollen morphology of the New World tribe Tigridieae is examined in the context of a literature survey. Pollen is normally sulcate in subtribe Cipurinae (as in other Iridaceae) and bisulcate in subtribe Tigridiinae, with occasional exceptions. There is some variation in surface sculpturing between taxa, and within an anomalous species, Tigridia pavonia.
10.2307/4117945|The name Lippia abyssinica (Otto & Dietr.) Cuf. is neotypified in the sense of the white-flowered L. grandifolia Hochst. ex Walp. The correct name of the related purple-flowered species is L. adoensis Hochst. ex Walp. which is lectotypified and a new variety L. adoensis var. koseret Sebsebe described.
10.2307/4117703|Calamus modestus T. Evans & T. P. Anh from south-central Vietnam is described as new. It is distinctive in its slender, erect habit, laminar, glossy black spines on sheath and petiole, interrupted pinnate leaf with leaflets up to 24 x 1 cm, small, erect inflorescences with lacerate bracts and short, recurved rachillae and small fruits with long, conical points.
10.2307/4115718|The Proteaceae of southern Africa are a major and defining component of the Cape Floral Kingdom. An accurate and predictive classification of these plants will contribute towards our knowledge of their biogeography, ecology, conservation and horticultural value. This study utilises DNA sequence data of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region to elucidate relationships of the genera and species of Cape Proteaceae. Three different phylogenetic analyses were conducted using maximum parsimony on three different data sets, and a neighbor joining (NJ) analysis was also carried out on one of these data sets. Alignment of the sequences proved to be problematic in some regions, and thus one analysis excluded these problematic characters. All analyses resolve Protea and Faurea as sister genera, but the relationships of this group to the remainder of the subfamily Proteoideae are not clear. The remaining genera form a well-supported clade, the "Cape Clade", which is sister to two Australian genera, Isopogon and Adenanthos. All analyses resolve Leucadendron as sister to the rest of this clade. Most analyses resolve Mimetes, Orothamnus, Leucospermum and Diastella as a clade (the MOLD clade), and indicate that the latter three genera are artificial, as Diastella and Orothamnus are embedded within Mimetes. A second clade comprising Sorocephalus, Spatalla, Paranomus and Vexatorella is also retrieved by the analyses presented here (the SSPV clade), and results indicate that the present generic delimitation between Sorocephalus and Spatalla is spurious, and that Vexatorella is a specialised lineage within Paranomus. The precise relationships of Serruria are not resolved with any confidence.
20443328|The genus Pleiokirkia is placed into the genus Kirkia (Kirkiaceae) and the necessary combination made. A revised key to the species of Kirkia is also provided.
10.2307/4110906|A taxonomic survey of the genus Exostyles is presented. This includes an identification key to the four species of the genus. Exostyles amazonica is recorded for the first time in Suriname.
23044625|The invasion of native habitats by exotic, or alien, plant species has received considerable attention recently from policy, research, and practical conservation management perspectives. However, a new hypothesis for species dynamics in Britain suggests that a small number of aggressive native plant species (termed 'thugs') may have an equal, or greater, impact on native species and habitats than exotic species. Here, we examine this hypothesis using multivariate techniques with field-layer cover data collected during a country-wide survey of British woodlands. Multivariate analysis of these data identified a north-south gradient on the first axis, and that 20 of the 25 National Vegetation Classification woodland types were sampled within the study. The most abundant field-layer species included three of the proposed native 'thugs', i.e. Rubus fruticosus, Pteridium aquilinum and Hedera helix in addition to the native woodland indicator species Mercurialis perennis. Variation partitioning was used to compare the relative importance of native field-layer 'thug' species with invading alien shrub and tree species relative to other environmental drivers. The variation in the field-layer data-set explained by the three native 'thug' species was significant, but they explained a relatively small proportion of the variation relative to other environmental variables (climate, soil, management factors etc). They did, however, explain almost four times as much variation as the three alien species that were significantly correlated with field-layer species composition (Acer pseudoplatanus, Impatiens glandulifera, Rhododendron ponticum). The results of this analysis suggest that the field-layer of British woodlands is impacted as much by native 'thug' species, as it is from 'aliens'. Concern about the impact of these native 'thug' species has been reported previously, but their impact has not previously been compared to the impact of invading aliens. It is hoped that this analysis will do two things, first to act as a sound baseline for assessing any changing balance that should occur in the future, and second, to prompt both ecologists and conservationists to develop woodland management policies based on sound science.
10.2307/4108112|Oenanthe procumbens (Wolff) Norman and Oe. palustris (Chiov.) Norman are retained in Oenanthe in spite of the differences in fruit anatomy which caused Chiovenda to describe the genus Stephanorossia, here reduced to subgeneric rank, and the combination proposed. Afroligusticum elliotii (Engl.) Norman is recorded from Tanzania.
10.2307/4109726|The new species Ipomoea sidamensis is described from S Ethiopia.
10.2307/4107833|Seseli scopulorum is described from two localities within a limited region of northern Somalia.
10.2307/4110955|A new taxon of Arisaema, A. murrayi (J. Graham ) Hook. var. sonubeniae from North Western Ghats of Maharashtra, India is described. Line drawings and a distribution map are provided.
10.2307/4110020|An annotated list is provided of all the macromycetes (Ascomycotina and Basidiomycotina) recorded from the Antarctic region and neighbouring islands. Bryosphaeria megaspora Spooner, Didymella antarctica Spooner, Epibryon chorisodontiae Spooner, Gnomonia acaenae Spooner, Hymenoscyphus austrobryus Spooner, H. chloophilus Spooner, Lamprospora miniatopsis Spooner, Lanzia antarctica Spooner, L. caryopsicola Spooner, Leucoscypha sphaerospora Spooner, Schizothyrioma stilbocarpae Spooner, Simocybe antarctica Pegler and Wentiomyces inconspicuus Spooner are described as new. The new combinations Polycoccum rugulosarium (Lindsay) D. Hawksw. and Thyronectria hyperantarctica (D. Hawksw.) D. Hawksw. & Spooner are proposed.
10.2307/4118898|The genus Wunderlichia Riedel ex Benth. is lectotypified, and Wunderlichia mirabilis Riedel ex Baker is also lectotypified. The typification is briefly discussed.
10.2307/4114608|Cladistic relationships within the family Eriocaulaceae are investigated and discussed. A basal dichotomy dividing the family in two groups, Eriocaulon + Mesanthemum on the one hand, and the remaining genera on the other, is well supported by a number of synapomorphies. The division of the family into two subfamilies, Eriocauloideae and Paepalanthoideae Ruhland, is accepted. The relationships within the Paepalanthoideae need further study, especially in the large genus Paepalanthus, which is probably paraphyletic. The relationship of the genera Leiothrix and Syngonanthus (with Philodice informally included) as sister taxa, however, is well supported. A cladistic analysis of Leiothrix including 33 of its 37 species based on 47 characters was performed. The two shortest cladograms found and an alternative cladogram one step longer than the shortest ones are discussed. The evolution of some important characters and biogeographical implications of the results is investigated. With the exception of the widespread L. flavescens no species are common to the "campos rupestres" of Minas Gerais and Bahia.
10.2307/4110233| Turkey is richly endowed with members of Allium section Allium, having some 64 naturally-occurring taxa of which 22 are endemic. Three more endemic species, all from southern Turkey and belonging to section Allium, are described and illustrated. A. enginii N. zhatay & B. Mathew, A. anatolicum N. zhatay & B. Mathew and A. fethiyense N. zhatay & B. Mathew; they are reported to have chromosome counts of 2n = 16. Allium asirense B. Mathew from Saudi Arabia, also in section Allium, is described and illustrated. The Turkish A. macrochaetum Boiss. & Hausskn. subsp. tuncelianum Kollmann is accorded new status as a species. 
10.2307/4110360|Taxonomic relationships amongst the predominantly southern African genera Dichilus DC., Lebeckia Thunb., Melolobium Eckl. & Zeyh., Polhillia Stirton and Wiborgia Thunb. of the tribe Crotalarieae and Argyrolobium Eckl. & Zeyh. of the tribe Genisteae have been studied. The most obvious similarity between these genera is the fusion of the calyx lobes into a trifid lower lip, or at least a tendency towards such a fusion. The morphology, chromosome numbers and alkaloids of some species and the geographical distribution of the genera have been investigated in an attempt to reach a better understanding of relationships. A tentative phylogenetic tree is presented which indicates that Argyrolobium is the sister group of Polhillia and that it should be referred to the tribe Crotalarieae. The concept of the genus Polhillia is broadened to include two anomalous species of Argyrolobium and Melolobium. Diagnostic characters of the genera are illustrated and discussed.
27821989|Two new species of Rubiaceae, Tarenna pembensis J. E. Burrows and Pavetta curalicola J. E. Burrows, are described from the coastal region of northern Mozambique.
10.2307/4109624|A new species and seventy six new records of orchids are reported for the flora of Belize.
10.2307/4118881|A new species, Chlorophytum zingiberastrum Nordal & A. D. Poulsen, distributed in SW Tanzania, N Zambia, N Malawi and N Mozambique, is described and illustrated. It is a woodland taxon which has been confused with the rainforest species, C. orchidastrum Lindl.
10.2307/4118042|Dendrocalamus pulverulentus, a new bamboo from Hongkong is described.
10.2307/4117259|Proposals for a revision of generic and sectional limits in Senecio and allied genera are outlined and, on the basis of the study of 182 species of Senecio sensu lato, a scheme is put forward to serve as a basis for the incorporation and integration of further data. Taxonomic implications are briefly discussed.
10.2307/4119741|A new combination, Ruellia verbasciformis (Nees) C. Ezcurra & Zappi, based on Eurychanes verbasciformis Nees, is made for a poorly known and infrequently collected, apparently bat-pollinated species of Acanthaceae from central Brazil. The systematic position of the species within the genus Ruellia is discussed.
10.2307/4110402|The type specimen of the genus Archboldia E. Beer & H. J. Lam is recognised as a galled specimen of Clerodendrum L. (Labiatae) and placed into its synonymy.
10.2307/4117980|Polystachya sect. Cultriformes, consisting of all the species in the genus with single-leaved stems or pseudobulbs, is revised here. Thirty-three species and seven infraspecific taxa are recognized and two new species are described. The species are separated into five groups on the basis of vegetative and floral morphology and the geographical distribution of each group is discussed. A key is provided for all the taxa. A high degree of endemism is recorded within the section, with less than a quarter of the species being at all widespread. It is suggested that evolution at the group and specific level might have occurred by progressive restriction of an ancestral distribution to riparian or montane forest areas followed by diversification in some of these restricted areas. Chemical analyses of leaf and flower phenolics have been made for several species in the section and mangiferin and isomangiferin have been recorded here for the first time in the Orchidaceae.
10.2307/4110239|The difficulties of describing and comparing the distal internodes of an inflorescence are discussed, with particular reference to the genus Logania R. Br. (Loganiaceae). The term 'propodium' is here defined as the penultimate axis of an inflorescence. The application of the terms 'anthopodium', 'hypopodium' and 'peduncle', with respect to this genus and other selected members of the Loganiaceae, are also discussed. The use of 'anthopodiate', 'propodiate' and 'podiate' are recommended as more informative than the current descriptive term for non-sessile flowers (namely, 'pedicellate').
10.2307/4102952|Euphorbia wightiana Hook.f. is a later homonym and has also been found to be a heterotypic synonym of E. agowensis Hochst. ex Boiss.
10.2307/4110286|Barleria L. is a large, pantropical genus of herbs and shrubs, the satisfactory subdivision of which has long been problematic. This paper proposes a new classification of Barleria into 2 subgenera (Barleria and Prionitis) and seven sections (Barleria, Chrysothrix, Cavirostrata, Fissimura, Stellatohirta, Somalia and Prionitis). Of the seven sections, two (Prionitis and Somalia) are retained much as previously circumscribed, although new characters are used to delimit them; section Barleria is retained partially as previously circumscribed, but with two groups previously included in it removed and elevated to sectional status (as Fissimura and Stellatohirta) in subgenus Prionitis; the remaining two sections (Cavirostrata and Chrysothrix) are described anew. Approximately 240 of the 300 described species were studied in detail. The most important sources of taxonomically useful characters included the basic configuration of the corolla, structure of the stigma, composition of the androecium, form and structure of the capsules, presence or absence of beaks on the capsules, composition of the septum in the capsules and the number of seeds.
10.2307/4117058|The occurrence of a stylopodium at the base of the style is a character of taxonomic importance in the Hyptidinae. Its absence in the Cuban Eriope trichopes provides evidence to support its transfer to Hyptis Sect. Minthidium. The necessary new combination is made.
20649615|Teucrium scabrum (Lamiaceae), a new species from the western part of Thailand, related to T. quadrifarium Buch.-Ham. and T. viscidum Blume is described and illustrated, and a distribution map is provided.
10.2307/4118048|The new species Neuracanthus pictus, from Kenya and Somalia, is described.
10.2307/4109586|The genus Rhodomyrtus is considered to contain eleven species, distinguished from all other genera in the tribe Myrteae by the four- to five-merous flowers and the seeds separated by false septa in the berry. Rhodamnia salomonensis G. T. White is transferred to Rhodomyrtus; Macropsidium elegans Blume is an older name for Rhodomyrtus calophlebia C. T. White and the necessary new combination is made. Rhodomyrtus sericea Burret is considered to be only a juvenile form of R. trineura F. Muell. ex Benth, while R. novoguineensis Diels and R. canescens G. T. White & Francis are treated as varieties of R. trineura. R. parviflora Alston is also retained as a variety of R. tomentosa (Aiton) Hassk. Two species are excluded: R. recurva C. T. White is transferred to Pilidiostigma and R. beckleri (F. Muell.) L. S. Smith is transferred to Archirhodomyrtus.
10.2307/4119340|This paper lists 8 large-flowered Chinese species of Epimedium series Dolichocerae, to which it provides a key, and describes a new species E. franchetii introduced into cultivation in Britain from Hubei and Guizhou.
10.2307/4117591|Ficus lutea is here reinstated.
10.2307/4110669|The monotypic genus Agathophora (Fenzl) Bunge is represented in Arabia by two varieties: A. alopecuroides (Del.) Fenzl ex Bunge var. alopecuroides and var. papillosa (Maire) Boulos, comb. nov. The genus Cornulaca Del. (6 species) is represented in Arabia by 5 species: C. aucheri Moq. (C. leucacantha Charif & Aellen, synon. nov.), C. setifera (DC.) Moq., C. monacantha Del., C. amblyacantha Bunge and C. ehrenbergii Aschers. Keys are provided to separate the taxa.
23489131|A new generic status, based both on morphological and recent phylogenetic evidence for Polygala subgenus Ligustrina (Chodat) Paiva, is proposed, as well as 15 typifications and 14 new combinations for species previously included in the Polygala subgenus Ligustrina are suggested, i.e.: Caamembeca bangiana (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, C. insignis (Klotzsch ex Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, C. grandifolia (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. gigantea (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, C. laureola (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. martinellii (Marques & E. F. Guim.) J. F. B. Pastore var. martinellii, C. martinellii var. carnosa (Marques & E. F. Guim.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. oleifolia (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. oxyphylla (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. spectabilis (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. spectabilis (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore var. amazonensis (Marques & E. F. Guim.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. spectabilis (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore var. autranii (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, C. ulei (Taub.) J. F. B. Pastore and C. warmingiana (A. W. Benn.) J. F. B. Pastore. Three names are synonymised for the first time and some of the typifications are accompanied by taxonomic notes. O status genrico para o Polygala subgnero Ligustrina (Chodat) Paiva  proposto baseado nos recentes estudos moleculares e caracteres morfolgicos. So apresentadas tambm 15 tipificaes e 14 novas combinaes para todas as espcies e variedades antes includas em Polygala subgnero Ligustrina, ou seja: Caamembeca bangiana (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, C. insignis (Klotzsch ex Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, C. grandifolia (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. gigantea (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, C. laureola (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. martinellii (Marques & E. F. Guim.) J. F. B. Pastore var. martinellii, C. martinellii var. carnosa (Marques & E. F. Guim.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. oleifolia (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. oxyphylla (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. spectabilis (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. spectabilis (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore var. amazonensis (Marques & E.F. Guim.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. spectabilis (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore var. autranii (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore, C. ulei (Taub.) J. F. B. Pastore, C. warmingiana (A. W. Benn.) J. F. B. Pastore. Trs nomes so pela primeira vez sinonimizados em outros txons e algumas tipificaes so acompanhadas de notas taxonmicas.
10.2307/4118757|A new species in Cyperaceae, Killingia kilianii, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4108888|Euphorbia piscidermis M. G. Gilbert sp. nov. is described. It differs from all other members of the genus by having scale-like tubercles. The most closely related species is E. turbiniformis Chiov. but otherwise it is quite isolated within the genus.
23489050|The taxonomic status of the Bulbostylis capillaris complex in southern South America is re-assessed. B. communis and B. contracta are names proposed for taxa previously assigned to B. capillaris. B. capillaris var. elatior and f. fasciculata are reduced to the synonymy of B. communis var. communis. A new variety, B. communis var. scabrida is described. B. capillaris f. stenantha is placed in synonymy under B. contracta. B. capillaris var. pyriformis is reduced to synonymy under B. loefgrenii (Boeckeler) Prata & M. G. Lpez. B. tenuifolia (B. capillaris var. tenuifolia) is excluded from the Argentinean flora. Some consideration is given to B. capillaris var. microstachys (Scirpus microstachys).
10.2307/4113650|Mapania coodei, a new species from Papua (formerly Irian Jaya), New Guinea, is described and illustrated.
20649602|Taxonomy of the genus Echinodorus is partially revisited in the light of current understanding of the phylogenetic relationships of the genus. As a result of new taxonomy, the species status of some previously synonymised taxa are restored, other names are synonymised, and some nomenclatural problems unnoticed by previous authors are resolved. Two new species, Echinodorus reptilis and E. emersus are described. The subgeneric divisions of the genus are not accepted, and all subspecific taxa are either rejected or established as species. As a result, 28 species based on a phylogenetic species concept are now recognised in Echinodorus and an identification key to these species is provided.
10.2307/4117878|Four new names or a new combinations are proposed: Eragrostis ambleia W. D. Clayton, E. botryodes W. D. Clayton, Leptothrium senegalense (Kunth) W. D. Clayton, Leptothrium senegalense (Kunth) W. D. Clayton, Tragus heptaneuron W. D. Clayton.
10.2307/4114520|The new species S. paleaceus S. M. Phillips is described from northern Zambia. It is found to be nearest to S. welwitschii (Rendle) Ruhland, and the distinguishing characters between them are discussed.
10.2307/4111154|A new species of grass, Styppeiochloa catherineana from Angola is described and illustrated, and a new combination, Styppeiochloa hitchcockii, is made.
10.2307/4118869|Cyanastrum has previously been considered to include four species, all from the African continent. One of these, C. hostifolium from eastern Tanzania and northern Mozambique, is now transferred to a new genus, Kabuyea (K. hostifolia). This differs from Cyanastrum in several respects: vegetative morphology, perianth colour, anther dehiscence, pollen grain morphology, seed structure, chromosome number and karyotype. Karyotype analysis indicates that the individuals examined of the new genus are triploids. Analysis of rbcL DNA sequences for Cyanastraceae and Tecophilaeaceae places K. hostifolia as sister to C. cordifolium, but the level of sequence divergence between these two species is similar to that between genera in Tecophilaeaceae. The presence of a 'chalazosperm' in seeds of Cyanastrum was the primary reason for former recognition of the monogeneric family Cyanastraceae, but this structure is absent from seeds of Kabuyea. Relationships of Cyanastrum and Kabuyea with other Tecophilaeaceae are discussed.
23216393|Following a re-examination of the material treated under Barleria brevispina (Fiori) Hedrn in the recent Flora of Somalia account of the Acanthaceae, it is concluded that two distinct species are involved and Barleria compacta Malombe & I. Darbysh. is described here from north-eastern Somalia. Its affinities and conservation status are discussed.
23489341|Two new species, Mimosa myrioglandulosa V. F. Dutra & F. C. P. Garcia and M. trinerva V. F. Dutra & F. C. P. Garcia, and one new variety M. foliolosa Benth. var. grandibractea V. F. Dutra & F. C. P. Garcia, of Mimosa sect. Habbasia (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae) from the rocky fields of the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, are described and illustrated. M. myrioglandulosa resembles M. maguirei Barneby, but differs because it has stems with sessile glands. M. trinerva is vegetatively similar to M. albolanata Taub. var. paucipinna (Benth.) Barneby, but has corolla lobes with 2  3 nerves. M. foliolosa var. grandibractea is similar to M. foliolosa var. brevibractea Barneby, but has larger bracts. Discussions about the distribution, habitat, phenology, conservation status, etymology, similar species and an analytical key to morphologically related species are provided.
10.2307/4109703|O. sarrafii sp. nov. is described from the Lower Jazira region of Iraq.
10.2307/4109971|Paepalanthus pulvinatus N.E.Br. from West Africa is compared with P. hispidissimus Herzog from northeastern Brazil, and in concluding that the two are synonymous, doubt is shed on the occurrence of P. pulvinatus in Africa.
10.2307/4111201|The morphology is documented for the two species of the genus Astephanus R. Br. (Apocynaceae - Asclepiadoideae - Asclepiadeae), A. triflorus (L. f.) Schult. and A. zeyheri Turcz., which occur in the south- western corner of southern Africa. Astephanus marginatus Decne. is a synonym of A. triflorus and so the earliest valid name for plants commonly known as A. marginatus is A. zeyheri. The similarities and differences from the closely related genus Microloma R. Br. are discussed. Various species from the New World have been included at one or other time in Astephanus. These are now excluded and a list of them is given, with their present taxonomic position.
10.2307/4117820|The pinnate-leaved species of Jasminum are reviewed, and an identification key provided. J. dispermum Wall., J. kitchingii Baker and J, quinatum Schinz, although possessing compound leaves are not considered part of sect. Pinnatifolia DC. which contains J. officinale L., J. x stephanense Lemoine, J. grandiflorum L. with subsp. floribundum (R. Br. ex Fresen.) P. S. Green, J. polyanthum Franch. and J. beesianum Forrest & Diels. J. dispermum is considered to contain subsp. dispermum and subsp. forrestianum (Kobuski) P. S. Green comb. nov.
23044989|The genus Phlomis is one of the largest genera of subfamily Lamioideae (Lamiaceae) with more than 100 recognised species distributed in Asia, southern Europe and northern Africa. Morphological studies have suggested that the species can be split into two morphologically distinct groups that have previously been recognised as either sections or separate genera. The current study represents the first molecular phylogenetic study of the genus in which taxa representative of the entire genus are included. In contrast to considerable morphological and ecological variation among taxa, sequence variation in the trnL intron, the trnL  F intergenic spacer, and the rps 16 intron was low, resulting in sparse phylogenetic resolution, particularly among the South West Asian and Mediterranean taxa. However, the results support a split of the genus into two separate groups that are recognised here as the genera Phlomoides and Phlomis in order to decrease taxonomic complexity. The close relationship between Phlomis s.l. and Eremostachys, pointed out by several authors, is confirmed, and in a noteworthy new finding, the small Asian genus Notochaete, is more closely related to the Phlomis s.l. lineage than previously assumed. The two monotypic genera Pseuderemostachys and Lamiophlomis as well as Notochaete hamosa are transferred to Phlomoides and three new combinations are made. Character optimisation analyses based on geographic distributions of all taxa show that the groups obtained by molecular phylogenetic analysis correlate well with biogeography. The results suggest that the Phlomis s.l. lineage has a Central Asian origin in an area around Western China.
10.2307/4117076|Two new subspecies of Grevea madagascariensis Baill. from Kenya and Madagascar are described in preparation for forthcoming accounts of the Montiniaceae (here maintained at family rank) for the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa' and 'Flore de Madagascar'.
10.2307/4108000|Studies of the growth form, stem morphology and anatomy, leaf morphology and anatomy, and inflorescence structure of the pachycaul Lobelias of Africa and St. Helena are described. Morphological features associated with ecology are listed. A new classification of sect. Rhynchopetalum (Fresen.) Benth. & Hook. f. for the African species is proposed, and the St. Helena 'Lobelia' is excluded as the monotypic genus Trimeris C. Presl. Evolutionary lines within sect. Rhynchopetalum are traced, leading back to a pachycaul forest ancestor for the group in Africa.
20443369|Phylogenetic reconstructions have supported several independent appearances of C photosynthesis within grasses (Poaceae). These recurrent appearances appear to contradict the large number of biochemical and morphological changes required to change from C to C, a paradox that leads to questions about the genetic changes underlying C evolution. In this study, we analysed sequences encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylases (PEPCs) in grasses in order to gain insights into the origin of the ppc-C gene, which encodes a key enzyme in the C pathway. We screened databanks for PEPC genes or cDNAs in grasses. A coding sequence of 1130 base pairs was used to build phylogenetic trees that supported the existence of four distinct PEPC gene lineages. Ppc-C present in all C grasses was also found in two C species. The ppc-C clade was congruent with the species tree, suggesting orthologous evolution. This result would imply that ppc-C appeared without any duplication event. Nevertheless, caution is needed since the sampling of our study is still far from comprehensive. Further investigation with an increased sampling is recommended to elucidate the evolutionary changes underlying ppc-C gene evolution in grasses.
10.2307/4111164|A cladistic analysis of the tribe Ipomoeeae based on 45 morphological and palynological characters is presented; the results obtained suggest that 1) the Ipomoeeae is monophyletic 2) all of the smaller genera of the tribe (Argyreia Lour., Astripomoea A. Meeuse, Blinkworthia Choisy, Lepistemon Blume, Lepistemonopsis Dammer, Paralepistemon Lejoly & Lisowski, Rivea Choisy, Stictocardia Hallier f. and Turbina Raf. are nested within the largest genus, Ipomoea. The characters defining taxa within the tribe are discussed and the limits and relationships of generic and infrageneric taxa re-evaluated. More research is needed in two areas; a) gene sequence data and b) into key taxa.
10.2307/4113741|A case is made for preferring the spellings Brachycome Cass. corr. Cass. and Lagenophora Cass. corr. Cass. to Brachyscome Cass. and Lagenifera Cass. respectively.
10.2307/4117921|This paper contains decriptions of nine new taxa (seven species and two subsp.) and new synonyms are indicated. All eastern and southern African species, including incompletely known taxa, are mentioned.
23216394|A study of the 26 Cyperaceae published in G. Raddi's Agrostografia brasiliensis is presented. Several new synonyms and a re-evaluation of some taxa described by G. Raddi are proposed. The first citation of Fimbristylis pilosa Vahl for Brazil is reported. The new combination, Pleurostachys pilulifera (Bertol.) Longhi-Wagner, Baldini & A. C. Arajo is made.
10.2307/4118722|Four new species, Xyris almae, X. picea, X. fibrosa, and X. sincorana, and one new variety, X. pterygoblephara var. vernicosa are described from Bahia, Brazil. All taxa are fully illustrated and their taxonomic affinities discussed.
23216734|The type specimen of Maxillaria grandiflora (Kunth) Lindl. was collected by Alexander von Humboldt and Aim Bonpland during their scientific expedition to Tropical America. Its type locality, which has been the subject of confusion, is identified as a place on the eastern part of La Cruz municipality in the province of Nario, Colombia. The type of M. grandiflora is shown to be a mixed collection and a lectotype is designated; the protologue illustration represents an amalgamation of both species. The type of Heterotaxis valenzuelana (A. Rich.) Ojeda & Carnevali was collected by Jos Mara Valenzuela but has been erroneously cited as Wright 3314 in the recent literature.
10.2307/4108487|A new species of Orchidaceae-Disinae from Malawi, Brownleea mulanjiensis, is described. Scanning electron micrographs are provided of the column and pollen of the new species, as well as of two related species, and two new combinations are made for Herschelianthe (Herschelia).
10.2307/4103021|A taxonomic revision of Vernonia galamensis and closely allied species is presented. Two species, V. galamensis (Cass.) Less., polymorphic with 6 subspecies and a further 4 varieties, and V.filisquama M. G. Gilbert, are recognised. All but 3 of these are taxa described for the first time. There is a well marked centre of diversity in Kenya and northern Tanzania with only one variety occurring outside eastern Africa.
23216739|An attempt is made to discover the identity and correct name for Uvaria tripetala Roxb., Uvaria tripetala Blanco, Phaeanthus nutans Hook. f. & Thomson and Uvaria ophthalmica Roxb. ex G. Don (Annonaceae). It is concluded that all but one belong to what has been called Phaeanthus ebracteolatus (C. Presl) Merr., which must now be referred to correctly as Phaeanthus ophthalmicus (Roxb. ex G. Don) J. Sinclair. The correct name for the species that has generally been called Phaeanthus nutans or Phaeanthus ophthalmicus is Phaeanthus intermedius (P. Parm.) I. M. Turner & Veldkamp. Typification of these names and their known synonyms is presented. This includes four new lectotypifications and the designation of two new epitypes and one new neotype.
10.2307/4114481|A new variety, Sporobolus indicus (L.) R. Br. var. andinus Renvoize is described from Bolivia and Peru, and a new name, Bromus modestus Renvoize, provided for B. frigidus Ball which is a later homonym.
10.2307/4115744|Among recent collections from the Pico das Almas, Bahia, Brazil is a striking new species of Persea which is here described and illustrated.
20649541|Seven new names at species rank are proposed in Memecylon sect. Afzeliana Jacq.-Fl., a group of forest shrubs and small trees confined to Guineo-Congolian Africa. The group is centred in Cameroon, where 17 of the 20 species occur. A new flower type, the "star-flower" in Memecylon is revealed, and its taxonomic and ecological importance discussed. Three new, locally endemic species from the South West Province of Cameroon are described, mapped and illustrated: M. kupeanum R. D. Stone, Ghogue & Cheek, M. bakossiense R. D. Stone, Ghogue & Cheek, and M. rheophyticum R. D. Stone, Ghogue & Cheek. Two new names, M. accedens R. D. Stone, Ghogue & Cheek and M. hyleastrum R. D. Stone & Ghogue and one new combination, M. mamfeanum (Jacq.-Fl.) R. D. Stone, Ghogue & Cheek are provided at species level for three taxa originally proposed as varieties of M. afzelii G. Don. The taxon M. arcuatomarginatum var. simulans Jacq.-Fl. is also elevated to species status, as M. simulans (Jacq.-Fl.) R. D. Stone & Ghogue. Conservation assessments are provided for all the newly named taxa. A key is provided to the species of Memecylon sect. Afzeliana.
25070239|A revision of the Brazilian species of Philodendron section Macrobelium is presented, including 31 species, 14 of them described as new in the last 20 years. As it proved impossible to neotypify Philodendron imbe (type species of section Calostigma) which is here considered a doubtful name, subsection Macrobelium of the former section Calostigma is elevated to sectional rank. Two species are excluded from the section, P. elaphoglossoides and P. muricatum and two are included: P. acutatum originally from section Polyspermium and P. minarum, originally from subgenus Meconostigma. Species of sect. Macrobelium in Brazil are generally hemiepiphytes in tropical forests and most diverse in Atlantic coastal forest in Southeastern Brazil. Keys to the subgenera of Philodendron and Brazilian Macrobelium species are provided, as well as descriptions, illustrations, geographic distribution, phenology and conservation status for each species. /// O presente estudo apresenta a reviso das espcies brasileiras pertencentes  seo Macrobelium. No Brasil a seo inclui 31 espcies sendo 14 delas reconhecidas como novas nos ltimos 20 anos. No foi possvel neotipificar o nome Philodendron imbe, espcie tipo da seo Calostigma, e a subseo Macrobelium, anteriormente situada na seo Calostigma, foi elevada a nvel de seo. Duas espcies foram excludas da seo: P. elaphoglossoides e P. muricatum, e duas foram includas: P. acutatum da seo Polyspermium e P. minarum do subgnero Meconostigma. As espcies de Macrobelium no Brasil so geralmente hemiepfitas que habitam matas tropicais e apresentam maior diversidade na Mata Atlntica costeira do Sudeste do Brasil. So fornecidas chaves de identificao para os subgneros de Philodendron e para as espcies brasileiras de Macrobelium, e tambm descries, ilustraes, distribuio geogrfica, dados de fenologia e o status de conservao para cada espcie.
10.2307/4111001|A new species of Papuacalia, P. veldkampii (Compositae: Senecioneae), from Jayawijaya Prov., Papua, (Irian Jaya-Indonesia), is described and illustrated. Its relationships with other homogamous species, and the presence of setuliferous achenes is discussed.
10.2307/4110713|Nervilia crociformis Schltr. is added to the flora of the Arabian Peninsula. Nervilia bicarinata (B1.) Schltr. is reported for the first time from Oman. A second collection of Habenaria malacophylla Reichb.f. is recorded from Oman.
23216086|Four species of Mastigostyla (Iridaceae) from Bolivia are described, illustrated and maps of their distribution provided: M. cardenasii R. C. Foster, M. chuquisacensis Huaylla & Wilkin, M. torotoroensis Huaylla & Wilkin and M. woodii Huaylla & Wilkin, the last three as new species. Mastigostyla gracilis R. C. Foster is synonymised under M. cardenasii R. C. Foster. Notes on conservation status, nomenclature and identification are included. Although some uncertainty exists over generic placement due to phylogenetic systematic research now in progress, marked infraspecific variation is documented for the first time within South American Tigridieae. This draws attention to the need for more extensive sampling if adequate species delimitation is to be achieved in Tigridieae. Photographs illustrate morphological variation in all four species. A key is provided to facilitate identification of Bolivian Mastigostyla.
10.2307/4114486|Multicellular trichomes associated with mycorrhizal zones of infection occur on the collar/stem, root, and/or tuber of many genera of Australian and New Zealand Diurideae (Orchidaceae). A uniseriate type characterizes species of Aporostylis, Burnettia, Caleana, Corybas, Cyrtostylis, Drakaea, and Microtis. Elaborate multiseriate types are found in 15 genera representing four subtribes. Trichome type is of little systematic utility above the generic level nor does it appear to be correlated with fungal endophyte. Regardless of configuration, the trichomes probably have a major role in mycorrhizal reinfection of mature plants at the resumption of the growing season.
10.2307/4109697|The pollen morphology of 7 genera and 14 species of the tribe Borasseae has been studied. In general the pollen is monosulcate, elliptical in polar view, medium to large in size and tectate. There is variation in exine thickness, ornamentation and stratification. Borassodendron has large, circular pollen with a very thick exine and reticulate tectum. The pollen of B. machadonis is monoporate while that of B. borneense is monosulcate. Borassus and Hyphaene have similar pollen with supratectal gemmae but can be separated by small differences in exine stratification. Latania, Lodoicea, Medemia and Bismarckia have pollen with scrobiculate/fossulate, perforate tectum and is of a rather general type widespread throughout the family. In general the genera can be distinguished by pollen morphology but Medemia and Bismarckia have very similar pollen grains with a distinctive very thin exine which seems to support their close taxonomic relationship. However, beyond this, pollen does not reflect the strong macromorphological evidence for separating the two subtribes recognized.
10.2307/4109856|9 genera, constituting the tribes Pommereulleae, Orcuttieae and Pappophoreae are surveyed and collective descriptions of their leaf-blade anatomy are provided.
10.2307/4111007|Daemonorops siberutensis (Arecaceae), belonging to section Piptospatha is described as new from Siberut Island.
23489152|Ledebouria hyderabadensis M. V. Ramana, Prasanna & Venu, a new species allied to L. revoluta (L. f.) Jessop, is described and illustrated from Greater Hyderabad of Andhra Pradesh, India.
10.2307/4110515|A key to the African genera of Acanthaceae, Subfamily Acanthoideae, Tribus Acantheae is presented together with a key to and synopsis of the species of Crossandra occurring in the African continent. Crossandra is divided into four sections, mainly based on bract-characters.
10.2307/4110333|Achyrospermum squamosum, an erect perennial herb only collected on Chiradzulu mountain, Malawi, is described. Like many species of Achyrospermum, it grows under shrubs or trees at high altitudes. Its relationships with other species in the genus are discussed.
10.2307/4102947|A hitherto undescribed species of Salacia, from a botanically little-known region of southern Tanzania, is named after its collector as S. lovettii.
10.2307/4110514|Cyperus sect. Leucocephali is revised. In the past, this group has been given generic and subgeneric status under the name Sorostachys, but there appears to be little justification for recognising the group at either of these levels. Seven species are described, C. pulchellus, C. microglumis sp. nov., C. leucocephalus, C. schomburgkianus, C. tenerrimus, C. nayaritensis and C. michoacanensis.
10.2307/4103082|Euphorbia laciniata sp. nov. (E. fimbriata Heyne ex Roth, non Scop.) is described from India together with a new subspecies burmanica from Burma.
23216083|Recent molecular studies show that the Chilean endemic Caesalpinia aphylla Phil. is placed in the wrong genus and should be transferred to Hoffmannseggia as H. aphylla (Phil.) G. P. Lewis & Sotuyo. A number of morphological characters support this transfer. A short description and illustration of the species are provided to aid identification.
27822024|Ceropegia bhatii S. R. Yadav & Shendage, discovered from Malebennur Ghat in Davangere district of Karnataka State is described and illustrated. It is similar to Ceropegia noorjahaniae M. A. Ansari but is distinct in its twining habit, two-flowered cyme, slightly inflated corolla tube and corolla lobe margins that are not recurved.
23044627|Propagation of the cycad Dioon edule aimed at sustainable management in the state of Veracruz, Mexico has been ongoing since 1990 under the supervision of staff at Francisco Javier Botanic Garden, with the principal objectives of addressing illegal trafficking and habitat destruction. Plant sales have been limited. Nevertheless these, along with the sale of other managed forest products, have given the cycad producers and other villagers enough incentive to conserve 80 hectares of cycad habitat and to discourage illegal collecting. This model was taken up by four similar nurseries in the buffer zones of two biosphere reserves in Chiapas for the propagation of four additional cycad species and two endangered Chamaedorea palms. A further biosphere reserve in Puebla hosts a similar nursery for the critically endangered D. caputoi. Here the producers are paid through the Reserve authority for cultivation and reintroduction of the cycad. All species were studied at the population level prior to and during nursery establishment. Cultivation knowledge has been passed on to the farmers as well as limited help in marketing. Seedling reintroduction experiments have been carried out but further demographic studies of D. edule and C. mirandae have given reason to re-think reintroduction strategies. There is great potential for these nurseries to act as shelter for rescued plants during civil engineering projects. The marketing problem is still an issue and has been approached by the involvement of conservation authorities in Chiapas to assist the producers with permit paperwork and to seek markets. This experience is an important example of botanic garden extension to rural communities in Mexico that covers several articles of the Convention on Biological Diversity.
23216092|Dombeya gautieri Dorr & Skema sp. nov. is described from Madagascar and illustrated. It is remarkable for its pinnatipartite leaves, reduced number of fertile stamens, petaloid staminodes, deeply divided style, and minute, 2-carpellate ovary.
10.2307/4110438|A new species, Cunila ramamoorthiana from southwestern Mexico is described and its affinities discussed. Observations concerning gynodioecy in the genus are made.
20443398|Diospyros rubicunda Grke (Ebenaceae) is resurrected as a distinct species, and the differences between D. barteri Hiern and its former synonym, D. rubicunda, are explained.
10.2307/4110838|Justicia burkilliana sp. nov. is described from the Abor Hills, Arunachal Pradesh, India. The new species appears to be related to J, atkinsonii T. Anders. from the Sikkim Himalaya region.
10.2307/4110765| Serra do Arac is an outlying sandstone tepui of the Guayana Highlands in northern Brazil. It was hardly known botanically until two recent expeditions of Projeto Flora Amazonica, which collected 242 species of vascular plants on the plateau including at least thirteen novelties. The vegetation types of the plateau are described and an appendix enumerating the vascular flora is provided. The plateau vegetation contains many of the typical elements of the tepuis of the Guayana Highland, and there are lowland Amazonian species in the gallery forests. Relationships of the majority of Arac endemics lie with other species of the Guayana Highland; three of them, however, have vicariants located in eastern Brazil. 
10.2307/4118754|The new species Mitreola minima B.J. Conn (Loganiaceae) is here described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110673|Ixora kachinensis and I. pseudoacuminata (Rubiaceae) from Burma and India respectively are described as new species.
10.2307/4110579|Corchorus macropterus Leach & Cheek, very unusual in its strongly winged fruit, is described as a new species. Its relationship with C. cunninghamii F. Muell. is discussed.
10.2307/4110296|Scirpodendron bogneri is described as new from Peninsular Malaysia. The structure of the inflorescence, based on new observations, is described for the genus. The monotelic nature of the inflorescence is established and contrasted with other mapanioid genera.
10.2307/4111086|Peucedanum kupense I. Darbysh. & Cheek is described from the montane grassland on the summits of Mt Kupe, South West Province, Cameroon, and its conservation status is reviewed. The affinity of this new species with the closely related P. zenkeri Engl. ex H. Wolffand P. angustisectum (Engl.) C. Norman is discussed.
10.2307/4108261|The genus Hyperacanthus is validated, a second species is recognised as belonging to it, two new combinations are made and synonymy given. Morphological and anatomical (shoot sequence, trichomes, seeds and seed-coats) and palynological observations are provided. The relationship of Hyperacanthus to other genera is discussed. Some Madagascan taxa at present included in Genipa but suspected of belonging to Hyperacanthus, are mentioned.
20649584|Xysmalobium samoritourei Goyder (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) is described from the highlands of Sierra Leone and Guinea (Conakry) and illustrated. Its conservation status is assessed.
10.2307/4107964|a new species, Lophacme parva Renvoize & Clayton, is described from Zambia.
27821991|A new species of Acritopappus, A buiquensis, is described and illustrated from Pernambuco State, Brazil. This is the second record for the genus in the State. The position of A. buiquensis in the genus is discussed.
20649543|Two West-Central African species of Hannoa Planch. are formally resurrected in the genus Quassia L. and the necessary new names provided.
20443243|The monotypic genus Rojasia Malme is reinstated and transferred to the Gonolobinae. Five species of Gonolobus Michx. are transferred to Matelea Aubl. The four South American species of Chthamalia Decne. are reassessed and a single polymorphic species recognised, which is also transferred to Matelea. Three names are lectotypified.
10.2307/4117770| A new genus of Scrophulariaceae from Brazil: Philcoxia P. Taylor & V. C. Souza is described, together with the three new species which it comprises. The species, which possess small peltate leaves, resemble terrestrial Utricularia (Lentibulariaceae) in habit, and are apparently restricted to areas of deep bare sand. The three species each have a very restricted distribution: P. bahiensis in Bahia, P. minensis in Minas Gerais and P. goiasensis in Gois. Possessing a determinate monotelic inflorescence, the genus appears to be one of the very few members of tribe Scrophulariae recorded for Brazil. 
10.2307/4109821|The separation of these three closely allied genera is discussed, Pandiaka fasciculata Suesseng. being transferred to Achyranthes. The species of Pandiaka are re-appraised, with several reductions to synonymy, a key, and the description of a new species from Zambia and Angola; discussion in some detail centres around the P. carsonii complex. Two new species of Achyropsis are described from Tanzania, with an enumeration and key to the species of this genus also.
10.2307/4110071|Nomenclatural notes in the families Elatinaceae (Bergia), Convolvulaceae (Ipomoea), and Leguminosae (Canavalia) are made.
4111064| Two new species of Microlida (Melastomataceae) from Catols, Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brazil are described and illustrated and their diagnostic characters discussed. IUCN Conservation assessments are presented for both species. /// Duas espcies novas de Microlida (Melastomataceae) coletadas em Catols, Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brasil so descritas e ilustradas, e suas caractersticas diagnsticas so discutidas. Categorias de extino da UICN so apresentadas para ambas. 
27822026|Previous studies on the classification of Marattiaceae have shown that the Neotropical species of Marattia are to be divided into two genera: Marattia Sw. and Eupodium J. Sm. Morphological studies show that the latter genus consists of three geographically isolated species: Eupodium laevis in the Greater Antilles, E. pittieri in Central America and Andean South America, and E. kaulfussii in southern Brazil. This paper revises the taxonomy of the genus Eupodium. One new combination is made and a key, descriptions and a distribution map are provided.
10.2307/4120625|Three new species of Apocynaceae - Asclepiadoideae are described. They are Ceropegia namaquensis and Ceropegia leptophylla of the tribe Ceropegieae from South Africa and Sarcostemma oresbium from Mozambique of the tribe Asclepiadeae.
10.2307/4115748|Brachystelma malwanense (Asclepiadaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from Maharashtra, India.
23489340|Brownea jaramilloi, a new species, endemic to the northeastern Ecuadorian Amazon, is described and illustrated, and its placement in the genus discussed. It is unique in the genus Brownea in being characterised by yellow flowers. In a 25-ha plot in Yasuni National Park, this new species averaged 20 individuals (with dbh1 cm) per hectare. Brownea jaramilloi, una nueva especie, endmica de la Amazona del noreste de Ecuador se describe e ilustra y se discute su ubicacin en el gnero. Esta es la nica especie en el gnero Brownea que se caracteriza por tener flores amarillas. En una parcela de 25-ha en el Parque Nacional Yasuni se ha registrado un promedio de 20 individuos (con DAP1 cm) por hectrea.
10.2307/4108386|A computer-aided method of chorological analysis is described, and is applied to the Gramineae of west tropical Africa. The distribution of the family conforms to the known phytogeographic zones of west Africa. A chorological classification of the species into a hierarchy of Region, Domain and Endemic Centre is illustrated by maps.
10.2307/4113654|The monotypic Chinese genus Tsiangia is identified as Ixora chinensis Lam. and a lectotype chosen.
10.2307/4110299|A new combination, Cephalostachyum mannii (Gamble) Stapleton & D. Z. Li, is made for a scandent bamboo from N E India after comparison with new material from Yunnan Province of China, and Burmese collections of Cephalostachyum scandens Bor, which is very similar and may prove to be a synonym when further collections have been made. Cephalostachyum is defended as a separate genus, distinct from Schizostachyum Nees. C. mannii has previously been treated as Neomicrocalamus mannii (Gamble) R. B. Majumdar. Eight other species placed in Neomicrocalamus at different times are reviewed, but only two are now recognized and accepted in that genus, N. prainii (Gamble) Keng f. and N. andropogonifolius (Griff.) Stapleton.
10.2307/4111145| The 28 species of Rudgea known from Southeastern and Southern Brazil are described and illustrated, and a key is presented. The species are included in seven informal groups: Jasminoides Group (4 spp.), Macrophylla Group (4 spp.), Insignis Group (2 spp.), Recurva Group (4 spp.), Parvifolia Group (5 spp.), Minor Group (6 spp.), Viburnoides Group (3 spp.). One new species, R. reflexa Zappi, three new subspecies (R. Jasminoides subsp. micrantha Zappi, R. Jasminoides subsp. nervosa Zappi & Anunciacao and R. parquioides subsp. hirsutissima Zappi) and several new combinations are presented, along with more than 40 new synonyms. The conservation status of all species and subspecies is evaluated using IUCN categories. /// As 28 espcies de Rudgea conhecidas das regies Sudeste e Sul do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas, e chaves de identificao a nvel especfico e subespecfico so apresentadas. As espcies foram distribudas em sete grupos informais: Grupo Jasminoides (4 spp.), Grupo Macrophylla (4 spp.), Grupo Insignis (2 spp.), Grupo Recurva (4 spp.), Grupo Parvifolia (5 spp.), Grupo Minor (6 spp.), Grupo Viburnoides (3 spp.). Uma nova espcie, R. reflexa Zappi, trs subespcies novas (R. jasminoides subsp. micrantha Zappi, R. jasminoides subsp. nervosa Zappi & Anunciao e R. parquioides subsp. hirsutissima Zappi) e vrias novas combinaes so apresentadas, juntamente com mais de 40 novos sinnimos. O estado de conservao das espcies e subespcies foi avaliado de acordo com as categorias sugeridas pela IUCN. 
10.2307/4108140|A new section of the genus Pteris is established for three endemic Philippine ferns; one with free-included-veinlets is described as new, P. endoneura. The other two species, here transferred to Pteris, were first named in Schizostege and have recently been provided with the generic name Copelandiopteris.
10.2307/4110752|Periploca brevicoronata D. J. Goyder & L. Boulos sp. nov. from Saudi Arabia and Yemen is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110803|Ninety species of Corticium Fr. described by the Rev. M.J. Berkeley alone or together with others are considered. The holotype of each species is cited and the position or synonyms of the name are indicated. The following new combinations are proposed: Phanerochaete emplastra (Corticium emplastrum Berk. & Br.); Ceraceomyces simulans (Corticium simulans Berk. & Br.); and Porostereum lilacinum (Corticium lilacinum Berk. & Br.) Lectotypes are designated for the following: Corticium chrysocreas Berk. & Curtis: USA, South Carolina, Ravenel, Fung. Car. V:27; Corticium ephebium Berk. & Curtis: USA, Alabama, Peters 6050; Corticium glabrum Berk. & Curtis: USA, Car. Inf., Ravenel 2404; Corticium scutellare Berk. & Curtis: USA, Ravenel 1584 and Corticium tremellinum Berk. & Rav.: USA, Ravenel 1649. All specimens in Kew herbarium.
10.2307/4110435|Impatiens cymbifera Hook.f. from the Himalaya is reviewed and discussed. Two new and allied species are described, I. gorepaniensis Grey-Wilson and I. sinlumiensis Grey-Wilson.
23216738|A new species of the genus Camellia L. (Theaceae, Theoideae) is described and illustrated under the name C. cattienensis. This species occurs in the rainforest vegetation of Lam Dong Province, Vietnam. A discussion of the morphological characters distinguishing this new species from related Camellia species is presented. Morphological evidence supports a transitional taxonomic placement in Camellia sect. Archaecamellia Sealy. This placement is justified by C. cattienensis exhibiting some morphological characteristics also found in sects Stereocarpus (Pierre) Sealy and Piquetia (Pierre) Sealy.
10.2307/4114620|A new species of Orthosiphon, O. scedastophyllus from S. Tanzania is described. It is suggested that it is related to O. allenii (C. H. Wright) Codd. Two new combinations are made: Orthosiphon cuanzae (I. M. Johnston) A. J. Paton and Fuerstia rigida (Benth.) A. J. Paton. Both these taxa were previously placed in Ocimum.
23216098|Mnesithea thailandica, a new species of Poaceae subtribe Rottboelliinae from Thailand, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110741|The pollen morphology of 18 species and three subspecies of Sclerochiton Harvey is described. This represents almost the entire genus sensu Vollesen. The pollen is fairly uniform throughout the genus. All species have tricolpate pollen, usually with fine reticulate sculpturing. At the poles of the grains is a distinctive triangular or triradiate depression in the exine. The pollen morphology is discussed in relation to the taxonomy. A comparison is made with the pollen of other genera in the Acantheae. The exine stratification in Sclerochiton Harvey is relatively unspecialized compared with that of other genera in the tribe.
20649554|Funastrum rupicola Goyder, a new species of Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae from Bolivia, is described and illustrated. The conservation status of this species is assessed.
10.2307/4117063|The awnless genera of Andropogoneae (taken to include Maydeae) are grouped into 3 sub-tribes with the aid of numerical taxonomy. The new combination Chasmopodium purpurascens (Robyns) Clayton is made.
10.2307/4107756|Palisota bogneri from Gabon, related to P. barteri, is described as new, and P. salabiei from Cameroun, distinct in creeping stem and lax slender inflorescence.
10.2307/4119301|I. Jasminum sect. Trifoliolata DC. is lectotypified on J. didymum G. Forst. and reviewed. It contains, in addition, J. degeneri Kobuski from Fiji, J. dallachii F. Muell. and J. singuliflorum F. M. Bailey & F. Muell. from NE Australia, and J. domatiigerum Lingelsh. and J. gilgianum K. Schum. from Papua New Guinea. II. Section Primulina, sect. nov. containing J. nudiflorum Lindl. and J. mesnyi Hance is described from China.
10.2307/4110137|The following new species are described: Tradescantia burchii, Phyodina laui and Tripogandra elata. Tradescantia micrantha Torrey is transferred to the genus Phyodina Rafin.
10.2307/4108542|A number of new species and varieties, and a few new combinations, completed descriptions, and extensions of range, are published for several Malesian genera of Euphorbiaceae: see Contents, below. Keys are provided to all the species of the entirely or predominantly New Caledonian genera Austrobuxus and Bocquillonia. A new genus Hylandia is described from Queensland.
10.2307/4109465|The type of Adenocalymma marginatum (Cham.) DC. lacked seeds and the nomenclature of varieties based on a seed character is problematical. Evidence from the original description and a correlation of leaf-characters and geographical distribution offers a possible solution.
10.2307/4111120|Three new species of Grammitidaceae are described from Africa: Lellingeria paucipinnata, L. rupestris and Terpsichore kirkii. New combinations are proposed for Ceradenia alboglandulosa, C. argyrata, C. comorensis, C. deltodon, C. leucosora, C. sechellarum, Enterosora barbatula, E. sprucei, Lellingeria ascensionensis, Zygophlebia devoluta, Z. forsythiana, Z. humbertii, Z. major, Z. subpinnata and Z. torulosa. Lectotypes are chosen for eight taxa.
10.2307/4110153|Heliotropium lasianthum is described as a new species in sect. Catimas DC. but without any closer connections to those already known. Leaf-shape and indumentum, length of calyx and of corolla are the most characteristic features of the new taxon.
10.2307/4119364|A new species of Boehmeria with 'multiple' (double and triple) flowers and fruits, Boehmeria burgeriana, is described from Costa Rica. The derivation of its unusual flowers and fruits is discussed. Fruit anatomy provides supporting evidence for its inclusion within this genus.
10.2307/4117102|Pollen from a wide range of tribes in the Gramineae has been examined under an S.E.M., and the taxonomic significance of the sexine pattern discussed.
10.2307/4118899| The new names Abutilon anglosomaliae Cufod. ex Thulin nom. nov. and Hibiscus erlangeri (Grke) Thulin comb. nov., required for the forthcoming treatment of Malvaceae in Flora of Somalia, are published here. 
10.2307/4114649|A new species of Dionysia, D. sarvestanica Jamzad & Grey-Wilson is described from S Iran and its relationship to closely allied species discussed.
10.2307/4109767|Three varieties of Crinipellis perniciosa are discussed, var. ecuadorensis representing a new combination and var. citriniceps being described as new.
10.2307/4118970|20 genera with 49 species are recorded from Thailand. Stephania crebra Forman, St. tomentella Forman and Tinospora siamensis Forman are described as new. Keys are provided together with notes on distribution, ecology, uses, vernacular names, etc.
10.2307/4117857|Two new species of Callicarpa are described from recent collections made in Brunei.
10.2307/4110032|The pollen morphology of 18 genera and 62 species has been studied. The pollen is very small, tricolpate, tricolporate or triporate with reticulate or perforate surface ornamentation and simple exine stratification. Five pollen types are recognised. Pollen morphology emphasises the distinctness of the genus Stephania. It groups the genera Antizoma, Cissampelos and Cyclea together and also groups the Madagascan genera Rhaptonema, Spirospermum and Strychnopsis. The remaining genera in the tribe cannot be clearly separated by their pollen morphology. The significance of these results is discussed.
10.2307/4103157|An account is given of spore form and structure in the genera Naucoria, Simocybe, and Phaeogalera (Agaricales) together with an atlas of transmission and scanning micrographs. A revised classification of the British species is presented.
10.2307/4117580|The pollen morphology of all 24 species of the genus Macrotyloma is very distinctive and is unique in the subfamily Papilionoideae. The tectum is finely rugulate with supratectal tubercles, spines, bacula or clavae. There is a very thick endexine, no foot layer, very short dense columellae and very thin tectum. There are two aperture types, tricolporate and triporate. The taxonomically least specialised species M. ciliatum, M. decipiens and M. maranguense have tricolporate pollen while the remaining more derived species have triporate pollen.
10.2307/4111148|The species of Strobilanthes from East Asia with a paniculate inflorescence form a readily identifiable cluster of species, which reaches its greatest diversity on the Indonesian Island of Sumatra. The 16 species are enumerated, described and discussed. Three new species, Strobilanthes ramosissima (from Sumatra), S. tenuiflora (from Thailand) and 5. euantha (from the China-Burma (Myanmar) border region) are described, a new name, S. bunnemeyeri is provided for Diflugossa glandulosa, and the new combinations 5. ovatifolia and S. pubescens are made. A key is provided to facilitate identification. Several species are illustrated for the first time and maps show the distribution of all species discussed in this paper.
23489121|A revision of the genus Gmelina L. (Lamiaceae) is presented with a summary of its taxonomic history, keys, full descriptions, distribution maps, conservation assessments, ecological information and ethno-botanical notes. For the New Caledonia species no descriptions and distribution maps are given as they have been provided in an earlier publication. In this treatment, 31 species are recognised, 18 names are placed into synonymy for the first time, five are lectotypified, one is neotypified (G. racemosa (Lour.) Merr.) and seven names are excluded from the genus. Two varieties (G. palawensis var. palawensis and G. palawensis var. celebica) are raised to subspecies level. Four new species are described: G. australis de Kok, G. basifilum de Kok, G. hollrungii de Kok and G. peltata de Kok.
10.2307/4115727|Homolepis aturensis (Kunth) Chase, Urochloa trichopus (Hochst.) Stapf and Danthonia montana Doll (Poaceae) are new records for Bahia State, Brazil. One species of Homolepis and three of Urochloa (under Brachiaria) have been recorded previously for Bahia State. The record for the genus Danthonia is the first for this State.
10.2307/4110999|Tricalysia lejolyana is described as a new species from the Banyang Mbo Wildlife Sanctuary in western Cameroon and its conservation status assessed. Its diagnostic characteristics are elucidated in relation to other taxa of the genus, in particular, to the species of the 'T. atherura' group of Tricalysia subg. Tricalysia, sect. Tricalysia, in which it falls.
10.2307/4114596|A sectional classification of Tradescantia L. proposed to supersede that of C. B. Clarke. Eight sections are recognized and the principal section, sect. Tradescantia, is further divided into four series. The species included in each section are listed.
10.2307/4114654|Pavonia intermedia Hort. (non St. Hil.), apparently a 19th Century hybrid of P. makoyana E. Morren and P. multiflora A.Juss., is named as P. x gledhillii. Its bearing on Goethea Nees and Triplochlamys Ulbrich is discussed.
20649605|The delimitation of Barleria L. sect. Cavirostrata M. Balkwill is discussed with particular emphasis on capsule and seed characters. An expanded circumscription of the section is adopted in which all species having a (potentially) 4-seeded capsule with a conspicuous beak and with subellipsoid, subglobose or discoid seeds are included. Barleria descampsii Lindau, previously placed within sect. Stellatohirta M. Balkwill largely on account of its stellate indumentum, is transferred to sect. Cavirostrata together with the closely related B. grandipetala De Wild. and B. richardsiae I. Darbysh., the latter being formally described here. A key to the four eastern African species of the newly expanded sect. Cavirostrata is presented, together with taxonomic notes and conservation assessments for each species.
10.2307/4114448|Specimens made by Samuel Whitmee's collector, Frits Jensen, are discussed. Those labelled Niue are not all from that island and some, e.g. a sheet of Dysoxylum bijugum, were collected on Lifou, Loyalty Is. Records for Niue attributable to Jensen alone, including Myoporum niueanum St. John, based on such a specimen, which is referable to M. tenuifolium Forster f., are mostly based on material also collected on Lifou.
10.2307/4108101|Gomphostemma keralensis, a new species from South India is described.
20443302|Chassalia bipindensis Sonk, Nguembou & A. P. Davis (Rubiaceae), a new species from southern Cameroon, is described and illustrated. The conservation status and taxonomic affinities of the new species are discussed.
10.2307/4119381|Rhopalostroma gen. nov. is described to accommodate R. indicum sp. nov., the four species previously treated as Camillea africana Wakef., C. luzonensis Lloyd, Daldinia angolensis (Welw. & Curr.) Sacc. and Kretzschmaria sphaerocephala Petch, and an unamed species represented by inadequate material. The genus, which appears to be restricted to Africa and Asia, is characterized by stipitate dark brown to black stromata with often abruptly expanded convex heads, dark brown to black internal flesh (carbonaceous in the stipe) which is not concentrically layered, immersed perithecia with non-papillate ostioles formed in a single subcrustal layer, and evanescent asci which appear to be inamyloid in those species in which they have been studied. Rhopalostroma is perhaps most closely allied to the genus Thamnomyces of the subfamily Thamnomycetoideae in the Xylariaceae s.l.
23489197|Nassauvia falklandica (Compositae: Mutisieae: Nassauviinae), a new endemic herbaceous sub-shrub from the Falkland Islands, is described, illustrated and its conservation status assessed. N. falklandica is unique within the genus in possessing a row of pits towards the apex of the abaxial surface of its leaves; stomata and stiff white hairs are confined to these pits. This adaptation most likely reduces water loss in the sparsely vegetated feldmark habitats exposed to strong and drying winds in which it occurs. Its apparent restricted habitat preference contrasts in particular to the wide distribution of one of the other two Falkland endemic Nassauvia species, N. gaudichaudii. N. falklandica has an estimated world population of fewer than 250 mature individuals and is currently only known from two sites on West Falkland c. 34 km apart. Both sites are located on hill summits between 400 and 500 m altitude. The subpopulations are severely fragmented and at risk from genetic erosion, damage by livestock and stochastic events. N. falklandica is assessed as Critically Endangered B1ab(iii), B2ab(iii).
10.2307/4109657|Entada phaneroneura Brenan, Acacia erythrocalyx Brenan and A. tephrodermis Brenan are described and discussed.
10.2307/4103075|Reductions to synonymy are recorded in Momordica L. and Diplocyclos (Endl.) v. Post & Kuntze. Validly published for the first time are the names Eureiandra lasiandra sp. nov., Coccinia fernandesiana sp. nov., Coccinia subglabra sp. nov., Trochomeria subglabra sp. nov., Cucumis myriocarpus subsp. myriocarpus and subsp. leptodermis (Schweick.) C. Jeffrey & P. Halliday stat. nov., Zehneria scabra (Linn.f.) Sond. subsp. scabra and subsp. argyrea (A. Zimm.) comb. & stat. nov., var. argyrea and var. chirindensis var. nov., Kedrostis limpompensis sp. nov., Corallocarpus wildii sp. nov., and Peponium pageanum sp. nov. Cucumis zeyheri Sond. is re-established as a distinct species, and the circumscriptions of Zehneria oligosperma C. Jeffrey and Z. micro-sperma Hook.f. are revised. Evidence from seed-coat anatomy is presented for the correct generic disposition of Acanthosicyos naudinianus (Sond.) G. Jeffrey. A revision, with a key to species, is given of the southern African species of Corallocarpus Hook.f.
10.2307/4119388|A new species, Cryptodiaporthe pimentae Punithalingam & C. Booth is described and illustrated from culture derived from stem of Pimenta officinalis.
10.2307/4117684|The group of variants in sect. Elaeocarpus, for which Elaeocarpus stipularis Blume is the oldest name, is examined and some resolution offered for the great range of variation. comparisons are made with E. nitidus jack sensu lato. Both are found in Thailand, Peninsular Malaysia, Sumatra and Borneo while E. stipularis extends to Burma, Java & Bali, and the southern Philippines and perhaps also to Indochina. Comparisons are also made with the Borneo endemic E. barbulatus R. Knuth. Branched inflorescences are reported (for the first time?) in the genus. The following new names are proposed: in E. barbulatus: var. alternifolius Coode & var. kinabaluensis Coode; in E. nitidus: var. macrophyllus Coode & var. pseudovelutinus Coode; in E. stipularis: var. alticola Coode &. var. atjehensis Coode. The following new combinations are proposed in E. stipularis: var. brevipes (Merr.) Coode, var. castaneus (Merr.) Coode, var. longipetiolatus (Merr.) Coode, var. nutans (R. Knuth) Coode, var. rejangensis (R. Knuth) Coode, var. siamensis (Craib) Coode.
10.2307/4111205|The endemic and monotypic Somali genus Puntia is included in Endostemon sect. Diffusi. The new combination E. stenocaulis (Hedge) Ryding, A. J. Paton & Thulin is made, and a new species of the same section, E. racemosus Ryding, A. J. Paton & Thulin, is described. A detailed description of pericarp structures in E. racemosus is also given.
10.2307/4118040|Pseudoplantago bisteriliflora is described from Venezuela.
10.2307/4110696|The rattan palm, Calamus inops Becc., and the related taxa C. pedicellatus Becc., C. robinsonianus Becc. and C. orthostachyus Furt., that together form a natural group, are described in detail and their relationship with other species of Calamus discussed. Attention is drawn to the unreliability of local names of rattans and to the need for proper scientific vouchering of rattan research projects.
10.2307/4110571|16 species of Ocimum on mainland Africa are recognized and four new species are described. The relationships between Ocimum and neighbouring genera are discussed. A more natural classification of Ocimum and related genera is suggested, but not formally proposed as New World and Asiatic species have not been studied in detail. Ocimum in Africa is represented by two sections: sect. Ocimum and sect. Hierocymum Benth. The type section is divided into two subsections. O. circinatum probably belongs in sect. Ocimum on account of its stamen morphology, but it does not fall into either existing subsection. The calyx and nutlets of O. circinatum suggest that a new subsection should be circumscribed. However, this would be premature as a more extensive survey of related taxa is needed before proposing a new infrageneric classification. It is also suggested that sect. Hierocymum is not a natural group.
10.2307/4110920|A new species, Manilkara lososiana (Sapotaceae, Manilkareae), is described and illustrated. The new species is narrowly endemic to the Korup National Park in the Southwest Province of Cameroon, and its habitat, distribution and conservation are discussed.
10.2307/4114661|Nymphaea lotus L. is typified by an Alpino illustration.
10.2307/4111020|Cluster analyses and principal components analyses of selected morphological variables in the highly variable and widespread African species Dioscorea quartiniana A. Rich. and three putatively closely-related species were undertaken. The results showed that variation within D. quartiniana is continuous in all characters. D. crinita Hook. falls within this pattern of variation. It is impossible to produce a usable infraspecific classification as previous authors have attempted. D. knuthiana De Wild. and D. retusa Mast. are distinct species relatively easily distinguished in male flowering material.
10.2307/4118068|The genus Tylophoropsis, hitherto understood to comprise two species, T. heterophyllum and T. yemenensis, is reconsidered. A new East African species, T. erubescens Liede & Meve, is described. The two previously recognized species are combined into one variable species, T. heterophyllum. The affinities of Tylophora and Tylophoropsis are discussed.
10.2307/4117854|The correct application of the name Emilia coccinea (Sims) G. Don, to an eastern and southern tropical African subscapose species with long-appendaged style-arms, is established. For the distinct Guinean-Congo species to which this name has also been applied, the name Emilia lisowskiana C. Jeffrey is validly published. A key to the accepted species is provided.
10.2307/4111202| Examination of herbarium specimens of Lavandula species from Saharan massifs has revealed two distinct groups, here described as species. Lavandula antineae Maire occurs in Algeria, Niger, Chad and Sudan. Lavandula saharica occurs in Algeria and Libya and is described here. Within L. antineae, we recognise subsp. antineae from the Hoggar (Algeria) and Ar (Niger), subsp. tibestica from the Tibesti (Chad) and subsp. marrana from Jebel Marra (Sudan). 
10.2307/4114483|The South African terrestrial orchid Corycium nigrescens Sonder is newly reported from southern Tanzania. Its relationship to the recently described Corycium dracomontanum Schelpe & Parkman from South Africa and southern Malawi is commented upon.
10.2307/4118070|Cratylia bahiensis, a new species apparently endemic to semi-deciduous forests of central-southern Bahia, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4119372|A new species of Themeda, T. pseudotremula (Poaceae) is described and illustrated from Maharashtra, India.
10.2307/4110148|This contribution covers the genera Leptactina Hook. f. and Cuviera DC.; two new species are described, namely Leptactina epinyctios and Cuviera schliebenii; one new subspecies, Leptactina benguelensis subsp. pubescens is described and the combination Leptactina delagoensis subsp. bussei published.
10.2307/4108480|A new species, Plectranthus pseudomarrubioides R. H. Willemse, is described and two Coleus species are transferred to Plectranthus as Plectranthus coerulescens (Guerke) R. H. Willemse and P. kivuensis (Lebrun & Touss.) R. H. Willemse. For another species, commonly known as Coleus barbatus auct., Plectranthus comosus Sims (1822) appears to be the oldest name.
10.2307/4102906|The taxonomy, nomenclature and distribution of the genus Adenostemma J. R. & G. Forst. in the Indian region are discussed. Only a single species, A. lavenia (L.) Kuntze is recognized with eight varieties, for which a key is provided. Three new varietal combinations are made.
10.2307/4107855|Two species and three subspecies are recognised amongst taxa formerly included in Rothmannia fischeri (K. Schum.) Bullock.
10.2307/4111117|Three new species of Cola, C. cecidiifolia Cheek, C. metallica Cheek and C. suboppositifolia Cheek, all with simple-leaves and short-petioles, are described from western Cameroon and their conservation status is reviewed. A vegetative key to the 24 species of Cola known from Mt Cameroon, where all three species were originally discovered, is presented.
10.2307/4109938|A new species of Isachne is described and a key provided for the species in the New World.
10.2307/4110868|Sixty bark samples were collected from living trees at seven sites in different ecological regions of Belize and cultured in moist chambers. 37 species of myxomycetes were isolated all of which are new records for Belize. Twelve species are new records for Central America and two, Licea erectoides and Paradiacheopsis rigida, are new to the western hemisphere. The rare Physarum tropicale is recorded for the first time outside Mexico.
10.2307/4110826|The intron of the plastid rps16 gene was sequenced for 13 species in 11 genera of Burseraceae and three genera of Anacardiaceae. Parsimony analysis produced just three strongly supported trees. Canarieae and Protieae are shown to be monophyletic with 100% bootstrap support. Bursereae, however, are paraphyletic with two distinct clades corresponding to the subtribes. The hypothesised, but never formally recognised, close association between the genera Garuga and Boswellia is reinforced. The close association between the South American genus Bursera and African genus Commiphora is clearly demonstrated. The position of the recently discovered Beiselia is resolved as a distant sister to the rest of Burseraceae, which explains why previous authors found it enigmatic.
20443390|A revision of the New Guinea and South Pacific species of the genus Vitex sensu stricto is given. In this region, the genus comprises of seven species and two subspecies. Vitex cofassus Reinw. ex Blume and V. lucens Kirk are lectotypified, and nine names are placed into synonomy for the first time. A key, notes on ecology, distribution, local uses, vernacular names and conservation status assessments are given.
23216729|In the course of reconstructing the Brazilian herbarium of Prince Maximilian of Wied, several species were found in the literature which need either correction or clarification. Problems include priority considerations, authority of species names, conflicting typifications and other errors. This paper reports 12 currently accepted species collected by Prince Maximilian in Brazil, commenting on their taxonomic status and nomenclature. Included are type specimens of Andromeda ambigua Schrad. (lecto and isolectotypes; = Agarista revoluta (Spreng.) Hook. f. ex Nied.), Andromeda crassifolia Nees (lecto and isolectotypes; = Agarista revoluta), Aphelandra marginata Nees & Mart. (lecto and isolectotypes), Aphelandra maximiliana (Nees) Benth. (lecto and isolectotypes), Ceiba ventricosa (Nees & Mart.) Ravenna (lectotype), Cinnamodendron axillare (Nees) Endl. ex Walp. (lecto and isolectotypes), Croton gnaphaloides Schrad. (lecto and isolectotype), C. klaenzei Mll. Arg. (holotype), Geissomeria nitida (Nees & Mart.) Nees & Mart. (lecto and isolectotypes), Nectandra squarrosa Nees var. pyrifolia Nees (lecto and isolectotypes; = Ocotea squarrosa (Nees) Mez), Ocotea squarrosa (lecto and isolectotypes), Pavonia semiserrata (Schrad.) Steud. (lecto and isolectotypes), Stenandrium serpens Nees (lecto and isolectotypes), Zollernia falcata Wied-Neuw. & Nees (lecto and isolectotypes; = Z. glabra (Spreng.) Yakovlev) and Z. splendens Wied-Neuw. & Nees (lectotype; = Z. glabra). Additionally, a new name, Aphelandra verrugensis P. L. R. Moraes, is proposed to replace Synandra amoena Schrad., which is the oldest name of the taxon currently known as Aphelandra ignea Nees.
23216085|In most taxonomic revisions of Stylosanthes Sw., Stylosanthes gracilis Kunth has been regarded as a variety or even a synonym of S. guianensis (Aubl.) Sw. This has created considerable confusion among scientists working with the latter species which is an agriculturally important tropical forage and cover legume. This study collected taxonomically relevant evidence, for evaluating S. gracilis as a valid species. Since the type specimen is lost, a collection from the same location as the original type is proposed here as a neotype.
20649603|Taxonomic and phylogenetic studies of the Neotropical genus Lophostachys showed that it is congeneric with Lepidagathis. The following new combinations of species previously described under Lophostachys are proposed: Lepidagathis chiapensis (Acosta) Kameyama, L. cyanea (Leonard) Kameyama, L. guatemalensis (Donn. Sm.) Kameyama, L. laxifolia (Nees) Kameyama, L. montana (Nees) Kameyama, L. nemoralis (Mart. ex Nees) Kameyama, L. soconuscana (T. F. Daniel) Kameyama, and L. uxpanapensis (Acosta) Kameyama. Five new species are described: Lepidagathis callistachys, L. cuneiformis, L. meridionalis, L. paraensis and L. wasshausenii. Three lectotypes are also designated. A key to the Neotropical secundiflorous species is provided.
10.2307/4110454|The pollen morphology of 14 species, 6 subspecies and 4 varieties of Neuracanthus Nees is described and illustrated with light, scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The pollen is oblate to prolate spheroidal, 3-colporate, tectate fine perforate. It is distinguished by its lack of distinctive features, unusual within the highly eurypalynous family Acanthaceae. The pollen is unlike that of the suggested relatives of Neuracanthus. The genus appears to be palynologically isolated within the family, with relatively unspecialized pollen.
10.2307/4110269| Euphorbia yunnanensis described only 3 years ago, has been found to be synonymous with E. duclouxii Lv. & Vaniot. 
10.2307/4114719|This revision of the arrow-poison genus Acokanthera G. Don includes a discussion on its lectotypification and an illustrated account of morphological variation within the genus. The five species recognised are A. schimperi (A. DC.) Schweinf., A. oppositifolia (Lam.) Codd, A. laevigata Kupicha sp. nov., A. rotundata (Codd) Kupicha stat. nov. and A. oblongifolia (Hochst.) Codd; they are keyed out, described and mapped.
10.2307/4110067|The pollen morphology of 7 species of the genus Tapiphyllum Robyns has been studied. The pollen exine is uniform in structure throughout the genus. It is oblate-spheroidal and tricolporate or triporate. T. parvifolium has pollen grains smaller than those of the rest of the genus. T. schumannianum subsp. schumannianum has tricolporate pollen while subsp. mucronulatum has triporate pollen. It is concluded that pollen morphology is not a very useful character for the classification of the Vanguerieae.
23216733|Two new species of Rutaceae, Conchocarpus hamadryadicus Pirani & Kallunki and C. minutiflorus Groppo & Pirani are described and illustrated. Both are known so far only from small remnants of forests, the former in the caatinga dominium in Bahia, the latter in moist forests near Santa Teresa, Esprito Santo, Brazil. Their main diagnostic features are delineated, and their relationships to other species of Conchocarpus are discussed. Because Rauia racemosa Nees & Mart. can no longer be recognised as a synonym of Conchocarpus fontanesianus (A. St.-Hil.) Kallunki & Pirani, a new combination, C. racemosus (Nees & Mart.) Kallunki & Pirani, is provided, with comments.
10.2307/4110668|Five new species, Aristida leptura, A. pycnostachya, A. tenuiseta, Eragrostis incrassata, and E. tridentata are described from Somalia. Keys to species of Aristida and Eragrostis in Somalia are provided.
10.2307/4110234|The new species Eriocaulon thysanocephalum is described from Ceylon. It is related to E. quinquangulare L., a widespread species in the Indian subcontinent. Additionally, the seed coat morphology of E. walkeri and the recently described species E. catopsioides is discussed.
10.2307/4119399|A review is given of the synonymy, characteristics and differentiating diagnostic criteria of Phoma glomerata, P. jolyana, P. jolyana var. circinata (Kuznetz.) comb. nov., P. , pomorum and P. sorghina. A synopsis of the taxonomic position of all the Peyronellaeas mentioned in literature is added.
10.2307/4109556|Two new species of Corchorus are described, C. africanus Bari from Tanzania and C. gillettii Bari from Kenya.
10.2307/4110650|A new moist forest species of Ormocarpum (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae) from eastern Tanzania is described. It is closely related to the Guineo-Congolian Ormocarpum megalophyllum, and the phytogeographical implications of this relationship are briefly discussed.
10.2307/4110608|The genus Plaesianthera (C. B. Clarke) Livera is transferred to Brillantaisia P. Beauv. for taxonomic reasons based mainly on floral morphology. P. thwaitesii (T. Anders.) Livera based on Adenosma thwaitesii T. Anders. (= Cardanthera thwaitesii (T. Anders.) Benth.), a Ceylonese (Sri Lankan) plant, becomes Brillantaisia thwaitesii (T. Anders.) Cramer, comb. nov., which establishes in Asia a new record for Brillantaisia hitherto considered to be an African genus.
23044631|South West Western Australia has a rich endemic flora of global significance. The threats facing this floral diversity are increasing in type, severity and scale, demonstrated by the rising numbers of species threatened with extinction. In particular, the root-rot pathogen Phytophthora cinnamomi is causing widespread destruction, threatening the survival of many of the region's unique plants. In situ conservation of wild plants is considered the most essential component of a flora conservation program, but the ability to conserve some species adequately is often unachievable in the short term and urgent management intervention is required to prevent extinction. We present data on the status and management of wild populations of four threatened species from the region, including an ex situ program, and describe our efforts to bridge the gap between these two components. Such inter situ conservation recovery work enables monitoring of biological attributes, research into reproductive biology and collection of genetic material for further ex situ conservation, and provides the source of material for future restoration of wild populations.
10.2307/4110878|The new species Melanospora pegleri D. Hawksw. & Henrici is described from fallen leaves of Laurus nobilis in Buckingham Palace Garden where it also occurs on fallen leaves of Camellia and Rhododendron. The species, which is associated with a presumed Papulaspora-like anamorph, is also known from Laurus leaves in Essex, from which it was previously erroneously reported under the name M. chionea. Additional collections of M. longisetosa are cited from fallen Laurus and other leaves and other woody substrates in the Palace grounds; these enable additional information on the variability of that species to be presented.
10.2307/4109854|The genus Neuropoa is described, and Danthorhiza discussed. Pseudobromus, Danthoniastrum and Sinochasea are reduced to synonymy. The combinations Deschampsia minor, Festuca africana, Helictotrichon canescens, Metcalfia compacta, Neuropoa fax, Ortachne erectifolia and Pseudodanthonia trigyna are made.
10.2307/4119732|Aloe populations from Eritrea and Tanzania, formerly considered to represent a single species, are shown to be different and a new name, Aloe eumassawana, is provided for the Eritrean plants.
10.2307/4109625|Hermannia testacea is described as new from Ethiopia, and its relationship to H. tigreensis Hochst. ex A. Rich, is discussed.
20649670|A generic description of the dioecious genus Pancheria (Cunoniaceae) from New Caledonia is accompanied by notes on the morphology of the leaves, stipules, inflorescences, flowers and fruits. Descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps and conservation assessments are provided for each of three new species. Pancheria mcphersonii occurs on Mts Pani, Colnett and Ignambi in north-eastern Grande Terre, in dense low forest and montane scrub on soils derived from mica-schist (non-ultramafic). Pancheria dognyensis grows on the Plateau de Dogny in central New Caledonia and on Roche Ouame and Mt Mandjlia in the north-east, in forest and especially at the forest edge, also on non-ultramafic substrates. Pancheria ajiearoana is found in central Grande Terre, in scrub on ultramafic soils. Because all three species are restricted to a small number of areas at high elevation, climate change is one of the threats that justifies giving each of them a preliminary conservation status of Endangered; as global temperatures increase, the area of habitat with a microclimate suitable for these species is likely to decrease.
10.2307/4111013|The African Scytopetalaceae, hitherto described as exstipulate, do in fact produce minute, early-caducous stipules. This supports the inclusion of the stipulate American genus Asteranthos in Scytopetalaceae.
10.2307/4103039| Four unusual new species of Hyptis from South America are described and illustrated. Of the three Brazilian species, two are from Bahia and one from Rondnia. The fourth species is from relictual savannas within the Guyana Highland of Venezuela. 
10.2307/4110984|Analysis of sequence data for the chloroplast encoded genes rbcL and matK for 40 taxa representing all conifer families and subfamilies, rooted on Ginkgo biloba, provides robust support for the family concepts of Araucariaceae, Cupressaceae sensu lato, Pinaceae and Sciadopityaceae. Whereas Phyllocladus and Cephalotaxus are robustly linked with, but separated from Podocarpaceae sensu stricto and Taxaceae, respectively, these distinctions decay at far fewer steps (+3.7 and +1.7 steps, respectively) than do any of the other families (>25 steps). It is argued that neither of these monogeneric families, Phyllocladaceae and Cephalotaxaceae, is warranted, and that recognition of a more broadly defined Podocarpaceae and Taxaceae is more informative of the relationships among conifers. The analysis provides strong support for Wollemia being sister to Agathis, rather than it being the first diverging lineage within the family. It also strongly supports sister relationships between Araucariaceae and Podocarpaceae, between Cupressaceae sensu lato and Taxaceae sensu lato, and between the latter clade and Sciadopityaceae. Pinaceae are strongly supported as the first lineage of extant conifers to diverge.
10.2307/4111076|A new species of Licuala is described from Papua New Guinea that combines several unique characters for the genus such as a more than 4 m long pendent inflorescence and a three-ridged endocarp.
10.2307/4114592|3 annual herbaceous species of Euphorbia from East Africa, 2 tuberous-rooted perennial herbs and a woody shrub are described as new.
10.2307/4111156| A small discomycete growing on dung-inhabiting pyrenomycetes is shown to have been first described by Velenovsky under the name Ascophanus tityrii Velen. Its generic placement is discussed and a new combination in Unguiculella Hhn. is proposed. The species is redescribed based on type and recent material and shown to be widely distributed from Central and Western Europe to Sweden, Greenland and the USA. It shows marked interpopulational variability in hymenial and hair characteristics. Marked variability occurs also between southern material and specimens from Greenland. 
20649607|The new species Cibirhiza spiculata Thulin & Goyder, from Acacia-Commiphora bushland on sand in the Somali National Regional State (Ogaden) of Ethiopia, is described and illustrated. Its conservation status has been assessed. A molecular phylogenetic analysis confirms its placement in the tribe Fockeeae and indicates a position of the new species as sister to C. albersiana. The almost obsolete anther appendages, the outer corona with spreading lobes, as well as the pollinia with apparently single pollen grains, also support its placement in Cibirhiza. However, C. spiculata differs markedly from both previously known species of this genus (C. dhofarensis in Oman and Yemen and C. albersiana in Tanzania and Zambia) by its narrowly linear, subsessile leaves and by the inner corona lobes that are curved inwards over the gynostegium and each ending in a spinulose head.
20443245|A phylogenetic classification of Phyllanthaceae Martynov (Malpighiales) is presented. Phyllanthaceae are one of five segregates of Euphorbiaceae sensu lato recognised at family level by the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group. The family contains c. 2000 species in 59 presently accepted genera, 10 tribes and two subfamilies. This new classification is based on molecular studies using DNA sequence data of nuclear PHYC and plastid atpB, matK, ndhF and rbcL in conjunction with morphological characters. The main division into two strongly supported clades is not reflected in previous classifications, although the racemose clade (Antidesmatoideae) roughly corresponds to Antidesmateae + Bischofieae + Hymenocardieae sensu Webster. The fasciculate clade (Phyllanthoideae sensu stricto) contains all remaining tribes of Phyllanthoideae sensu Webster. Composition of the tribes differs considerably from previous classifications. Tribe Jablonskieae and subtribe Keayodendrinae are newly described. Richeriella is subsumed in Flueggea and the new genus Plagiocladus is described. Phyllanthus sensu lato is monophyletic excluding Plagiocladus and including Breynia, Glochidion, Phyllanthodendron, Recherchonia and Sauropus. Descriptions of the suprageneric taxa recognized are provided.
10.2307/4110963|The species of Dioscoreaceae known from Namibia (Caprivi Strip), Botswana, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Malawi and Mozambique (the Flora Zambesiaca area) are listed and described, with full regional synonymy. Keys are provided to facilitate the identification of male, female (fruiting) and sterile material. Notes on nomenclature, ecology and uses are also provided. One new combination is made, D. preussii Pax subsp. hylophila (Harms) Wilkin, and D. preussii subsp. preussii is recorded for the first time from South-Central Africa in Mozambique.
23489191|To advance ongoing revisionary research on the neotropical genus Swartzia, we studied herbarium collections from the southern Amazonian Craton of Brazil. Among these collections four previously undocumented species were discovered: Swartzia lanata, S. prancei, S. rugosa and S. rondoniensis, each individually diagnosable and endemic to the region. In this paper we provide formal descriptions for these and make a new combination for a fifth, S. arumateuana. The new species are known from few collections and are divided evenly among sections Recurvae and Terminales, the two most speciose sections of the genus in the region. This study provides further evidence that the southern Amazonian Craton, while less central to the diversification of Swartzia than the Guiana Shield, is nevertheless important both as an area of species diversity and endemism. Como parte da pesquisa em andamento com Swartzia, um gnero neotropical, estudamos colees de herbrios oriundas da poro sul do Crton Amazonas do Brasil. Durante as anlises destas colees, foram descobertas quatro espcies inditas para a cincia, Swartzia lanata, S. prancei, S. rondoniensis e S. rugosa, todas elas so morfologicamente distinguveis e endmicas de determinada regio. Neste trabalho, so fornecidas descries formais para cada uma das espcies propostas e tambm  efetuada uma nova combinao para uma quinta, S. arumateuana. As espcies novas aqui propostas esto representadas nos herbrios por apenas poucos espcimes. Destas quatro espcies novas, duas pertencem a seo Recurvae e duas a seo Terminales, as duas sees mais diversas do gnero na regio. Este estudo fornece uma evidncia adicional de que o sul do Crton Amazonas, apesar de no ocupar um papel to central na diversificao de Swartzia, como ocorre com o Crton das Guianas, , contudo, importante como uma rea com alta diversidade de espcies e endemismo.
10.2307/4117862|Pachy carpus fulvus (N. E. Br.) Bullock is conspecific with P. viridiflorus E. Mey. which is here transferred to Asclepias.
10.2307/4117263|A list of fungi of the Azores with notes on their distribution in Europe, the Americas and other continents is given. Critical notes are given on some taxa, and fifteen new species, two new varieties and two new forms are described. There are three new combinations. A short list of fungi collected around Funchal, Madeira, is appended.
10.2307/4102909| In Acalypha, a new species is described, a further note on allomorphic  flowers is included, and A. segetalis is recorded for the first time from Ethiopia and E. Africa; in Alchornea, one species is reduced to synonymy; in Argomuellera, a new section and a new species are described; in Croton there is a new African record; in Holstia there is a new record for Kenya; in Margaritaria, a new variety is described; in Meineckia there is a new varietal record and a considerable subspecific range extension; Paranecepsia, a new genus, is described and figured from Tanzania and Mozambique; and Tannodia is recorded from East Africa for the first time. 
20443296|The species of Ilex in New Guinea can be arranged in two similar-sized groups based on whether the inflorescence is racemose or not racemose. The racemose species are revised here and comprise five species and one variety. Ilex toroidea, I. obovata and I. malaccensis var. ferruginifolia are described as new.
10.2307/4114519|I. sofomarensis, a new species close to I. garckeana Vatke, is described from SE Ethiopia.
10.2307/4118870|Thirty two species of corticioid fungi (Basidiomycota) are recorded from Brunei Darussalam, belonging to the Hericiales, Hymenochaetales, Lachnocladiales, and Stereales sensu lato. The genera Pileodon and Scopulodontia (Stereales) are described as new, to accommodate the new species Pileodon megaspora and Scopulodontia loricata. Hyphoderma effractum, Mucronella belalongensis, and Peniophora bruneiensis are described as new. The new combination Botryodontia subglobosa is proposed. Hymenochaete cacao is considered a synonym of H. adusta; Hyphodontia formosana is considered a synonym of Botryodontia denticulata.
10.2307/4108100|The tree-ferns collected on the Kew Expedition to Mt Roraima in 1978, and on the first Kako River Expedition in 1979, are described, including the new species Cyathea akawaiorum, also other species from Mt Roraima represented by specimens in the Herbarium at Kew, with topographic and ecological observations. R. M. Tryon's classification of the family Cyatheaceae is discussed, with the conclusion that his generic concepts are unacceptable. This conclusion is based in part on a consideration of the status of C. akawaiorum which has several characters in common with other species placed in three separate genera by Tryon. A comprehensive genus Cyathea (including all the species here dealt with) is regarded as preferable, and a tentative new subdivision of part of the genus is proposed.
10.2307/4111119|Cola lukei Cheek is described from the Usambara Mts, Tanzania, and its affinities with species in the Kenyan coastal forest and the Udzungwa Mts of Tanzania are discussed.
10.2307/4110085|A checklist of the orchids of the Central African Republic is provided. 130 species in 39 genera are listed. Six genera and 18 species are recorded for the first time. The affinities of the orchid flora lie predominantly with tropical West Africa. The orchid flora is discussed with reference to the vegetation of the country.
10.2307/4113610|Habenaria ramayyana sp. nov. from Andhra Pradesh state, India, is described.
10.2307/4118883|A new species of Ceropegia, C. inornata P. R. O. Bally ex Masinde, is described and illustrated. It is characterised by a tuberous rootstock, and a greenish or purplish inconspicuously coloured corolla with glabrous lobe margins. It is a member of the C. linearis E. Mey. complex. Distribution, variation and conservation status are discussed.
10.2307/4109174|The distribution patterns of species of Gramineae from the mountains of tropical Africa are clustered with the aid of a computer, and a classification is proposed. The bearing of this classification on the problems of dispersal is discussed.
10.2307/4108553|Rescue Grass, native of South America and now found as an adventive in most temperate regions, should be treated as a single species, Bromus unioloides, from which B. willdenowii is not specifically separable.
23489202|The central African genus Blighiopsis (Sapindaceae) has until now contained a single species, which occurs in forest in Congo (Kinshasa). Analysis of the characters that distinguish between Blighiopsis and Haplocoelum indicates that the recently described H. gabonicum from forest in Gabon and Congo (Brazzaville) is a second species of Blighiopsis. The new combination Blighiopsis gabonica is published, a lectotype is chosen, and a revised distribution map is provided. A distinctive feature of this plant is the presence of two vestigial, filiform leaflets on the petiole. Reports of polyphyly in Haplocoelum based on molecular data require verification.
10.2307/4110242|A new species, Collaea cipoensis, from Minas Gerais state, Brazil is described and illustrated. A key separating it from related species is presented.
10.2307/4119298|The ten species of Elaeocarpus of the Coilopetalum group from Sulawesi (Celebes) and Maluku (the Moluccas) are discussed and sixteen taxa keyed out and accounted for. Six new species are described: E. balgooyi Coode, E. batui Coode, E. takolensis Coode, E. erdinii Coode and E. harunii Coode, all from Sulawesi, and E. seramicus Coode from Maluku. E. lancipetalus Merr. is resuscitated (from the synonymy of E. branderhorstii Pulle) and two new subspecies, subsp. mediocris Coode from maluku and subsp. tuberculatus Coode from Obi I., are described; E. macropus Warb. is recognised and a new subspecies thenui Coode is described; E. octopelatus Merr. is recognised and two new subspecies subsp. darnaedii Coode and subsp. teruyae Coode from Sulawesi are described; E. rumphii Merr. is recognised and E. moluccanus Scheff. & E. minahassensis R. Knuth are sunk into it. E. crenatus (Raf.) Merr., based on Rumphius' Arbor rediviva, is listed as inadequately known.
10.2307/4111011|Aconitum lonchodontum Hand.-Mazz. is reduced to the synonymy of Aconitum hemsleyanum E. Pritz.
10.2307/4110864|A new family, Roesleriaceae, is proposed for two genera of discomycetes, Roesleria and Roeslerina, usually forming stipitate ascomata on plant roots, sometimes causing disease, with ascospores released into a mazaedium (spore mass) over the ascomata. The ascomata generally lack an excipulum or sometimes have a very reduced hyaline excipulum as the extension of the outer layers of the stipe. The non-lichenised habit, usually hypogeous development, and the structure of the ascomata characterise the family. Comparison of Roesleriaceae with other families formerly referred to in Caliciales, an order in which the mazaediate discomycetes were placed, is made and discussion on distinction between them presented. An updated description for Roesleria is provided. Nomenclature of the type species, R. hypogaea, is briefly discussed and a new combination, Sclerophora pallida, is proposed for the nomenclaturally related lichenised fungi. A new species of Roeslerina, R. media, is also described from a recent collection made in Hertfordshire, England. The new species differs from the other two known species of the genus most notably in ascospore size. A key to distinguish the species of Roeslerina is provided.
23044629|Ecological and biological characteristics of eight, endemic, economically important, Georgian Red Data species (Convallaria transcaucasica Utkin ex Grossh., Cyclamen colchicum (Albov) Albov, Dioscorea caucasica Lipsky, Erythronium caucasicum Woronow, Gymnospermium smirnowii (Trautv.) Takht., Iris iberica Hoffm, Paeonia mlokosewitschii Lomak and Tulipa eichleri Regel) were studied. The current status of wild populations was assessed throughout their distributional area; exact locations of target populations were recorded using GPS, and fertility and vitality of individual populations were evaluated. Structural aspects of seed formation were studied, reproduction capacity was calculated, and the ratio of seed production (actual seed-forming capacity) to the number of ovules (potential seed-forming capacity) was determined. Optimum periods for the collection of mature seeds were identified for each target species. Seed germinability, sprouting capacity and potential for seedling development were tested experimentally in the laboratory on Petri dishes, in pots and outdoors. Ex situ conservation activities have been carried out: a seed bank was established and a stock of seedlings was produced for the purpose of in situ restoration of species with high conservation value.
24717350|A preliminary inventory of the species belonging to macrofungal genera Lentinus and Panus within the Dja Biosphere Reserve and its periphery brings to light the identification of nine species; Lentinus cladopus, L. retinervis, L. sajor-caju, L. squarrosulus, Panus courtetianus, P. fasciatus, P. similis, P. fulvus and Panus cf. ciliatus. L. retinervis is recorded for the first time in Africa, and P. courtetianus is a new combination. An identification key and the main characteristics of Lentinus and Panus species of the Dja Biosphere Reserve are presented.
23216197|Striga magnibracteata Eb. Fisch. & I. Darbysh. is newly described from the Guinean savannas of eastern Guine and southwestern Mali. Its affinity to S. klingii (Engl.) Skan, S. dalzielii Hutch. and S. macrantha (Benth.) Benth. is discussed and its conservation status is assessed.
10.2307/4119426|Thuemenidium berteroi (Mont.) comb. nov.; Heyderia agariciphila sp. nov.; Scleromitrula ushuaiae (Rehm) comb. nov., and S. viridis sp. nov. are proposed.
10.2307/4111046|A new species, Grewia balensi. Kirkup & Sebsebe (Tiliaceae) is described from Ethiopia, Somalia and Kenya in the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism (White 1983).
10.2307/4107737|A partial account of new taxa of Kielmeyera Martius, especially the supra-specific hierarchies and their respective type-species, is offered. Subgenus Dendrodoxa is described in contradistinction to Subgen. Kielmeyera, as well as eleven Sections, namely Kielmeyera Retrorsanthera, Anisocalyx, Coriaceae, Petiolares, Vaga, Platypleura, Prolifera, Callodendron, Brachyanthera and Dictyophyllum, are recognized within the genus. The rank of series is established within Sections Coriaceae (Series Coriaceae, Corymbosae and Paniculatae) and Prolifera (Series Rugosae, Neglectae, Marauenses and Rupestres). The type-species of the new supraspecific groups are also described; these are: K. cuspidata, K. anisosepala, K. juruenensis, K. neglecta, K. marauensis and K. appariciana. In addition, the new var. neglectiifolia of K. neglecta is also proposed.
10.2307/4110905|The genus Zollernia Wied-Neuw. & Nees is revised. The existing 20 species and two varieties are reduced to 9 species. One new species from Suriname (Z. surinamensis) is described, giving a total of 10 species for the genus. Z. splendens is placed in synonymy under Z. glabra, and Z. latifolia under Z. ilicifolia. Z grandifolio and Z. kanukuensis are newly recorded for Brazil.
10.2307/4110547|The status of varieties in Croton capitis-york Airy Shaw from Cape York Peninsula, Australia is discussed with the variety C. capitis-york var. pilosus Airy Shaw placed in the synonymy of the species. An amplified description of C. captis-york is provided.
4110893|A new species of Philodendron (P. carinatum E. G. Gone.) is described, illustrated and compared with other similar species. It belongs to the subgenus Philodendron section Calostigma (Schott) Pfeiffer and seems to be most similar to the Venezuelan P. wurdackii G. S. Bunting and the Peruvian P. angustialatum Engl. However, P. carinatum differs from both species in having triovulate locules (not uniovulate), and also in having the flowering internodes flattened laterally and strongly attached to the host tree (not cylindrical and loosely attached). This new species is so far known only from the type locality and seems to be rare even there.
10.2307/4111074|As a result of recent molecular systematic research, generic delimitation within a clade of four palm genera in subtribe Arecinae (Arecaceae: Arecoideae: Areceae) is reappraised. Due to the polyphyly of Gulubia and Gronophyllum, and the position of Siphokentia and Hydriastele within the clade, the four genera are here reduced to a single, more broadly defined genus, Hydriastele. The rather uniform morphology of the group supports this taxonomic change. A synopsis of the 48 currently accepted species is provided, including 34 new combinations, two new names and one new species, H. boumae W. J. Baker & D. Watling.
10.2307/4117777|The new species A. humidicola S. M. Phillips is described from Tanzania. It is illustrated and its taxonomic position discussed.
10.2307/4103026|A key is given to the 19 species of Disperis known from East Africa; D. uzungwae and D. elaphoceras are described as new.
10.2307/4107751|A study of botanical literature has led to the confirmation that the commonly cultivated plant known as Duranta repens L. to many botanists should be called D. erecta L.
10.2307/4114462|The pollen morphology of two new East African species of Fernandoa, F. abbreviata and F. lutea, is described from light, scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The pollen morphology of the three other African species has also been examined. The pollen grains of all species examined are trizonocolpate, isopolar with long colpi and a reticulate tectum. The colpi, unusually, show more or less regular ruptures, usually two or three, in the acetolysis-resistant colpus membrane. Small differences between the pollen of the five species support recent taxonomic changes. The possible function and adaptive significance of this rare colpus type is discussed. New data are provided from transmission electron microscopy.
20649611|Erythroxylum longisetulosum I. Loiola & M. F. Sales and E. timothei I. Loiola & M. F. Sales (sect. Rhabdophyllum) from north-eastern Brazil are described and illustrated, and their taxonomic and ecological relationships are discussed.
10.2307/4110629|A full description is given of the hitherto poorly known NE African monotypic genus Bottegoa, and a multidisciplinary approach is used to determine its taxonomic position. Clearly, Bottegoa is very atypical of Sapindaceae, in which family the genus has been accommodated since its first description in 1916. Pollen morphology suggests a place in the Ptaeroxylaceae, Rutaceae or Simaroubaceae. On account of macromorphological, leaf, wood and seed anatomical features Bottegoa is more satisfactorily placed in the Ptaeroxylaceae. Including Bottegoa, this small family is morphologically more or less intermediate between the Rutaceae and the Simaroubaceae. The genus Harrisonia, another awkward taxon with affinity to Simaroubaceae and Rutaceae, might be its closest relative. Phytochemical (quassinoids, limonoids, ptaeroxylines) and molecular work (rbcL sequences) on the Ptaeroxylaceae, including Bottegoa, is needed to throw more light on their apparently very close relationship with the Simaroubaceae and the Rutaceae.
24717380|Malvaceae is diverse in the cerrados of the Chiquitania region of Eastern Bolivia from where three new species are described: Pavonia chiquitensis J. R. I. Wood, P. filiformis J. R. I. Wood and Sida graniticola J. R. I. Wood. A description is provided for the little-known Sida multicrena Hochr., recorded in Bolivia for the first time. All four species are illustrated and their conservation status is assessed.
20649557|Trigonobalanus verticillata Forman was found in central Hainan Island, South China, during a survey in 2005. The taxon was previously only recorded from Malaysia and Indonesia. It is characterised by having leaves arranged in whorls of three and trigonous cupules that are opposite or in whorls. The importance of this discovery is briefly discussed.
10.2307/4117816|The pollen of 86 species in the tribe Indigofereae is studied with the aim of re-evaluating the pollen groups of Ferguson & Strachan (1982) by reference to the cladistic analysis presented by Schrire (1995). Additional characters are used to distinguish pollen types and many more species are examined to represent all genera and infrageneric taxa of African Indigofera, Species in conflict between Ferguson & Strachan's pollen types and the classification proposed by Schrire (1995) are re-examined and phenetic analysis is applied to characters to seek an empirical basis for selecting pollen groups. Vaughania pollen is described for the first time.
23489153|The name Hoya burmanica Rolfe is lectotypified choosing the only specimen seen by Rolfe that could be traced in herbaria. In addition, an extended description and an illustration from recently collected living material are provided, the distribution area is amended and differences with related species are clarified.
10.2307/4117597|A. hainesii is described as a new species of Arum distinct from the closely related A. conophalloides by characters of the spadix.
20443375|A new species Trachys copeana (Poaceae) from Tamil Nadu, India is described and illustrated.
24717381|Two new species are described, based on study of herbarium specimens: Cyperus bonariensis from the southern Caribbean, closely related to C. caesius, and C. stergiosii, related to C. guianensis, from Venezuela and Bolivia.
10.2307/4114447|The type of Euphorbia obovalifolia A. Rich., a name applied to a widely distributed forest tree, is identified as E. abyssinica Gmel. The forest tree must be called E. ampliphylla Pax.
20443360|The West African species Ixora modesta Hiern is transferred to Pavetta: Pavetta modesta (Hiern) S. E. Dawson.
23489146|A new species of Chlorophytum is described and illustrated. The species is allied to Chlorophytum arundinaceum Baker but differs in its roots possessing root buds and ellipsoid tubers, its pedicels being jointed above the middle, perianth lobes 3  5-nerved and filaments shorter than anthers. In addition to sexual reproduction, the species propagates through formation of buds on roots, which grow into new plants. The chromosome number of the species is 2n = 42.
10.2307/4111077| Four new orchid species, Angraecopsis thomensis, Dinklageella scandens, Polystachya prindpia, and Stohia thomensis from the islands of So Tom and Principe are described and illustrated. 
20649604|A revision of the Malagasy endemic species complex of yams (Dioscorea L.) which possesses flowers with campanulate tori is presented with keys and full descriptions. It comprises six species that were placed in Dioscorea sect. Seriflorae Burkill & H. Perrier and D. sect. Campanuliflorae Burkill & H. Perrier in the Flore de Madagascar et des Comores treatment. D. decaryana H. Perrier does not belong in the species complex. One species (D. kimiae Wilkin) is described and illustrated for the first time. It is found in light gaps in humid evergreen forest near Ambanizana on the Masoala peninsula and near Ranomafana in Fianarantsoa Prefecture. Recent collections demonstrate that D. madecassa H. Perrier and D. karatana Wilkin are conspecific, as are D. seriflora Jum. & H. Perrier and D. tanalarum H. Perrier. Three accepted species names (D. maciba Jum. & H. Perrier, D. seriflora Jum. & H. Perrier and D. tsaratananensis H. Perrier and two placed in synonymy (D. bararum H. Perrier and D. ovifotsy H. Perrier) are lectotypified. The species complex comprises one common, widespread species from deciduous Western vegetation, one widespread in humid eastern forests, and four with restricted distributions in evergreen forests of the Central Highlands and East of Madagascar. Their diversity and systematics are discussed.
10.2307/4114624|Preparation of accounts of Grammitidaceae in the Pacific and for Flora Malesiana and Flora of Australia necessitate the publication of the following 15 new combinations.
10.2307/4117067| On grounds of morphology and anatomy, it is shown that the monotypic South East Asian genus Pottingeria, hitherto referred to the Escalloniaceae, must be excluded from that family. It is pointed out for the first time that Pottingeria possesses stipules. A closer affinity with the Flacourtiaceae and Celastraceae is suggested, and the genus is finally transferred to the latter family, as the new subfamily Pottingeriodeae. All known collections are cited, and a new variety of the single species, P. acuminata var. latifolia, is described from Siam. The anatomy of twig and leaf and the morphology of the pollen are described, but give little help in elucidating the correct taxonomic position. 
10.2307/4114516|A new endemic species Catanthera nummularia Bygrave, is described from Brunei. This brings the total number of species of Catanthera F. Muell. to 17, 8 occurring in Borneo (7 endemic). The key to the genus Catanthera (Nayar 1982: 38 - 39) is amended to accommodate this new species.
10.2307/4103166|The history of the discovery and classification of the pachycaul Senecio species (He- and She-Cabbage Trees) of St. Helena is outlined, their branching and wood are described, a new name is proposed for the She-Cabbage Tree, and descriptions of the trees are presented.
10.2307/4117113|Oberonia longitepala, a new species from Papua New Guinea is described.
20649652|Two new species of Euploca (Heliotropiaceae): E. krapovickasii J. I. M. Melo & Semir and E. pottii J. I. M. Melo & Semir are described for Brazil, and 12 new combinations are proposed in neotropical Euploca. Discussions of taxonomic relationships based on morphology, with illustrations and information on geographical distribution, flowering and fruiting phenology are presented.
23489198|The jewel orchid Cheirostylis pusilla Lindl. is newly recorded from Hong Kong, a significant distance from Yunnan Province, the only other confirmed locality for the species in China. A full description, photos and line drawings are presented for this hitherto poorly known species, and its conservation status is assessed. Cheirostylis malleifera C. S. P. Parish & Rchb. f. is shown to be a later synonym.
10.2307/4109585|Three species of the genus Octamyrtus Diels are recognised. O. lanceolata C. T. White is reduced to a synonym of O. pleiopetala (F. Muell.) Diels, and O. glomerata C. T. White is reduced to a synonym of O. insignis Diels, while O. arfakensis C. T. White is treated as a variety of O. pleiopetala. O. elegans (Blume) van Steenis is excluded to Rhodomyrtus (DC.) Hassk.
10.2307/4103083|Descriptions and illustrations are given of four new species of Scilla: S. khorassanica, S. gorganensis and S. koelzii from Iran and S. morrisii from Cyprus.
10.2307/4109458|Detailed statistics of West African monocotyledonous families, genera and species are given, as well as the grand totals of all the vascular plants. Comparison is made between the two editions of the 'Flora of West Tropical Africa'.
10.2307/4113608|A new species, Aristolochia boosii Panter, is described and illustrated; the key for the Flora of Trinidad & Tobago is amended to include the new taxon and a correction is made to the identity of a cultivated Aristolochia recorded from the Botanic Gardens, Trinidad and mentioned in the Flora.
10.2307/4108260|The range of fruit and leaf variation in the genus Ceratophyllum is discussed with respect to geographical distribution, and a scheme of classification is proposed. Two species are recognised, C. demersum L. and C. submersum L., each with four varieties. Four new combinations are made, C. demersum L. f. missionis (Wight & Arn.) Wilmot-Dear, C. submersum L. var. haynaldianum (Borbas) Wilmot-Dear, C. submersum L. subsp. muricatum (Cham.) Wilmot-Dear and C. submersum L. var. echinatum (Gray) Wilmot-Dear. Two new taxa are described, C. demersum L. f. papillosum Wilmot-Dear and C. submersum L. var. squamosum Wilmot-Dear.
10.2307/4119062|Papuasian Impatiens are discussed and evaluated. Although all the available material is considered by the author to belong to a single hugely variable species, 15 groups can be distinguished although these are not given formal taxonomic rank. The earliest name for this variable taxon is I. hawkeri Bull published in 1886.
10.2307/4102996|The African genus Keetia E. P. Phillips is reinstated; species from countries included in the Flora of Tropical East Africa and Flora Zambesiaca are revised and the remainder discussed; 22 new combinations are made (19 specific and 3 infraspecific); 7 new species are described, new synonyms are indicated and distributions given.
10.2307/4119384|Gymnopilus corsicus and G. spadiceus are described as new.
10.2307/4111153|Ledermanniella onanai Cheek (Podostemaceae) is described from the upper reaches of the Chide River in the Bakossi Mts of South West Province, Cameroon. Its morphology, affinities and conservation status are discussed.
10.2307/4117975| Fe's Nephrodium malabariense does not differ significantly from Christella dentata. An examination of 16 sheets of specimens linked with the original description has shown them to consist of a mixture of Christella dentata and C. dentata x parasitica. Alectotypeis selected, in the absence of the holotype, and the name included in the synonymy of C. dentata. An isotype of Dryopteris meeboldii has been located and this confirms its specific identity with N. malabariense and hence its inclusion in the synonymy of C. dentata. 
10.2307/4113627|This paper reviews the opposite-leaved species of Portulaca making up subgenus Portulacella and sect. Neossia of subgenus Portulaca in the Old World, excluding Australia. The great majority occur in tropical Africa. A key to species, descriptions and synonymy are provided. Two new species from East Africa (P. greenwayi and P. dodomansis) and two from Tropical Arabia (P. dhofarica and P. kuriensis) are described.
20649552|A new and probably endemic species of Cambessedesia DC. is described from campo rupestre vegetation, as part of a floristic survey of Melastomataceae from the So Jos mountain range, Tiradentes District, Minas Gerais State, Brazil.
10.2307/4109181|A description of Thyrsanthemum goldianum D. R. Hunt, sp. nov., is given, preceded by a brief review of the genus.
24717384|Eriosema hatschbachii, a new species of Leguminosae (Papilionoideae) from Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The taxon is morphologically similar to E. floribundum Benth. and E. pycnanthum Benth. var. pycnanthum, but differs mainly in having many parallel secondary veins on the leaflets (similar to the venation seen on nearly all species of the genus Tephrosia) and erect stems with leaves only near the apex.
27822022|Peristylus sahanii (Orchidaceae), a new species from Jharkhand state (Chotanagpur plateau), India is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4119306|Hyperacanthus ambovombensis is described as a new species, and represents a new generic record for Madagascar. The affinities of H. ambovombensis to the African species of Hyperacanthus (H. amoenus and H. microphyllus) are discussed.
20649686|In 1949 a single plant of Musa mannii Baker, grown in Trinidad from seeds imported from Java, was incorrectly identified as Musa sanguinea Hook. f. As a consequence, the circumscription of M. mannii became confused. M. mannii is very rare or extinct in its indigenous area in Assam, India. However, it is grown in many botanic gardens worldwide. In contrast, M. sanguinea is a common sympatric species with M. aurantiaca in upper Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, India, but it is today unknown to most botanists. The aim of this study is to settle the true identity of M. mannii and M. sanguinea. The names are typified, as well as Musa  kewensis Baker (M. mannii  ornata).
10.2307/4117955|Consideration is given to the wording of the Articles of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature which govern the conservation and rejection of names, and to recently published proposals to modify them at the 1993 Tokyo International Botanical Congress. The Code neither adequately expresses the current convention for conserving a name nor does it provide sufficient guidance for the proposers of conservation and rejection proposals. Also, because of the essential differences between specific and generic names, it has been found that the convention adopted for the conservation of generic names is not always satisfactory for specific names. Although the proposals to be presented to the Tokyo Congress do address most of the problems identified, some of the proposals conflict. Some suggested amendments are presented which would both resolve these conflicts and make the Code more appropriate to the needs of those wishing to make conservation and rejection proposals, and of the Committees which have to process such proposals.
10.2307/4110704|Recent taxonomic investigations by the author have shown that the genus Philippia Klotzsch must be reduced to synonymy under Erica L. on the grounds of overlap in floral morphology and of polyphylesis. The nomenclatural changes required for the taxa occurring in the region covered by the Flora Zambesiaca are formalized here.
23216195|A description, illustration, distribution map and conservation assessment are given for each of three new species of Cunoniaceae from New Caledonia and plants endemic to the same localities from other genera are mentioned. Cunonia bopopensis Pillon & H. C. Hopkins is known from forest on ultramafic soils at high elevation on Mt Tchingou. This massif offers ecological conditions markedly different from those of its surroundings, which may explain the occurrence of several micro-endemics on this mountain. Some specimens of C. bopopensis were previously identified as C. bernieri Guillaumin but the type of the latter is probably a hybrid and this name is now considered doubtful. Geissois belema Pillon & H. C. Hopkins is endemic to Ile Art in the Belep archipelago, where it occurs in forest on ultramafic soils; it is the only species of Geissois known from Ile Art. Pancheria xaragurensis H. C. Hopkins & Pillon is found largely on the little-explored Forgotten Coast ("Cte Oublie") of south-eastern Grande Terre, generally in maquis along streams and in river beds at low elevation on ultramafic substrate. Morphological and ecological variation in the widespread taxa Geissois pruinosa Brongn. & Gris and Weinmannia dichotoma Brongn. & Gris are discussed and the combinations G. pruinosa var. intermedia (Vieill. ex Pamp.) H. C. Hopkins & Pillon and W. dichotoma var. monticola (Dniker) H. C. Hopkins & Pillon are published to accommodate some of this variability.
10.2307/4111009|Anacampseros vespertina, sp. nov., is described from north-eastern Somalia. A. somaliensis is neotypified with a specimen from Somalia and placed in the synonymy of Portulaca wightiana.
10.2307/4109580|Cola octoloboides from Kenya is described as new.
23489134|Jacquemontia robertsoniana, a new shrub species from Brazil, is described. The relationship of J. robertsoniana with other shrub species of this genus is discussed. Illustrations, a distribution map, and an identification key are provided. The conservation status is assessed according to IUCN criteria.
10.2307/4114466|The bamboo genus Hickelia A. Camus is revised and a key to the species is provided. Pseudocoix A. Camus, a genus from Madagascar, is shown to be synonymous with Hickelia, and its single species is transferred to Hickelia as H. perrieri, a new combination. Altogether there are four species recognized in Hickelia, three of which are known from Madagascar; a fourth described here as a new species, H. africana S. Dransf., is found in Tanzania. Morphology of branching, inflorescences and spikelets is discussed. An extended description of H. madagascariensis is presented. Hickelia is considered to be related to Nastus Juss.
10.2307/4110956|Attention is drawn to the close similarity in epidermal structure between Austrobaileya (Austrobaileyaceae) and Schisandraceae and to the presence in both families of the laterocytic stomatal type.
10.2307/4107835|The results of a survey of the Old World species of Sloanea L. are offered, to complement the account of the New World species published by C. Earle Smith in 1954. Descriptions are offered of species of the Asiatic mainland (including Taiwan and Hainan), of Malesia (except Papuasia, already covered in Coode 1978 & 1981), Australia and Madagascar. (The New Caledonian species have recently been revised (Tirel 1982). The species are placed informally in six groups on the basis of flower, inflorescence and seed structure-these groups only partially correlate with fruit types. Characters used are discussed and some comparisons briefly made with the New World species. Sloanea malayana & S. poilanei are described as new species; S. australis subsp. parviflora is a new subspecies, S. hemsleyana var. yunnanica a new variety. Sloanea changii is a nom. nov. for Professor Chang's unfortunately illegitimated S. laurifolia. Sloanea assamica (Benth.) Rehder & Wilson is reduced to a variety under S. sterculiacea and the new combination made.
10.2307/4114576|The monospecific genus Phellocalyx (Gardenieae) is described and its relationships discussed. The stem anatomy is described and compared with that of three other genera (Euclinia, Feretia & Rothmannia). Observations, discussion and illustrations of seed-coat, colleters and palynology are provided.
10.2307/4117068|The history of the SEM is outlined and compared with other forms of microscopy. Simple procedures for preparing botanical material for examination are summarized. The instrument's depth of focus, magnification, resolution, and specimen staging are discussed briefly. Material suitable for scanning studies is assessed and some of the published research reviewed. Scanning observations and micrographs of Gibasis leaf, Heracleum stem and root, Caesalpinia fruit and Petrorhagia seed are provided to emphasize the anatomical versatility and capabilities of the SEM. Current and future developments are mentioned in conclusion.
20649636|Senecio albus J. N. Nakaj. & A. M. Teles, a new species of Senecio (Senecioneae  Asteraceae), is described from the National Park of Serra da Canastra, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The new species shares discoid capitula with S. gertii Zardini and is assigned to sect. Adamantina. This character is not in the circumscription for the sect. Adamantina and thus the description of the section is emended accordingly. A key to species of Senecio sect. Adamantina is provided.
10.2307/4114512|Diospyros kupensis, a small treelet known only from Mt Kupe, Southwest Cameroon, is described and illustrated. Its ecology, taxonomic affinities and unusual habit of vegetative reproduction are discussed.
23216391|A new species of Dioscorea from South Africa, D. strydomiana Wilkin, is described and illustrated. It differs from the related species D. elephantipes (L'Hr.) Engl., D. hemicrypta Burkill and D. sylvatica Eckl. in its tuber surface, leaf morphology, texture and habit, male flower tepal, filament and pistillode size, the length of the stipe between the ovary apex and the torus in female flowers and in capsule shape. Just two populations and c. 200 individuals in total exist, and significant threats have been reported, making D. strydomiana critically endangered. Thus its conservation and sustainable use are discussed.
10.2307/4110495|The new genus Ophioglossella Schuit. & Ormerod (Orchidaceae-Aeridinae) from Papua New Guinea, with the single species O. chrysostoma Schuit. & Ormerod, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110151|Three new species of Uromyrtus, U. sarawakensis, U. novoguineensis and U. australis, and one new species of Myrtus, M. eugeniodes, are described. Myrtus archboldiana Merr. & Perry and M. brassii Merr. & Perry are transferred to Uromyrtos together with Nelitris billardieri Seem., which is an older name for U. curvipes (Gandoger) Burret.
10.2307/4117072|In this revision of Cephalocroton Hochst., the genera Adenochlaena Boivin ex Baill. and Cephalocrotonopsis Pax are accorded sectional rank under Cephalocroton. In Sect. Cephalocroton, the number of species recognized is reduced from eight to two.
10.2307/4119363|The rediscovery of Holoregmia Nees, Martyniaceae, with its single species H. viscida Nees is reported from NE Brazil. Since its first collection in the early 19th century, the genus has been overlooked or considered dubious by recent workers. The locality where the type material was originally collected has been pin-pointed and a full description based on a recent collection, including pollen and previously unknown fruiting material, is provided. The authors conclude that the genus is a good one, showing a number of plesiomorphic characters, and perhaps closely related to Craniolaria L.
10.2307/4109796|While collecting in Mauritius in connection with the 'Flore des Mascareignes' project the author discovered an unusual new species of Wahlenbergia, a genus new to the Mascarene Islands. It is described and its affinities are discussed.
10.2307/4110600|Salsola omanensis Boulos is described from the Sultanate of Oman.
10.2307/4115722|E. sericoloides A. C. Sm. var. diffusus Coode is described and comparisons made with the inadequately known typical variety, as well as with E. arnhemicus F. MuelL, E. royenii Weibel and E. multisectus Schltr.
10.2307/4103073|Erythrina droogmansiana De Wild. & Dur. is recognized in Uganda and identified with Erythrina sp. C & D of the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa.'
10.2307/4110152|Examination of the specimen reported as a Gleditsia by Kanehira and Hatusima has shown it to be referable to Dictyoneura obtusa Bl. (Sapindaceae).
10.2307/4113879|A new species of Vernonia is described and the former Brachythrix brevipapposa subsp. malawiensis is raised to species rank.
10.2307/4117786|Schoenorchis manilaliana M. Kumar & Sequiera from southern India is described and illustrated.
20443283|The genus Duosperma from eastern and southern Africa with one species extending to the Yemen is revised. 26 species (one with three subspecies) are recognised. Eleven species and two subspecies are described as new and four new combinations are made. The delimitation and affinities of the genus are discussed. There are chapters on history, morphology and phytogeography. The paper is illustrated with line drawings and the distributions of all taxa are mapped.
10.2307/4109869| Trichodesma marsabiticum is described as a new species from volcanic regions of Kenya, and the vicarious distributions of this and of T. angustifolium Harv. are mapped and discussed. T. cardiosepalum Oliv. of southern Arabia is sunk in T. hildebrandtii Grke of NE tropical Africa. The correct name for T. calathiforme Hochst. is found to be T. trichodesmoides (Bunge) Grke, and T. grandifolium Bak., T. pauciflorum Bak. and T. schimperi Bak. are synonyms of this. 
20443373|A new species from Brazil, Streptostachys lanciflora, is described and illustrated. This species is related to S. asperifolia Desv., sharing the same type of inflorescence, spikelets, simple papillae covering the upper floret and C3 leaf anatomy. S. lanciflora was collected in a restricted area at Morro do Chapu, in the Northern Espinhao Range, in the State of Bahia, Brazil.
10.2307/4109992|A taxonomic revision of the African species of Aerangis is presented. There is a key to the 26 species recognized here and synonymies, descriptions, illustrations, distributions and discussions are given for each. Some outstanding problems are noted and species transferred to other genera are recorded.
10.2307/4102876|Revision of the 8 genera of Triclisieae in Asia to Australia is completed. Pycnarrhena macrocarpa Diels is made the basis of a new genus Eleutharrhena. The African genus Epinetrum is reduced to synonymy and the necessary 11 new contributions under Albertisia are made. Pycnarrhena mecistophylla Miers is transferred to Albertisia and 2 new species of Albertisia are described. Reduction of Fibraureopsis to Haematocarpus is confirmed. The fruits of Pycnarrhena ozantha Diels are described.
10.2307/4110666|Polystachya pocsii, an addition to the East African orchid flora from the Nguru Mts. of North-eastern Tanzania, is described here and its affinities are discussed.
10.2307/4110601|A synopsis of the 12 species of Chenopodium known from Arabia is given, together with a key for their identification.
10.2307/4117019|Panicum cipoense from Brazil is described and illustrated.
20649580|A new species of Adelobotrys DC., A. atlantica Schulman, is described and illustrated. This is the first record of the genus in the Atlantic rainforests of Brazil. The only known specimen of the new species was collected in 1943 close to the sizeable city of Ilhus in an area that has probably now been converted to managed land. It is therefore possible that A. atlantica is already extinct.
10.2307/4110921|Hypolytrum pseudomapanioides D. A. Simpson & Lye, from Kodmin in south-western Cameroon, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110002|This paper contains discussion on and description of the infrageneric groups of the genus Tarenna in Africa, descriptions of 8 new taxa (5 species, 1 subspecies and 2 varieties); 8 new combinations are made and synonyms are indicated. The genus Zygoon and the African species of the genus Enterospermum are transferred to Tarenna. All eastern and southern African species are dealt with.
10.2307/4117918|The genus Roscoea Smith is revised, 17 species, 1 with 2 varieties, being recognised; 4 new species are described and 3 new combinations are made; a key to the species is provided.
10.2307/4111169|A new species of the Brazilian endemic genus Lasiolaena, L. carvalhoi is recognized. The genus now includes six species. The type of the genus is lectotypified, a synopsis of the six species is provided with a key, and the new species and two others are illustrated for the first time. Problems in locating Blanchet collections are also discussed.
10.2307/4111015|Forman (1998) has shown that the plant hitherto known as Nothopegia colebrookiana (Wight) Blume should correctly be known as N. monadelpha (Roxb.) Forman. However, Blume's name comprises two varieties; one requires a new combination.
23489236|Elaeocarpus hylobroma Y. Baba & Crayn, a new species endemic to mountaintops in the Wet Tropics bioregion in north-east Queensland, is described, illustrated and compared with similar species. Notes on habitat, distribution, conservation status and relationships are provided.
10.2307/4114605|In the account of Strobilanthes Blume for the Flora of Ceylon the traditional broad view of the genus has been maintained and Bremekamp's attempt to divide it into numerous small genera has been rejected. This paper discusses some of the problems involved in attempting to define the segregate genera into which Strobilanthes was divided and discusses Leptacanthus, Mackenziea, Pseudostenosiphonium and Nilgirianthus in particular. Three new species are described: S. aurita from Southern India, S. hypericoides and S. pentandra from Ceylon, the latter a remarkable plant with five fertile stamens, anomalous in Acanthaceae as well as in Strobilanthes. The new names S. habracanthoides and S. anamallaica are coined for S. paniculata sensu T. Anderson and S. adenophora sensu Bedd. The infraspecific classification of S. sexennis is described and a key provided to distinguish the eight recognized varieties. Varieties are also described and discussed for S. diandra, S. rhamnifolia and S. walkeri. SEM photographs of pollen and illustrations of the new species are included.
10.2307/4119358|The 30 species that comprise the group of Strobilanthes species centred on the genus recognised by Bremekamp under the name Sympagis are discussed. It is shown that the defining character of the pollen is inconsistent and the characteristic globose, ribbed pollen intergrades with the ellipsoidal, ribbed pollen predominant in Strobilanthes, as well as with the less common globose, echinulate pollen. Other morphological characters are equally unsatisfactory in defining the group and lend no support to Bremekamp's division of Strobilanthes into numerous small genera. The 30 species are listed systematically together with taxonomic notes, geographical distributions and diagnostic features. Six new species are described (Strobilanthes asymmetrica, S. calcicola, S. kachinensis, S. pendula, S. rivularis, S. teraoi), one new name (S. bremekampiana) is proposed and three new combinations (S. affinis, S. renschiae and S. orthostachya) are made. Strobilanthes imbricata is lectotypified to clarify its disputed identity. Line drawings and pollen photographs illustrate many of the species and maps are provided to show the unusual distribution of certain species.
10.2307/4120631| Three new species of Diospyros from Brazil are described, D. xavantina from Mato Grosso, D. serrana from Pernambuco, and D. paraensis from Par. /// Trs novas espcies de Diospyros do Brasil so aqui descritas, D. xavantina do Mato Grosso, D. serrana de Pernambuco, e D. paraensis do Par. 
23489027|Datura gigantea, based on material grown from seed of decumbent plants originating in western Mexico, is shown to be a synonym of D. quercifolia, of which D. villosa is also a synonym.
23216745|A new species, Justicia jamisonii is described and illustrated. It resembles Rungia paxiana but has a much narrower membranous margin on the inflorescence bracts and the corolla is hairy on the outside. The species has an extraordinary geographical distribution, it is only known from Guine and Cte d'Ivoire in the west and Kenya in the east, two areas separated by a c. 4,700 km gap. It is described here in Justicia because the genus Rungia will soon be united with the older genus Justicia by the second author.
4111066|The preparation of an account of the Urticaceae for the Flora of China and a monograph of old world Boehmeria led to the publication in the Flora of a new species, Boehmeria conica, which is here described and discussed more fully. The work also extended the range of Boehmeria lanceolata, hitherto known only from one collection in Malaysia, to S China and Vietnam, and demonstrated that B. tonkinensis Gagnep. is conspecific with this taxon.
10.2307/4110833| A new Pseudoblepharispermum from Somalia is described and illustrated. The genus belongs to the tribe Inuleae, subtribe Plucheinae ( tribe Plucheeae), and is closely related to Sphaeranthus and Triplocephalum. The differences between several genera near the new taxon are discussed and a key to these genera is provided. 
10.2307/4119392|An enumeration of Sistotrema spp. collected by the author in Morocco, with the description of S. dennisii sp. nov., of the 'Poria' albolutea group, is presented.
10.2307/4119429|Boudiera denmsii Dissing & Sivertsen, sp. nov. is described and compared with other species of the genus.
10.2307/4110331|Several populations of Malva parviflora and Trigonella stellata were found to have uniform chromosome numbers (2n = 42 and 18 respectively) and 4C nuclear DNA amounts that were low with no significant inter-population differences. The data suggest that morphological variation between populations is controlled at a genic level rather than by gross differences of chromosome size or number.
10.2307/4109908|Euphorbia cryptocaulis M. Gilbert and E. monadenioides M. Gilbert from Ethiopia are described as new. Both are geophytic and the status of subgenus Rhizanthium to which they would currently be considered to belong is discussed. It is suggested that the African species of Euphorbia fall into four major groups most practicably treated as subgenera at least for the present. Rhizanthium is an artificial group with members divided among three of the four subgenera recognised. One of these, subgenus Lacanthis (Rafin.) M. Gilbert, made up mainly of the Madagascan species formerly placed in 'sect. Diacanthium' is formally recognised for the first time.
10.2307/4110200|A cladistic analysis of the family Velloziaceae is presented. The terminal taxa include those consistently recognized at generic or infrageneric level in the alternative classifications of Menezes and Smith & Ayensu; the recently published genus Burlemarxia is included. Characters were polarized using the family Bromeliaceae. Synapomorphies of the family are the presence of transfusion tracheids in the leaf vascular bundles, a reduced inflorescence and independent dehiscence of all four anther locules. The analysis suggests that the genus Vellozia may be regarded as the sister group of the rest of the family, thus occupying a cladistically primitive position in relation to other genera. The African genus Xerophyta (with Talbotia excluded) and South American Barbaceniopsis form a monophyletic group which is the sister group of the Barbacenioideae (sensu Menezes). Nanuza (Brazil) and Talbotia (South Africa) (both sensu Smith & Ayensu) are independent clades. The classifications of Menezes and of Smith & Ayensu are compared with the cladogram.
10.2307/4114437|This account validates new synonymy and new species of Calamus and Daemonorops as a precursor to a foresters' manual to the rattans of Sarawak. Daemonorops maculata, Calamus paulii, C. sabalensis, C. acanthochlamys, C. lambirensis, C. nanodendron, C. crassifolius, C. psilocladus, C. comptus and C. divaricatus var. contrarius and described as new. The typification of Daemonorops scapigera and D. collarifera is clarified and synonymy of D. periacantha, C. sarawakensis and C. flabellatus disscussed.
10.2307/4114480|Two new species, H. neglecta and H. claytonii, are described from the Ethiopian highlands and their position within the genus is discussed.
10.2307/4119740|The binomials Lophomyrtus aotearoana E. C. Nelson and Myrtus aotearoana (E. C. Nelson) E. C. Nelson are invalid, having been published simultaneously as avowed substitutes for the homotypic names L. bullata Burret and M. bullata Sol. ex A. Cunn. respectively. L. bullata Burret remains the correct name for the New Zealand ramarama.
10.2307/4114474|A study was carried out of an area of
10.2307/4108994|The distribution of all the different cytotypes of the C. vernus aggregate is reviewed and mapped. C. vernus subsp. albiflorus, 2n = 8, is shown to have a constantly heteromorphic karyotype. C. siculus, 2n = 8, and C. napolitanus, 2n = 8, are shown to have the same karyotypes as C. vernus subsp. vernus, 2n = 8. C. napolitanus, 2n = 16, of previous workers may by synonymous with C. vernus subsp. vernus, 2n. = 16, reported here. C. scepusiensis, 2n = 18, is shown to have a karyotype distinct from C. heuffelianus, 2n = 18. C. heuffelianus exhibits infraspecific variation with chromosome numbers of 2n = 10, 12, 18, 19, 20, 22 & 23. C. vernus subsp. albiflorus (2n = 8) x C. heuffelianus (2n = 18) and C. vernus subsp. vernus (2n = 16) x C. tommasinianus (2n = 16) are described.
10.2307/4109862|Centaurea hadacii (sect. Acrocentron) is described from the mountainous part of Iraq.
27822009|Three new species of Myrcia sect. Gomidesia: M. curtipendula Nic Lughadha, M. aurea Nic Lughadha and M. teresensis Nic Lughadha, from Esprito Santo are described. Their diagnostic characters and habitat are discussed; IUCN categories of threat are assigned.
10.2307/4117687|Merostachys brevigluma, a new species from Brazil and the related species M. speciosa Spreng., M. neesii Rupr., and M. kunthii Rupr. are described, illustrated, compared and discussed.
10.2307/4113652|Isachne jayachandranii, a new species of grass allied to I. bourneorum C. E. C. Fisch. from the southern Western Ghats, India, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4111155|A description and illustration of a new species, Stylosanthes maracajuensis Sousa Costa & Van den Berg are provided. It is apparently endemic to the Serra de Maracaju, Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil.
10.2307/4107740|Identification of two related Schoenoxiphium-like Carex species, new to Arabia, has led to 1) an extension to the distribution and variation of C. brunnea Thunb, new also to Africa; C. brunnea var. arabica is described, 2) establishment of a distribution and ecology for a species (C. negrii Chiov.) previously described from a single Ethiopian collection and 3) discussion of Afro-Arabian montane distributions.
10.2307/4114718|An enumeration of the Euphorbiaceae of Central Malesia is offered. Because collections from most of this area are rather scanty, no keys are offered, as in previous parts of this 'series'. A list of new taxa is given on page 36. The account of Euphorbia has been provided by Mr Radcliffe-Smith, as in previous parts of the series.
10.2307/4119416|Two new species of Boletellus from Papua New Guinea (B. badiovinosus & B. cyanescens are described). B. emodensis, B. obscure-coccineus & P. gracilis are described for the first time from this island.
10.2307/4109761|Purdie s.n. from Colombia is chosen as the lectotype of Heliconia platystachys Baker.
10.2307/4103164|Subtribe Sevadinae Botsch. of the Chenopodiaceae is described and revised. A key is presented to the constituent genera: Sevada Moq. (monotypic), Lagenantha Chiov. (monotypic), Fadenia Aellen & Townsend (monotypic), Choriptera Botsch. (monotypic) and Gyroptera Botsch. The 3 species of Gyroptera are keyed and a new species, G. gillettii, described from Kenya.
10.2307/4109665| Two new species are described, Isoglossa pawekiae from the Misuku Hills of northern Malai, and I. cataractarum from Mbala District and the Copperbelt of Zambia. 
23489232|Piper chantaranothaii, a new species from Thailand, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4107839|An explanation of the uncertainty in reported numbers of sterile basal glumes in the Remirea maritima spikelet is given and some additional support provided for retaining this monotypic genus.
10.2307/4114662|Two new combinations are made in the genus Protoasparagus Oberm.
10.2307/4115649|A new species of Trixis, T. pruskii, from the Chapada Diamantina of Bahia State, Brazil, is described and illustrated, and its relationships with other species discussed; its closest affinities appear to be with the widespread T. inula from Central and northern South America. A key to the five species now recognized from Bahia is provided.
10.2307/4117907|Aloe richtersveldensis is described as a new species from the Richtersveld in the northwestern Cape Province of South Africa. Its relationship with closely allied species is discussed. It is also proposed that A. pearsonii, one of these allies, be transferred from series Macrifoliae to series Mitriformes.
10.2307/4119327| Eriocaulon schimperi Krn. ex Ruhland is a very variable montane species from eastern Africa. Two segregates are considered sufficiently distinct to merit specific status: E. mesanthemoides Ruhland (syn. E. friesiorum Bullock) and E. iringense S. M. Phillips, sp. nov. The status of E. volkensii Engl. is also discussed. Descriptions and SEM photographs of the seeds are provided. 
10.2307/4113734|The taxonomy of east tropical African Vernonieae is revised and the necessary nomenclatural innovations made preliminary to an account of the tribe for the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa'. The genera Vernonia Schreb., Aedesia O. Hoffm., Hystrichophora Mattf, Gutenbergia Sch. Bip., Erlangea Sch. Bip., Bothriocline Oliv., Rastrophyllum Wild & Pope, Ethulia L., Brachythrix Wild & Pope, Ageratinastrum Mattf., Dewildemania O. Hoffm., Sparganophorus Boehm. and Elephantopus L. are accepted and distinguished and keys to the species provided. Kinghamia C. Jeffrey is described as new, to accommodate certain west and central African species previously included in Gutenbergia and Centratherum Cass.
10.2307/4117256|Somatic chromosomes and leaf epidermis patterns are described in eight bigeneric hybrids and their parents, involving the genera
10.2307/4115720|A new species of Dioscorea, D. namorokensis, from the Reserve Naturelle Integrale de Tsingy de Namoroka in Western Madagascar is described and illustrated, and its macromorphology and pollen morphology are presented. It is closely related to D. soso]vim. & H. Perr., and belongs in Dioscorea sect. Brachyandm Uline. It is found in the unders torey and margins of deciduous forest on karst limestone, and appears to be endemic to Namoroka.
10.2307/4110592|Six new species of Cuphea P.Br. are described from Brazilian "campos rupestres" Vegetation as part of a taxonomic study of the family Lythraceae for the Flora of Campos Rupestres Project.
10.2307/4109822|Revised descriptions are provided for the species of Polygonatum known to occur in Japan, Korea, China and Mongolia. A full synonymy is given and a key to species is provided. General variation, distributions and ecology are summarized and briefly discussed. P. filipes is described as new and the following new combinations under P. kingianum are made: var. cavaleriei, var. ericoideum and var. uncinatum. An index to numbered exsiccata studied is given.
10.2307/4119413|Three species of Diatrype are recorded from New Zealand. Catabofrys decidua (Berk. & Br.) Seaver is also recorded occurring on debris of the New Zealand palm Rhopalostylis sapida H. Wendl. & Drude.
10.2307/4110663|The African and Madagascan genus Stenandriopsis is considered synonymous with Stenandrium, a genus hitherto thought to be purely American. Arguments are put forward for transferring Stenandrium from Aphelandreae to Acantheae, a tribe previously thought to have an Old World distribution only. The Old World species of Stenandrium are revised. There are 8 species in Africa and 10 in Madagascar. One species, Stenandrium pauciflorum, is described as new, new combinations are proposed for the other Old World species, and a division of these into three sections is proposed.
10.2307/4117030|A new species of Hypserpa from New Caledonia, H. mackeei, is described and its distinction from H. neocaledonica Diels sens. lat. is discussed.
10.2307/4111035|Two new taxa of Impaliens L. are described from the Udzungwa Mts in Tanzania. I. uzungwaensis is a small distinct medium altitude herb and I. volkensii subsp. macrosepala a large herb. These two new taxa of Impatiens emphasise that the Udzungwas are an important region of endemism.
23216199|A survey of the tribe Justicieae from the Caatinga biome, in the State of Bahia, revealed the following four new species of Justicia (Acanthaceae): J. angustissima, J. attenuata, J. chlamidocalyx and J. jacuipensis. J. attenuata and J. jacuipensis are known only from the types; the latter is considered Critically Endangered (CR) because the area where it was collected has been flooded since the construction of the Pedra do Cavalo dam and the region around this area has been extensively disturbed. J. angustissima and J. chlamidocalyx were found in six locations. They have a wide distribution in Central Bahia and the conservation status of both species should be classified as Least Concern (LC). The four species are described and illustrations and comments are provided. O levantamento de Justicieae do Bioma Caatinga no Estado da Bahia propiciou o reconhecimento de quatro espcies novas de Justicia (Acanthaceae): J. angustissima, J. attenuata, J. chlamidocalyx e J. jacuipensis. J. attenuata e J. jacuipensis so conhecidas apenas pelo material-tipo; a ltima pode ser considerada Criticamente Ameaada (CR), pois a rea onde foi coletada encontra-se inundada pela represa Pedra do Cavalo e seu entorno encontra-se extensamente antropizado. J. angustissima e J. chlamidocalyx foram encontradas em seis localidades, mas apresentam uma distribuio relativamente ampla no interior da Bahia e o estado de conservao delas inspira menor preocupao (LC). As quatro espcies so descritas, ilustradas e comentrios so apresentados para cada uma delas.
20443303|Keetia bakossiorum Cheek is described from the Bakossi Mts of Western Cameroon and its conservation status discussed. It is a point endemic of submontane forest, with several features unusual in the genus.
23044988|The genus Medusanthera (Stemonuraceae, Icacinaceae s.l.) is revised; eight species are recognised. Three new species are described and illustrated: Medusanthera megistocarpa Utteridge from New Guinea, M. howardii Utteridge from Fiji, and M. malayana Utteridge from Peninsular Malaysia. A key to the genus is given, and descriptions, conservation ratings, and distribution maps provided for each species; a list of exsiccatae is supplied.
23489228|This paper presents an account of Licuala Wurmb in Borneo based on herbarium studies and the author's own fieldwork. The revision enumerates 46 species of Licuala found in the island of Borneo. Of these, 26 are new species and a further two are new varieties. Forty-two are Bornean endemics, reperesenting 91% endemism in Licuala on the island. A key to the species is provided and an index of specimens examined is included. Conservation assessments have also been made for all of the taxa found in Borneo. Twenty-eight taxa (57%) are threatened.
10.2307/4109859|The occurrence of Mariscus albopilosus in West Africa is reported, with a map of its known distribution; Schoenoplectus oxyjulos is described fully and occurrences mapped; the distributions of, and distinctions between, Pycreus pauper and P. melanacme clarified.
10.2307/4109763| Two new species are described, A. zambiana from Zambia and A. malawiana from Malai. 
10.2307/4110802|The African species of Buxus and Notobuxus are reviewed and their taxonomic relationship discussed. It is concluded that the 9 African species are best accommodated in 3 sections of Buxus, viz. 1 species in Sect. Tricera, 4 in Sect. Notobuxus and 4 in Sect. Buxella. The name Sect. Notobuxus is proposed in a new rank and combination; the new name Buxus acutata is proposed for Notobuxus acuminata when transferred to Buxus. The apparently rare B. nyasica, previously only known from the type gathering, has been documented by a new collection.
10.2307/4110415|Six new species of the genus Suregada are described from Madagascar, whilst one is reduced into synonymy, making a total of 13 species for the region.
10.2307/4108499|In Tragia, 4 new species and 1 new variety are described, and 1 new record is reported for Uganda.
10.2307/4110368|Two new species of orchids from West Africa, Eggelingia gabonensis Cribb & Van der Laan and Ancistrorhynchus crystalensis Cribb & Van der Laan are described here and their affinities discussed.
10.2307/4114726|Two editions of Martius' Historia Naturalis Palmarum Part 7 are compared and correlated with the almost contemporaneous Rumphia of Blume and Palms of British India of Griffith. Present day nomenclature is indicated for all but a few problematical taxa which are discussed in footnotes.
10.2307/4118759|British species of Octosporella are considered and a new genus Filicupula is proposed to accommodate Pseudonectria suboperculata (syn. Octosporella suboperculata) based on a revision of the type collection.
10.2307/4115826|Piriqueta abairana and P. revoluta, (Turneraceae), new species from the mountains of Bahia, (Brazil), are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110675|A new species, Canavalia cassidea, from the Brazilian state of Bahia is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117830|Acrachne sundararajii, a new species of grass allied to A. henrardiana (Bor) S. M. Phillips from coastal Tamil Nadu, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4109548|The pollen morphology of some 55 species of the genera Merremia and Operculina have been examined. Five main pollen types are recognized, tricolpate, 5-6 colpate, 9-12 colpate, 12-rugate and pantoporate. No close correlation has been found between these pollen types and the existing subgeneric and sectional subdivisions within the genera.
10.2307/4110375|Leaf anatomy is described in 7 species of Nivenia, Witsenia and Klattia, 3 allied genera of shrubby Iridaceae from the southwestern Cape of South Africa, and compared with that of related genera. The closest similarity is with the largely Australian herbaceous genus Patersonia. The African genus Aristea is more distinct, and in general this is in accordance with data from other sources, indicating that Aristea may have diverged from the group at an earlier stage.
23489041|Amomum cannicarpum (Wight) Benth. ex Baker is correctly identified after a lapse of over a century. Previous records regarding the occurrence of the species is discussed. Detailed description, illustration, typification, photographs, distribution and ecological details are provided. IUCN status based on field study is also provided.
10.2307/4117932|Recent field work in Bahia State, Brazil, for the Florula of the Pico das Almas has yielded ten new species in six genera previously represented in the state (Agrianthus, Aspilia, Baccharis, Hoehnephytum, Mikania and Vernonia), one new species in a newly recorded genus for the state (Hieracium) and a new species in the recently described genus, Stenophalium, in which one additional combination is made. Some nomenclatural changes are presented resulting from preliminary work towards the Compositae of Bahia.
20443276|A new grass species from Bolivia, Sorghastrum crassum Renvoize, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110142|Umbilicus paniculiformis, a new species from the Sudan, is described.
23044616|The Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) was adopted by the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in 2002. Staff at the Royal Botanic Gardens Kew were closely involved in the development of the GSPC and contributed to the development of several of the targets and the plan of work which resulted from its adoption. The GSPC has become a key document for Kew to help guide its conservation policy and implementation. The UK Overseas Territories (UKOTs) Programme is one of Kew's cross-departmental science teams whose members work in collaboration with UKOT Governments and NGOs on conservation projects with the overall aim of supporting them in the implementation of the GSPC and in achieving its targets. The GSPC has provided an excellent overall framework to help shape conservation strategy, planning, and action in UKOTs. Like many small islands, UKOTs face a wide range of challenges in conserving their biodiversity and retaining ecosystem services whilst enabling development and maintaining livelihoods. Habitat loss and fragmentation, invasive alien species, development, and the increasing threat of global climate change present the most significant conservation challenges. At the heart of the UKOTs programme is a comprehensive work plan of specimen and data collection, mapping and capacity building in Territories plus facilitating access to historical specimens and data held at Kew. This enables progress towards achieving Targets 1, 2 and 3 (understanding and documenting plant diversity) and Targets 5, 7, 8 and 10 (conservation of plant diversity). All of these activities are accompanied by an extensive programme of capacity building to help support the development of technical skills and infrastructure to enable UKOTs to implement the GSPC (Targets 15 and 16) and the production of materials and interactions with schools and community groups to promote education and awareness-raising of plant conservation to achieve Target 14. UKOTs have been working with RBG Kew to prioritise activities in order to implement the GSPC and to identify those targets of most relevance locally. The main focus has been in documenting and understanding plant diversity and Targets 1 and 2 are close to completion for most UKOTs with good developments towards Target 3 for many. There is mixed progress with Objective 2 of the GSPC: conserving plant diversity. Excellent progress has been made with the ex situ Target 8, but more limited progress with the in situ targets and plant species still face many threats. Some Territories, most notably the Falkland Islands have made a good start with an Important Plant Areas programme. Although good progress has been made in documenting invasive species, there is major resource investment needed to implement the invasive species control strategies that have been identified. Good progress has been made with Target 14 and awareness is increasing, but there is a definite need for mainstreaming plant conservation issues. Some progress with Objective 5, building capacity for plant conservation, has been made, but a large `capacity gap' remains and more trained personnel are needed with improved facilities and resources in order to implement the GSPC and meet its demanding targets. The GSPC has provided a unifying framework to enable conservation implementation across the UK's Overseas Territories and will continue to do so in the post-2010 period.
10.2307/4108481|Durringtonia paludosa gen. et sp. nov. from southeastern Queensland and northeastern New South Wales is described. Its unique combination of attributes warrants erection of tribe Durringtonieae.
20649539|A comparative study of the leaf outline morphometrics of Monstera adansonii var. klotzschiana, M. adansonii var. laniata and M. praetermissa was carried out. The study focused on populations in isolated montane humid (brejo) forests of Cear state in Northeast Brazil and compared them with populations from Amazonia and the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. Digitised outlines were prepared from a total of 1,695 field-collected leaf images from 20 populations, and elliptic Fourier analysis was used to generate matrices of coefficients, from which six shape variables (principal components) were extracted using Principal Components Analysis. Intra-population variability and inter-population differences were analysed with multivariate distance methods. Separate analyses were carried out for each of three leaf size classes (juvenile, submature, mature) because of the strong heteroblasty typical of this genus. Juvenile leaves were the least variable size class within populations of M. adansonii var. klotzschiana. The shape variables expressed very similar types of variation in all three size classes. The Cear brejo populations of M. adansonii var. klotzschiana showed significant differences between mature leaf outlines in all pairwise comparisons; the Pacatuba population was the most distinct. The Cear populations did not cluster together exclusively. In all three size classes, populations clustered together into their taxonomic groups, most clearly so in mature leaves. No correlation between morphological and geographic distance matrices was found, nor between morphological and molecular distance. The study showed that leaf outline shape is a practicable and useful quantitative trait for studying morphological variability at species, varietal and population levels.
10.2307/4118786|The typification of 3 taxa from Tanzania is discussed: Portulaca heterophylla Peter, P. fischeri Pax var. prominens Poelln. and P. ramosa Peter. Four new species are described from Kenya: P. massaica, P olosirwa, P. conoidea and P. coralloides, and the new combination P. kermesina N. E. Br. var. Lutea (Poelln.) S. M. Phillips is proposed.
10.2307/4108991|Seventeen species of Combretum have been examined cytologically. The chromosome numbers of sixteen of these are reported for the first time. Meiosis is described in C. aculeatum.
10.2307/4110521|Dimeria balakrishnaniana, a new species of grass from Tamil Nadu, is described with illustrations.
10.2307/4109734|In the fertile shoots of angiosperms the venation pattern changes progressively from the vegetative leaves through successively older evolutionary stages in bracts and sepals to the most ancient in the petals. The bracts, sepals and petals form part of the reproductive syndrome, which is under rigid genetic control and conforms to the principle of conservation of organisation. The new term Remoration is proposed for this process of evolutionary retrogression. An example of remoration in Glossopteris lineans is discussed and petal venation in many angiosperms is found to match closely that of Gangamopteris leaves. The overlap in the reproductive syndromes of Glossop- teridae and Angiospermidae, coupled with rigid systems of genetic control, indicate that these major taxa belong to one lineage, which extends back in time for 300 million years.
10.2307/4118879|Cypholophus decipiens H. J. P. Winkl. and C. brassii Diels, (Urticaceae) both described from New Guinea, are considered conspecific with the earlier, but illegitimate Boehmeria acuminata Wedd., described from New Caledonia. The combined taxon, to be named C. decipiens, has been reported also from Ponape in the Caroline Is., and is here shown to be widespread in the Solomon Is. and in Vanuatu. It has diagnostic characters of Cypholophus, and should be placed in that genus in spite of its suberect or pendulous leafless branches with clusters of male flowers, a structure that looks like the inflorescences in some species of Boehmeria. The species is described and mapped from ample material which has previously largely been unidentified or misidentified as belonging to Boehmeria.
10.2307/4111048|Philippia thomensis Henriq. is transferred to Erica and the necessary combination made.
10.2307/4108493|Gasteroid Basidiomycota allied to the agaricoid genera of Cortinariaceae, occurring in Victoria State, Australia are described and illustrated. In Cortinariaceae, Setchelliogaster australiensis, Thaxterogaster brunneus and T. redactus are described as new, and new combinations are proposed for T. campbellae and T. levisporus. In Hymenogastraceae, nine species of Hymenogaster are recognized, and H. oblongisporus is proposed as new. In Gautieriaceae, four species of Gautieria are recognized, and G. monospora is proposed as new.
10.2307/4110873|Platygloea bispora Hauersley, an auricularioid heterobasidiomycete, parasitises species of the genus Tubulicrinis Donk. The parasite grows intrahymenially in host fructifications and lacks basidiocarps. Colacosomes are responsible for the host-parasite interaction. Presence of colacosomes and lack of basidiocarps justify the transfer of P. bispora into the genus Colacogloea Oberw. & Bandoni.
10.2307/4113606|Some corrections and additions are made to this author's previous conspectus of the species, mainly concerning Mascarene species.
20649547|The original collections of Salix species described by Pallas are discussed. Eight names validated by Pallas and one by Nasarov are typified. The use of six currently accepted names, S. arbutifolia Pall., S. arctica Pall., S. berberifolia Pall., S. caspica Pall., S. divaricata Pall. and S. rhamnifolia Pall., is confirmed. Salix serotina Pall. retains its place as a synonym of S. viminalis L. Salix gmelinii Pall. is resurrected and proposed as the correct name for the taxon previously known as S. dasyclados Wimm. S. burjatica Nasarow and S. jacutica Nasarow, the old synonyms of S. dasyclados, therefore are now also synonyms of S. gmelinii. A new combination S. rosmarinifolia L. subsp. sibirica is proposed.
10.2307/4117949|Dipterocarpus alatus Roxb. ex G. Don, one of the most economically important species of the genus, is shown to extend to the Philippines (where it has previously been known as D. philippinensis Foxw.).
10.2307/4119437|A new species, Polyalthia tirunelveliensis, from the Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve of Tamil Nadu, India, is described here.
10.2307/4109606|An annual sedge (Cyperus dwarkensis Sahni & Naithani, here transferred to Pycreus) has been detected from Somalia, Oman and Pakistan as well as from a second Gujarat locality. A fuller description of the species, including its distinctive achene shape is given.
10.2307/4110708|Portulaca decorticans sp. nov. is described as new. It is restricted to granitic outcrops in northern Kenya and southern Somalia.
10.2307/4110867|Three species of Camillea are now known from Southeast Asia. Camillea malaysianensis is described here as new from the region and the significance of this and the distribution of the recently described C. selangorensis is discussed. The distribution of Camillea tinctor in Southeast Asia is presented, and a key to distinguish these species is given.
10.2307/4115716|The palm genus Licuala is revised for Thailand. Thirteen species are recognised mainly occurring in the understorey of rainforests in peninsular Thailand. Six recently described species are reduced to synonymy. Licuala merguensis, L. modesta, L. pusilla and L. scortechinii are new records from Thailand. Notes on distribution, ecology, vernacular naming, taxonomy and conservation status are provided. A synoptic key based on 26 characters is also provided.
10.2307/4117037|The American Utricularia juncea (Lentibulariaceae) is reported for the first time from Africa (Ivory Coast). It is one of two species constituting section Stomoisia, formerly only known from the neotropics.
10.2307/4107856|Fifteen new taxa are described from Sarawak, Borneo, including the new saprophytic genus Muluorchis. Most of the material was collected during 1977 and 1978 by members of the Royal Geographical Society expedition to Gunung Mulu. Specialist groups such as begonias, gesneriads, gingers, palms, ferns and fungi are currently under study and several new taxa have already been described from the park (Jermy, ed. 1980, Jermy & Kavanagh, ed. 1982). An account of the expedition has been published by Hanbury-Tenison & Jermy (1979).
20443287|The East African species Dyschoriste keniensis is newly described. Two subspecies: subsp. keniensis and subsp. glandulifera are recognised. Both taxa are illustrated and their distribution mapped. Notes to distinguish the species from closely related taxa are provided.
10.2307/4108384|Abdulmajidia Whitmore, a newly discovered genus is described along with its constituent species. They differ conspicuously from other Asian Lecythidaceae in possessing a few big woody seeds in a thin, woody pericarp. Placentation, embryo structure, pollen grains and wood anatomy all occur in unique combination.
10.2307/4109802| The East African Hypericum keniense is distinct from H. angustifolium of Runion, but each species has a closely related derivative taxon which differs from it by similar characters, respectively H. revolutum and H. lanceolatum. These pairs of taxa are regarded as only subspecifically distinct (the appropriate nomenclatural changes being made); and they are shown to have evolved from an ancestral species that probably occupied a single area in the East Africa-Madagascar-Mascarene region in the Cretaceous era, before these land blocks were separated by rift and drift. 
10.2307/4110517|Three new species, Pentaphragma lambirense, P. longisepalum and P. prostratum, are described from Borneo. Specimens of P. longisepalum and P. prostratum were previously confused with P. cyrtandriforme Airy Shaw, a species from Peninsular Malaysia, which is here redefined to exclude them.
23489138|A synopsis of the South American genus Aschersoniodoxa Gilg & Muschl. is presented, and the new species A. peruviana Al-Shehbaz, Eduardo Navarro & A. Cano is described and illustrated. An updated generic description of Aschersoniodoxa, a discussion of its tribal placement, and a key to its four species are given.
10.2307/4108890|Chromosome counts for 88 species of Crocus are given, some of them species for which no previous count has been published. The collections cover the entire range of the genus from W. Europe (Portugal) and N. Africa (Morocco) east to Russian Tadzhikistan.
10.2307/4110212|Croton regelianus Muell. Arg. var. matosii Radcl-Sm. is described from Eastern Brazil.
10.2307/4110776| Aeschynomene simplicifolia and A. graminoides, two new species from Gois, Brazil, are described and illustrated. A simplicifolia is the only known unifoliolate member of the genus and A. graminoides is apparently aphyllous. 
10.2307/4110390|Two new species, Impatiens laumonieri T. Shimizu and I. tujuhensis Utami & T. Shimizu, and a new species, I. sarawakensis T. Shimizu, are described from Sumatra and Sarawak, respectively.
10.2307/4108485|A new species of Cleistanthus, C. sankunnianus Sivarajan & Indu, of section Stipulati Jabl., closely related to C. travancorensis Jabl., is described from India.
10.2307/4119396|Methods of demonstrating the layers of the spore wall of various chromosporous agarics and their staining reactions to methyl blue and to iodine are compared. The spore wall structures are compared to those of other elements of the carpophores.
23216743|The new species Chorisochora chascanoides is described from limestone cliffs in north-eastern Somalia. Three species were previously known in Chorisochora, two in Yemen (Socotra) and one in NE South Africa and Botswana. On morphological grounds the Somali species is believed to be most closely related to the two species on Socotra. The pollen of the new species is of the Ecboliumr-type, in agreement with the other species of Chorisochora.
10.2307/4118072|The rediscovery of the monospecific Brazilian genus Gearum by Alfeu de Araujo Dias is recorded and the hitherto unknown leaf described. The new collection is from the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso. Examination of the new inflorescence specimen confirms the accuracy of N. E. Brown's original description. A new description of the pollen is given.
10.2307/4110201| Aeschynomene soniae, a new species from Bahia, Brazil and A. genistoides var. latifoliola from Gois, Brazil are described and illustrated. 
10.2307/4114586|A new Psilotrichum, P. virgatum, is described from Somalia and a lectotype chosen for Centemopsis biflora (Schinz) Schinz.
10.2307/4109656|This paper is concerned with the apparent infestation anomalies which exist amongst various Acacia species, based on our present knowledge, and the need for further work to highlight the part played by beetles in the ecology of the various species.
10.2307/4115756|The name Trichopodium travancoricum is shown to be invalid. The correct name is Trichopus zeylanicus subsp. travancoricus.
10.2307/4109576|Euphorbia reconciliationis & E. viridula, from the Mascarene Islands, are described as new.
10.2307/4109452|A recent gathering of Dasysyphella cassandrae Tranzschel from Yakutia matched with the type material has enabled a comparison to be made with New Zealand material previously determined as this species.
10.2307/4103072|A new combination in Oropetium, O. roxburghianum (Steud.) S. M. Phillips, is proposed, and the scope of the genus as constituted at present is discussed.
10.2307/4117934|An updated checklist of the Brazilian Senecioneae (Compositae) is given which summarizes the results of recent work in the tribe. Currently 97 species are accepted in 8 genera, with 67 (with 2 others doubtful) species in the genus Senecio. A new combination in Graphistylis is proposed. A key to the genera of the Brazilian Senecioneae is provided.
10.2307/4114503|Two new bamboo genera, Valiha and Cathariostachys, are described from Madagascar. Valiha consists of two species: V. diffusa S. Dransf. and V. perrieri (A. Camus) S. Dransf., the latter transferred from Ochlandra. Cathariostachys comprises two species: C. capitata (Kunth) S. Dransf., transferred from Nastus, and C. madagascariensis (A. Camus) S. Dransf., transferred from Cephalostachyum. Their affinities with other genera are discussed.
10.2307/4109898|Chromosome counts are reported for 46 taxa, 8 F
10.2307/4109449|A new description is provided for the genus Davallodes Copel., with a key to all known species, a full synonymy, citation of specimen seen, and critical notes on D. hirsutum (J. Sm. ex Presl) Copel.
10.2307/4115758|Anodendron oblongifolium Hemsley is lectotypified and placed in synonymy of A. paniculatum A. DC. The distribution and ethnobotanical use of A. paniculatum in Papuasia (Irian Jaya, Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands) is reviewed.
10.2307/4117686|Phylogenetic analyses of morphological characters and plastid DNA sequences of rbcL and trnL-F are presented separately and combined for nine of the 12 genera of Themidaceae and seven genera of related Asparagales. The results from the combined analysis are the most highly resolved and provide strong support for the monophyly of Themidaceae. Within Themidaceae, the Brodiaea complex of western North America is weakly supported and the Milla complex of Mexico is moderately supported as monophyledc. Within the Brodiaea complex, there are three strongly supported novel clades: (1) Brodiaea and Dichelostemma, (2) Triteleia and Bloomeria, and (3) Muilla and Androstephium. Thus, the previously recognised Brodiaea sensu lato (Brodiaea, Dichelostemma and Triteleia) defined by the presence of an extended perianth tube is polyphyletic.
10.2307/4119300|Elaeocarpus mandiae Coode from Mindoro is described and set into context among the species of the Verticellatae subgroup (Borneo, Phillipines) of the Monocera group. A new variety of E. lagunensis, var. coriaceus Coode is described from Luzon.
10.2307/4109774|Additional distribution records in South Africa are provided for Aponogeton ranunculiflorus Jacot Guillarmod & Marais. Its cultivation, flowering and fruiting in tanks in South Africa and Kew are also given in detail.
20443284|A phylogenetic hypothesis is presented for Brownanthus N. E. Br. (Mesembryanthemoideae-Aizoaceae), a genus largely endemic to the arid winter-rainfall area of southern Africa. Analysis of two plastid DNA regions (trnL-F and psbA-trnH), two nuclear regions (ITS1 and 5S NTS) and 20 morphological characters showed that Aspazoma amplectens and Phyllobolus digitatus are closely allied to Brownanthus. Relationships within Brownanthus are mostly well resolved and supported by the analysis of the combined data, but the monophyly of Brownanthus remains weakly supported. Brownanthus is upheld in its present circumscription, since its monophyly is not contradicted by our data and the genus is well characterised morphologically by the presence of a synapomorphy. Similarly, on account of the unique morphological characteristics of P. digitatus, this species is reinstated as Dactylopsis digitata and kept in a separate genus from the closely allied A. amplectens. Brownanthus vaginatus subsp. schenckii is raised to species rank as B. schenckii (Schinz) Schwantes. A taxonomic account with distribution maps is given for the 14 species of Brownanthus and the two monotypic genera Dactylopsis and Aspazoma.
25070240|The chorology of the grasses of Central and South America is examined and a classification into two kingdoms, four sub-kingdoms, 15 regions and four sub-regions is proposed.
23489052|A new species of Eugenia, E. pyrifera Faria & Proena (Myrtaceae) is described and illustrated. A distribution map is provided and comments on the infrageneric position of the species are also made. This publication is part of an ongoing study of Eugenia L. for the Flora of Gois and Tocantins. The species is close to E. megaflora Govaerts, but distinguishable by being a shrub or treelet, with opposite or verticillate leaves that are linear-elliptic, with more numerous secondary veins (13  17 pairs), shorter pedicels (7.2  17.7 mm) and pear-shaped fruit.
10.2307/4119385|Lactarius volemus (Fr.) Fr and L. vietus (Fr.) Fr. are redescribed and their variability on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean is discussed.
10.2307/4110487|Calea subgenera Haplocalea and Monanthocalea are treated as sections. Calea nematophylla and C. robinsoniana are described as new, and their relationships are discussed. Tridax verticillata is an earlier name for C. multijuga and C. catalaonensis, and the combination C. verticillata is thus made. The type of C. multijuga is designated as the neotype of T. verticillata. Calea saddiana is reduced to the synonymy of C. lutea, which is newly reported for Bolivia. Calea nematophylla and C. verticillata are illustrated.
10.2307/4110992|The new name Swartzia burchellii is proposed for Swartzia multijuga Vogel var. apetala Benth.
10.2307/4109939|The new species Eragrostis gloeophylla from Ethiopia and Somalia is described. E. kiwuensis Jedw. is reduced to a variety of E. schweinfurthii Chiov.
23216095|Coleochloa domensis Muasya & D. A. Simpson, a new species of epiphytic sedge from submontane forest in Cameroon, is described and illustrated. Its conservation status is assessed as Critically Endangered (CR).
23489130|The karyotypes of Crotalaria juncea L., C. sagittalis L. (sect. Calycinae Wight & Arn.), C. mollicula Kunth and C. pumila Ortega (sect. Crotalariae Baker) were obtained by a surface-spreading and air-drying method (splash). All species have chromosome numbers based on x = 8 (2n = 16, 32). Chromosomes are metacentric (m) or submetacentric (sm), with one pair of satellite-chromosomes per complement. Although similar, the karyotypes are not particularly uniform, supporting the view that inter-specific differences of karyotypes can be used in species characterisation. There is sufficient evidence to show that large structural chromosome changes and hybridisation are significant in the diversification of this genus, particularly in the New World.
20649579|Two new species, Habenaria ciliatisepala and H. egleriana (Orchidaceae, Orchideae), from the cerrado of central Brazil and campo rupestre of the Espinhao mountain range in Minas Gerais and Bahia, are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4102938|Euphorbia talaina is described as new from Pakistani Baluchistan.
10.2307/4117696| Ocimum  Zatarhendi Forssk., O. aegyptiacum Forssk. and Plectranthus crassifolius Vahl have been identified as conspecific with P. tenuiflorus (Vatke) Agnew. Ocimum a Zatarhendi Forssk. is regarded as not validly published, and P. aegyptiacus (Forssk.) C. Chr. is regarded as the correct name of the taxon. A neotype of O. aegyptiacum and a lectotype of Coleus tenuiflorus Vatke are designated. Ocimum villosum Forssk. is regarded as validly published, and Dianthera  americana Forssk. and D.  americana Forssk. (Acanthaceae) are regarded as not validly published, although the latter three conclusions do not affect accepted nomenclature. 
23044685|A new species of Ischaemum, I. sayajiraoi Raole & R. J. Desai (Poaceae) is described and illustrated from Gujarat state, western India. A detailed morphological description and line drawing of the new species are provided.
10.2307/4109764|Plants from Zambia recently regarded as Triumfetta heliocarpa are considered to be not specifically separable from T. welwitschii, but are regarded as a variety of the latter. The type specimen of T. heliocarpa K. Schum. is found to be not referable to this variety, and corresponds well with typical T. welwitschii. The Zambian variety is described as new as T. welwitschii var. lanata. Two other varieties hitherto recognized in T. welwitschii are not considered worthy of formal taxonomic recognition, but T. rogersii, recently sunk into synonymy, is here regarded as also varietally distinct. A pictorial scatter diagram and map are given.
10.2307/4109962|The chromosomes of nine species of Hippeastrum, one of Amaryllis and one of Phycella were counted. With one exception, the chromosome counts of Hippeastrum are based on x = 11 and the karyotypes are similar. Most are diploid (2ra = 22), but one each at the triploid, tetraploid and pentaploid level were found (2w = 33, 44, 55). H. blumenavia was found to contain 2n = 20 chromosomes, which supports its segregation from Hippeastrum as Griffinia blumenavia. One B chromosome was found in diploid H. forgetii. The chromosomes of Phycella (2n =18) are sufficiently distinct from those of Hippeastrum to confirm the separation of the two genera. The chromosomes of Amaryllis and the majority of Hippeastrum species are similar but the genera are distinct morphologically.
10.2307/4119324|Elaeocarpus jacobsii Coode is described as new, as are subsp. sumatranus Coode and sundarum Coode of E. acronodia Mast., subsp. parviflorus Coode of E. ferrugineus (Jack) Steud. and subsp. sumatrensis Coode of E. nanus Corner. Several recombinations are proposed: E. elliptifolius Merr. and E. glabrescens Mast. become subspecies of E. ferrugineus; E. reticulatus Ridl. var. cuspidatus Ridl. becomes a subsp. of E. knuthii Merr.; E. congestifolius R. Knuth becomes a subspecies of E. nanus. The complex variation in E. mastersii King is discussed and left unresolved. A key to the 15 species species is presented and descriptions to the confusing E. acronodia and E. ferrugineus are provided, as are descriptions to E. pagonensis and E. retakensis, of which the names were validated by diagnoses only when published recently.
10.2307/4110462|A new species, Fimbristylis prabatensis, is described and illustrated. A new combination, Trichophorum subcapitatum, is made. Ascolepis pusilla and Eleocharis setifolia are recorded as new to Thailand.
10.2307/4107999|Variation in Digitaria diagonalis is investigated by means of a multiple discriminant function, and three fades are recognized for which varietal names are available.
10.2307/4109451|A new combination is effected for the Chinese endemic Bischofia racemosa Cheng & Chu. A list of herbarium specimens and brief diagnostic notes are appended.
10.2307/4110859|Descriptions and line-drawings are presented of six Agaricus taxa found in the Falkland Islands. Related taxa are briefly discussed. Agaricus maclovianus and A. maclovianus var. brunneoarmillatus are described as new taxa.
10.2307/4113653|Two new combinations in Hosackia, H. hintoniorum and H. yollabolliensis, are proposed.
10.2307/4110124|The taxonomy of eastern Asian Senecioneae is discussed, with special reference to achene anatomy and floral micromorphology, and a synopsis of the subtribes and genera is provided. Revisions (with keys to species) of the species of Dicercoclados C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen gen. nov., Sinacalia H. Robins. & Brettell and Sinosenecio B. Nord., and of the Chinese species only of Nemosenecio (Kitam.) B. Nord., Tephroseris (Reichenb.) Reichenb., Synotis (C. B. Clarke) C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen gen. nov., Cissampelopsis (DC.) Miq. and Senecio L. are presented. The subtribe Tephroseridinae C. Jeffrey & Y. L. Chen, 4 sections, 3 subsections, 18 series, 29 species and 3 varieties are described as new, 5 nomina nova published at specific rank, and new combinations made at the serial (1) and specific (47) ranks.
10.2307/4118758|Tympanis prunicola is reported as new to Britain. Brief comments on British species of Tympanis are presented and a key is provided to distinguish these species.
10.2307/4118787|The subalpine species of Pittosporum Banks ex Gaertn. from Mt Jaya are investigated. Recent collections of Pittosporum from Mt Jaya exhibit a leaf morphology which suggests they are conspecific with P. pullifolium Burkill sensu stricto. However, in several characters, inflorescence position in particular, these do not correspond to P. pullifolium sensu stricto, but rather to P. nubigenum Ridl. Initially known only from a single rather poor collection, P. nubigenum has been synonymised with P. pullifolium, but is here recognised as distinct. In addition, a new species is described, P. spissescens. A key to the alpine and subalpine members of Pittosporum in New Guinea is provided, together with an emended description of P. nubigenum.
23489139|Three new species of Octomeria (Orchidaceae: Pleurothallidinae) from northern South America are proposed: O. platytylis from Bolivar State in Venezuelan montane forests, O. subcallosa from Ecuador and Suriname and O. tellina from La Paz State in Bolivian yungas forests. The species differ by a combination of vegetative and floral characters, among which are the shape of the leaves and, particularly the morphology of the lip. Trs novas espcies de Octomeria (Orchidaceae: Pleurothallidinae) do norte da Amrica do Sul so propostas neste artigo: O. platytylis, do estado de Bolvar nas florestas montanas venezuelanas; O. subcallosa, das florestas do Equador e Suriname, e O. tellina da Bolvia, Estado de La Paz nas florestas denominadas yungas. As espcies diferem por uma combinao de caracteres vegetativos e florais, entre os quais destacam-se o formato das folhas e, especialmente, a morfologia do labelo.
20649681|Five new taxa in Eriocaulaceae from the Chapada Diamantina of Bahia, Brazil are described and illustrated and their diagnostic characters discussed and compared with other similar taxa. Eriocaulon ligulatum var. dimerum occurs only between Lenis and Palmeiras; Paepalanthus carvalhoi occurs in Palmeiras, Mucug and Barra da Estiva; P. umbrosus, P. multicapitatus and P. oblongifolius are known only from the Serra da Chapadinha near Lenis. /// Cinco novos txons de Eriocaulaceae da Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brasil, so descritos, ilustrados e suas principais caractersticas morfolgicas discutidas e comparadas com outros txons similares. Eriocaulon ligulatum var. dimerum ocorre somente entre Lenis e Palmeiras; Paepalanthus carvalhoi ocorre em Palmeiras, Mucug e Barra da Estiva; P. umbrosus, P. multicapitatus e P. oblongifolius so conhecidas somente da Serra da Chapadinha, prximo de Lenis.
10.2307/4110033|Of the 8 tribes recognized by Diels in 'Das Pflanzenr.' (1910), the names of 3 must be changed: Menispermeae replaces Cocculeae Hook.f. & Thoms., Tiliacoreae Miers replaces Triclisieae Diels, Coscinieae Hook.f. & Thoms. replaces Anamirteae Diels. Synonymy and literature citations of the tribal names are given.
10.2307/4110334|Two new species of Perotis Aiton, P. acanthoneuron and P. pilosa are described from tropical Africa. A key to species of Perotis is provided.
10.2307/4110268|Myrcia cymosa is taken up as based on Aulomyrcia cymosa (and not Calyptromyrcia cymosa). M. almasensis is described as new and attention is drawn to the possible dioecy of this species. Psidium pohlianum is lectotypified and P. rigidum is placed in synonymy. Myrceugenia and Blepharocalyx are recorded as new to Bahia.
10.2307/4110721|Pseudobersama mossambicensis (Sim) Verdc. has been maintained as distinct from Trichilia P. Browne partly on the basis of a survey of wood anatomical features in Trichilia (Pennington & Styles, 1975). Amplification of the survey to include Trichilia capitata Klotzsch, a species recently demonstrated to be taxonomically close to Pseudobersama is shown in this paper to result in the conclusion that on the evidence of wood anatomy, it is no longer possible to say whether the two genera should be combined or separated.
10.2307/4113878|A critical review of the material in the Kew Herbarium of Ligustrum from the Western Ghats, including some recent collections, has led to the conclusion that only one species, L. perrottetii A.DC., should be recognized, although one or two aberrant forms need to be studied in the field.
10.2307/4118762|Cyperus ossicaulis is described from Central Somalia. It is a rather striking species with slender yellowish terete culms with swollen bases covered by thin greyish white leaf-sheaths. The linear spikelets are also unusual in being 20 - 40 mm long and largely reflexed.
10.2307/4103156|Achyranthes ancistrophora Townsend, sp. nov., is described from Thailand, with notes on some other species with uncinately hooked bracteoles that have been described in Achyranthes.
10.2307/4113870|4 new species related to Euphorbia longituberculosa Boiss. are described. Together with the recently published E. etuberculosa S. Carter, they compose a group of closely related species from northeast Africa and Dhofar in the Arabian Peninsula, with fleshy tuberculate stems and distinctive tube-like structures of 1, 2 or 3 involucral glands.
10.2307/4110038|Chromosome counts are given for 22 taxa in the genus Aloe L. collected in Somalia. All taxa were diploid (2n = 14) except A. cremnophila and A. inermis (tetraploid, 2n = 28) and a few specimens of A.jucunda (triploid, 2n = 21). Some specimens of A. pirottae were heterozygous for a chromosome interchange. The chromosomal stability and affinities of East African tetraploid aloes are discussed.
4110894| A new species of Chaptalia, C. cipoensis, from the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Comparisons are made between similar Brazilian species: C. chapadensis D. J. N. Hind, C. denticulata (Baker) Zardini and C. martii (Baker) Zardini in Chaptalia sect. Archichaptalia. 
10.2307/4110310|A new combination, Erica tenuipilosa (Engl.) Cheek, is made for the West African montane taxon previously known as Blaeria spicata Hochst. ex A. Rich. subsp. mannii (Engl.) Wickens and the infra-specific nomenclature adjusted accordingly.
10.2307/4110440|Boscia keniensis and Maerua mungaii are described from Kenya.
10.2307/4117101|An illustrated revision is provided of the species of Hygrocybe Kummer with dimorphous basidia which occur in tropical America. Nine taxa are recognized. Hygrocybe chloochlora Pegler & Fiard, H. martinicensis Pegler & Fiard and H. occidentalis var. scarletina Pegler & Fiard are described as new. Hygrocybe hypohaemacta (Corner) Pegler, H. trinitensis (Dennis) Pegler and H. occidentalis (Dennis) Pegler are proposed as new combinations, and H. naranjana Pegler as a nomen novum.
10.2307/4119407|Naucoria erebia sp. nov. is described from the Netherlands.
10.2307/4107977|During preparation of the Orchidaceae accounts for the Flora of Cyprus and Flora of Iraq it was found necessary to make two new combinations involving Ophrys umbilicata Desf. Full synonymy and a key to the three subspecies recognised is provided.
10.2307/4117859|A new combination, Bambusa membranacea (Munro) Stapleton & N. H. Xia, is made for a widespread and economically important bamboo from Burma, Indo-China, and Yunnan Province of China. On encountering this species in Yunnan, it was seen that all its vegetative characteristics were those of Bambusa Schreber rather than Dendrocalamus Nees. This prompted a more detailed analysis of herbarium material. It was found that despite having some floral characteristics of Dendrocalamus, prophylls subtending the synflorescence were consistently 2-keeled. This has been adopted as the principal criterion for separating the two genera. To improve consistency in vegetative and floral circumscription of the genera, it is felt desirable to transfer this species.
10.2307/4109729|The identity of the species described by Forsskal in the genus Ocimum is discussed. It is shown that the correct names for the widespread African plants hitherto known as Ocimum hadiense Forssk. and Plectranthus zatarhendi (Forssk.) E. A. Bruce are Ocimum forskolei Benth. and Plectranthus hadiensis (Forssk.) Schweinf. ex Sprenger respectively. A new combination and a new name are made.
10.2307/4109614|The genera Tinomiscium Miers with one variable species and Fibraurea with two species are revised. The name F. tinctoria Lour, must be used for the Indo-Malesian species. A note on the phytochemistry of the tribe by Dr N. G. Bisset is included.
20649538|A morphology-based phylogeny and taxonomic revision of Prepusa Mart. and Senaea Taub. are presented. Based on studies of herbarium collections, five species of Prepusa and two species of Senaea are recognised. All are endemic to montane habitats in the Brazilian states of Bahia, Esprito Santo, Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro. Morphological descriptions, identification keys, illustrations and distribution maps for each species are provided. Prepusa and Senaea are morphologically, geographically, and phylogenetically isolated within Helieae, and their close relationship is supported by 6-merous flowers. Phylogenetic analyses of 33 morphological characters using both parsimony and Bayesian methods provide a consistent picture of the relationships of Prepusa and Senaea. The two genera are monophyletic and sister to one another. There is some support for the relationships within Prepusa. /// So apresentadas a filogenia morfolgica e as revises taxonmicas de Prepusa Mart. e Senaea Taub. Baseado no estudo de colees de herbrios, cinco espcies de Prepusa e duas de Senaea so reconhecidas. Todas so endmicas a habitats montanos dos estados brasileiros da Bahia, Esprito Santo, Minas Gerais e Rio de Janeiro. So apresentados descries morfolgicas, chaves de identificao, ilustraes e mapas da distribuio de cada espcie. Prepusa e Senaea so morfolgica, geogrfica e filogeneticamente isolados entre as Helieae e a presena de flores 6-meras sustenta sua proximidade filogentica. Anlises filogenticas de 33 caracteres morfolgicos usando parcimnia e mtodos Bayesianos apresentam um quadro consistente das relaes de Prepusa e Senaea. Os gneros so monofilticos e irmos entre si. H sustentao para as relaes entre as espcies de Prepusa.
10.2307/4117840| An introduction is given to Calliandra series Racemosae Benth. with a discussion of: vegetative and reproductive morphology; pollination biology; distribution; hybridization; chromosome numbers and economic uses, leading into a taxonomic treatment. Seven species from Mexico to Panama which comprise series Racemosae Benth. are described and illustrated: Calliandra calothyrsus Meisn., Calliandra grandiflora (L'Hr.) Benth., Calliandra houstoniana (Mill:) Standl., Calliandra juzepczukii Standl., Calliandra longepedicellata (McVaugh) Macqueen & H. M. Hern., Calliandra palmeri S. Watson and Calliandra physocalyx H. M. Hern. & M. Sousa. Of these, several have agroforestry potential and C. calothyrsus is widely planted throughout the tropics in a range of agroforestry systems. Two keys and several distribution maps are given. A full list of exsiccatae can be obtained on request from the Oxford Forestry Institute. /// Se proporciona una introduccin a Calliandra serie Racemosae Benth. con una discusin sobre su morfologa vegetativa y reproductiva, su biologa reproductiva, su distribucin geogrfica, hibridacin, nmeros cromosmicos y usos econmicos, los cuales se conjugan en una revisin taxonmica. Se describen e ilustran las siete especies reconocidas para la serie Racemosae, las cuales se distribuyen desde Mxico hasta Panam: Calliandra calothyrsus Meisn., Calliandra grandiflora (L'Hr.) Benth., Calliandra houstoniana (Mill.) Standl., Calliandra juzepczukii Standl., Calliandra longepedicellata (McVaugh) Macqueen & H. M. Hern., Calliandra palmeri S. Watson y Calliandra physocalyx H. M. Hern. & M. Sousa. Varias de estas especies tienen potencial agroforestal y C. calothyrsus es ampliamente cultivada en el trpico en una variedad de sistemas agroforestales. Se proporcionan dos claves para la determinacin de los taxa, as como varios mapas de distribucin. Una lista de ejemplares de herbario puede ser solicitada del Oxford Forestry Institute. 
10.2307/4115666|A new species, Eragrostis poculiformis Cope, is described from Tanzania. Attention is drawn to its remarkable paleas that are flabellately expanded and curved outwards above to resemble a goblet.
10.2307/4117592|New taxa in Glochidion, Drypetes, Croton, Claoxylon, Bocquillonia, Koilodepas, Baloghia, Trigonopleura and Homalanthus are described, with notes on species of Chondrostylis and Cleidiocarpon.
10.2307/4117970|This paper presents a discussion, evaluation and modification of the species groupings in the Senecioneae established in a previous paper by Jeffrey et al. in the light of recent pappus, numerical, chemical and succulent plant studies. The contributions of Nordenstam are also discussed.
4110887|Patterns of morphological variation are reassessed within Margaretta rosea Oliv. Eight taxa are recognised at subspecific rank, reflecting the strongly geographic nature of the variation, and their distributions are plotted on a map. Two new subspecies are described and new names, ranks or combinations proposed for three further subspecies. Margaretta orbicularis N. E. Br. and M. whytei K. Schum. are lectotypified.
10.2307/4111025|The genus Tarchonanthus is described, and a key is given to the two species, T. camphoratus and T. trilobus; these occur in Africa and Arabia. Descriptions, distribution data and notes on the species are provided.
10.2307/4110578|A new species, Aloe gilbertii T. Reynolds ex Sebsebe & Brandham is described from central Ethiopia.
10.2307/4109654|By the end of 1975, analytical and structural studies of the gum exudates from 47 different Acacia species had been completed; the names of the species involved, and those of the 42 species at present under investigation, are listed according to Bentham's divisions of the genus. The amount of data available is now becoming useful taxonomically, and some interesting features that have become apparent are discussed.
10.2307/4118043|Bupleurum hakgalense, a new species from central Ceylon, is described.
10.2307/4102900|A new species, D. fortunae-hibernae, is described, collected by Lord Talbot de Malahide on Mt. Read, Tasmania.
10.2307/4114435|An account of the 11 species of Mucuna Adans. found in the Pacific Islands is offered, with keys and distribution maps. One new species, M. subumbellata, and one variety, M. sloanei Fawcett & Rendle var. persericea, are described; one former variety, M. urens (L.) Medic, var. glabra Reinecke, is raised to specific rank. One New Guinean species, M. albertisii F. Muell., is reduced to synonymy under the Pacific species M. platyphylla A. Gray. All specimens cited have been seen.
10.2307/4110512|A global taxonomic review of the allied Labiate genera Scutellaria L., Perilomia Kunth, Harlanlewisia Epling and Salazaria Torrey is presented. It is based on the study of a representative selection of species from throughout the world covering all known aspects of morphological and geographical variation. A detailed investigation of available practical characters showed that features of the inflorescence, calyx, corolla and nutlets were the most important and taxonomically most reliable. All taxa studied are here included in one genus, Scutellaria. Two subgenera are delimited and redefined: Subgen. Scutellaria and Subgen. Apeltanthus (Nevski ex Juz.) Juz. emend. Paton. Within the type subgenus, five sections are recognised: Sects. Scutellaria, Anaspis (Rech. f.) Paton, Salviifoliae (Boiss.) Edmondson, Salazaria (Torrey) Paton, and Perilomia (Kunth) Epling emend. Paton. Subgen. Apeltanthus is divided into two sections: Sect. Apeltanthus Nevski ex Juz. and Sect. Lupulinaria A. Hamilton, the latter further divided into Subsects. Lupulinaria (A. Hamilton) Paton and Cystaspis (Juz.) Paton. The infrageneric taxa are described, keyed out and typified. Phylogenetic conclusions are also presented. Finally the classification is compared with a numerical phenetic (UPGMA) study. The proposed classification, the first global review of a major subcosmopolitan Labiate genus this century, provides a framework for future monographic studies.
10.2307/4110523|Sporobolus rigidifolius (Trin.) Mez ex Veldk. (Gramineae) is the correct name for the Mauritian endemic known as S. mauritianus (Steud.) Dur. & Sch. The use of the latter combination for a species from Madagascar and Africa is erroneous; it must be replaced by S. subulatus Hack.
4110897|The genus Xerorchis Schltr. is isolated in subfamily Epidendroideae of the Orchidaceae. Its affinities are discussed and a new tribe, Xerorchideae, established to accommodate it.
10.2307/4103116|Two new species of Selaginella collected in Gunung Mulu National Park, Sarawak, are described: S. lineariformis from sandstone rocks in lowland dipterocarp forest; and S. chaii from lowland limestone forest. The term 'pseudofrond' is proposed for a compound branch-system arranged in one plane.
10.2307/4110745|Eight species of Lophodermium Chev. and two species of Hypoderma DC. are reported from Mt Kinabalu, Sabah, East Malaysia. Six of the Lophodermium species and one species of Hypoderma are described as new: L. geniculosporum, L. intricatum, L. kinabalui, L. lanceolatum, L. litseoides, L. ramulosum and H. borneense. A key to distinguish the species of Lophodermium is given.
10.2307/4111095|The Tropical East African Sterculia lindensis Engl. is a synonym of S. appendiculata K. Schum. A neotype is chosen for the former name. A lectotype is also designated for S. schliebenii Mildbr., which occurs in Tropical East Africa and Mozambique.
10.2307/4110775|After the publication of a revision of the Continental African Bulbophyllinae (Orchidaceae), see Vermeulen, 1987) some additional data have become available. A new species, B. fayi is described, and the identity of B. sessiliflorum H. A. Wendl. & Kranzlin is clarified.
10.2307/4103119|Dendrobium sect. Spatulata (syn.: sect. Ceratobium) is revised here. Forty six species are recognised and a key is provided for their identification. D. brevimentum, a new species from the Moluccas, is described here.
10.2307/4114502|The genus Pachycarpus is revised in tropical Africa and 15 species recognised in the region. Two new species (P. pachyglossus and P. richardsiae) and one subspecies (P. grantii subsp. marroninus) are described from the southern Tanzanian highlands and two new combinations are made. Descriptions and keys to the taxa are presented and all species illustrated. In addition, a variety from southern Africa is raised to subspecific rank and the delimitation of P. concolor E. Mey. expanded to include three other taxa. Asclepias browniana S. Moore, Pachycarpus robustus A. Rich., P. schumannii Chiov. and Schizoglossum simulans N. E. Br. are all lectotypified and a neotype is designated for S. goetzei K. Schum.
10.2307/4110542|The new species Panicum dorsense and Pennisetum thulinii are described from Ethiopia. Brachiaria serrifolia (Hochst.) Stapf var. pubescens Chiov. is elevated to specific rank.
10.2307/4109577|In Acalypha a description is amplified. A. poiretii Spreng. is recorded for W. Africa and the allomorphic flowers of A. segetalis Muell. Arg. are described. In Croton, a new record for E. Africa is reported. In Drypetes, D. sclerophylla Mildbr. is upheld, and two recent gatherings from Tanzania are referred to it. In Erythrococca, 2 new species are described, 7 reductions to synonymy are made, a new record for E. Africa is reported, and the problem of 'E. sansibaricd' is cleared up. In Jatropha, a new record for Kenya is reported. In Maesobotrya, a reduction to synonymy is made. In Micrococca, a new record for Kenya is reported. In Pseudolachnostylis, two species are reduced to varietal status under P. maprouneifolia Pax. Thecacoris is reported as a genus new to the Kenya flora.
10.2307/4114365|The mainly Asiatic and Pacific grass genus Garnotia is revised. After consideration of its morphology, cytology, anatomy and phylogeny a key to the taxa precedes the taxonomic account, with extensive synonomy. 29 species and 6 varieties are recognized, arranged in two sections, Sect. Garnotia and Sect. Scoparia, sect. nov. Two new species are described, G. thailandica from Thailand, and G. exaristata from S. India and Ceylon.
20443372|A study of herbarium specimens of Festuca (Poaceae) from southern Bolivia resulted in the description of two species new to science. Festuca carrascana and F. chuquisacae belong to the South American endemic subgen. Erosiflorae, a group of tall-growing species of Andean mountain forests. The species described here represent an important biogeographical link between the isolated areas of distribution of Peruvian (F. dichoclada and F. horridula) and Argentinian (F. superba) members of this subgenus. Both species are rated as vulnerable according to IUCN conservation status criteria. A description is also provided for a third species of this subgenus, F. steinbachii E. B. Alexeev, which occurs in Bolivia. In addition, new localities and herbarium material are cited for two little-known Bolivian species, F. samensis Joch. Mull. and F. parodiana (St.-Yves) Nicora.
10.2307/4114595|Two new species of Bulbophyllum are described here in preparation for the account of the genus in the Flora of Tropical East Africa.
10.2307/4110717|Centaurea jeffreyana Mesfin is described from the highlands of northern Ethiopia.
10.2307/4119319|The genus Erythrocephalum Benth. (Compositae: Mutisieae) is lectotypified, based on E. nutans Benth. ex Oliv. (= E. longifolium Benth. ex Oliv.).
10.2307/4115752|The southern African genus Chortolirion A. Berger (Aloaceae) comprises a single species, C angolense (Baker) A. Berger, which, despite a considerable number of synonyms, is remarkably uniform in both reproductive and vegetative morphology. Characterized by a subterranean bulb and spirally-twisted, graminoid, deciduous leaves, C. angolense is one of the least typical alooid plants. Moreover, as one of only two monotypic genera in the Aloaceae, the generic status of Chortolirion has been questioned from time to time. This is the first attempt to assess the status and infrafamilial affinities of the genus on the basis of internal leaf anatomical evidence. The distribution and structure of the vascular bundles (presence of enlarged parenchymatous cells in the inner bundle sheath), and the presence of palisade cells in the chlorenchyma were found to be of particular taxonomic significance. Leaf anatomical data confirm the placement of Chortolirion in the Aloaceae and support its status as a separate genus.
10.2307/4109690|The following notes on new and interesting species of Euphorbiaceae (other than Euphorbieae) arise from the preparation of an account of the family for the forthcoming Flora of Ethiopia. Eight species are described as new: Andrachne ephemera, Phyllanthus borenensis, P. dewildiorum, P. mooneyi, P. oblongiglans, Acalypha marissima, Erythrococca uniflora and Cephalocroton incanum.
10.2307/4114619|Two new neotropical species of Licania Aubl. are described, one from Costa Rica, L. corniculata and the other from Peru, L. bullata.
10.2307/4119016|Morphology, natural history and ecology of the rattan genus Korthalsia Bl. are discussed prior to a synopsis of all species. K. jala and K. furtadoana are described as new. Areas of synonymy and nomenclatural and taxonomic confusion are discussed.
10.2307/4115723|Pittosporum anggiense D. M. Hicks & Utteridge (Pittosporaceae) is described as new from the Anggi lakes region of New Guinea, in the Indonesian province of Papua. The new species is illustrated and compared with morphologically similar species.
10.2307/4111179|A new species of Mimosa L. series Filipedes Barneby, M. crumenarioides, is described and illustrated. This new species is endemic to a very small area in the southern Chapada Diamantina plateau, central Bahia, Brazil.
10.2307/4108880|A comparative account is given of the spore form and structure found in the British species of the tribe Leucopaxilleae (Tricholomataceae), together with an atlas of transmission and scanning electron micrographs. A revised classification and keys to the British species are presented.
10.2307/4102941|Bremontiera ammoxylum DC. is transferred to Indigofera and a new species, I. tenuipes, is described.
10.2307/4110916|Sleumer's (1972) revision of Dasylepis (formerly Flacourtiaceae now Achariaceae) is reviewed to improve the identification of new material. As a result D. brevipedicellata Chipp is reduced to a synonym of D. racemosa Oliv. and D. thomasii from SE Nigeria and SW Cameroon is described as new. A revised key to the species of Dasylepis is presented and their distributions are mapped.
10.2307/4110754|In Jatropha, 6 new species are described, 2 from Mozambique and 1 each from Botswana, Somalia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The Somali species is made the type of a new sub-section. A table (Table 1) is provided showing how 3 of the new species differ from their close congeners, and another (Table 2) is provided giving the classification of the species in this paper on the basis of Pax's & Dehgan & Webster's treatments; 1 new subspecies is described from Zambia; 2 new varieties are described, 1 each from Mozambique and Zambia; 2 new records are reported for the "Flora Zambesiaca" area; 1 species is reduced to synonymy but is accorded subspecific status within the species under which it is subsumed; and the descriptions of two hitherto imperfectly-known species are completed. The need for most of these changes came to light during the course of preparation of the account of the genus for "Flora Zambesiaca".
23044681|A few years after the publication of the revision of Encholirium by the first author, two new species have been found in neighbouring municipalities on the west side of the Serra do Cip, Cadeia do Espinhao, in Minas Gerais. Both have a quite restricted habitat, growing on quartzitic/arenitic rocks above 1000 m alt., within 10  12 km of each other. Encholirium agavoides Forzza & Zappi has striking silvery leaves and a small, agave-like habit while Encholirium ctenophyllum Forzza & Zappi also has small rosettes that can be distinguished by their narrow, strongly pectinate and reflexed leaves. A key for the species in the region is presented. Passados apenas alguns anos aps a publicao da reviso do gnero Encholirium estas duas espcies aqui apresentadas foram encontradas em municpios vizinhos na encosta oeste da Serra do Cip, na Cadeia do Espinhao, Minas Gerais, sendo ambas restritas aos afloramentos de quartzito e arenito, acima de 1000 ms.n.m., a aproximadamente 10  12 km uma da outra. Encholirium agavoides Forzza & Zappi possui pequenas folhas prateadas agrupadas em rosetas com aspecto de Agave, enquanto que as rosetas, tambm relativamente pequenas de Encholirium ctenophyllum Forzza & Zappi apresentam folhas estreitas, fortemente pectinadas e reflexas. Uma chave de identificao para as espcies da regio  apresentada.
24717379|A cytogenetic survey of 17 species in the succulent-leaved genus Aloe L. (Xanthorrhoeaceae subfamily Asphodeloideae) in Ethiopia was undertaken towards a more complete genetic characterisation of the genus throughout its distribution in Africa, Arabia and Madagascar. Somatic metaphase chromosomes of all species studied showed the same diploid chromosome number of 2n = 14, consisting of four pairs of long and three pairs of short chromosomes. Symmetry was characterised as Stebbins type 2B and the asymmetry indices AsK%, TF%, A1 and A2 revealed minor karyotypic variation common in closely related species. The metrics showed that A. benishangulana has a marginally higher degree of asymmetry than is typical, and the pubescent-flowered A. trichosantha has a more symmetrical karyotype than most other species. We suggest that the stable karyotype morphology in Aloe indicates that structural genome changes and ecological factors play a more prominent role in speciation in Aloe.
23489190|Myrcia lignosa, a new species only known from the Serrana de Huanchaca in the Noel Kempff Mercado National Park is described and illustrated. Eugenia angustissima O. Berg, E. gemmiflora O. Berg, E. klotzschiana O. Berg, Myrcia dasyblasta O. Berg, M. lingua (O. Berg) Mattos & D. Legrand and M. torta DC. are reported in Bolivia for the first time.
10.2307/4110395|A morphological and biogeographic study of the Acosmium dasycarpum (Vogel) Yakovlev complex suggests that it comprises a single taxon and that there is no justification for recognising subspecies dasycarpum and glabratum (Benth.) Yakovlev as separate entities.
10.2307/4110751|Arisaema hirsutum S. Y. Hu, described from Thailand and based on a fruiting specimen, is transferred to Typhonium. A revised description supplemented by information from a flowering specimen is provided.
10.2307/4110801|Rhynchospora rosemariana, a new species from campo rupestre vegetation in Minas Gerais, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117105|A complete revision of the three genera of Coscineae ( = Anamirteae Diels) is presented. Two species are recognized in both Coscinium and Arcangelisia (in 1910, Diels recognized six and three species respectively). Anamirta remains monotypic. Coscinium collaniae Gagnep., excluded from the genus, is identified as Pericampylus glaucus (Lam.) Merr.
10.2307/4118999|Notobuxus cordata is described as new from the Usambara Mts, NE Tanzania.
10.2307/4111177|Guinetia, a new genus of Leguminosae: Mimosoideae from Tehuantepec (Oaxaca, Mexico) containing the single species G. tehuantepecensis is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4109589|Agyriella pittospori on Pittosporum undulatum and Sirothecium minor on Populus alba are illustrated and described.
10.2307/4110968|Ceratocaryum persistens and C. caespitosum are separated from C. argenteum. New descriptions and an emended description for C. argenteum are provided, with a key to all the species in the genus. The segregates and their closest relatives are compared morphologically and biologically. A phylogenetic analysis is performed and shows that C. argenteum sensu lato does not form a monophyledc group. Since the holotype of C. argenteum cannot be precisely identified, an epitype is designated.
10.2307/4117828|A new saprophytic species of Eulophia, E. richardsiae, and a new variety of Polystachya johnstonii are described here.
10.2307/4108576|Carex iraqensis sp. nov. is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115873|Two nomenclatural changes are proposed for the Neotropical genus Acaciella.
10.2307/4114618|The specimen of Tilia in the Linnean Herbarium in London (Savage Catalogue 679/1) is designated the lectotype of T. europaea L. It is then also the lectotype of the genus. It is shown to be a specimen of the cv. 'Pallida' of the tree which is usually believed to be a hybrid between T. platyphyllos and T. cordata. This has been extensively planted since the seventeenth century. T. vulgaris Hayne is taxonomically the same and is a later synonym.
10.2307/4118779|Chemotaxonomic studies of the Myrtaceae have previously centred on chemotypes within species, using phenolics and volatile leaf oils. However, few genera have been studied in any detail. A wide-ranging survey of polyhydroxyalkaloids (PHAs) in the Myrtaceae led to the identification of fourteen PHAs from three structural subclasses. These compounds have a non-random distribution within the Myrtaceae. The genera of the three subtribes of the Myrtoideae differ in their PHA profiles. PHAs are almost ubiquitous and very diverse in the Eugeniinae and are also diverse in both species of the genus Luma.
10.2307/4110072|Croton habrophyllus Airy Shaw is reinstated and its differences from C. armstrongii Airy Shaw are summarized.
10.2307/4110068|Preliminary notes on Pyrostria sensu lato and allies are given; the circumscription of Pyrostria is enlarged to include 11 African species; 6 new combinations are made, 1 new species described and 4 poorly known species noted. Canthium subgen. Bullockia is described as new to accommodate 6 eastern African species, including 3 new; one new combination at subspecific rank is also made.
10.2307/4110746|Rosifax sabuletorum gen. & sp. nov. is described from SW Somalia.
10.2307/4117942| The equivocal position of the genus Gisekia L. is briefly reviewed. Attention is drawn to the variation in mericarp morphology. Three new species, G. haudica, G. scabridula and G. polylopha, and a new variety, G. pharnaceodes L. var. alata, are described. All other taxa are reviewed and a key is given to the known species. 
20443255|Berlinia phenacoa Mackinder from Congo (Brazzaville) and Congo (Kinshasa) and Berlinia rabiensis Mackinder from Gabon are described as new.
10.2307/4110077|Bhidea fischeri sp. nov. from India is described. This is allied to B. burnsiana Bor. The distinguishing characters are tabulated.
10.2307/4109456|Since the earliest specific epithet does not appear to have been taken up in the genus Rapona a new combination is proposed here and a short description and photograph given of the characteristic fruits.
10.2307/4109610| The genera Aristotelia L'Hr. and Vallea L.f. are here considered to be more closely related to each other than either is to any other genus in Elaeocarpaceae. These conclusions are compared with some previously published findings. The five species of Aristotelia (from Australia, New Zealand and temperate South America) and the variable but probably single species of Vallea (montane tropical South America) are reviewed and flowers and fruits illustrated. 
10.2307/4111080|This paper provides a key to the 15 species here recognised in Salvia sect. Nobiles, which is confined to Brazil and Venezuela. Additionally nomenclature, synonymy, and ranges of distribution of all the species are included. Two of the species, Salvia chapadensis and S. diamantina, both from central Brazil, are here described as new to science. The delimitation of Salvia sect. Nobiles and the taxonomic status of Salvia sect. Asperifoliae are also discussed. It is concluded that sect. Asperifoliae is best treated as a synonym of sect. Nobiles.
23489195|A new species, Sarcoglottis catharinensis Mancinelli & E. C. Smidt, found in the Atlantic Forest of Brazil, is described and illustrated. The species was collected in Serra Quiriri, Garuva municipality, Santa Catarina State and grows in montane forest on turfy soil. It is differentiated from the remaining Sarcoglottis C. Presl species by the truncate and rostrate apex of the lip.
10.2307/4108993|Somatic chromosome counts for fifty-seven species of Melaleuca are reported. The common basic number for the genus is x = 11, but a new basic number of x = 12 is reported here for the first time with a polyploid series based on x = 11.
10.2307/4108897|A short account is given of allomorphic flowers in the genus Acalypha, with especial reference to the Series Polygynae-Pleurogynae.
10.2307/4114584|Characters and synonymies are given for Sagittaria latifolia Willd. and S. australis (J. G. Smith) Small. Lectotypification for S. australis and for S. longirostra (Micheli) J. G. Smith is discussed. S. longirostra is shown to be a synonym for S. latifolia and not the correct name for S. australis.
10.2307/4114361|An account is given of spore form and structure in the genus Galerina (Agaricales) together with an atlas of transmission and scanning electron micrographs. A revised classification of the British species is presented.
10.2307/4107837| Forsskal used a small botanical library during his journey to Egypt and the Yemen in 1761-3, but his field literature was ed. 10 of Linnaeus' Systema Naturae. Forsskal's botanical descriptions were carefully made from live plants, and frequently give more information than can now be obtained from his fragmentary specimens, the labels of which were probably deliberately incomplete. Forsskal's botanical material consisted, apart from the descriptions, of 1) the seed collections, which were distributed to important botanical institutions in Europe, but only published by Linnaeus, 2) the drawings made on the spot by an artist under Forsskal's supervision, and 3) the herbarium, part of which never reached Copenhagen. The material was first studied by Zoga and Rottboell, but was virtually inaccessible to outsiders until coming into Vahl's care in 1779. Vahl revised the herbarium thoroughly, and was presumably the first to distribute duplicates. The descriptions and other notes made by Forsskal during the journey were written on loose slips of paper, which were organized but not revised for the publication of the Flora Aegyptiaco-Arabica. The text for the drawings was carefully worked out by Zoga before publication. A number of implications of importance to modern taxonomy and nomenclature are pointed out. It is argued that the Flora Aegyptiaco-Arabica was published about June 1775. 
10.2307/4110596|Evidence for treating G. hababensis Chiov. var. angustifolius Verde, as a distinct species is presented, and the new combination G. angustifolius (Verde.) Thulin is made.
10.2307/4114734|Preparation of an account of the Urticaceae for the Flore des Mascareignes and preparatory work on the family for the Flora of Tropical East Africa and the Flora of Ethiopia has brought to light two unfortunate changes of names in the genus Boehmeria-not merely changes, but a switch of name: B. macrophylla has to be removed from one well-known species and applied to one even more widely known.
23216740|The contribution of Jonathan Pereira to plant taxonomy is reviewed. He described three species in the course of his extensive publications on materia medica. All three are members of the Zingiberaceae. Elettaria cardamomum-zeylanicum J. Pereira from Sri Lanka has been completely overlooked since its publication. It is a synonym of Elettaria cardamomum var. major Baker. The West African Amomum citratum J. Pereira is correctly known as Aframomum citratum (J. Pereira) K. Schum. Amomum korarima J. Pereira is a synonym of Aframomum corrorima (A. Braun) P. C. M. Jansen, an important spice-plant from Ethiopia. The typification of these taxa and their synonyms is reviewed. This includes new lectotypifications for two species described by Gaertner, Zingiber ensal and Z. minus. A note concerning the valid publication of 14 nomenclatural novelties by B. A. Abeywickrama is included.
10.2307/4118885|The aquatic herb Villarsia aurantiaca Ridl. ex C. B. Clarke, endemic to Peninsular Thailand and Malaysia, is typified and shown to be synonymous with Nymphoides aurantiaca (Dalzell) Kuntze though heterotypic. Consequently the genus Villarsia is known in Malesia by the single species V. exiliflora F. Muell. from the south of New Guinea. Some authors have also placed V. exiliflora in Nymphoides. Villarsia thus consists of some twelve Australasian species with two outliers: one species in South Africa (V. capensis (Houtt.) Merr.) and one in mainland Indochina (V. cambodiana Hance).
10.2307/4109462|A new species of Crocus from Turkey is described and its relationship with other species is discussed. Chromosome counts are given for all the species mentioned and the karyotypes of the new species and C. flavus are illustrated.
10.2307/4117254|Although spotted leaves are normal in most species of Gasteria a specimen of G. bicolor Haw. is shown to be heterozygous for a dominant gene causing amalgamation of leaf spots to produce a uniformly pale green leaf. An individual of G. humilis v. Poelln. is shown to be heterozygous for recessive lethal genes causing albinism and seed sterility when homozygous.
10.2307/4109979|Odontanthera reniformis Wight is identified with Steinheilia radians (Forssk.) Decne. rather than Glossonema revoilii Franch. and the necessary name changes are made. A detailed description of Conomitra linearis Fenzl is made following recent collections of this rare plant and the position of the genus in the family is re-evaluated.
10.2307/4117271|An account is given of the species of Portulaca from Aldabra. Three new varieties, P. mauritiensis var. aldabrensis & var. grubbii and P. oleracea var. delicatula are described, and two further varieties of P. oleracea are listed.
23044680|Bertolonia alternifolia and B. bullata, two new endemic species of Melastomataceae from the Atlantic Forest biome of the southern region of Bahia state, Brazil, are described and illustrated based on recent botanical explorations and literature records. The main diagnostic characteristics that distinguish B. alternifolia are alternate leaves with cordate bases, and anthers with terminal-dorsal pores and unappendaged connectives. B. bullata can be identified by having leaves bullate on the adaxial surface, foveolate on the abaxial surface and bases cordate to cordate-lobate, calyx lobes with entire to slightly undulate margins, and stamens dorsally appendaged. Both species are classified as Critically Endangered (CR) and Endangered (EN) respectively.
10.2307/4108132|An account is given of spore form and structure in the genera Lepista and Ripartites (Agaricales) together with an atlas of transmission and scanning electron micrographs.
10.2307/4109997|The following new taxa of Ranunculaceae from Pakistan and Kashmir are described: Thalictrum secundum var. hazaricum, Anemone punctulata, Ranunculus brotherusii subsp. latisectus, R. palmatifidus, R. stewartii and Delphinium chitralense. Ranunculus pennsylvanicus subsp. riparius, R. pennsylvanicus subsp. napaulensis and Oxygraphis involucrata are proposed as new combinations.
23044676|To resolve the current taxonomic status of Japanese endemic Fritillaria L., their taxonomic history is retraced. All taxonomic papers are evaluated, together with more recent genetic observations. To determine the wider acceptance of various taxonomic revisions, a range of Floras are also examined. It is evident that articles published in Japanese have not been fully considered by the wider botanical community. Moreover, rivalries between the Tokyo and Kyoto schools of botany and an over-reliance on herbarium material by many authors have undermined the current classification of the Fritillaria 'japonica group'.
10.2307/4115858|Cyrtandra chrysea C. B. Clarke and C. exima C. B. Clarke, together with seven new species, constitute a group distinguished by a suite of characters including the deeply divided calyx, the small white corolla variously patterned with pale to deep purple, the unilateral disc, the ovary constricted at base and the small fruit. All nine species are fully described and an identification key provided. Six species (C. decipiens, C. lanata, C. dasymallos, C. nibongensis, C. villifructus, C. kostermansii) are described as new; the material of a further species is insufficient to typify a name.
10.2307/4102980|x Chrismatopteris holttumii Quansah & D. S. Edwards, a natural bi-generic hybrid between Christella dentata (Forssk.) Brownsey & Jermy-and Pneumatopteris afra (C. Chr.) Holtt. from Ghana, is reported, described and illustrated.
10.2307/4109797|Impatiens hongkongensis is described and discussed.
4110899| Two new coelomycete species from Agapanthus L'Hr. in England, Phomopsis agapanthi sp. nov. and Septoria agapanthi sp. nov., are described and illustrated. In addition, Stagonospora curtisii (Berk.) Sacc., causing leaf blotches of Agapanthus sp. from Devon, represents a new host record for the U.K. 
10.2307/4114583|Descriptions and synonymy are given for the 7 species occurring in India, Sri Lanka and the Seychelles.
10.2307/4115760|Leaf anatomy is described in both genera of Mariceae (Pseudotrimezia and Trimezia), a Neotropical tribe of the subfamily Iridoidcae, including species from all five sections of the larger genus Trimezia. In most species of Trimezia (including the former genus Neomarica), leaves are plane, as in most other Iridaceae, although sometimes with a pseudomidrib and an extra row of vascular bundles in the leaf sheath. However, in Pseudotrimezia and some species of Trimezia (section Juncella), leaves are terete, sometimes with surface ridges, each ridge with subepidermal sclerenchyma linking one large and two small vascular bundles, and sclerenchyma often encircling the phloem of larger bundles. One plicate-leaved species of Trimezia is also described anatomically.
20649614|A new monotypic bamboo genus Phuphanochloa (Poaceae: Bambusoideae) from north-eastern Thailand is described, together with a new species, P. speciosa.
10.2307/4114570|Ceratonia oreothauma n. sp. is described from the Oman and the Somali Republic; although only slight differences in foliage are involved in the material from each area, two subspecies have been recognized. The new species differs widely from C. siliqua L.; until very recently, Ceratonia has universally been thought to be monotypic. The breeding systems of C. siliqua, and its culture in the Mediterranean, are also discussed.
10.2307/4117773| A new species of Vernonia, V. xiquexiquensis, is described from the dunes of the Rio So Francisco near Xique-Xique (Municpio Xique-Xique), Bahia State, Brazil. The new species is part of the Lepidaploa group of species. A new combination in Vernonia is made for a recently described taxon from the Morro do Pai Incio (Municpio Palmeiras), Bahia State, Brazil. 
10.2307/4110723|Two new endemic species from Lord Howe Island, Senecio howeanus and S. pauciradiatus, and two new endemic species from Norfolk Island, S. evansianus and S. hooglandii, are described and discussed. Senecio australis Willd. is also included as a Norfolk Island endemic. The possible affinities of these species are discussed. A number of names previously ascribed to taxa from these islands, either in the literature or as determinations on specimens, are excluded.
10.2307/4110082|Changes in nomenclature and status are made in two Indian Menispermaceae-Cocculus and Diploclisia.
10.2307/4114653|Haplophyllum sanguineum sp. nov. from NE Somalia is described.
10.2307/4115654|Three new species of Coffea L. from eastern Madagascar are described: C. manombensis, C. liaudii and C. leroyi.
10.2307/4110496|The new species Calamus occidentalis J. R. Witono & J. Dransf. is described from Ujung Kulon, West Java.
10.2307/4110709|Albizia niopoides is the correct name for the tree formerly known as A. caribaea in Mexico and Central America. Full synonymy, and its geographical distribution worlwide are here presented.
10.2307/4114353|An account of the 16 species of Sacciolepis Nash occurring in the 'Flora Zambesiaca' area, with keys, taxonomic notes, histograms, scatter diagrams and maps showing their complete distribution in Africa.
10.2307/4108271|Ischaemum nativitatis Jansen ex Renvoize, an endemic grass, from Christmas Island, in the eastern Indian Ocean, is described and its nomenclatural history discussed.
10.2307/4110767| A revision of the tropical African species of Scutellaria is presented. Four species are recognized: S. schweinfurthii Briq., S. violascens G rke, S. polyadena Briq. and S. arabica Jaub. & Spach. Two subspecies are recognized within S. schweinfurthii Briq. to accommodate the geographically related variation in leaf morphology. 
20649631|Isoetes eludens, a new, highly localised, endemic species from the Kamiesberg, Northern Cape is described. The aquatic species grows in a shallow temporary gnamma or !gau (rock pool) in Kamiesberg gneiss at an altitude of 1,284 m. It is characterised by a short, strongly 3-lobed stem, relatively short, and broad estomate sporophylls, a complete velum, the presence of an outer sporangium sack (a feature not previously reported for the genus), graphite-black, laevigate megaspores with a narrow, but tall laesura, microspores with near smooth proximal surfaces but with a papillate distal surface, the absence of a ligule and labium, and simple roots with few root-hairs. The systematic relationship of the species is difficult to determine as a result of convergent evolution in the genus. The sporangium sack does not support an affinity with any of the known species. Further surveys are needed to establish the geographical extent and conservation status of this remarkable local endemic.
23216193|In this first part of a taxonomic revision of Phyllanthus L. in Madagascar and the Comoro Islands, a synopsis of the 55 species and a key to the nine subgenera (three of which are new) and two sections are given. The taxonomic treatment in this paper includes the 11 species, four subspecies and two varieties of subgenera Isocladus G. L. Webster, Betsileani (Jean F. Brunel) Ralim. & Petra Hoffm. stat. nov., Kirganelia (A. Juss.) G. L. Webster and Tenellanthus Jean F. Brunel. Distribution maps and IUCN conservation assessments are provided for each taxon. The three Madagascan endemic species without phyllanthoid branching are placed in the new subgen. Betsileani separate from subgen. Isocladus. Revised circumscription of species within Kirganelia s.s. reduces the number of species in this group from nine to four. Section Pentandra G. L. Webster is separated as subgen. Tenellanthus as suggested by Brunel (1987).
10.2307/4107968|Cymbidium borneense from Sabah and Sarawak in Borneo is described.
10.2307/4110434|Rhapidospora oblongifolia Lindau & Duvernoia asystasioides Lindau are transferred to Justicia.
10.2307/4109711|Two new species of Chenopodiaceae are described, Corispermum ladakhianum Grey-Wilson & Wadhwa and Halogeton kashmirianus Grey-Wilson & Wadhwa, both from the western Himalaya, Kashmir.
23489337|Tragopogon mirabilis Rouy is described as a diploid hybrid between T. porrifolius and T. pratensis. A population of T. mirabilis from Central Bohemia, Czech Republic, was recently investigated and, unlike previous reports of T. mirabilis, was found to be highly fertile. This fertile diploid hybrid population was considered to represent an alternative evolutionary pathway to polyploidy in Tragopogon. To determine the parentage of the plants from Bohemia, we investigated 12 samples of T. mirabilis with ITS, ETS, LFY and plastid (rpL16 gene, intron 1, tRNA-Leu (trnL) gene, intron, trnL-trnF intergenic spacer, psbA-trnH intergenic spacer, and trnG-trnT intergenic spacer) sequence data. None of the Bohemian plants have sequences that are consistent with a hybrid origin between T. porrifolius (incl. T. australis) and T. pratensis. Our data suggest that this fertile population of "T. mirabilis" may represent an unrecognised diploid species from the Angustissimi clade sensu Mavrodiev et al. (Int. J. Pl. Sci. 164: 1  19, 2005), a clade with a centre of distribution in the Caucasus, and hybrids of this unknown species with T. orientalis or T. hayekii (= T. orientalis L. var. hayekii So), a species closely related to T. pratensis and native to Bohemia. The Bohemian population of "Tragopogon mirabilis" clearly requires more investigation, but based on our data it does not appear to represent T. porrifolius  T. pratensis.
10.2307/4117853|Field studies and morphological and anatomical analysis of natural populations of Actinoseris (Compositae-Mutisieae) in the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil, prove the need for a new combination: Actinoseris arenaria (Baker) Roque based on Trichocline arenaria Baker, hitherto considered to be a synonym of Actinoseris polymorpha (Less.) Cabrera. A. polymorpha is recircumscribed and the differences between this species and A. arenaria are discussed.
10.2307/4110463|The new species Poikilospermum longifolium is described. It is known only from the Schwanner range of Borneo.
10.2307/4108479|During preparation of the account of tribe Chlorideae (Gramineae) for Volume 10, part 2 of 'Flora Zambesiaca', three new species were discovered and are here described: Brachyachne simonii, Craspedorhachis digitata and Rendlia annua. Every specimen seen of each taxon is cited here.
10.2307/4119406|The characteristics of the genus are investigated and its affinity with Agaricus and Lepiota discussed. The new combination M. vinaceoumbrinus (Sm.) and M. cephalocystis (Heinem.), are made.
10.2307/4111127|A new species, Crinum bambusetum Nordal & Sebsebe, related to the southern tropical African C. subcernuum Baker, is described based on material from Ethiopia and the Sudan.
10.2307/4119404|A new Species of sooty mould, Metacapnodium dennisii, is described from Sarawak.
27821998|Lectotypes are designated for seven names included in different genera of the tribe Olyreae. In addition, the currently accepted names are provided for the taxa to which each type belongs. So designados lecttipos para sete nomes includos em diferentes gneros da tribo Olyreae. Em adio, so fornecidos os nomes atualmente aceitos para os txons aos quais cada tipo pertence.
20649585|Eleven species comprising the Madagascan genus Vaughania are subsumed within the large pantropical genus Indigofera. Six new combinations are made; the remaining species were originally described in Indigofera.
10.2307/4109937|9 new species of Brazilian grasses are described in the genera Paspalum, Panicum, Digitaria, Sporobolus, Chusquea and Anthaenantiopsis and 2 combinations are made in Steinchisma and Helictotrichon.
10.2307/4114572|The Old World distribution of grass sub-families, or in some cases tribes, is mapped in terms of species frequency. They fall into three main patterns: tropical, southern subtropical and north temperate.
23044618|Diversity is a complex term that includes taxonomic, functional, spatial and temporal aspects of organisms variety. Conservation policies must be supported by holistic studies of ecosystem function, must aim to transform scientific knowledge into social responsibility creating a culture of respect towards nature and should also include economic components. Mediterranean ecosystems will likely experience the greatest proportional changes in biodiversity due to the substantial influence of land use and climate change as major drivers. Land use includes not only rural abandonment but also intensive exploitation of native forests (cork oak woodlands) or shrublands for animal or crop production. These last two are dependent on large Nitrogen (N) inputs. In this paper we intend to show the responses of Mediterranean ecosystems to increased N availability in terms of biodiversity and ecosystem functionality. We present two case studies: 1) a gradient of N availability due to a N point source; and 2) N manipulative field experiment (doses and forms). With these results our aim is to pinpoint the importance of improving scientific knowledge at a local level before we establish conservation policies at global level. The two case studies reflect a strong influence of the N source on ecosystem function. Finally, we use the SWOT (Strengths, Weakness, Opportunities and Threats) analysis approach to underpin the complexities of human intervention in the N cycle and the problem it poses for policies of plant conservation.
23216198|The new species Haplocoelum gabonicum Breteler (Sapindaceae) from Gabon and adjacent Congo is described and illustrated. Morphologically it is most similar to H. acuminatum Radlk. ex Engl. and H. congolanum Hauman. It differs from these species by foliar characters such as the non-alate rachis, the presence of a rudimentary lower pair of leaflets, and the entire acumen of its leaflets. These differences are summarised in a key. H. congolanum is synonymised under H. acuminatum. The latter species is lectotypified and its authorship corrected.
23216735|The inflorescence of Dracontium polyphyllum consists of 150  300 flowers arranged in recognisable spirals. The flower has 5  6 (90% of observed specimens), or 7 broad tepals enclosing 9  12 stamens (occasionally 7) inserted in two whorls. The gynoecium is trilocular (90% of observed specimens) or tetralocular. The tetralocular gynoecia are found at random among the trilocular gynoecia. Each locule encloses an ovule inserted in an axile position, in the median portion of the ovary. Each carpel has its own stylar canal. However, in the upper portion of the style, there is only one common stylar canal. Floral organs are initiated in an acropetal direction in the following sequence: tepals, stamens, and carpels. During later stages of development, the tepals progressively cover the other floral organs. The first floral primordia are initiated on the upper portion of the inflorescence. During early stages of development, the floral primordia have a circular shape. The tepals are initiated nearly simultaneously. During later stages of development, the first whorl of stamens develops in alternation with the tepals and is followed by a second whorl of stamens. The trilocular or tetralocular nature of the ovary is clearly visible during early stages of development of the gynoecium. Recent molecular studies show that Anaphyllopsis A. Hay and Dracontium L. are closely related. However, although pentamerous flowers have been observed in Anaphyllopsis, the developmental morphology of the flower of Dracontium is different from that of Anaphyllopsis.
10.2307/4110108|Zygophyllum somalense and Fagonia harerensis are described as new species from NE Africa. Their affinities with other related species are briefly discussed.
20443260|Radcliffea, a new genus of Euphorbiaceae sensu stricto from western Madagascar with one species, R. smithii, is described and illustrated, and an IUCN conservation rating is suggested. Its affiliation with Crotonoideae sensu stricto is supported by crotonoid inaperturate pollen morphology and DNA sequence data.
10.2307/4117014|Two new species and several subordinate taxa of Impatiens are described from Tanzania. In addition further notes on natural hybridization within the same area are presented as well as notes on some little known species.
27821990|Stylogyne carautae Carrijo & M. F. Freitas is described and illustrated as a new endemic species from south-eastern Brazil. The relationships between S. carautae and S. depauperata Mez are discussed, and comments on their ecology and conservation are provided.
10.2307/4102962|As a result of a morphological study of the Madagascan species of Gagnebina Neck. and Dichrostachys Wight & Arn. (by G.P.L.) supported by a detailed pollen survey (Ph.G.) three new combinations and one new variety in the genus Gagnebina are presented below. In addition, a recently discovered drawing prepared by Miss M. Grierson for a paper by S. A. Renvoize in Kew Bulletin 26: 433-438 (1972) is here published for the first time.
10.2307/4117943|Three new species and one variety of Habenaria, two new species of Satyrium and one new species of Schizochilus are described from Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
10.2307/4109804|Consideration is given to the distribution of Lactarius species within the forest types of the Lesser Antilles and to their mycorrhizal partners. The possibility of seasonal rainfall, rather than temperature variation, being necessary for the successful growth of ectotrophic mycorrhizal fungi in tropical climates is postulated. Keys and illustrated descriptions are provided for the species of Lactarius known to occur in the Caribbean area, with especial attention given to the Lesser Antilles. Lactarius caribaeus, L. castaneibadius, L. ferrugineus, L. murinipeS) L. nebulosus and L. putidus are described as new.
10.2307/4108491|Chromosome counts of 21 species belonging to 11 genera in the Spiranthinae and Cranichidinae subtribes (Orchidaceae) are reported. The most common chromosome number found is 2n = 46, but 2n = 26, 30, 32, 60 and 92 also occur. The 2n = 26 and 46 types have unusual bimodal karyotypes, each with a single pair of chromosomes which are longer than the rest. This size difference is particularly pronounced in the 2n = 26 plants. The 2n = 92 plants also have bimodal karyotypes, but with more than one pair of long chromosomes.
23489230|A new genus of Acanthaceae, Diceratotheca, is described from Thailand. The genus is characterised by having unique pollen combined with several unusual morphological characters, of which the 2-spurred anther thecae also appear to be unique within Acanthaceae. Phylogenetic analyses show clearly that the genus belongs within the subtribe Ruelliinae. Further analyses, that include the largest available sample of species from other genera, including the species-rich Strobilanthes and Ruellia, demonstrate that the genus is not nested within other genera and a new genus is therefore required. Analyses show that, of the genera sampled, it is most closely related to Pararuellia Bremek., a herbaceous genus with which it appears to have little in common. The only species Diceratotheca bracteolata is known from a single site in NW Thailand and is probably critically endangered.
10.2307/4109940|The following new combination, new species and notes are required for the account of Aristea Alton for the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa'.
10.2307/4117070|In Uganda, in addition to Potamogeton schweinfurthii A. Benn. two distinct related taxa are found to occur. One of these is indistinguishable from P. lucens L. with which it should now be identified. The second is considered to be a hybrid between P. schweinfurthii and P. thunbergii and named P. x bunyonyiensis. P. schweinfurthii itself has considerable diversity of form and includes P. lucens sensu A. Benn.
10.2307/4115853|New combinations are proposed for Acrosorus grammitidiphyllus, Lellingeria tomensis, Prosaptia venulosoides, Themelium abebaion, T. blechnifrons, T. conjunctisorum, T. crenulatum, T. ctenoideum, T. curtisii, T. fasciatum, T. flagelliforme, T. graminifolium, T. halconense, T. integripaleatum, T. loherianum and T. sarawakense.
10.2307/4110998|Coffea bakossii Cheek & Bridson, an arborescent species apparently endemic to Mt Kupe and the Bakossi Mts of Western Cameroon is described. Notes are given on its conservation status and on the phytogeography of the area in which it occurs.
25070245|Two new species of Pycnostachys (Lamiaceae) are described and illustrated here. P. ciliata Bramley is from southern Tanzania, northern Zambia and northern Malawi. P. lancifolia Bramley is known only from south-western Tanzania.
10.2307/4117905|Vegetative reproduction by axillary bulbils is reported in Cynorkis uncata. The anatomy of the bulbil is outlined and compared with that of the tubers of the orchid.
10.2307/4110710|Decaspermum parviflorum subsp. quadripartitum is described as new. Rhodomyrtus parvifolia is shown to belong in Rhodamnia and given the new name Rhodamnia kerrii. The correct author citation for Rhodamnia dumetorum is discussed. A new combination is made in Tristaniopsis: T. burmanica var. rufescens.
10.2307/4111150|A synopsis of the genus Morrenia (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) is presented in which eight species and two subspecies are recognised. Three names are lectotypified. Artificial keys to taxa are provided and geographic distributions outlined. Some difficulties with the generic delimitation are also discussed.
10.2307/4102928|Triplophyllum, a new genus of African and American ferns, typified by the West African species Aspidium protensum Sw., is described. Nearly all these ferns have been included by recent authors in Ctenitis C. Chr., but their scales are like those of Tectaria. Young plants of all species have three-branched fronds growing from a creeping caudex. Adult plants of most species have broadly deltoid-pentagonal fronds, but five in Africa and one in America have more elongate fronds; two of these African species have anastomosing veins and have been included in Tectaria. Spores of all species (so far as known) are similar. Fifteen species are recognized in Africa, the following being new: Triplophyllum batesii, T. gabonensis and T. principis; five species are recognized in America including the new species Triplophyllum acutilobum, T. angustifolium and T. crassifolium. Lectotypes are designated for the following names: Nephrodium variabile Hook. and Aspidium securidiforme Mett. Species of this genus are difficult to characterize clearly. An extensive experimental study is needed for a better understanding of it.
10.2307/4103034|The genus Adenopodia Presl is revised. Reasons are given for not adopting the synonymous name Pseudoentada. Four African and six central and S. American species are treated. A. oaxacana Sousa and A. gymnantha Brenan (Mexico) are described as new. The following new combinations are made: A. scelerata (A. Chev.) Brenan, A. schlechteri (Harms) Brenan, A. rotundifolia (Harms) Brenan, A. patens (Hook. & Arn.) J. Dixon ex Brenan, A. uaupensis (Spruce ex Benth.) Brenan, A. floribunda (Kleinhoonte) Brenan, A. minutiflora (Ducke) Brenan.
10.2307/4114612|The generic description of the Ethiopian endemic genus Nephrophyllum A. Rich, is amended to indicate that it has two styles, each with a single globose stigma, and a unilocular ovary with 2-4 ovules. Differences between Nephrophyllum and the related genera Dichondra and Falkia within the tribe Dichondreae are shown.
10.2307/4119006|15 new species are described and 1 new combination is made in Calliandra Benth. A key is provided for the species recorded from Bahia.
10.2307/4114594|The variability of the widespread species, Euphorbia cuneata Vahl, is discussed. E. spinescens Pax, with a new synonym, is reduced to sub-specific status; subsp. wajirensis, subsp. lamproderma and var. pumilans are described as new. The geographical sub-divisions are those used in the Flora of Tropical East Africa.
10.2307/4114623|Three new grass species, Panicum vaginiviscosum Renvoize & Zuloaga, P. durifolium Renvoize & Zuloaga and P. acicularifolium Renvoize & Zuloaga are described from Bahia, Brazil.
10.2307/4119779|Two recent collections of Chloris from the Ruaha National Park, Tanzania, and the Danissa Hills, Kenya are described as the new species C. ruahensis and C. ferruginea.
10.2307/4110302|A new species of Aglaia, A. mackaiana Pannell, from Papua New Guinea is described. In vegetative characters this species is close to, but distinct from, A. flavida Merr. & L. M. Perry, while the fruits are quite distinct and much larger. A. mackinana has the largest fruits and seeds known in the genus. The arillate seeds are swallowed and dispersed by Dwarf Cassowaries.
10.2307/4120620|The complex of cirrate rattan species that includes Calamus aruensis presents significant taxonomic challenges throughout its range. A revision of the group from New Guinea and Australia through the west Pacific to its eastern limit in Fiji is presented here. The complex is recognised by its rather broad, cucullate leaflets, by the long, robust, strictly tubular bracts on the primary inflorescence axis and by the short, funnel-shaped bracts on the first order branches. Four species are recognised here, C. aruensis, C. vitiensis and two new species, C. pachypus and C. dasyacanthus. Calamus hollrungii and C. latisectus are placed in synonymy with C. aruensis, and C. stipitatus and C. vanuatuensis with C. vitiensis.
10.2307/4107971|Dendrobium lambii, a new species of orchid from Sabah, East Malaysia, is described.
10.2307/4110768| A list of the accepted genera of the tribe Senecioneae is given, in the context of which the necessary nomenclatural innovations preliminary to an account of the tribe for the 'Flore des Mascareignes', and certain other nomenclatural adjustments, are made. Validly published are the generic names Dendrophorbium (Cuatrec.) C. Jeffrey, Monticalia C. Jeffrey, Faujasiopsis C. Jeffrey, Parafaujasia C. Jeffrey and Humbertacalia C. Jeffrey. New species are published in Arrhenechthites (1, Sulawezi), Faujasia (2, La Runion) and Parafaujasia (1, Mauritius) and new names and/or combinations in Nelsonianthus, Telanthophora, Roldana, Psacaliopsis, Aequatorium, Jacmaia, Dresslerothamnus, Dendrophorbium, Monticalia, Lasiocephalus, Faujasiopsis, Faujasia, Parafaujasia, Hubertia, Humbertacalia, Kleinia, Senecio (to replace later homonyms), Pseudogynoxys, Emilia, Othonna, Packera and Iranecio. Some further characters for use in systematic analysis are identified. 
10.2307/4114444| A new genus, first suggested by Dr J. Hutchinson just prior to his death and never published by him, is here established for Ricinodendron rautanenii Schinz, which diners in many features from the other species of the genus Ricinodendron, R. heudelotii (Baill.) Heckel, sufficiently to merit generic status for it. The name of its describing author forms the prefix, whilst the rest of the generic name is derived from the Gk. , a plant. 
10.2307/4110589| We analyzed the effects of recent human colonization on the Amazonian forest flora in the region of the cities of Ji-Paran and Presidente Mdici, in the state of Rondonia, in the Western part of the Brazilian Amazon. Areas of natural forest and of secondary vegetation of one, five, 10 and 15 years growth were inventoried. Comparative analysis of the data shows that there has been little regeneration of the species that existed earlier, although the new vegetation soon becomes structurally similar to the original forest. Loss of primary forest species is the most serious consequence of deforestation. The study area had previously been the best lumber-producing area of the state. This production has now noticeably declined because of the widespread loss of forests in the region. The two principal effects of timber extraction in the forest are the local extinction of the species that are used for lumber, and the genetic erosion of survivors. Based on current demand, Mahogany (Swietenia macrophylla King), and Brazilian cherry (Torresia acreana Ducke) and even the Brazil-nut tree (Bertholletia excelsa H. & B.) are the most vulnerable species. Other results of deforestation and aspects of immigration are also discussed, including the inadequacy of the Brazilian law that requires farmers to leave 50% of their plot as forest. The need is for the establishment of large contiguous areas of reserves rather than a checkerboard effect created by each farmer's leaving half of his land as forest. The situation in Rondonia has reached a critical state and it is crucial that every effort be made to obtain reserve areas to protect the unique fauna and flora of the Rondnia region. 
10.2307/4117825|A key to the 8 species of Hypserpa, full synonymy, typification of all names, and geographical distribution of each species are given. Problems of nomenclature and typification are discussed. H. macropoda Diels is a synonym of H. vieillardii Diels; H. ponapensis Kaneh. and H. trukensis Hosok. are synonyms of H. polyandra Becc. The type of Pachygone vieillardii Diels is a mixture of P. loyaltiensis Diels and Hypserpa neocaledonica Diels; the Pachygone portion has been selected as lectotype of P. vieillardii. H. neocaledonica Diels probably occurs in Vanuatu, as indicated by two inadequate specimens. A probably undescribed species occurs in the Horn Is., W of Samoa, which would extend the eastern limit of the genus.
10.2307/4110230|Barringtonia J. R. Forst. & G. Forst. in Thailand is revised and 11 species recognised and described; two new species, B. khaoluangensis and B. rimata are described and one species resurrected, namely B. longipes. B. acutangula subsp. spicata is reduced to synonymy. B. augusta, B. conoidea and B. pauciflora have been found new to Malaysia, Vietnam and Borneo (Brunei), respectively. Four lectotypes have been designated.
10.2307/4113643|Two recently discovered species, Crossandra leucodonta and Stenandrium grandiflorum, are described, and their relationship with the other species of the two genera discussed.
10.2307/4103084|A collection of watercolour drawings of fungi made by Dr. Bull about a century ago and recently acquired by Kew is described and commented upon. They form the basis of many field records, especially from Herefordshire.
10.2307/4110169|M. ferox n. sp. formerly confused with M. poggei Taub. is described from East Africa and M. reptans n. sp. and M. diabolica Backer ex Keuchenius subsp. kenneallyi n. subsp. from Northern Territory and Western Australia respectively. All three belong to subg. Stizolobium (P. Br.) Prain and are related to M. pruriens (L.) DC. The opportunity has been taken to make a few corrections to the Flora of Tropical East Africa account.
20443395|During the course of a taxonomic revision of the genus Coccocypselum, a new species, Coccocypselum bahiense, was discovered from southeast Bahia. Coccocypselum bahiense is described and illustrated, and its affinities with related taxa are discussed. /// Durante o desenvolvimento da reviso taxonomica do gnero Coccocypselum, uma nova espcies, Coccocypselum bahiense, foi descoberta para a regio sudeste da Bahia. Coccocypselum bahiense  descrita e ilustrada e sua afinidade com outras espcies do gnero  discutida.
10.2307/4110632|The collection of three new species of Stephanopodium and the recent description of two others makes a new synopsis of this small genus appropriate. A key is provided for the 14 species, and S. costaricense from Costa Rica, S. cuspidatum from the border of Colombia and Ecuador and S. longipedicellatum from the highlands of Peru are described as new. S. costaricense represents the first record of this genus in Central America.
10.2307/4109762|Eleven new species of Polystachya from East and South Central Africa are described.
10.2307/4102978|The vascular morphology of the stipe and rachis of Cystodium is totally unlike any other members of the Cyatheaceae and Dicksoniaceae. This factor, correlated with published information of spore morphology, cytology, and other anatomical factors leads to the removal of Cystodium from an alliance with Dicksonia, to its own family, Cystodiaceae Croft fam. nov., in spite of the superficial similarities of indusial structure and of rhizome indumentum. Specimens from Bougainville and the Solomon Islands, not available at the time of the last revision, represent a distinct subspecies, subsp. solomonense Croft subsp. nov.
10.2307/4117710|A new species, Amphinema angustispora, belonging to the corticioid fungi (Basidiomycetes) is described from collections made in the grounds of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, and from Belgium.
10.2307/4110464|Ficus katendei, a new species of fig related to F. dryepondtiana Gentil, is described from Uganda.
10.2307/4111215| A new combination, Ceradenia glaziovii, is made for an apparently rare fern species, narrowly endemic in the Serra da Mantiqueira mountains in the states of So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. A description, illustration, and distribution map are provided, as well as a key to the seven Brazilian species of Ceradenia known from Brazil. 
10.2307/4113629|Fifteen species of cantharelloid, clavarioid, and thelephoroid fungi (Basidiomycota) are recorded from Brunei Darussalam, belonging to the Cantharellales, Gomphales, Lachnocladiales, and Thelephoraks. Twelve of these species have not previously been recorded from Brunei.
10.2307/4111129| The genus Crepidospermum is reported for the first time from Brazil's Atlantic forest complex, where it is represented by the new species C. atlanticum Daly. This new species, first collected in 1996, occurs in three distinct forest types in the states of Pernambuco, Esprito Santo and Bahia. The genus now contains six species. A revised key to the genus is provided, reflecting the redefinition of sect. Crepidospermum to accommodate both haplostemonous and diplostemonous staminate (not just pistillate) flowers. 
20443346|This paper presents an account of Salvia L. in Bolivia based on the author's own field work and herbarium studies. All 28 species that occur naturally are described. The distribution, habitat, phenology and conservation status of all species is discussed. Attention is drawn to the high rate of endemism in the genus in Bolivia and to different patterns of distribution. Both dichotomous and multi-entry keys are provided to facilitate identification. Six new species are described, S. alba J. R. I. Wood, S. cardenasii J. R. I. Wood, S. ophiocephala J. R. I. Wood, S. raymondii J. R. I. Wood, S. serranoae J. R. I. Wood and S. sucrensis J. R. I. Wood. One naturally occurring hybrid is named S.  westerae J. R. I. Wood. Subspecies are recognised for geographically separated populations of three variable species. Subsp. mairanae J. R. I. Wood of S. raymondii is described as new; S. platystoma Epling is treated as a subsp. platystoma (Epling) J. R. I. Wood of S. rypara Briq.; S. cuspidata Ruiz & Pavon is treated as a widespread species that has three recognised subspecies, subsp. bangii (Rusby) J. R. I. Wood from Bolivia, subsp. gilliesii (Benth.) J. R. I. Wood centred on Argentina and subsp. rosea J. R. I. Wood described as new. High Andean plants previously treated as S. rhombifolia Ruiz & Pavon are shown to be a distinct species whose correct name is S. tafallae Benth. Several Argentinian species, including S. rhinosina Griseb., S. exserta Griseb. and S. australis Epling, are reassessed. All new taxa are illustrated and distribution maps are provided.
10.2307/4109969|One new species of Droguetia Gaudich. and four of Pilea Lindl. are published and the combination Pilea lucens (Poiret) Wedd. subsp. triplinervis (Pers.) Marais is made.
10.2307/4110335|The new grass species Pentaschistis dolichochaeta is described from Ethiopia. It appears to be most closely related to P. chrysurus (K. Schum.) Peter from Tanzania.
25070242|An outline of a new phylogenetic classification of the palm family (Arecaceae, syn. Palmae) is published with the aim of validating new names of suprageneric taxa prior to the publication of the new edition of the family monograph, Genera Palmarum. Tribal names validly published for the first time are Chuniophoeniceae, Cryosophileae, Euterpeae, Leopoldinieae, Livistoneae, Manicarieae, Pelagodoxeae, Reinhardtieae, Roystoneae and Sclerospermeae. New subtribal names are Basseliniinae, Carpoxylinae, Clinospermatinae, Rhapidinae, Rhopalostylidinae and Verschaffeltiinae.
10.2307/4111170|Platypodanthera melissifolia subsp. riocontensis, is recognized from the Chapada Diamantina of Bahia, Brazil. A synopsis of Platypodanthera is provided, the genus is lectotypified and a key to the two subspecies is provided; the distribution of the genus is discussed.
20649687|Bambusa majumdarii P. Kumari & P. Singh and Bambusa mohanramii P. Kumari & P. Singh from northeastern India are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4118974|A new genus Nogalia is erected for a species similar in many ways to Heliotropium but with quite different fruit characters.
10.2307/4115719|Dioscorea ridleyi Prain & Burkill and D. palawana Pram & Burkill were previously described from limited material of one sex. Recent collections of plants of the other sex have come to light in both species. These are used to complete morphological descriptions of the two species. Both species appear to be of very restricted distribution. The new data allows reappraisal of the relationships of the two species to each other and with D. sect. Stenophora Uline, in which they were placed by Prain & Burkill. Their unique cerebroid perforate pollen ectexine morphology and several macromorphological characters suggest either that they do not belong in D. sect. Stenophora or that they are a highly specialised group nested within it.
10.2307/4117850|A new subgenus is erected to accommodate the sole indigenous and rather anomalous but nevertheless indisputable Malagasy species of the genus Jatropha, J. mahafalensis Jum. & H. Perrier.
20649671|Sarcocornia decussata, S. freitagii and S. tegetaria from South Africa are described as new taxa. Sarcocornia decussata and S. freitagii are narrow endemics of the West Coast of South Africa where they are found in inland saline habitats (quartz patches, salt pans and saline alluvia) while S. tegetaria is an endemic of southern African coasts (spanning Namibia, South Africa and Mozambique) where it is confined to low-lying intertidal habitats of estuaries.
10.2307/4108995|A systematic account of Pandanaceae in the New Hebrides is given. Two genera, Pandanus and Freycinetia, occur there, the first with five species (one new) and the latter with seven species. Keys are provided. A discussion of the range and nature of variation and the criteria for classification of the varieties of Pandanus tectorius is presented. The new Pandanus, P. halleorum, is of particular morphological, phylogenetic, and biogeographical interest because of its paniculate staminate inflorescence, the first such known in the genus.
25070244|Rinorea simoneae Achoundong and Rinorea dewitii Achoundong, both in series Ilicifoliae Engl., are described and illustrated as new species from Cameroon. The first appears to be a narrow endemic of the Bella area. The second extends from the Mokoko Forest Reserve at the foot of Mt Cameroon, to Ndjabilobi, East of Kribi. The conservation status of both species is discussed and a key and notes on the species of Rinorea series Ilicifoliae are presented.
20649641|Material from the Malaise trap operated by D. Baldock in 2002 continues to be identified and records of beetles omitted in previous supplements are listed here. Other casual records from various sources are also given. Tom Cope has continued his studies on the Wild Flora of the Gardens. Diego Fontaneto and Tim Barraclough collected rotifers in the gardens in November 2004. Members of the British Arachnological Society visited Kew on 10th September 2004 and a complete list of spiders and harvestmen found in the gardens is attempted.
23044990|Differences between the genera Colpodium Trin. and Catabrosa P. Beauv. are discussed. Colpodium drakensbergense Hedberg & I. Hedberg is transferred to Catabrosa drakensbergense (Hedberg & I. Hedberg) Soreng & Fish and a lectotype is chosen for the species. This leaves only two Colpodium species in Africa (Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania), and extends the range of Catabrosa from northwestern Africa to southern Africa.
10.2307/4111172|Two new species of Chlorophytum are described. C. hirsutum is a robust, densely pubescent species from forest margins of western Uganda, eastern Congo (Kinshasa) and Burundi. C. occultum is a dwarf, understorey species from rain forests of western Uganda and eastern Congo (Kinshasa). C. occultum has (1) the chromosome number 2n = 14, (2) a striking feature of cell differentiation on the lower leaf surface, probably related to conditions at the forest floor, and (3) a structure in the hilar region suggested to be an elaiosome, indicating ant dispersal.
10.2307/4111082|The confused history of the rare species Pancratium centrale (A. Chev.) Traub ( = Mizonia centralis A. Chev.) is presented. The relationship between the genera Mizonia and Pancratium is discussed, and the reduction of the former is supported. The species has so far been collected in only three disjunct localities, in Cameroon, Chad, and the Central African Republic. It has not been recorded for 60 years, until found recently in Ethiopia about 1400 km ENE of the nearest locality in Central Africa. The species description is emended and an illustration provided based on the new material.
23489246|A new species of Mimosa L. sect. Calothamnos Barneby is described from the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil. M. roseoalba is characterised by its hirsutulose indumentum of plumose and penicillate trichomes, in having leaves with a single pair of pinnae, flowers in cylindrical spikes, the corolla tube covered by simple, retrorsely adpressed trichomes and the corolla lobe apices with longer plumose trichomes, and by white to pink coloured stamen filaments united basally for 0.5 mm.
10.2307/4111208|Afrothismia baerae Cheek (Burmanniaceae) is newly described from a coastal forest remnant in Kenya. Its affinities and conservation status are assessed.
10.2307/4108549|Six new combinations are made under Duosperma Dayton for species formerly known by the illegitimate name Disperma C.B.Cl. Three new species of this genus are described from Zambia.
10.2307/4117947|Two new species of Melastomataceae, Cambessedesia rupestris and Marcetia oxycoccoides, both from 'Pico das Almas', Bahia, Brazil, are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4118887|Euplassa semicostata, a new species from Minas Gerais, Brazil is described.
10.2307/4119390|Ten new species of Hebeloma from the south-eastern United States are described.
10.2307/4115863| In preparation for a floristic treatment of the family Balanophoraceae for the states of Gois and Tocantins, Brazil, two remarkable collections were found. One is here described and illustrated as a new species of Lophophytum (L. rizzoi Delprete), and the other is the first record from the state of Gois of Lathrophytum, a genus previously known only from the Atlantic forests of the state of Rio de Janeiro. 
10.2307/4109935|6 new species and 2 new subspecies are described. Some changes in taxonomic status are made and the reasons for doing so discussed. Some specimens cited by Bally in his monograph 'The genus Monadenium; 1961 are re-identified and several descriptions modified, including most of the material cited as M. chevalieri. This is shown to be of a new species described here as M. pedunculatum.
10.2307/4111010|A new species of Ruellia, R. pseudopatula Ensermu, from NE Tropical Africa (Ethiopia and Djibouti) and Tropical Asia (Saudi Arabia, Yemen and India), is described. The species is illustrated and its distribution mapped. The relationship of R pseudopatula, to its closest taxon, R patula Jacq., is also discussed.
10.2307/4110098|A short account is given of the computer-assisted indexing system developed since 1969 for the living collections at Kew, together with an explanation of the data card which serves both as input source and index card.
10.2307/4111166|The two endemic Nepenthes species of Palawan, Philippines are described and illustrated. Their affinities are discussed and shown to be Bornean. Keys are given to their species groups and to the Nepenthes of Palawan.
10.2307/4110854|Coprophilous discomycetes from the Azores obtained in the field or from dung samples later incubated in the laboratory are reported based on two visits to the Islands in 1995 and 1996. Other species previously known from the Islands are also noted, making a total of 31 species, of which all except Coprotus, Lasiobolus and Thelebolus belong in the order Pezizales.
10.2307/4118778|Androecial morphology differs widely amongst flowers of the Australasian Myrtaceae. Differences occur in the number, position and arrangement of stamens. Mature flowers of the Baeckea sub-group genera are superficially similar at maturity, but are very diverse in terms of their androecial structure. Floral development of six taxa in the informal Baeckea sub-group is described, and three developmental factors are identified as major contributors to mature androecial pattern. These are: differences in (i) timing of primordia initiation, (ii) duration of primordia initiation, and (iii) enlargement of the hypanthium subsequent to stamen initiation. Late or early initiation of stamens affects where the first stamens are formed, and how many stamens are produced, primarily due to available space on the floral meristem. Total number of stamens produced is influenced by the duration of stamen production. How the hypanthium enlarges following stamen initiation determines the final arrangement of the stamens in the mature flower - if the bud expands more in some areas than others, the stamens will be shifted into different positions around the flower. Minor changes in any of these developmental factors result in significantly different flower morphology. Understanding these potentially variable and reversible developmental processes is important for assessing mature flower characters for phylogenetic analysis, and investigating mechanisms of evolutionary change.
10.2307/4114607|A new species, Trigonostemon magnificum, is described from a recent collection in Sumatra. It most resembles T. hirsutus C. B. Rob. of the Philippines and Borneo.
10.2307/4103080|C. involucratus Rottb., prior name for C. flabelliformis Rottb., is established, together with comments on the type of C. alternifolius L. Differences between the two taxa are recorded and the identity of the cultivated plant noted. Illustrations and a key are presented.
10.2307/4119408|13. Agrocybe gasteromycetoides from Wyoming, North America, is described as new; relationships between some agaricoid and gasteromycetoid fungi are discussed. 14. The new names Agrocybe dennisii, A. hesleri, and Conocybe acutoconica are proposed. Twenty-two new combinations are proposed in the genera Agrocybe, Bolbitius and Conocybe.
10.2307/4103118|A synopsis of Corybas Salisb. (Orchidaceae) west of Wallace's Line is provided. Twenty-seven taxa are keyed out and six imperfectly known species discussed. Thirteen new species are described and named.
10.2307/4110865|Twenty-four species belonging to tneHygrophoraceae (Basidiomycetes) are recorded from high latitudes and altitudes in Russia. These species are placed within the list of all the Russian Hygrophoraceae and systematically arranged. Gliophorus citrinopallidus is proposed as a new combination.
10.2307/4110429|Clerodendrum manettii Vis. is shown to be a synonym of C. tomentosum (Vent.) R. Br.
24717389|Mapania multiflora is described and illustrated. It is vegetatively similar to taxa with broad leaves and pseudopetioles, such as M. cuspidata. However, it is reproductively similar to sect. Thoractostachyum with a paniculate inflorescence and furrowed fruit. The DNA is similar to M. bancana in sect. Thoractostachyum, in the three sampled cpDNA regions: atpH-F, trnL-F and psbA-trnH. However, it is identical to none of these due to its unique combination of vegetative, reproductive and molecular characteristics.
10.2307/4118856|The genus Blaeria has been recognized since 1753 and is widespread in Africa. Recently, it has become increasingly difficult to place material with a variable number of stamens in either Blaeria or Erica because of the single character difference of stamen number between the two genera. Investigations have shown that Blaeria is an unnatural genus whose species should be included in Erica. It is postulated that the genus is polyphyletic.
10.2307/4114472|Three new species to the Turkish flora are described and illustrated; Allium turcicum (Alliaceae), Bellevalia anatolica and Muscari anatolicum (Hyacinthaceae).
20443370|Phyllostachys meyeri showed monocarpic mass flowering from February to May 2004. Inflorescences at the flowering stage differed even in the same clone. P. aurea f. albovariegata showed that monocarpic mass flowering and death linked with leaf variegation. P. pubescens showed various clones with different intermast periods, such as no flowering during 270 years, 67 years and 25 years. We compared 613- and 700-bp nucleotide sequences of amplified fragments in the rice FLOWERING LOCUS T (RFT1) gene homologues of Phyllostachys and Lithachne, respectively. RT-PCR analysis revealed that PmFT was expressed only at the mature mass flowered inflorescences, suggesting that another inflorescence in the same clone is controlled by another gene. Both nucleotide sequence variations in P. meyeri and P. aurea suggested the presence of some transposon footprints, e.g. CACTA-type sequences. No variations were detected among the four clones of P. pubescens, indicating that the length of the intermast period did not affect the RFT1 homologues. The length of the exons and/or introns is not associated with the ploidy level, whether diploid or tetraploid. One site of amino acid sequence variation was detected in each of the three species. These facts suggested that bamboo RFT1 homologues might be useful markers for subordinate classification.
10.2307/4110457|A synopsis of Sporobolus for Flora Zambesiaca is presented. Keys to the five informal subdivisions of the genus, and to the species from the Flora Zambesiaca area within those subdivisions are provided. Two new species of Sporobolus are described for Flora Zambesiaca: S. mopane and S. fibrosus.
10.2307/4110041|Subtribes Astreblinae and Uniolinae are described. Chondrosum is recognized as distinct from Bouteloua. The circumscription of Enteropogon is extended, and Trichloris accepted. Ischnurus is sunk in Lepturus. The combination Harpochloa pseudoharpechloa is made.
10.2307/4117761| This is the first revision of Belonophora Hook. f., an evolutionarily isolated, African, woody genus distributed throughout West, Central to East Africa, but centred in western Cameroon, where all five species occur. One species from Cameroon, B. ongensis, is described as new. The most widespread species in continental Africa, B. hypoglauca (Hiern) Chev., is shown to be conspecific with the type of the genus from So Tom, B. coffeoides Hook. f., but is maintained as a subspecies. A key to the species is presented. The tribal placement, infrageneric groupings, geography, ecology, conservation and possible occurrence of myrmecophily in the genus are discussed. Leaf lobes, heterostyly, floral dimorphy, secondary pollen-presentation ('ixoroid' mechanism) and nectar, previously unknown in the genus, are described. 
10.2307/4114479|A new species, Chrysopogon macleishii, is described from the monsoon grasslands of Dhofar in southern Oman.
10.2307/4107974| The information here presented is based on a study of many recent collections in comparison with the more fragmentary older ones, resulting in revisions of specific concepts and of synonymy. Ctenitis lorencei and C. canacae are described as new species and C. crinita (Poir.) Ching var. atrata and var. setacea as new varieties. New combinations are Ctenitis cyclochlamys (Fe) Holttum, C. pauciflora (Kaulf.) Holttum, C. humida (Cordem.) Holttum, C. lanata (Fe) Holttum and Heterogonium sieberianum (Kaulf.) Holttum. Some comments on generic concepts are also included. 
10.2307/4108551|Vanilla polylepis is shown to exhibit clinal variation with new records from Kenya and Rhodesia. Three new synonyms are established for V. ramosa.
10.2307/4110143|Four new species of Antidesma from New Guinea are described.
10.2307/4110837|Xenikophyton seidenfadenianum M. Kumar, S. Seq. & J. J. Wood from South India is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115700|A comparative morphological and cytological analysis, together with a distribution map are presented for Drosera slackii Cheek-a recently described species of commerical importance- and two closely related species, D. cuneifolia L.f. and D. aliciae Hamet. The chromosome number of D. slackii is reported here for the first time, along with counts for D. aliciae which differ from that previously recorded. An analytical illustration of D. slackii is presented.
23044679|Four new species of Chionolaena (C. adpressifolia, C. campestris, C. canastrensis and C. juniperina) are described and illustrated from Minas Gerais and So Paulo States, Brazil and their affinities assessed. A key to Chionolaena in South America is given.
10.2307/4111131| Two new species of Abutilon (Malvaceae) from So Paulo State, Brazil, A. nigricans and A. latipetalum, are described and illustrated. 
10.2307/4115808| A synopsis of the genus Oxera (Labiatae), including keys and notes on ecology and distribution is given. The genus comprises twenty-one species and four subspecies native to New Caledonia and Vanuatu. Three new species are described: Oxera coronata de Kok from the north and O. inodora de Kok from the south of New Caledonia respectively, and O. vanuatuensis de Kok known only in cultivation, in Vanuatu. Four new combinations are made: O. baladica subsp. nuda (Virot) de Kok, O. brevicalyx (Moldenke) de Kok, O. pulchella subsp. grandifolia (Dubard) de Kok and O. macrocalyx subsp. sororia (Dniker) de Kok. Nine names are neotypified or lectotypified. 
23489332|A revision of the Heliotropium L. sect. Cochranea (Miers) Kuntze (Heliotropiaceae) is presented and a total of 17 species is recognised. Morphology, ecology, distribution, conservation status and phenology of all species are presented. One subspecies, Heliotropium krauseanum Fedde subsp. jahuayense Luebert is described as a new taxon. Two previously recognised species names, H. sclerocarpum Phil. and H. huascoense I. M. Johnst., are placed in the synonymy of H. chenopodiaceum (A. DC.) Clos and H. stenophyllum Hook. & Arn., respectively. One epitype, one neotype and one lectotype are designated here.
20443305|Amphiblemma monticola was formerly known only from the type collection from the Bakossi Mountains of Western Cameroon. On the basis of five new collections, an expanded description, conservation assessment and a distribution map are presented. Ripe fruit, the unusual microhabitat and the prostrate habit are reported here for the first time, and the significance of the species in the infrageneric classification of Amphiblemma is discussed.
10.2307/4118979| The 23 species here enumerated have in common either entirely free veins or the venation shown by Presl (1836) t.II, fig. 23-25; T.fuscipes bridges the gap between the two conditions. Two species are described as new (T. perdimorpha and T. lacei), most are confined, or almost so, to continental Asia and Ceylon, but four (T. barberi, T. devexa, T. dissecta and T. griffithii) have their main distribution in Malesia. A key to all species is provided, also brief descriptions and synonymy (or reference to the latest adequate one) for those which are not new. T. viridifrons Ching is placed as a synonym of T. coadunata (J. Sm.) C. Chr. with comment on the variability of the latter. New combinations are: T. setulosa (Bak.) Holttum and T. impressa (Fe) Holttum. 
23045004|Pandanus palakkadensis, a new species from the Palakkad, Kerala state, India is described and illustrated. The new species can be easily distinguished from the other members of the genus it most closely resembles, P. canaranus Warb. and P. furcatus Roxb. in having a drupe with flat pileus, endocarp broadly truncate, concave on either side with distinctly elevated shoulders, a sharp, obliquely pointed stigma and cylindrical fruit. This distinctive species is endemic to the region of collection and is classified as Critically Endangered (CR) based on the IUCN Red List criteria.
10.2307/4118039|Amaranthus congestus sp. nov. is describe from Venezuela and Alternanthera dendrotricha sp. nov. from Brazil.
10.2307/4110665|Five new Amazonian species of Chrysobalanaceae are described: Licania cidii and Couepia morii from Brazil; Licania jaramilloi from Colombia; L. vasquezii from Peru and L. pittieri from Venezuela.
10.2307/4110997|Impatiens frithii is described as new from the Bakossi Mts and also from Mt Etinde near Mt Cameroon. It is unusual among African Impatiens in being epiphytic. The new species is illustrated and its taxonomic affinities and ecology are discussed.
10.2307/4110324|A revision of the genus Lasiodiscus Hook. f. is presented and the delimitation of this genus from Colubrina L. C. Rich. ex Brongn. is discussed. Twelve species are recognised. Two new species, L. lebrunii E. Figueiredo and L. palustris E. Figueiredo, are described and the new combination L. pervillei ssp. ferrugineus (Verdc.) E. Figueiredo is made. L. articulatus Capuron is transferred to Colubrina (C. articulata). One neotype and four lectotypes are selected.
10.2307/4117873|New species, subspecies and varieties are described in a number of genera of Euphorbiaceae, mainly from Malesia, together with new combinations, synonyms, records and other taxonomic notes. In particular, (CL) a second species of Ashtonia is described, (CLI) 42 new species of Glochidion are described, (CLII) a provisional key and synopsis is presented for the 56 species of Glochidion recorded from New Guinea, (CLVII) 6 new species of Croton are described, chiefly from New Guinea, and (CLXIV) a new combination is proposed in Bocquillonia from New Caledonia, with a key to the known species.
10.2307/4110711|Racemobambos celebica, a new species from Sulawesi (Indonesia), is described. The structure of the inflorescence of Racemobambos is briefly discussed and evidence is provided for the exclusion of two species, R. prainii and R. ciliata, from the genus. Racemobambos, as presently defined, is confined to Malesia including the Bismarck Archipelago, and the Solomon Islands.
10.2307/4117590|A second species of Rastrophyllum is described. 9 species are transferred from Erlangea and Triplotaxis to Bothriocline and Gutenbergia. A different neotype is proposed for Bothriociine pectinata.
10.2307/4114465|The morphological, biochemical and cytological relationships between three known cremnophilous (cliff-loving) Aloe species (A. jacksonii, A. cremnophila and A. hildebrandtii) from the limestone mountains of northern Somalia and Ethiopia are discussed, together with three recently discovered species, one of which is described here as A. gillettii. Possible routes for development of the two tetraploid species A. cremnophila and A. jacksonii from the other diploid species in the group are suggested from biochemical and cytological analyses.
20649586|The origin of Badula ovalifolia A. DC. (Myrsinaceae) is discussed and, on the evidence of recently collected specimens, we conclude that it is endemic to Mauritius and not to Reunion as previously recorded. The first description of the whole tree, fruit and seed and habitat and ecology are given. Conservation status is assessed using the IUCN Red List Criteria with suggestions for a species recovery programme.
10.2307/4114566|An outline of flowering cycles and their control in Angiosperms is given as a preliminary to a review of long-period endogenous rhythms of flowering. There is evidence, in some tropical trees, of circa-annual cycles entrained, in some environments but not in others, to annual flowering. Monocarpy means flowering and fruiting but once in the life-cycle. Annual plants are, by definition, monocarpic but interest centres on the perennial monocarps, which are of two kinds: those (e.g. Ensete, Corypha, Spathelia) in which a single terminal growing point is ultimately converted into an inflorescence; and those (e.g. many bamboos and several Acanthaceae, especially Strobilanthes) in which plants are branched but nevertheless die after fruiting. For the former there is no clear evidence of exactly determined endogenous 'calendars' but some timing device (perhaps a kind of leaf-counting?) is implied. For the latter, there is abundant historical-anecdotal (but not experimental) evidence of remarkably accurate endogenous 'calendars' capable of counting time in decades. Biologically, this kind of monocarpy is to be interpreted as an adaptation that minimizes both intra-specific competition (thus contributing to the maintenance of local dominance) and pest-pressure in the reproductive phase. The underlying mechanism (as for all biological rhythms) is unknown; synchronous flowering of clonal propagules shows that it is not localized but is a diffused property of all parts of the plant. The need for experimentation is emphasized.
20443377|Two new species of grasses from Tanzania, Eragrostis uzondoiensis Snchez-Ken and Brachiaria uzondoiensis Snchez-Ken are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110116|Variation within Oplismenus is reviewed, using multiple discriminant analysis. A key is provided for the five species recognized.
10.2307/4114590|Nine species of Decaspermum are recognized from SE Asia and China. Two new species are described: D. philippinum from the Philippines, and D. triflorum from the Lesser Sunda Islands.
10.2307/4107755|A key and descriptions of the 5 species ofKleinia occurring in Southern Arabia are given. A new combination is made and an imperfectly known, possibly new, taxon is briefly noted.
10.2307/4108102|A bamboo generally known as Arundinaria vagans Gamble flowered at Kew in 1981 (and subsequently elsewhere) for the first time outside Japan. It is now shown to be the same as Sasaella ramosa (Makino) Makino.
10.2307/4119428|Polyporus sobrius is one of five polypores known to have gloeocystidia. Their presence, an eventually hydnoid lower surface, and the spores, described for the first time, adequately distinguish this species.
10.2307/4110139|The pollen morphology of Calorophus elongatus, Empodisma minus and E. gracillimum is described using light, scanning electron and transmission electron microscopy. The pollen grains of all three taxa, although very similar, have small differences which support the segregation of the genus Empodisma from Calorophus.
10.2307/4111029| The 13 taxa of Trattinnickia range from Costa Rica to Eastern Brazil. The genus is rather easily recognized, but several of the species are difficult to distinguish. The two sections are redefined, one species is transferred to another section, and two varieties are given specific status. The genus is found to be represented in Eastern Brazil's Atlantic forest complex by two narrowly endemic species. Trattinnickia ferruginea Kuhlm., first collected in 1935 in eastern Minas Gerais state, was recently collected for the second time approx. 110 km north of the type locality. A new species, T. mensalis Daly, is described here. It is endemic to a limited area of forest on the subcoastal low tablelands of Esprito Santo state. Both species may be considered rare and threatened. 
10.2307/4119730|Further material has demonstrated that Grevea madagascariensis Baill. subsp. keniensis Verdc. should be transferred to the mainland species G. eggelingii Milne-Redh. as a variety. There are thus three varieties of the latter: var. keniensis (Verdc.) Verdc. with fruits without tubercles, var. eggelingii with tubercles or prickles 1 - 2( - 3) mm long and var. echinocarpa with spines 4 - 6( - 8) mm long. In some areas the varieties are apparently geographically well separated, in others they occur together.
20443356|A synopsis of the family Basellaceae is presented, covering several aspects including, e.g. history, morphology, reproduction, phylogeny, distribution, and taxonomy. The family is native to tropical and subtropical areas of the Americas, southeastern Africa, and Madagascar, and most species are succulent vines that occur in dry habitats. Four genera (Anredera Juss., Basella L., Tournonia Moq., and Ullucus Caldas) with a total of 19 species are recognised, of which two are further subdivided into subspecies. A key to all taxa is included and full nomenclature is given. Each taxon is described and discussed and representative ones are illustrated.
10.2307/4117702| A plastid rbcL sequence was obtained from a recent collection of Lissocarpa benthamii Grke, and was analysed with two earlier molecular datasets. The results strongly support Lissocarpa as the sister group of Diospyros. We propose that Lissocarpa should be included in a broader concept of Ebenaceae. The number of genera that should be recognized in the family will depend upon more extensive molecular sampling. 
10.2307/4103067|Berkeley's twenty agaric records for Zanzibar are revised and two new combinations Leucoagaricus rhodocephalus and Galerina periniana are proposed.
23489047|In the treatment of Strombosia for the Flora of Peninsular Malaysia, the doubtful taxon, Strombosia sp. A sensu Whitmore was re-examined. This taxon is recorded from Malaysia and is identified to be closely related to Strombosia ceylanica Gardner due to the presence of an obvious nectar disc in the flower buds and their similarities in fruits. However, Strombosia sp. A shows a remarkable leaf size difference from S. ceylanica. Therefore, a standard morphological taxonomic revision and morphometric analysis were carried out to assess the status of Strombosia sp. A. A total of 131 collections from India, Sri Lanka, Sumatra, Peninsular Malaysia, Singapore, Borneo and Java were studied. Of these, 12 specimens of Strombosia sp. A and 47 of S. ceylanica were selected for morphometric analysis and 14 vegetative and reproductive characters were analysed using Divisive Hierarchical Clustering and Principal Components Analysis. Results showed that Strombosia sp. A formed a distinct clade, well-separated from S. ceylanica. Description of Strombosia sp. A as a new variety is justified by the results of morphometric analysis and consistency of its larger-sized leaves, while reproductively, it is similar to S. ceylanica. This new variety is described here as Strombosia ceylanica Gardner var. macrophylla Phoon. Enumeration and illustration of this new variety are provided here.
27822015|The new species Trixis forzzae Borges & Saavedra, from Serra do Ibitipoca, Minas Gerais, Brazil is described and illustrated. Taxonomic relationships with similar species and those of similar geographical distribution are discussed.
10.2307/4119417|Nummularia dennisii Pouz., sp. nov. is characterized by elliptic stromata with smooth margin, papillate surface, and broadly ellipsoid, often slightly citriform, smooth spores, which are provided with a straight to spiral germ slit. This new species, which is close to N. haileyi Berk. & Br., has been collected once in a bottomland forest on Southern Slovakia (Czechoslovakia), on a fallen branch of Acer campestre.
10.2307/4129957|The genus Justicia L. is surveyed using general morphological techniques, and a broad definition of the genus is adopted. Characters of inflorescence, androecium, pollen and seeds proved particularly helpful in describing the 16 sections and 7 subsections. The 295 species used in the study are listed and 69 new specific names are published under Justicia.
10.2307/4109826|Mucuna schlechteri Harms was described from New Guinea but the name has been ignored until the author associated certain material with it; this material is cited here. The remarkable variation in peduncle-length is discussed and the possibility that M. lane-poolei is not specifically distinct is entertained.
20443316|The genus Brachystelma Sims (Apocynaceae) in East Africa (Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda) is revised. One new species, B. arachnoideum Masinde, from SE Tropical Africa and one new variety B. floribundum Turrill var. mlimakito Masinde are described. Sixteen species are recognised, namely, B. arachnoideum Masinde B. buchananii N. E. Br, B. coddii R. A. Dyer subsp. kituloense (Goyder) Masinde, B. festucifolium E. A. Bruce, B. floribundum Turrill, B. gracile E. A. Bruce, B. johnstonii N. E. Br., B. keniense Schweinf., B. lancasteri Boele, B. lineare A. Rich., B. maritae Peckover, B. megasepalum Peckover, B. plocamoides Oliv., B. rubellum (E. Mey.) Peckover, B. simplex Schltr. and B. tavalla K. Schum. A key to the species, descriptions, distribution maps and illustrations of all species are given. All the species are geophytic with the root system comprising a single discoid tuber except for B. arachnoideum with a cluster of fusiform roots.
10.2307/4110545|A new species of Lepistemon, L. verdcourtii is described from India. The delimitation of L. binectariferum and L. leiocalyx is further elucidated using fruit characters.
20443420|Based on previously published phylogenetic research, the genus Calospatha Becc. (Calamoideae) is placed in synonymy within Calamus L. The new combination, Calamus calospathus (Ridl.) W. J. Baker & J. Dransf. is made.
10.2307/4110363|In Acalypha, 2 new hybrids are described, a new combination is made, a description is amplified, a species long ago subsumed is reinstated as specific rank, 6 names are subsumed into synonymy, and 6 new records are reported-3 for Zambia, 2 for Mozambique and one for Malawi. In Adenocline, a new record is reported for Zimbabwe. In Andrachne, a new variety is described, and a subsumption into synonymy is made. In Caperonia, new records are reported for Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. In Cavacoa, a description is amplified. In Croton, a description is amended and a new combination is made. In Dalechampia, a new variety is described. In Erythrococca, a new record for South Africa is reported. In Jatropha, a seedling from Ethiopia is shown to upset recently-established subsectional distinctions based on the representation of the genus in Somalia, and a recent gathering from Somalia upsets a key-character used in the same paper. The genus Leidesia is newly reported from Mozambique and Zimbabwe. In Micrococca, a description is amplified, and a new record is reported from Mozambique. In Omphalea, a correction is made to the note in F.T.E.A. Euphorbiaceae (Part I, 1987) on the relationships of O. mansfeldiana. In Phyllanthus, new records are reported from Chad and the Central Africa Republic. In Ricinodendron, a new record is reported for Mozambique. In Suregada, a description is amplified. Many of these changes are necessitated by information which has come to light during the course of preparation of the account of the family for 'Flora Zambesiaca', whilst others have been occasioned by the ongoing work of routine naming in the family for other parts of Africa.
10.2307/4114645|The circumscription of Impatiens bicornuta Wall. is reassessed. As a result two new species of Impatiens are described from the Himalaya, I. arunensis, Grey-Wilson, I. garwhalensis Grey-Wilson; I. bicornuta s. str. is restricted to W & C Nepal. The closely related I. pradhanii is included.
10.2307/4109655|The seedling characters of Acacia confusa observed in this study were: (1) dwarf seedlings, (2) seedlings with green stem, (3) seedlings with pinnate second eophyll, (4) continuous variation in the length of the reduced second eophylls. The inheritance of these characters was assumed and discussed. The natural crossability of this species was also calculated.
10.2307/4117708|Ripe fruits of Sanrafaelia rufonammari are described.
20649639|Field work in the state of Paran, southern Brazil, has resulted in the discovery of a new epipetric filmy fern, Hymenophyllum filmenofilicum Christenh. & Schwartsb. (Hymenophyllaceae), which is described and illustrated here.
20443357|Elaeocarpus forbesii Merr. is discussed and a new subspecies ridsdalei Coode is described. E. palimlimensis R. Knuth is reduced to synonymy with the typical subspecies. Comparisons between E. burebidensis Elmer and E. surigaensis Merr. are made.
10.2307/4102988|The taxonomy of east tropical African Senecioneae is revised and the necessary nomenclatural innovations made preliminary to an account of the tribe for the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa'. The genera Austrosynotis C. Jeffrey gen. nov., Mikaniopsis Milne-Redh., Senecio L., Crassocephalum Moench, Stenops B. Nord., Emilia (Cass.) Cass., Solanecio (Sch. Bip.) Walp., Kleinia Mill., Gynura Cass., Cineraria L., Euryops (Cass.) Cass. and Lopholaena DC. are accepted and distinguished and keys to the species provided. Appendices deal briefly with the cultivated east African members of the tribe and with the generic disposition of the cultivated succulent senecionoid species.
20443306|Afrothismia amietii Cheek (Burmanniaceae) is described as a new species from Mt Kala, Cameroon. Its taxonomic affinities and conservation status are discussed.
10.2307/4110073|Barjonia harleyi, a new species from Bahia, Brazil, is described.
10.2307/4110036|Undescribed taxa from the countries named, including a distinct new species of the Stenolobous genus Amperea from Central Australia.
10.2307/4119780|Somatic chromosome numbers are reported for six tribes of the Araceae and for miscellaneous genera which were not included earlier in the series. While much chromosome diversity is evident in the family, the chromosome data do not support completely the major Araceae classifications of either Hutchinson (1959) or Engler (1920). Evolutionary relationships in the family are considered from the viewpoint of known basic chromosome numbers and suggestions are made concerning the taxonomic positions of some critical genera especially in the proposed Arophyteae of Bogner (1972).
10.2307/4107956|Scleria sobolifer and S. transvaalensis spp. nov. are described and distinguished from S. dregeana Kunth and S. natalensis C.B. Cl. respectively.
10.2307/4110436|The occurrence of a putative hybrid between two Rwandan species of Impatiens, I. gesneroidea and I. purpureo-violacea, is discussed.
10.2307/4110394|A distinctive new species of Amischotolype Hassk. is described from Brunei. Studies of the pollen morphology confirm that this taxon is correctly placed in that genus.
10.2307/4115659|Notes on the taxonomy and nomenclature of British species of Thecotheus are presented. British records of T. apiculatus should be referred to T. keithii, and of T. cinereus to T. crustaceus. The occurrence of T. holmskjoldii in the British Isles is confirmed, and a detailed description of that species based on a recent British collection is given. A key to the five known British species and discussion on other species of the genus are provided.
10.2307/4118751|Five new species of Habenaria from Ethiopia are described and illustrated here.
10.2307/4114647|The genus Semeiocardium Zoll. is discussed. As a result of floral and vegetative evidence it is decided to transfer the genus to Impatiens L.
20443248|Although recognized by Epling as two distinct entities, Hyptis lanceifolia Thonn. in Schumach. and Hyptis lanceaefolia Schumach., described from Africa, are shown to be the same, and typified by the same specimen. All the African material is shown to fall within the range of Hyptis lanceolata Poir., a species native to Tropical America. The variation found in Africa implies an early date of arrival from the New World, allowing time for some morphological differentiation.
10.2307/4117845|502 chromosome counts are given for over 190 vouchered taxa in 32 genera representing 14 families, the majority of which are petaloid monocotyledons. Their significance is discussed.
20649655|Recently collected material of Sesbania (Leguminosae subfam. Papilionoideae) from western Ethiopia shows variation and character combinations not recorded in J. B. Gillett's revision of Sesbania from Africa and tropical Arabia from 1963 and combines three taxa in his revision, S. sudanica J. B. Gillett, S. sudanica subsp. occidentalis J. B. Gillett and S. hepperi J. B. Gillett. The three taxa are therefore united into one more variable species, S. sudanica, that can still be distinguished from other Sesbania species with no or hardly any free tips on the appendages on the standard by having the style pilose or tomentose and a long sterile rostrum on a non- or only faintly torulose pod. The amended S. sudanica is distributed throughout the Sudanian woodland zone from near the Atlantic to the foothills of the Ethiopian highlands. The distribution area agrees well with the Sudanian region in Frank White's classification of African phytochoria.
23044619|Anecdotal evidence indicated that there is a shortage of ecological skills. A three year project has been established by the profession, the Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (IEEM), which runs from May 2008 until April 2011, to examine the issue and to make recommendations. Botany and plant sciences are used as a case study to provide an illustration of what is happening in part of the sector.
23489251|The species name Pavetta muelleri Bridson is an illegitimate homonym of P. muelleri Bremek. A replacement name (P. bridsoniae P. I. Forst.) honouring Diane Bridson is proposed for this Zimbabwean species.
20443299|Gomphrena stellata T. Ortuo & Borsch is described as a new species endemic to the dry valleys of Bolivia.
20443418|A new species of Macroptilium sect. Microcochle (Benth.) J. A. Lackey is herein described from the states of Piau and Bahia, Brazil. Macroptilium cochleatum is characterized by few-flowered inflorescences, calyx teeth longer than the tube, a tightly four-coiled keel, and linear, patent fruits. The discovery of this unique Macroptilium species, with its distally coiled keel, expands the diagnostic features of the genus. A key to the Brazilian species of sect. Microcochle is provided.
10.2307/4119739|Dendrocalamus mianningensis X. Jiang & Q. Li from W Yunnan and SW Sichuan is transferred into Ampelocalamus S. L. Chen, T. H. Wen & G. Y. Sheng. This species forms a morphological and geographical link between the Sino-Himalayan species Ampelocalamus patellaris (Gamble) Stapleton and other members of the genus from S China.
10.2307/4110430|Clerodendrum eupatorioides Bak. is Eremomastax speciosa (Hochst.) Cufod. (Acanthaceae}.
10.2307/4118077|A new species of Pinguicula from the Atlantic coast of Mexico, P. greenwoodii, is described in the previously monotypic section Homophyllum Casper.
20649683|Previously known from only two specimens collected in Uruguay, Prescottia ostenii Pabst is reported for the first time from Rio Grande do Sul, Southern Brazil. Several morphological features lacking in the original description are described and illustrated. The taxonomic affinities of this species are discussed, based on vegetative and floral morphology.
10.2307/4110807|The species which have hitherto been considered as constituting an aberrant section (Sect. Luteobrunnea Pax & Hoffm.) of the genus Claoxylon are here shown to represent a distinct new genus, Lobanilia, for which a new subtribe is established, and in which three new species are described.
10.2307/4117250|The presence of Omphalotus olearius (DC. ex Fr.) Singer in Britain is recorded, and a recent collection described. The synonymy of the species is given, whilst its possible susceptibility to taxonomic division is briefly noted.
10.2307/4110158|New or redescribed species in the genera listed below, with a new combination for a New Caledonian species.
10.2307/4110079|A revision is given of a group of five closely related species of Plectranthus which occur in Malawi, including P. stenophyllus (also in Zimbabwe) and four new species, P. salubenii (also in Tanzania and Zambia), P. viphyensis (from Viphya and Nyika Plateaux of Malawi and possibly also from Zambia, Tanzania and Mozambique), and P. zebrarum and P. acaulis (both endemic to the Nyika Plateau of Malawi and Zambia). Illustrations and distribution maps are provided.
10.2307/4108589|A new grass genus, Suddia Renv. is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110004|An attempt is made to solve the taxonomic and nomenclatural problems of Solanum khasianum C. B. Cl. and its relatives. S. khasianum C. B. Cl. is considered as conspecific with S. myriacanthum Dunal, which is the acceptable name for this species; S. khasianum C. B. Cl. var. chatterjeeanum Sen Gupta is reduced to S. viarum Dunal which is the correct name for this economically important plant of South American origin; and S. reflexum Schrank and S. platanifolium Hook. are maintained as distinct species. A key is provided to delimit these four South American species.
20443419|In this revision of the genus Sarcodum, one new species, S. solomonensis R. Clark, currently known only from one collection, is described and illustrated. A key to all three species is provided, together with descriptions of the two previously known taxa in the genus.
10.2307/4107960|Collections of an unusual Hyptis from Paraguay, S. Brazil and N. Argentina, and previously described as a new species by J. Briquet in the 19th century but subsequently overlooked, are here recognised as a new subspecies, subsp. rugulosa (Brio.) R. Harley oiHyptts alata (Raf.) Shinners. The typical subspecies is known only from the S.E. United States and the adjacent Caribbean. The disjunct nature of the distribution of the two subspecies leads to speculation on their origin. Descriptions and a key to the two taxa are given.
20649662|A new grass, Dimeria jayachandranii Arisdason & P. Daniel is described and illustrated from the Anamalais Hills on the Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu.
10.2307/4108107|It is shown that Forsskal's Asclepias spiralis has been misinterpreted, and the plant long known as Pentatropis spiralis based on Forsskal's name must be known by the new combination Pentatropis nivalis. The shrubby species to which Forsskal's name should apply has hitherto been referred to Cynanchum, but is now shown to be better placed together with C. fruticulosum in a small genus of two species from N.E. tropical Africa and Arabia. The name Blyttia Arn. is available for this genus, and the new combinations B. spiralis and B. fruticulosa are made.
27821996|Valeriana neglecta R. Bernal (Valerianaceae) from the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, in northern Colombia, is described as new, and illustrated, based on two specimens collected in 1844. It belongs to subgenus Valeriana sect. Porteria (Hook.) Benth. & Hook f., and differs from other species of the group in its corymboid inflorescence, with dense, capitoid, partial inflorescences, and in its narrowly spathulate leaves that are remotely dentate towards apex.
10.2307/4117785|Chemical analysis of the strong carrion odour produced by an inflorescence of Helicodiceros muscivorus (L. f.) Engl. (Araceae) revealed that the major components were dimethyl disulphide and dimethyl trisulphide. Dimethyl oligosulphides appear to be characteristic constituents of carrion-like floral odours.
23489189|An account of the genus Bonamia in Bolivia is presented. Seven species are recognised, of which three (B. rosiewiseae J. R. I. Wood, B. riograndina J. R. I. Wood and B. cerradoensis J. R. I Wood) are described as new and illustrated with line drawings. Taxonomic notes and a key to the identification of the Bolivian species are provided. The typification of B. agrostopolis (Vell.) Hallier f. is discussed and an epitype is selected. A full synonomy for B. agrostopolis, B. balansae Hallier f. and B. subsessilis Hassl. is provided. The distribution and conservation status of all seven species is detailed with the help of a map and attention is drawn to the Chaco as a local centre of diversity in this genus in South America.
10.2307/4114354|Five genera and sixteen species of Tectarioid ferns occur in Ceylon. The systematics, nomenclature and distribution of these species are discussed. Three new combinations are made and one hybrid described. The maintenance of Quercifilix as a genus distinct from Tectaria is rejected.
10.2307/4118746|Elaeocarpus kjellbergii is described as new and the complex for which the oldest name is E. robustus Roxb. (Elaeocarpus sect. Elaeocarpus) is discussed; it includes material from the South East Asian mainland and Sumatra (described here as vars. megacarpus and collinus) together with Bornean variants here described as E. roslii subspp. roslii, opacus, bracteolatus and terajanus. Infraspecific taxa are recognized but the problems are not satisfactorily soluble in the Herbarium alone and will need a worker with extended field experience. E. longibarbatus Warb. is reduced to a subspecies under E. valetonii Hochr.
10.2307/4117578|The confusion surrounding the name Ceropegia distincta N.E.Br. is discussed and the concepts of this species and also C. lugardae N.E.Br. and C. haygarthii Schltr. are reconsidered. C. distincta subsp. verruculosa R. A. Dyer is elevated to the rank-of species and a new species C. brevirostris Bally & D. V. Field is described.
10.2307/4110076|3 new species, and 3 new varieties of succulent tree are described. The reinstatement of 3 species and several changes in taxonomic status of others are made within a group of very closely related taxa, and the reasons for doing so discussed.
10.2307/4129966|The genus Debregeasia Gaud. is revised. Four species are recognised, with a further species, D. dentata Hook.f., being considered as a form of D, squamata King ex Hook.f. and given a new name, f. etuberculata, to reflect more clearly its distinction from the typical form. A further name, D. edulis Sieb. & Zucc., is shown to have been extensively misapplied, belonging correctly to a species of Oreocnide.
23489149|A new species of Silentvalleya V. J. Nair, Sreek., Vajr. & Bhargavan in the family Poaceae is described and illustrated from the north Western Ghats of India.
10.2307/4118873| Cyrtochloa, a new genus of bamboo (Gramineae-Bambusoideae) from the Philippines, is described. There are five species in the genus. Three of them, Cyrtochloa toppingii (Gamble) S. Dransf., C. fenixii (Gamble) S. Dransf. and C. luzonica (Gamble) S. Dransf., are transferred from Schizostachyum Nees, and two are described as new: C. hirsuta S. Dransf. and C. puser S. Dransf. Morphology of vegetative and flowering parts, and relationships with other genera are discussed. The genus is mainly found in Luzon, possibly also extending to Mindoro. The new genus appears to be related to Dinochloa Bse, by having one-flowered spikelets and fruits with a relatively thick fleshy pericarp, abortive endosperm, and a large scutellum. 
23044999|The name Microlicia acuminata Cogn. is a later homonym of M. acuminata Naudin. Microlicia hirticalyx is proposed as a new name. O nome Microlicia acuminata Cogn.  um homnimo posterior de M. acuminata Naudin. Microlicia hirticalyx  aqui proposta como um novo nome.
10.2307/4109688|12 species of Gossypium are recognised as being native in the area. Of these G. trifurcatum Vollesen is described as new and the following new combinations are made: G. bricchettii (Ulbrich) Vollesen, G. anomalum Wawra & Peyr. subsp. senarense (Wawra & Peyr.) Vollesen, G. herbaceum L. subsp. africanum (Watt) Vollesen.
10.2307/4110480|The new combination Stifftia fruticosa (Vell.) D.J. N. Hind & Semir is proposed and a full description of the species given. One other variety of Stifftia chrysantha, var. flavicans Toledo ex Dedecca, is discussed and a key to the large-headed species of Stifftia is provided.
10.2307/4110427|The genera Megalochlamys Lindau and Ecbolium Kurz are redefined and revised. Three species are transferred from Ecbolium to Megalochlamys. Five new species and two subspecies are described in Megalochlamys. In Ecbolium nine new species and two varieties are described. Two new combinations and three nomina nova are also proposed.
20443310|Seven taxa of Lamiaceae from Indochina are validated: Pogostemon globulosus Phuong ex S. Suddee & A. J. Paton, P. litigiosus Doan ex S. Suddee & A. J. Paton, P. nelsonii Doan ex S. Suddee & A. J. Paton, Mosla bracteata Doan ex S. Suddee & A. J. Paton, Scutellaria attenuifolia S. Suddee & A. J. Paton, Gomphostemma grandiflorum Doan ex S. Suddee & A. J. Paton and Teucrium petelotii Doan ex S. Suddee & A. J. Paton. Dysophylla petelotii Doan, D. auricularia Blume var. gigantea Doan, D. nana Doan, Salvia nana Doan, Scutellaria tonkinensis Doan and Paraphlomis pagantha Doan are considered to be invalid names for taxa validly published by other authors.
23045001|A new species of Lamiaceae from Belize: Hyptis maya is described and illustrated. It is closely related to the more widespread H. lanceolata Poir., with which it is compared.
23216748|A new species, Glyphochloa maharashtraensis, and a new variety, Glyphochloa maharasthraensis var. hirsuta are described and illustrated from the Western Ghats of India.
10.2307/4102977|The species of Lecanopteris s.s. native to Sulawesi are revised; four species are recognized, two new, namely L. balgooyi Hennipman and L. darnaedii Hennipman.
20649550|Calathea dryadica and Calathea reginae are described, circumscribed and illustrated. These new species are probably endemic to the Atlantic Forest of Rio de Janeiro State in Southeast Brazil and are considered critically endangered because of the restricted geographic area of occurrence, sometimes enclosed by densely urbanised areas.
10.2307/4109691|Euphorbia selousiana from Tanzania and E. inaequilatera var. spanothrix from Kenya and Tanzania are described as new.
27821985|The Asiatic orchid species Neolindleya camtschatica (Cham.) Nevski has been omitted from the majority of relevant taxonomic surveys, including the recent Genera Orchidacearum. In most studies where the species has been included, it has been assigned to the species-rich genera Gymnadenia or Platanthera. A few morphologists recognised a new monotypic genus, Neolindleya Kraenzl., to accommodate the species. More recent molecular phylogenetic studies showed barely sufficient molecular disparity to justify generic separation of this species, but demonstrated clearly that the genus Neolindleya is only distantly related to Gymnadenia. However, the molecular phylogenies show relationships of equal strength of Neolindleya with Galearis (including Amerorchis) on the one hand and Platanthera s.l. on the other. In an attempt to better resolve the phylogenetic placement of Neolindleya, and to more clearly understand its biology and ecology, we have re-examined the morphology of this enigmatic species. Our results, based partly on SEM studies, reinforce the validity of Neolindleya as a genus, indicate a closer relationship with Galearis s.l. than with Platanthera s.l., and strongly suggest that the species became an autogam following 'accidental' loss of a functional bursicle. Ecologically, N. camtschatica is an opportunistic species that benefits from anthropogenic habitat disturbance.
10.2307/4110950|The tribe Ocimeae subtribe Plectranthinae in continental South East Asia is fully revised here as part of a revision of the whole tribe in that area. Descriptions, full synonyms relevant to South East Asian Floras, maps, line drawings, information about ethnobotany, distributions, habitats, ecology, endemism and conservation, selected specimen citations and an index to accepted names and synonyms are given. Two genera are covered here: Anisochilus and Plectranthus. Three new species, Plectranthus albicalyx S. Suddee, P gigantifolius S. Suddee and P tomentifolius S. Suddee are described. One new combination, and one new name are made: Plectranthus bracteatus (Dunn) S. Suddee and P. chiangdaoensis S. Suddee.
10.2307/4107852|A synopsis of Bornean species of Areca is presented; in all 17 species and one variety are recorded for Borneo, including seven new species and two species and one variety transferred from Pichisermollia (Gigliolia), which is here formally reduced to Areca.
23489186|Six genera of woody bamboos (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Bambuseae) occur along the Andes, but only two reach the southernmost portion of this mountain range, Chusquea Kunth and Rhipidocladum McClure. In woody bamboos, the identification of new anatomical characters bears a considerable taxonomic significance contributing to the determination of vegetative material. In the present work, culm anatomy of Andean woody bamboo species occurring in Argentina and neighbouring areas is described. Eight species are surveyed: C. culeou E. Desv., C. deficiens Parodi, C. lorentziana Griseb., C. montana Phil., C. quila Kunth, C. valdiviensis Phil., R. neumannii Sulekic, Rgolo & L. G. Clark and R. racemiflorum (Steud.) McClure. Culm epidermal and cross sectional characters of each species are described and an identification key based on anatomical characters is provided. Culm anatomical characters of C. montana, C. quila and C. valdiviensis are presented for the first time. Also, anatomical evidence that support the idea of C. quila and C. valdiviensis as different species is presented and information on useful characters to distinguish between them is provided. The taxa studied are compared in tables based on culm anatomical characters of taxonomic value.
10.2307/4117861|Willisia arekaliana Shivamurthy & Sadanand sp. nov. (Podostemaceae) from Silent valley, Kerala State, India, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110986| Asclepiadoideae is a subfamily of Apocynaceae with many taxonomic problems, at least in New World groups. Generic delimitation is mainly based on the morphology of the corona and inflorescence, and closely related species are often assigned to distinct genera. In the course of studies on Asclepiadoideae from the Espinhao Range of Minas Gerais, Brazil, some inconsistencies in the taxonomy of the subfamily were observed. Asclepiadoideae taxonomy is briefly discussed with particular emphasis on some Brazilian genera of Metastelmatinae. Six new species of Ditassa are also described: D. auriflora, D. bifurcata, D. inconspicua, D. itambensis, D. magisteriana and D. monocoronata; all are probably endemic to small areas of the Espinhao Range in the State of Minas Gerais. 
10.2307/4109612|The tribes Streptochaeteae, Anomochloeae, Olyreae, Parianeae, Phareae, Phaenospermateae, Streptogyneae, Diarrheneae, Brachyelytreae, Oryzeae, Phyllorachideae and Ehrharteae are surveyed and descriptions of their leaf-blade anatomy provided. This is a further paper to supplement the studies of W. D. Clayton on the classification of the Grass family; the sequence of tribes and genera follows that proposed in the Genera Graminum now in preparation.
10.2307/4109575|The genus Psophocarpus is concisely revised and a key given to the 9 species recognised; descriptions and distributions are given.
20443250|Mercurialis canariensis, a new endemic species to the Canary Islands is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110172|This paper presents new information which has come to light during the continuing study of Euphorbiaceae for the Flora of Tropical East Africa. Two subspecies in Bridelia are reduced to synonymy. Drypetes reticulata is newly recorded for Zimbabwe. Two new records in Jatropha are reported for Kenya, two new combinations are made, and a description amplified. In Phyllanthus seven new species and two new varieties are described, descriptions are amplified, changes in status and reductions to synonymy made, and new records reported for six East African countries. The genus Tragiella is held to be distinct from Sphaerostylis. Unless otherwise stated, all specimens have been seen and are at Kew.
23216099|Platea malayana Utteridge is described and illustrated as a new species from the Cameron Highlands, Malaysia; notes on its conservation status and taxonomic affinities are discussed.
10.2307/4119728|As part of a wider study leading to a systematic revision of Brachystephanus Nees, a new species (Brachystephanus densiflorus E. Figueiredo) and a new variety (B. africanus var. madagascariensis E. Figueiredo) are described. A new combination (B. africanus var. velutinus (De Wild.) E. Figueiredo) is made. Lectotypification is undertaken for five names and one neotype is selected.
10.2307/4108591|Euphorbia terracina L. is recorded as adventive to the flora of Mexico.
10.2307/4108470|A key to the 14 known species of Moringa Adans. (Moringaceae) is given, together with the description of two new species and one new subspecies.
10.2307/4110322|A taxonomic revision of the genus Delonix in Madagascar is presented, in which nine species, all endemic, are recognised. Two other species of Delonix occur elsewhere and are not treated in detail here. One new species is described (D. pumila), one new combination is made (D. leucantha), two new subspecies are described in D. leucantha, a lectotype is selected for the widely misapplied name Delonix (Poinciana) adansonioides, and it is included in the synonymy of D. floribunda. Conservation status is estimated for each species (based on IUCN Red List draft categories). Pollination (by moths and sunbirds), and vernacular names and local uses of the species are listed. Seven of the nine species recognised in Madagascar are illustrated, and representative specimens are cited for each species. The variation in the genus is discussed, but flower structure and fruit and leaf characters suggest contradictory subgeneric groupings. The relationships of Delonix within the tribe Caesalpinieae are discussed, with particular reference to the closely related Malagasy endemic genera Colvillea and Lemuropisum.
10.2307/4119009|Violaceae in tropical East Africa and neighbouring parts of Africa is discussed. A new species of Hybanthus, H.fasciculatus Grey-Wilson is described, as are subordinate taxa in both Hybanthus and Rinorea. Hybridisation in Rinorea and Viola species is discussed.
10.2307/4103036|The tropical African and Malagasy species of the Restionaceae are revised. A new species, R. quartyticola, from Zimbabwe and Mozambique, is described. The Malagasy material (R. madagascariensis) is included under R. mahonii from the African mainland. A southern Malagasy segregate, R. mahonii subsp. humbertii, is recognized.
10.2307/4117587| This report draws attention to an unpublished 1971 B.Sc. (Hons.) Dissertation by the junior author at the University of Lagos, on variation in Nelsonia canescens (Lam.) Spreng. sensu lato, based on a study carried out on samples from three different habitats near Lagos. Samples from drier sites corresponded to N. canescens (Lam.) Spreng. and those from marshy sites with N. smithii rsted, but intermediate populations were found growing in shaded low-lying sites. The study has a bearing on a recent article by Morton (1979) in Kew Bulletin. 
20443265|Plectranthus inselbergi B. J. Pollard & A. J. Paton, is described from Equatorial Guinea and Gabon, illustrated and its ecology and taxonomic relationships are discussed. Three new combinations and a new name in Plectranthus L'Hr. are provided for related species formerly placed in Solenostemon Thonn., and conservation assessments are made for all five species. Some observations on P. decumbens Hook. f. are also made.
10.2307/4110240|Dendrobium whistleri from Samoa and the Solomon Islands and Bulbophyllum distichobulbum from Samoa are described here.
23044635|Malaysia has approximately 15,000 species of vascular plants. Its flora is distributed between two major geographical regions; Peninsular Malaysia on mainland Asia and the states of Sabah and Sarawak on the island of Borneo. Peninsular Malaysia has over 8,300 plant species and Sabah and Sarawak in a recent estimate have about 12,000 species. Total species endemism for Peninsular Malaysia is about 30%; its tree endemism is 26.3%. For Sabah and Sarawak, the endemism level is higher, recently revised figures gave a tree species endemism of 42.1%. Malaysia has recently published its national strategy for plant conservation, which now forms the basis of conservation activities for the country. Since 2004, we have been running a project entitled "Conservation Monitoring of Rare and Threatened Plants of Peninsular Malaysia", in which conservation status assessment is scored for a number of families. Results of the assessment of 458 taxa included 46.1% in some threat category. Detailed conservation studies are in progress for 33 species of threatened plants. Initial work on these species include spatial distribution studies at regional level based on herbarium records, and at a more local level, population studies to determine demography of populations. Regular phenological observations were also made for many of the species.
24717377|The name Leptonychia kamerunensis Engl. & K. Krause is resurrected for an understorey tree of submontane forest in the Cameroon Highlands. L. subtomentosa K. Schum. is resurrected for a tree of the hilly semi-deciduous forests around Yaound in Central Province, Cameroon. L. moyesiae Cheek, a shrub of lowland coastal evergreen forest of SE Nigeria, SW Province Cameroon and Bioko, is newly described. The taxonomic affinities and conservation status of these three species are assessed.
10.2307/4115663| Diospyros cavalcantei Sothers, sp. nov. is described from recent collections made in Central Amazonia. The taxon, although previously widely collected throughout the Amazon region, has been misidentified over the years either as D. pseudoxylopia Mildbr. or D. vestita Benoist. /// Diospyros cavalcantei Sothers, sp. nov.  aqui descrita a partir de coletas recentes feitas na Amaznia central. O txon, apesar de j ter sido extensamente coletado na regio amaznica, foi erroneamente identificado durante anos como D. pseudoxylopia Mildbr., ou como D. vestita Benoist. 
10.2307/4111116|Stelechantha arcuata is a new and critically endangered, lowland and submontane species from South and South West Cameroon. The main combination of characters separating it from the other three species of Stelechantha are leaves with arching inframarginal veins, lanceolate stipules and minutely puberulous ramiflorous inflorescences. An illustration of S. arcuata, and a key to all the species is included. The relationship between Stelechantha Bremek. and Commitheca Bremek. is discussed.
10.2307/4117017|The floral and fruit structure of the monotypic genus Hydrocera is discussed and its relationship with the vastly more complex, but allied genus, Impatiens assessed.
10.2307/4117978|A brief summary of the genus Pupalia has been attempted on a world-wide basis. It is shown that 'typical' P. lappacea (L.) Juss. (which is lectotypified) is the plant frequently known as P. atropurpurea (Lam.) Moq., and that the most common form of P. lappacea must be called var. velutina (Moq.) Hook. f. Four species are recognized in the genus, two new varieties of P. lappacea being described from Africa; principal synonymy and a key to all taxa is given. The plant recorded from the Philippines as P. atropurpurea is referred to P. micrantha Hauman, and three names in Pupalia are disposed in Cyathula and Alternanthera.
10.2307/4119004|The species of Tragus are enumerated, and a key is given.
10.2307/4108883|Three species of Dinebra are recognized; one species, D. polycarpha from East Africa, and one variety, D. retroflexa var. condensata occurring from Ethiopia to South Africa, are described as new. Keys and synonymy are provided.
10.2307/4114621|Rhynchospora almensis, a new species from Pico Das Almas, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4111027|Six new species of Neotropical Chrysobalanaceae are described from recent collections: Licania cuyabenensis, L. ferreirae, Couepia hondurasensis, C. leitaofilhoi, Hirtella castillana and H. beckii. Descriptions of the fruits of two previously described species of Licania, L. grandibracteata and L. salzmannii are given for the first time.
20649685|Two new palm species, Licuala adscendens Barfod & Heatubun and L. urciflora Barfod & Heatubun, are described from Obi Island in North Moluccas and Waigeo Island in Raja Ampat District, Western New Guinea respectively.
10.2307/4119738|The genus Dipcadi in the Arabian Peninsula is revised. Three species, D. serotinum, D. viride and a new species, D. biflorum are recognized. The new species is endemic to the drier habitats of Central Oman and northern area of the United Arab Emirates and comes up only after heavy rain. The description of D. biflorum sp. nov. and its chromosome number is given.
10.2307/4114436|An historical review of the systematics of Philodendron Schott is presented, from the earliest known records to modern studies; the classifications of Schott and Engler are discussed in detail. A nomenclatural revision of infrageneric taxon names is given, with synonymy and lectotypification.
20443295|A taxonomic revision of the genus Cineraria L. (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) is presented. Thirty-five species are recognised, the majority from southern Africa, with C. deltoidea occurring throughout the highlands of southern and East Africa, C. abyssinica in Ethiopia, Yemen and Saudi Arabia and C. anampoza endemic to Madagascar. Two new species, four new subspecies and a new variety are described: C. magnicephala Cron from Malawi and C. ngwenyensis Cron from Swaziland, C. alchemilloides DC. subsp. namibiensis Cron from Namibia, C. lobata L'Hr. subsp. platyptera Cron from the Eastern Cape, C. lobata L'Hr. subsp. lasiocaulis Cron from the Karoo region of the Northern Cape and Western Cape, C. lobata L'Hr. subsp. soutpansbergensis Cron from the Soutpansberg centre of endemism and C. erodioides DC. var. tomentosa Cron from Limpopo Province, South Africa. Two subvarieties of C. anampoza have been reduced to forms. Fourteen species have been excluded from the genus. The taxonomic history, morphology, distribution, ecology, uses and conservation status of the genus and species are discussed and dichomotous keys to species and infraspecific taxa are included.
10.2307/4110695| In preparation for an account of the Labiatae of the Pico das Almas in Bahia, Brazil, five new species, three from the mountain, and one new variety of Eriope are described. The group with a naked calyx throat is now enlarged to include ten species and a key to these is provided. Hybrids within Eriope are recorded and their occurrence is discussed. Finally, two new species of Hyptis sect. Polydesmia subsect. Oocephalae are described. One is from the Pico das Almas and the other from Gro Mogol in N. Minas Gerais. A key is included to the six species now recognized. 
10.2307/4110175| Kniphofia mulanjeana, a new species from Mt Mulanje in Malai is described. 
10.2307/4110244|A new species, Cynanchum robertsoniae, is described from the Seychelles. The genus has not previously been reported from this island group.
10.2307/4110490|The Southeast Asian genus Stenomeris Planch. (Dioscoreaceae) consists of two species: S. dioscoreifolia Planch, and S. borneensis Oliv., with distributions which apparently overlap on the island of Mindanao. Examination of herbarium material suggests that some specimens have been misidentified, significantly altering the geographic distributions of the two taxa, and that the varieties identified by Burkill (1951) (S. dioscoreifolia vars. macranthera and micranthera and S. borneensis var. mindanaensis) fall within the ranges of variation of the two species. Quantitative and qualitative measurements were used to investigate the patterns of variation between and within the two taxa and to delimit the two species, S. dioscoreifolia and S. borneensis, which are shown to have allopatric distributions, and can be separated on the basis of seed and tepal characters.
10.2307/4117976|Twelve electrophoretically distinct forms of peroxidase were recognized in extracts from a series of collections of individuals of Gibasis schiedeana (Kunth) D. R. Hunt from Mexico. The intensity of staining of each band varied from individual to individual, but the Rm value of any particular band was always the same. No allocations of genetic control could be made at this stage. By using the method of Paired Affinity Indices tentative relationships between the 47 individuals are suggested. Some collections were markedly different, in particular the one made in western Mexico (Durango). No regular differences were seen between diploids and tetraploids, in fact the diploids and tetraploids from a particular locality usually resembled each other more closely than they resembled the equivalent cytotypes from elsewhere. A more consistent difference was seen, however, in total peroxidase activity which tended to be significantly lower in tetraploids than in diploids. The enzyme multiple form data are presented in detail so that subsequently comparison can be made with both related and more remote species in the family (Commelinaceae).
10.2307/4110287|The following new species of Vernonia from Ethiopia and Somalia are described and one of them is illustrated. V. bulo-burtiensis Mesfin, V. dalettiensis Mesfin, V. didessana Mesfin, V. lanata Mesfin, V. gilbertii Mesfin, V. tewoldei Mesfin, V. thulinii Mesfin and V. yabelloana Mesfin. A key to the species of Vernonia in Ethiopia and Somalia is provided.
10.2307/4110524|Madoadoa Verdc. is established as a subgenus of Stictocardia Hall, f. for S. incompta (Hall. f.) Hall. f. the extended range of which into Somalia is recorded.
10.2307/4115864|During the preparation of a monograph of the Brazilian species of Ditassa R. Br., some nomenclatural and taxonomic problems came to light. Six species require lectotypification: D. bicolorDecne., D. fasciculata E. Fourn., D. fulva E. Fourn., D. gradlipes Schltr., D. refractifolia K. Schum. and D. warmingii E. Fourn. New synonyms to D. gradlipes Schltr. (D. mattogrossensis Malme), D. hispida (Vell.) Fontella (Amphistelma ferrugineum E. Fourn., D. fulva E. Fourn., D. paranensis Maime and D. velutina E. Fourn.) and D. obcordata Mart. (D. niruri Decne.) are proposed.
10.2307/4110267|Gynerium sagittatum (Aubl.) P. Beauv. is a widespread neotropical reed-like grass and a distinctive species of river banks. In early taxonomic literature it was described several times in different genera and as a result of this has acquired a lengthy synonymy. Recent findings indicate that Gynerium is highly variable in the western parts of South America, producing morphologically and ecologically distinct forms. We have studied the variation of Gynerium over all of its range, using field observations and herbarium surveys. Herbarium specimens were mostly of poor quality and appeared to be of limited value in studies of variation. Some botanists have considered Gynerium to be a single species, while others have suggested it is a species complex. We have adopted the former approach and have recognized two new varieties, described here, in the hope that they will provide a guide for future studies. A validation of the typification for Gynerium sagittatum is also provided.
10.2307/4113607|A new species of Pleurostylia Wight & Arn., P. putamen, from the Mascarene island of Rodrigues, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110303|Syzygium velutinum is described as a new species from N Borneo (collected from Brunei, Sabah, and Sarawak). Syzygium creaghii (Ridl.) Merr. & L. M. Perry is considered as the most closely related species to S. velutinum. A lectotype is selected for S. creaghii and a full description of this species is given.
20443325|Tradescantia gentryi, a new species from Mexico, is described.
23489038|Cyperus pertenuis Roxb. is re-instated as a separate species based on specimens previously assigned to C. scariosus. The distribution range of C. scariosus is redefined. The typification of both species is clarified.
10.2307/4103126|Trees in Peninsular Malaysia show seasonality for leafing (with two main peaks a year) and flowering (with a major season in February to May and in some species a second minor season in August and September) in spite of the variability shown by individuals. Didymocarpus platypus (Gesneriaceae) and Pentaphragma horsjieldii (Pentaphragmataceae) produce flowers throughout the year, although the flower buds of D. platypus "wait" and then open simultaneously. Staurogyne longifolia (Acanthaceae) and Phyllagathis rotundifolia (Melastomataceae; the latter flowers very occasionally) flower seasonally at the same time as trees. In addition, P. rotundifolia has two peaks of leaf production at the same time as trees. Leaves of these forest herbs expand very slowly and are long-lived (18 to 33 months). Leaves of most evergreen tree species live for between 13 and 14 months. Two strategies for survival are shown by these herbs. Pentaphragma horsfieldii and S. longifolia rely on the regular production of seed for their survival-seedlings are common in their populations and they flower and die earlier than Phyllagathis rotundifolia or D. platypus, which rely on a long-life with a lower level of reproduction. P. rotundifolia and D. platypus both produce annually at least three times the leaf area of the other two species. P. rotundifolia rarely produces fruits; its plants are potentially immortal with an evergrowing prostrate stem and it also commonly produces leaf cuttings from its fallen leaves. D. platypus is estimated to live for about 20 years.
23489035|A new species of Aeginetia so far only known from south-eastern Thailand, and related to the widespread Aeginetia indica L., is described as Aeginetia flava.
10.2307/4117766|Parkia paya H. C. Hopkins is described as new from Borneo and Sumatra. It is a tree, primarily from swamp forest, with opposite, bipinnate leaves and opposite peduncles. The leaflets are almost oblong and the capitula have a well-developed staminodial fringe at anthesis. Some of the material now placed in this species was previously considered intermediate between P. sumatrana and P. singularis subsp. borneensis. Geographical variation in the pods of Parkia speciosa sensu lato, or petai, is discussed.
10.2307/4110677| Sixteen taxa of Western Australian tuberous Drosera are formally described. Five are new species; D. erythrogyna, D. lowriei, D. orbiculata, D. salina and D. tubaestylis. Seven are new subspecies; D. gigantea subsp.geniculata; D. menziesii subsp. basifolia; D. erythrorhiza subsp. collina; D. erythrorhiza subsp. magna; D. macrantha subsp. eremaea; D. marchantii subsp. prophylla and D. stolonifera subsp. prostrata. Four are new combinations; D. bulbosa subsp. major y D. erythrorhiza subsp. squamosa, D. menziesii subsp. penicillaris and D. stolonifera subsp. porrecta. In addition, eighteen taxa of Western Australian pygmy Drosera are formally described. Thirteen are new species; D. callistos, D. closterostigma, D. echinoblastus, D. eneabba, D. endes, D. ericksoniae, D. helodes, D. hyperostigma, D. leioblastus, D. oreopodon, D. roseana, D. spilos and D. walyunga. Three are new subspecies; D. nitidula subsp. allantostigma, D. nitidula subsp. leucostigma and D. occidentalis subsp. australis. Two are new combinations; D. nitidula subsp. omissa and D. paleacea subsp. trichocaulis. 
10.2307/4114646|Sumatran species of Impatiens are discussed and a revision provided. The following 20 new taxa are described, 15 new species, 2 new subspecies and 3 new varieties: I. acehensis, I. bunnemeijeri, I. calendulina, I. dewildeana, I. dewildeana var. parviflora, I. diepenhorstii var. brevicornu, I. diepenhorstii var. intermedia, I. elephanticeps, I. furfuracea, I. lampungensis, I. pilosavittata, I. pseudoperezii, I. pseudoperezii subsp. bengkulensis, I. pseudoperezii subsp. ophirensis, I. pyrrhotricha var. grandis, I. rubriflora, I. sidikalangensis, I. singgalangensis, I. steenisii, I. tapanuliensis and I. vitellina.
10.2307/4110236|Pothos grandis, a name proposed but not validly published by Buchet (1942), is validated and an emended species description given. Discussion of the growth architecture of western Indomalesian Pothos subgenus Pothos is presented.
20649577|A new Athyrium species, A. crassicaule J. P. Roux (Woodsiaceae), is described from the Drakensberg in Lesotho and South Africa. A key to the Athyrium species in Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland is provided.
25070251|Pentarrhinum iringense Markgr. is transferred to Tylophora and T. erubescens (Liede & Meve) Liede placed in synonymy. Tylophoropsis erubescens Liede & Meve is lectotypified.
10.2307/4115754|Justicia santelisiana is described from the Sierra Madre del Sur in Oaxaca, Mexico. Subgeneric treatment of the species is problematic because it combines characteristics of several sections of the genus. The species appears to be unique among Mexican Justicia in the combination of its unequally 5-lobed calyces, relatively long corollas, unappendaged anther thecae, pollen with 4 to 6 rows of insulae, and pubescent capsules.
10.2307/4117860| A new species of Zygostates Lindl. (Orchidaceae) from Esprito Santo in Brazil is described. 
10.2307/4117033|Angraecum chimanimaniense G. Williamson sp. nov. is described and illustrated. The new species is placed in sect. Perrierangraecum and is related to A. stella-africae P.J. Cribb which occurs in Malawi, Zimbabwe and South Africa. The new taxon, which is apparently endemic to the Chimanimani mountains in Zimbabwe, has been known since the late John Ball collected it in 1954.
20649581|Critical re-examination of the type of Cynanchum clavidens N. E. Br. has resulted in revised synonymy for C. hastifolium K. Schum. and the description of a new subspecies, C. hastifolium subsp. longirostrum Goyder. The geographical and morphological pattern of variation showed by another species pair, C. gerrardii (Harv.) Liede and C. lenewtonii Liede, is comparable to that shown by the two subspecies of C. hastifolium, so C. lenewtonii is reduced to subspecific rank under C. gerrardii. Finally, C. ledermannii Schltr. is transferred to Pentarrhinum E. Mey., and P. abyssinicum Decne. subsp. ijimense Goyder placed in synonymy with it.
10.2307/4118047|In Turkey there are two species of Pelargonium belonging to section Jenkinsonia (Sweet) Harv., P. endlicherianum Fenzl and P. quercetorum Agnew. All other members of this section occur in South Africa along with most of the species in this genus. Both species were found to have the same chromosome number, 2n = 34, which is a new count for P. endlicherianum, (previous counts being 2n = 36) and the first record of a chromosome number for P. quercetorum. The distribution of these two Pelargonium species in Turkey is shown.
23489142|Goodyera dongchenii Lucksom var. gongligongensis X. H. Jin & S. C. Chen is a new synonym of Goodyera hemsleyana King & Pantl. This constitutes the first record of G. hemsleyana for China. Goodyera dongchenii Lucksom is considered to be conspecific with G. robusta Hook. f. and is reduced to a variety of G. schlechtendaliana Rchb. f. Both species are described and illustrated and a key to the varieties of G. schlechtendaliana is provided.
10.2307/4110642|Two new species, Endogone pegleri and E. pseudopisiformis, are described from Australia and North America respectively. Endogone pegleri is distinguished from other Endogone species with randomly distributed zygosporangia within the sporocarp by its larger zygosporangial size-range and persistent gametangia. Endogone pseudopisiformis resembles E. pisiformis in zygosporangial size-range, but differs in having the sporangiothecium (zygosporangial wall) thicker than the eusporium (zygospore wall), in the variable width of the opening to the gametangia, and in lacking abundant rigid, thick-walled hyphae and a well developed, pubescent peridium on the sporocarp.
10.2307/4119311| A new species, Tibouchina boudetii, from central Esprito Santo state, southeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated. It belongs to sect. Pleroma (D. Don) Cogn. 
10.2307/4114593|Heinsia densiflora Hiern is a synonym of the earlier published Mussaenda zanzibarica Boj.
23489343|Begonia ranaiensis Girm., a new species from Mount Ranai, Natuna Island, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4102940|9 genera comprising the solitary tribe Centotheceae of the sub-family Centothecoideae are surveyed and a collective description of their anatomy is provided.
10.2307/4110857| Aphyllophoroid fungi were collected at 11 sites in the Finnish North Karelian Biosphere Reserve during the summer seasons of 1993 - 1998. A total of 252 species belonging to 115 genera in 19 families were recorded, including 20 protected and 38 so-called indicator species. Corticioid and poroid fungi on decayed wood are characteristic for the forests of the boreal zone. A high number of terrestrial fungi is also characteristic for the pine forests which dominate the area. Large, ancient forest sites surrounded by mires are normally more species-rich than smaller ones situated inside the timber-extraction zone. The richest of the sites studied is Syvjrvi, followed by Kotavaara, Tapionaho, Lahnavaara and Koitajoki. All these sites contain a high level of threatened and indicator species. These and additional sites where endangered species have been recorded need to be protected and excluded from logging. 
20443355|Carex globulosa, a new species of Cyperaceae from Thailand, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4107842|Two new species, S. kermodei & S. burmensis from Burma are described.
10.2307/4107972|Examination of certain descriptions in Forsskal's Flora Aegyptiaco-Arabica (1775) and his type specimens housed in Copenhagen Botanical Museum has led to several new combinations in Sansevieria (Liliaceae), Loggera (Compositae), Pavonia (Malvaceae), Breonadia (Rubiaceae), Celtis (Ulmaceae) and Debregeasia (Urticaceae). New synonymy is noted in Arisaema (Araceae), Hibiscus (Malvaceae) and Solanum (Solanaceae).
10.2307/4108599|Macaranga didymocarpa and M. leightonii are described as new species from Borneo plus M. herculis and M. lugubris from Papua New Guinea. Corrections are made of errors in the previously published accounts of Macaranga in Sumatra, Borneo and New Guinea.
10.2307/4109672|A key and conspectus to all the species of Elionurus is provided and a new species is described from tropical South America, E. planifolius.
4110892| A survey of the American species of Ctenium Panz. revealed a new species, C. bahiense, and a new variety, C. cirrhosum var. ondulatum, from Brazil. Both taxa belong to the "unispicate" species of Ctenium. The first was found in "cerrado" vegetation, in Central and South-eastern Brazil, and the second in higher altitude "campos rupestres" from the "Espinhao" Range, in the State of Bahia. Descriptions, illustrations and data on their distribution and habitat are provided. 
10.2307/4103041|The leaf anatomy of one species of Tinomiscium Miers and two of Fibraurea Lour. is described. Of particular interest are the abundant laticifers which are apparent on the surface of the leaves of herbarium specimens of Tinomiscium as fine ridges. Laticifers are also present but less abundant in the leaves of Fibraurea. The hypodermal stellate fibres of Fibraurea form a close network of unsurpassed intricacy.
10.2307/4102946|V. chloropappa Bak. and related species are keyed out. V. mbalensis, V. sylvicola and V. jelfiae var. albida are described for the first time.
10.2307/4107860|Eight new species are described and discussed. Several other species originally described from Yemen but hitherto neglected are brought to the attention of botanists and their main synonymy is given.
10.2307/4117767|A distinctive new species of Parkia, with stiff white hairs on the leaflets, is described from Cucurital de Caname, Amazonas, Venezuela. It has velutinous pods and dense red-brown indumentum on the stems and leaf rachises. Since only the fruits and leaves have been collected, the sectional placement of P. barnebyana is uncertain, though it appears most closely allied to section Sphaeroparkia.
24717346|This paper discusses the different taxonomic concepts of the wheat group as exemplified by three species, commonly known together as 'Farro': diploid Einkorn, tetraploid Emmer and hexaploid Spelt. A narrow, morphology-based concept is contrasted with a much wider, genome-based one, leading to profound differences in the recognition of taxa at species level and below. The latter concept accepts far fewer taxa; it is advocated here and its effect illustrated for the Farro wheats. Considerations regarding the nomenclature of the accepted taxa are presented, applying both the International Code for the Nomenclature of Cultivated Plants (ICNCP) and the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi and plants (ICN or the 'Melbourne Code'). Within the genus Triticum L. we propose Farro wheats to be classified at subspecies rank, and to be defined as the total of their cultivars united under a botanical name. Einkorn is T. monococcum L. (the cultivars in subsp. monococcum) and Spelt T. aestivum L. subsp. spelta (L.) Thell.; if one chooses the species level the names are T. monococcum L. and T. spelta L., respectively. We show that, based on consideration of the original literature, the ICN and relevant type specimens, the correct name and authorship of Emmer at subspecies level should be T. turgidum L. subsp. dicoccum (Schrank ex Schbl.) Thell. At species level we recommend using T. farrum Bayle-Bar., published in 1809, over the more widely known T. dicoccum Schrank ex Schbl. from 1818, and provide arguments for rejecting T. dicoccon Schrank 1789, T. album Gaertn. 1790, T. spelta sensu Host 1809 (non Linnaeus) and (possibly) T. atratum Host 1809.
10.2307/4117062|Twelve genera are recognized in the tribe. A key based on spikelet morphology is given, and the leaf anatomy of each genus is described. The new combination Zoysia seslerioides (Bal.) Clayton & Richardson is made.
23489037|Astragalus argaeus Boiss. & Balansa is a single locality, endemic species belonging to the monotypic Sect. Argaeus. In this study, morphology, ecology, pollen, legume and seed properties of the species have been examined. An amended and complete morphological description of the species is provided, and the conservation status and potential threats are evaluated.
10.2307/4119011|The seven species currently ascribed to the genus Zimmermannia are similar in their macromorphology. In an attempt to confirm their validity as separate species the pollen has been examined. The results show that these species are quite distinct, Zimmermannia decaryi var. occidentalis is published as a new combination.
10.2307/4109578|The genus Rutidea DC. is revised, 22 species and 4 subspecies being recognised; a new section, five new species and three new subspecies are described and a new combination is made; new synonyms are indicated.
10.2307/4110716|Two new species of Habenaria Willd. from Bahia, Brazil, are described here for the first time.
10.2307/4110168|The wood anatomy of the Hyptidinae, a South American subtribe of the Labiatae, is described. Variation is often related to differences in growth forms, and taxonomic and phylogenetic applications are limited.
10.2307/4115755|Euphorbia granulata var. dentata is transferred to E. inaequilatera. E. propinqua and E. seclusa are reduced to synonyms of E. arabica.
23216747|Two new taxa of Scolopia from the Andaman Islands are described and illustrated: Scolopia parkinsonii, a new species based on a recent collection and S. kermodei C. E. C. Fisch. var. minor, a new variety based on an old collection.
10.2307/4108557|Macaranga endertii, M. indistincta, M. lamellata, M. rarispina and M. winkleriella are described as new species, and M. hullettii ssp. borneensis, M. anceps ssp. puncticulata, M. calcicola var. calcifuga, and M. depressa f. glabra as new taxa of lesser rank. M. griffithiana of Malaya is reduced to a subspecies of M. motleyana and M. divergens becomes M. depressa f. strigosa.
10.2307/4110478|Thirteen species are treated including one new species from the Andaman Islands, P. andamanensis, and two varieties within P. loureiri, var. loureiri and var. humilis. Species limits and distributions are defined, and aspects of morphology and lamina anatomy are examined in relation to ecology. Systematic analyses of the genus combine data from studies of morphology and lamina anatomy with DNA sequence data of the 5S spacer region (nuclear ribosomal DNA). The origin of P. dactylifera is discussed in the light of the results of the systematic analysis.
24717385|The Neotropical genus Stevia comprises c. 230 species and can be easily recognised by its heads with five phyllaries and five florets. During a floristic survey of Eupatorieae in the Planalto de Diamantina, in the Cadeia do Espinhao, Minas Gerais, Brazil, a new species of Stevia was collected in "cerrado" and "campo rupestre" vegetation. S. grazielae differs from the other 32 Brazilian species by its characteristic opposite and alternate linear and flat to conduplicate leaves, heads in a lax panicle, with divaricate secondary branching, and 5 cypselas with isomorphic pappus, 7  9 awns and 1  3 scales, or cypselas with heteromorphic pappus, 7  10 awns and 1  3 scales in 3  4 adelphocarps, and 9  11 awns and 0 scales in 1  2 idiocarps. S. grazielae is described, illustrated, and the conservation status is assessed.
10.2307/4113888|Brachystelma kituloensis, a new species from the Kitulo Plateau of southern Tanzania, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110155|Preparation of an account of the Lauraceae for the Flore des Mascareignes shows that, due to the greater amount of material available, four instead of one species can be recognized: 0. laevigata (Meisn.) Marais, comb. et stat. nov., 0. lancilimba Kosterm., sp. nov., 0. mascarena (Buchoz) Kosterm., and 0. obtusata (Nees) Kosterm., comb. nov. A key to these species is provided.
10.2307/4120622|Three new species of Papuacalia (Compositae: Senecioneae), Papuacalia milleri, P. sandsii, and P. titoi, are described and illustrated from Mount Jaya, Papua (Irian Jaya, Indonesia). These new species represent additions to both the homogamous and heterogamous headed species and bring the total number of known species of the genus to 17.
10.2307/4109713|Chloris ferruginea Renvoize, from North East Tropical Africa, is transferred to Tetrapogon. The characters distinguishing Chloris from Tetrapogon are discussed.
10.2307/4110674|Lepidagathis keralensis is described and illustrated as a new species from Kerala, South India.
10.2307/4109615|The pollen morphology of four genera and five species has been studied. The pollen is very small, tricolpate-operculate or tricolporate with spinulose-reticulate, reticulate or perforate surface ornamentation and simple exine stratification. Three pollen types are recognized. Pollen morphology of the monotypic genus Tinomiscium, widely distributed in the Old World, and Fibraurea, Malesia, is similar. Pollen of the Madagascan genus Burasaia is without parallel in the group. The New World Borismene was also studied and bears no obvious resemblance to any of the other genera. The relevance of these findings is discussed.
10.2307/4109454|The genus concept represents a subjective approach to a natural phenomenon. It is difficult to disentangle the natural element, which is itself very complex, and the subject is fraught with speculation, but there is at least some justification for the following tentative propositions. 1. The quasi-logarithmic distribution is remarkably constant, suggesting that evolutionary processes have operated in a reasonably uniform manner to produce a similar pattern of species groups in each family, and that these groups are recognizable as genera. 2. The Index of Diversity varies considerably, and may reflect a subjective dislike of large genera. 3. At least in the Gramineae new genera have been described at a relatively faster rate than new species have been discovered, and the level at which the genus is recognized has risen closer to that of the species.
23489192|Microlicia D. Don (Melastomataceae) has about 120 species concentrated in central Brazil. During the inventory of Microlicieae of Mucug, Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brazil we have found four new species of Microlicia, all endemic to Chapada Diamantina. Microlicia hirta Pataro & R. Romero is found in the Lenis and Mucug municipalities, while M. intercalycina Pataro & R. Romero, M. macropetala Pataro & R. Romero and M. pulchra Pataro & R. Romero are endemic to Mucug. In M. pulchra the columella is persistent, a character described for the first time for the genus. The four new species are here described, discussed and illustrated. Conservation assessments based on IUCN criteria are also given. Microlicia D. Don (Melastomataceae) possui aproximadamente 120 espcies concentradas no Brasil central. Durante o levantamento florstico de Microlicieae em Mucug, Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brasil, foram encontradas quatro novas espcies de Microlicia, todas endmicas da Chapada Diamantina. Microlicia hirta Pataro & R. Romero ocorre em Lenis e Mucug, enquanto que M. intercalycina Pataro & R. Romero, M. macropetala Pataro & R. Romero e M. pulchra Pataro & R. Romero so endmicas de Mucug. M. pulchra apresenta columela persistente, caracterstica descrita para o gnero pela primeira vez. As quatro espcies so descritas, discutidas e ilustradas. Os status de conservao baseado nos critrios da IUCN tambm so fornecidos.
10.2307/4117040|Cynometra carvalhoi, previously known from only the fragmentary type specimen in Coimbra, has been rediscovered. The species is illustrated for the first time and its taxonomic placement is discussed.
10.2307/4102933|Catoferia (Benth.) Benth., an American genus of four species, is revised, its taxonomic history and relationships are presented, and one new species from Mexico, C. martinezii Ramamoorthy is described.
10.2307/4117936|The flowers of Mucuna macropoda, from Central Province, Papua New Guinea, whose fruits were collected in 1885, are described for the first time. They are greenish white and arranged in dense inflorescences on long, thin, pendent peduncles. They attract small nectarivorous bats at night. To obtain nectar, the bat pushes its snout forcibly into a flower, releasing the androecium and style from within the keel petal, and thus pollen is deposited on the bat's throat.
10.2307/4108483|A new species of Amentotaxus is described and compared with related species; leaf anatomy is also considered.
10.2307/4117930|The pollen morphology of the Palmae, primarily based on electron microscopy, is reviewed. Many new descriptions and illustrations are included. The group is discussed against the background of Uhl & Dransfield's recent systematic arrangement. The contribution that an extensive pollen morphological database makes to the understanding of the systematics of the family is demonstrated. This pollen study highlights some of the more obscure relationships within the Palmae, for example, those of Kerriodoxa, Masoala and Carpoxylon. The use of careful comparative studies of recent palm pollen in throwing further light on relationships of dispersed, palm-like fossil pollen is considered. The possibility is examined that in some species a relationship might exist between pollen morphology and pollination strategies. It is postulated that the wide range of variation in the pollen morphology, taken together with the extensive macromorphological data and fossil pollen record, could lead to the conclusion that the family is a specialized offshoot arising early in the evolution of the monocotyledons.
10.2307/4110719|A record of the use of seeds of Dimorphandra parviflora (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae) to make an intoxicating snuff is reported.
10.2307/4118888| The species Hyptis colubrimontis Epling & Jtiva and Hyptis pyriformis Epling & Jtiva are considered. Both are endemic taxa of the Venezuelan Guayana, belonging to sect. Hyptis subsect. Marrubiastrae. Their species limits are redefined in the light of new collections, and a new variety, Hyptis pyriformis var. yutajeensis Harley, is described. 
20443301|Dacryodes camerunensis Onana (Burseraceae) from central Africa is described, illustrated, mapped and its conservation status and affinities assessed. Formerly it was confused with Dacryodes klaineana (Pierre) Lam. A key to Dacryodes in central Africa (Cameroon, Congo (Brazzaville) and Gabon) is presented.
10.2307/4117858|A new genus and species Haplocoelopsis africana is described from East Africa and Angola.
23044632|The conservation of plant diversity attracts worldwide interest. One of the major objectives of botanic gardens is to create and support collections of native taxa, and to build and maintain stocks of plants for ex situ conservation. In Armenia the first steps toward the cultivation and conservation of the local flora were taken in the 1930s on the initiative of Prof. H. K. Magakyan, one of the founders of the Yerevan Botanic Garden and an effort was made to create a scientifically-based living collection of Armenian plants. In 1954 A. A. Akhverdov and N. V. Mirzoeva created an exhibition plot at the Garden on the Flora and Vegetation of Armenia and the plot has now been established for over 55 years. The plot undertakes the conservation of living plants, conservation of the main types of plant community in Armenia, the introduction into cultivation of rare and declining species of the native flora, the establishment of living plants for re-introduction into natural habitats and the evaluation of data pertaining to the cultivation of rare and declining species in botanic gardens. The collection is also the basis for training and experimental studies for a number of educational institutions in Armenia. Armenia has c. 3500 species of vascular plant, of which c. 1000 species are represented in the Plot. As well as conservation, the plot has scientific, cultural and educational significance. Dissemination of knowledge about native plants contributes to greater public awareness and a better understanding of the natural world.
23489229|Eight species, three subspecies, four varieties and three combinations of Eriocaulon L. from Thailand are described, preparatory to a revision of the Eriocaulaceae for the Flora of Thailand.
10.2307/4110869|Eleven species of Termitomyces are enumerated from the rainforests of the Old World, seven from Malaysia and seven from the Republic of Cameroon, with three species common to both. Lepiota discipes Henn. is synonymised with Termitomyces letestui and a second record is made of Tricholoma termitomycoides Corner, which resembles Termitomyces heimii Natarajan.
10.2307/4110824|The genus Olea is revised. 33 species and nine subspecies are recognized in three subgenera: Olea, Tetrapilus and Paniculatae, the first with two sections: Olea and Ligustroides. Three new taxa are recognized: subgen. Tetrapilus, subgen. Paniculatae and Olea woodiana subsp. disjuncta. Keys, descriptions, the citation of specimens and an index to exsiccatae are provided.
10.2307/4108550|Three species, one of which includes two subspecies, are recognized, extending from northern and eastern Cape Province northwards to South West Africa, Botswana and Rhodesia. A key, distribution map, full synonymy, and citations of specimens seen are given, and erroneous or doubtful records for Rhodesia, Transvaal, Natal and Orange Free State are considered. A new combination at subspecific rank is made.
20443397|Pavonia zeylanica (L.) Cav. was based on the basionym Hibiscus zeylonicus L. but Cavanilles put a '?' in front of it and altered the spelling. I have made the decision to accept this as a valid new combination, despite the fact that Cavanilles's figures and plant description do not agree with the Hermann holotype of the Linnean name. Various authors have been using Pavonia zeylanica Cav. for the plant illustrated by Cavanilles, but this plant needs another name and it appears that Pavonia arenaria (Murr.) Roth is the correct one to use.
10.2307/4110105|A new species, Athyrium annae, closely related to A. lewallwanum Pichi-Serm. from Burundi, is described from Zambia.
10.2307/4119440|Medusanthera inaequalis Utteridge is described and illustrated as a new species from Papua, Indonesia.
24717344|Morphological variation within the Oliniaceae is discussed with reference to diagnostic characters used to delimit species and infraspecific taxa. The Oliniaceae is hereby considered to comprise a single genus, Olinia Thunb. with ten species assigned to two sections: sect. Olinia, and sect. Rochetiana. The two sections are distinguishable on the basis of the pattern of leaf venation, shape of leaves and petals. Section Olinia comprises O. capensis, O emarginata, O. micrantha, O. ventosa, O. radiata and O. vanguerioides; whereas section Rochetiana includes O. huillensis, O. rochetiana, O. ruandensis and O. usambarensis. O. huillensis Welw. shows infraspecific variation categorised as O. huillensis subsp. huillensis, O. huillensis subsp. burttdavii and O. huillensis subsp. discolor occurring mainly in southern Africa. Floral features provide useful and reliable distinguishing characters that consistently separate taxa at specific and infraspecific ranks. In particular, the following features are taxonomically useful: flowers which are organised into either tightly compact inflorescences or loose and open inflorescences, floral whorls comprising either four or five units, and variation in the shape and length of petal lobes. A full taxonomic account of Olinia over its total geographic distribution is provided with an identification key, descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps for all recognised taxa.
10.2307/4117769|The preparation of the account of the family Labiatae for the Flora Zambesiaca necessitates a large number of new combinations in the genus Rotheca Raf. The opportunity is also taken to make those needed to bring the account in Flora of Tropical East Africa: Verbenaceae (now in part Labiatae) (Verdcourt 1992) up to date.
23489043|Auritella foveata C. K. Pradeep & Matheny is described as new from mixed evergreen forests in tropical India. The species is distinctive due to the combination of a pitted-rugulose pileus, smooth subglobose spores, and chains of elongated thick-walled cheilocystidia. The latter two traits characterise the tropical African species A. aureoplumosa (Watling) Matheny & Bougher. Phylogenetic analysis of a supermatrix of rpb1, rpb2, and nLSU-rRNA gene regions supports the placement of A. foveata as sister to the remaining species of Auritella, a genus with a paleotropical and southern hemisphere distribution. A key to all eight species of the genus is provided together with illustrations of the new species.
23489126|Eremochloa renvoizei Traiperm & Boonkerd, a new species of Poaceae subtribe Rottboelliinae (Andropogoneae) endemic to Thailand, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4114573|Cornulaca Del., Panderia Fisch. et Mey. and Suaeda Forssk. ex Scop. as represented in Iraq are discussed and a new section of Suaeda described.
10.2307/4115819|During the preparation of the account of Dolichos L. for Flora Zambesiaca the need to describe three new taxa; Dolichos ichthyophone Verdc, var. sunzuensis Mackinder, Dolichos trilobus L. var. richardsiae Mackinder, and Dolichos subcapitatus R. Wilczek var. angustifolius Mackinder has arisen. This paper fulfils that need. Additionally, Dolichos pseudocajanus Welw. ex Baker var. panicilatus R. Wilczek is raised to specific rank as Dolichos brevidentatus Mackinder.
10.2307/4118851|A new species of Camptorrhiza, C. indica, in the family Colchicaceae (Liliaceae s.l.), is described and illustrated from Maharashtra, India.
10.2307/4107840|Description of a new species, Commicarpus ambiguus, from Yemen, Ethiopia and Somalia; further notes on two recently described taxa, C. helenae (J. A. Schultes) Meikle var. barbatus Meikle and C. raynalii Meikle.
10.2307/4119334|The monotypic genus Stuhlmannia Taub. is expanded in circumscription to include the bipinnate-leaved species Caesalpinia insolita (Harms) Brenan & J. B. Gillett, which is placed in the synonomy of Stuhlmannia moavii Taub. The relationships between Stuhlmannia and Cordeauxia are discussed.
20649558|Caragana aliensis a new species from Tibet, China, is described and illustrated.
27821992|A new species of Polygala (Polygalaceae) subgenus Polygala, Polygala tacianae J. F. B. Pastore & Harley is described and illustrated. The species is endemic to a small area in the Chapada dos Veadeiros, Gois state. The relationships of the new species are discussed and a full description, together with illustration is provided.
10.2307/4120624|Three species of Ephedra are reported from NE Tropical Africa: E. somalensis sp. nov., E. foeminea and E. foliata. The endemic new species Ephedra somalensis is described, illustrated and compared with the most closely related species. All species are keyed out, their ecology described, and relevant distribution maps given.
10.2307/4109902|48 genera, out of a total of 50 comprising the tribe Bambuseae, are surveyed and a collective description of their leaf-blade anatomy is provided.
10.2307/4111214|Recent field work in West and Central Africa has led to the discovery of a number of undescribed species of climbing palm (rattans). Two new taxa, Eremospatha barendii and Oncocalamus tuleyi, were recently described by Sunderland (2002). This account describes two further new species; Eremospatha dransfieldii from the forests of Upper Guinea and Laccosperma korupensis from Cameroon. These taxa will be more comprehensively described and illustrated in a forthcoming identification manual on the rattans of Africa (Sunderland in prep.).
10.2307/4110485|Helica fragilis Foreman sp. nov., Helicia sleumeri Foreman sp. nov., Helica celatus Foreman sp. nov., Helicia versteeghii Foreman sp. nov. and Helicia vanroyenii Foreman sp. nov., all endemic to the Vogelkop Peninsula of Irian Jaya, are described and illustrated. A key to the species of Helicia occurring in Irian Jaya and Papua New Guinea is given.
10.2307/4119785|In Jatropha, a new species, a new subspecies and a new variety are described, a new record for East Africa is reported, and five species are reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/4117768|Four new species of Rhynchosia are described, R. wildii, R. chapmanii, R. stipitata and R. chimanimaniensis all from the area covered by Flora Zambesiaca and almost restricted to it.
10.2307/4102948|The treatment of Campelia L. C. Rich., Rhoeo Hance and Zebrina Schnizlein as sections of Tradescantia L. is proposed and a new section Corinna D. R. Hunt established for T. soconuscana Matuda (Campelia standleyi Steyermark).
23489245|Three new taxa of Hypolepis from the Brazilian Atlantic Forest s.l. (S, SE and NE Brazil) are here described, illustrated, and discussed: H. acantha Schwartsb. from the coastal and lowland forests, and H. rugosula subsp. pradoana Schwartsb. and H. stolonifera var. nebularis Schwartsb. from the high-elevation forests and fields. In addition, a key to the Brazilian taxa is presented.
10.2307/4117706| Rudgea crassifolia Zappi & E. Lucas, a new species from the coast of Bahia and Sergipe, Northeastern Brazil, is described. Its diagnostic characters and habitat are discussed. /// Rudgea crassifolia Zappi & E. Lucas, umo nova espcie originria do litoral da Bahia e Sergipe, Brasil,  descrita, e suas caractersticas e habitat so aqui discutidos. 
10.2307/4109823|Monimiastrum, a new genus, endemic to Mauritius, is described together with five previously undescribed species. The species of Eugenia and Syzygium recognized in the region are discussed. Six new species of Eugenia and two new species of Syzygium are described, as well as several transfers and new names. The systematic position of Psiloxylon is discussed.
10.2307/4110479|The tropical African genus Stathmostelma is revised and 13 species recognised. The genus is restricted to those taxa of the Asclepias complex in which the pollinaria possess broadly winged and contorted translator arms and the anther wings have convex margins and basal tails. The genus contains a number of complexes whose constituent elements are treated at subspecific or varietal rank. The circumscription of S. gigantiflorum is expanded to include S. praetermissum and S. nomadacridum; one new species, S. diversifolium, and one subspecies, S. fornicatum subsp. tridentatum, are described, and new combinations are made for one species, two subspecies and one variety. Descriptions and keys to the taxa are presented and most species illustrated. One name is neotypified and lectotypes are designated for four other names.
10.2307/4111041|A new species of eye ad from Sulawesi, Cycad falcata (Cycadaceae), is described and illustrated. A distribution map is provided. The new species is placed in subsection Rumphiae, and possible origins of the new taxon are discussed.
10.2307/4109727|A key is provided for the identification of the 11 species of sect. Ceratobium found in the Pacific from the Solomon Islands eastwards. Three of these are newly described here.
10.2307/4109858|During the course of preparation of an account of Pimpinella for the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa' a number of species from other regions were studied. The present paper contains 2 nomenclatural changes, a number of reductions to synonymy and 9 new taxa. Lectotypes are chosen for P. caffra and P. stadensis. A key is supplied to the species of this genus found in the F.T.E.A. region, for testing by interested botanists.
20443297|A taxonomic revision of Scutellaria L. (Lamiaceae) in Bolivia is presented. Five species are recognised, one of which S. woodii is described as new. Four species from sect. Perilomia (Kunth) Epling sensu lato: S. eplingii Legname, S. woodii J. M. Mercado, S. ocymoides (Kunth) Epling) and S. scutellarioides (Kunth) Harley, which have been confused, are investigated. Their differences are summarised in a table and SEM photographs are provided to illustrate their nutlets. The paper is illustrated by line drawings of the species in sect. Perilomia.
10.2307/4119000|Nectaropetalum acumimtum is described as new from Tanzania, being the third species known from that country.
10.2307/4109618|One new species of Aeschynomene from the state of Bahia and a new variety from Piaui are described and illustrated. In addition, A. martii Benth. is discussed and A. rizzinii Schoenberg & Ferreira is recognized as conspecific with it.
10.2307/4115849|The giant Lobelia udzungwensis is described from the Udzungwa Mountains National Park in central Tanzania. Morphological and molecular evidence indicates its close relationship to species previously known from mist-forests on other mountains in this region. Biogeographic reconstruction suggests that the entire group originated on the Uluguru Mts, dispersed first to the Ukaguru Mts, and thence in opposite directions to the Udzungwa Mts and the Nguru Mts.
10.2307/4113605|The genus Oreopteris Holub comprises three species, the basionyms of which are Polypodium limbospermum Allioni, Nephrodium elwesii Baker and Dryopteris quelpaertensis Christ. The history and status of the genus are discussed, its characters described, and a key to the species is provided, with synonymy for each and a new description for O. elwesii. Dryopteris kamtshatica Komarov is regarded as a synonym of O. quelpaertensis.
10.2307/4119415|Two new coprophilous discomycetes, one with 8-spored asci and the other with multispored asci, are described from India. A new genus, Dennisiopsis, is proposed to accommodate the two species in both of which the ascocarp is a simple fascicle of asci and paraphyses without an ectal excipulum. The taxonomy of the fungi is discussed.
23489339|A new species of Mucuna (Leguminosae) from Costa Rica, Panama and Colombia is described and illustrated. Although the species is morphologically grouped with a number of species from Central and South America that have the primary axis of their inflorescences condensed, M. globulifera is distinguished by a suite of characters, including a condensed primary inflorescence axis (very reduced internodes, the nodes up to approximately 1 mm apart from the one above), an extremely long peduncle, secondary bracts surrounding a large and conspicuous globose structure when the inflorescence is young, flowers usually pale salmon in colour, fruits softly villous and lacking urticating trichomes, and the presence of very sparse appressed hairs on the leaflet surfaces, or the leaflets almost glabrous.
10.2307/4110373|Chromosome counts were made in seven taxa of Skimmia (Rutaceae) comprising four species, two heterotypic subspecies and an interspecific hybrid. The basic chromosome number is x = 15 and both diploid and tetraploid forms were found. A single large metacentric chromosome
10.2307/4117584| This precursor paper in connection with the account of the Rubiaceae for 'Flora Tropical East Africa: 2' deals with a few remaining problems in the Gardenieae and contains an initial contribution to a study of the Vanguerieae. Two new genera and 5 new species are described. In addition one new genus and 5 new species are described from Zare and the Somali Republic. 
10.2307/4115684|Six new species of Euphorbia, all belonging to subgenus Esula, are described in preparation for the forthcoming account for the Flora of Ethiopia: E. sareciana and E. furcatifolia (section Esula); E. omariana (section Trichadenia); E. doloensis, E. betulicortex and E. uniglans (section Lyciopsis). All are from the Somali-Masai vegetation of the south of the country.
23489238|Barleria grootbergensis I. Darbysh. & E. A. Tripp is described from the Grootberg Pass in Kunene Region, Namibia. Its affinities within Barleria sect. Somalia are discussed. A second taxon, named as Barleria galpinii C. B. Clarke in the Prodromus einer Flora von SdwestAfrika, is reassessed and found to be referable to B. pseudosomalia I. Darbysh., a species previously known only from central Tanzania. A revised checklist to the Barleria of Namibia is presented.
10.2307/4111090|Ditassa insignis, a new species of Apocynaceae - Asclepiadoideae endemic to the Serra da Canastra National Park in the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This species forms an extremely characteristic group of species with D. lenheirensis Silveira, D. retusa Mart., D. Unearis Mart., D. eximia Decne., D. pedunculata Maime, D. laevis Mart. and D. succedanea Rapini, within which it is most similar to D. linearis Mart.
23489249|A new species, Ceropegia concanensis Kambale, Chandore & S. R. Yadav is described from the Sindhudurg and Kolhapur districts of Maharashtra, India.
10.2307/4119308|New records of centrifixed anther attachment in monocotyledons are discussed in a systematic context. This type of anther attachment, in which the slender filament tip is inserted into a hollow in the anther, is common in the orders Liliales and Asparagales, especially in some lower asparagoid families such as Tecophilaeaceae and Hemerocallidaceae. It is often associated with Solanum-type vibratile (buzz-pollinated) flowers, but also occurs in some bird-pollinated taxa such as Xeronema and Doryanthes.
10.2307/4111089|The distinctness of the stomatal structure of Takhtajania perrieri from that of all other Winteraceae is re-affirmed; the majority of the stomata are typically anomocytic.
10.2307/4110700|3 species of Thismia were examined embryologically. Embryo sacs are tenuinucellate, Polygonum-type, with a T-shaped tetrad or triad. Embryos are reduced, with a short suspensor, and endosperm development is helobial.
10.2307/4118783|Three distinctive new species of Zingiberaceae, Boesenbergia armeniaca, Boesenbergia hosensis and Amomum botryoideum, are described. The first species occurs in Sabah and Brunei Darussalam, the second is found in Sarawak and the third occurs in Brunei.
10.2307/4107865|Calpurnia uarandensis Chiov., described from Somalia, is shown to be a species of Dalbergia. The necessary new combination is made, and a description and an illustration of the species is given.
10.2307/4102874|Forman (1975) separated Pycnarrhena macrocarpa Diels as a new genus Eleutharrhena. Characters of leaf anatomy are described here which support this separation. In particular, whereas stomata are widely and more or less evenly distributed in intercostal regions of the abaxial epidermis in Pycnarrhena, they occur in separate groups of (10 -) 20 - 70 + in Eleutharrhena.
10.2307/4108896|In Jatropha, one new species is described and two new records are reported for Kenya. In Acalypha, one species and three varieties are reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/4115861|Four new species of Borreria (Rubiaceae - Spermacoceae) from Brazil, B. amapaensis, B. guimaraesensis, B. multibracteata and B. tocantinsiana, and a new subsp., B. capitata subsp. restingicola, are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117977|This paper contains descriptions of 10 new taxa (4 species, 5 subspecies and 1 variety); 5 new combinations are made and new synonyms are indicated.
23489039|Zeuxine assamica and Z. dhanikariana are synonymised with Z. nervosa. The morphological variation and affinity of Z. nervosa are also discussed with a detailed description and photographs.
10.2307/4110698|The genus Trichaulax with its only species T. mwasumbii is described, and its relations with Megalochlamys and Ecbolium are discussed. Trichaulax is endemic in dry coastal forests in Kenya and Tanzania.
10.2307/4119721|Both molecular and morphological data have indicated that the family Anthericaceae sensu lato is polyphyletic. For example, some members have successive microsporogenesis, while others have simultaneous microsporogenesis. Anthericaceae and Lomandraceae are here formally recircumscribed. Anthericaceae sensu stricto now includes only eight genera. Lomandraceae has fifteen genera in two informal groups: the Lomandra-group and the arthropodioids, representing genera formerly in four different families. The tribe Boryeae is raised to family status (Boryaceae). A broad concept of Phormiaceae is presented, including all the genera with trichotomosulcate pollen and Hemerocallis. The relationships of other genera are discussed. New observations on ovule structure are presented, together with a summary of existing evidence necessitating rearrangements of these taxa.
27821987|Coleochloa setifera (Ridl.) Gilly subsp. glabrescens Hoenselaar & D. A. Simpson, a new subspecies from Kenya, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117877|Phyla canescens (H. B. K) Greene is recorded from Iraq, and a key supplied for its separation from P. nodiflora (L.) Greene. There is a note on Vitex iraquensis Moldenke, and attention is drawn to a hitherto unobserved character separating V. pseudo-negundo (Hausskn.) Hand.-Mazz. from V. negundo L. and V. agnus-castus L.
10.2307/4108110|It is demonstrated that Euphorbia glauca Forst., the sole indigenous species of Euphorbia in New Zealand, has for over 100 years been assigned to the wrong section of the genus, which error is herein rectified.
10.2307/4102882|Four new species of Fritillaria are described. Two, F. carica Rix from southwest Turkey and F. euboeica Rix from Euboea are compared with F. sibthorpiana (Sibth. & Sm.) Baker and notes are given on these and other related species and a Key to the group is provided. The two others are not related to F. sibthorpiana; F. epirotica Turrill ex Rix is described from central Greece and F. latakiensis Rix from northwest Syria.
10.2307/4103155|A new species of Wellstedia Balf. f. (Boraginaceae-Wellstedioideae), W. filtuensis D. R. Hunt & J. -P. Lebrun, from southern Ethiopia, is described.
10.2307/4115747|The structure of the dehiscent berry of Ligustrum sempervirens is described, and compared with the fruits of other Ligustrum species and those of Syringa.
10.2307/4111121|Morphological study of numerous specimens of Alhagi maurorum Medik. and A. graecorum Boiss. shows that the key characters normally used are not adequate for separation of these taxa at specific rank. They are best treated as subspecies, so that the genus is now regarded as including a single variable species, A. maurorum.
10.2307/4110241|Justicia thiniophila, a new species of Justicia sect. Ansellia endemic to Somalia is described. The new taxon is illustrated.
10.2307/4117685|Fourteen new species of Pavetta (Rubiaceae) are described: five from the Flora Zambesiaca region (P. chapmanii, P. garueensis, P. mulleri, P. vanwykiana, P. whiteana), eight from the flora of Tropical East Africa (FTEA) region (P. bidgoodiae, P. delicatifolia, P. diversipunctata, P. indigotica, P. lulandoensis, P. matumbiensis, P. pocsii, P. roseostellata) and one (P. micropunctata) occurring in both regions. Three of them were previously included in Bridson & Verdcourt (1988) as Pavetta sp. C, P. sp. D & P. sp. E. The identity of one more informal taxon, Pavetta sp. F is established as P. pierlotii Bridson. One new subspecies, P. abyssinica Fresen. subsp. viridiflora, is described and P. appendiculata De Wild. is reduced to a variety of P. gardeniifolia A. Rich. The infrageneric position of P. roseostellata is discussed in relation to P. sp. A (Bridson & Verdcourt 1988). Two species, P. incana Klotzsch and P. klotzschiana K. Schum., are neotypified. The placement in synonymy by Bremekamp of P. arenicola K. Schum. and P. stipulopallium K. Schum. under P. schumanniana F. Hoffm. ex K. Schum. is challenged. Notes are included on P. kyimbilensis Bremek. var. kyimbilensis and a poorly known affiliated taxon. Supplementary data are given for P. lindina Bremek. and P. tendagurensis Bremek.
10.2307/4103042|The new genus Dryopsis (type species Aspidium apiciflorum Wall. ex Hook.) is described and distinguished from the genera Dryopteris and Ctenitis in one or both of which the species hitherto known have been included. Twenty five species are recognized, almost all in mainland S. E. Asia, and a new hybrid Dryopsis x fauriei from Taiwan. Dryopsis is regarded as more nearly related to Dryopteris than to Ctenitis.
10.2307/4109771|The three species of Holcolemma are keyed out; H. inaequale is described as new.
10.2307/4103154|During the preparation of an account of Rutaceae for the forthcoming 'Flore des Mascareignes' the following new taxa were noted: Euodia irifica Goode; E. borbonica (Bory) Engler var. acuminata Coode; E. obtusifolia DC. subsp. gigas Vaughan ex Coode; subsp. gigas var. brachypoda Coode, subsp. gigas var. cuneifolia Coode, subsp. obtusifolia var. arborea Coode, and subsp. obtusifolia var. inaequalis Coode; E. chapelieri Baill. var. sessilis Coode.
10.2307/4110707|Two new species of Orchidaceae, Bulbophyllum vutimenaense B. Lewis and Gunnarella nambana B. Lewis from Vanuatu are described here for the first time. Phaius daenikeri Kraenzl. and Hetaeria whitmeei Reichb. f. are recorded for the first time from Vanuatu and the correct identity of Liparis orbiculata L. O. Williams is established and the species redescribed.
10.2307/4109707|The new combination Psilanthus subgen. Afrocoffea is made and Psilanthus lebrunianus validated; tables indicating (1) the status of Paracoffea at different dates, (2) the present nomenclatural status of specific epithets in Psilanthus, (3) and of taxa formerly associated with Psilanthus and (4) differences between Coffea subgen. Coffea, subgen. Baracoffea, Psilanthus subgen. Psilanthus and subgen. Afrocoffea, are given, but no taxonomic judgements are made.
20649633|The Brazilian genus Cenostigma Tul. (Leguminosae  Caesalpinioideae) is revised and now comprises two species: C. macrophyllum Tul. and C. tocantinum Ducke.
10.2307/4117940|A revision of the genus Stachys in Ethiopia and Somalia is presented. A total of 10 species with 3 subspecies is recognized. Three species and 2 subspecies are described as new: S. argillicola Sebsebe, S. balensis Sebsebe, S. jijigaensis Sebsebe, S. argillicola subsp. barbisina Sebsebe and S. alpigena subsp. longipetala Sebsebe.
10.2307/4111171| A new species, Chaptalia chapadensis, from the Morro do Pai Incio, Mun. Palmeiras, in the Chapada Diamantina, Bahia State, Brazil, is described, and illustrated. A key to the four species of the genus now known from Bahia State is provided. Three names referable to Chaptalia are lectotypified and additional notes on three names are presented. 
10.2307/4111212|The new species Vernonia luhomeroensis from Tanzania is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115855|During the preparation of an account of the genus Sida L. for the Flora of Tropical East Africa the perennial problem of how to treat the complex variation shown by Sida rhombifolia L. had to be dealt with. I have for this purpose recognised six varieties but have little doubt that more sophisticated studies throughout the entire range of the species will necessitate recognition of more than one species.
10.2307/4110133|A new combination, Thladiantha grosvenorii (Swingle) C. Jeffrey, is made for the Chinese 'lo han kuo'.
10.2307/4115682|Miscellaneous floristic and taxonomic notes. The following new species are described from Lord Howe Island: Coprosma huttoniana P.S. Green (Rubiaceae), Lepidium nesophilum Hewson (Cruciferae) and Metrosideros sclerocarpa Dawson (Myrtaceae); Rapanea ralstoniae P.S. Green (Myrsinaceae) from Norfolk Island is validated. The following comb. and stat. nov. are established: Atractocarpus stipularis (Rubiaceae), Clematis dubia (Ranunculaceae), Diplocyclos palmatus subsp. affinis (Cucurbitaceae), Drypetes deplanchei subsp. affinis (Euphorbiaceae), Lagunaria patersonia subsp. bracteata (Malvaceae) with lectotypification, Melicope littoralis and M. polybotrya (Rutaceae), Pandorea pandorana subsp. austrocaledonica (Bignoniaceae), Parsonsia straminea var. glabrata with lectotypification, Pouteria myrsinoides subsp. reticulata (Sapotaceae) with lectotypification and Elatostema grande (Urticaceae). Rottboellia coelorachis (Gramineae) is recorded from Lord Howe Island and doubt cast on the occurrence of Clematis glycinoides (Ranunculaceae), Pandorea pandorana (Bignoniaceae) and Pimelea spp. (Thymelaeaceae) on Norfolk Island.
10.2307/4117593|Morphological characters of the culm, sheathing organs, branching, flowering branch and fruit of Dinochloa are discussed and their value in recognizing the genus is indicated. The description is based on 7 species occurring in Sabah (Borneo), 6 of them new: D. obclavata, D. sipitangensis, D. prunifera, D. trichogona, D. sublaevigata and D. scabrida. Relationships with other genera are discussed. A key to the species in Sabah is provided and illustrated description of each species given.
10.2307/4114363|New taxa in the Euphorbiaceae of East Africa are described, a new combination, a new synonym and new records are established. These include Croton dictyophlebodes, C. talaeporos and Savia fadenii, the last constituting a new record for Africa and a new section, Savia sect. Afrosavia.
10.2307/4118744|An account of the 15 species of Dicliptera that occur in southern Africa is provided. Generic and specific limits, morphology, micromorphology of seeds, flowering times and distributions are presented and discussed. In this account, three new species (D. magaliesbergensis K.Balkwill, D. leistneri K.Balkwill and D. hirta K.Balkwill) are described, one specific name (D. spinulosa Hochst. ex K.Balkwill) is validated and a new subspecies (D. minor C.B.Clarke ssp. pratis-manna K.Balkwill) is recognised. In addition, it is found that D. extenta S.Moore is the correct name for material previously referred to D. zeylanica Nees.
10.2307/4110366|Turraea kimbozensis, a new species apparently restricted to the Kimboza Forest of eastern Tanzania is described. Its affinities are discussed and a key is given to similar species in equatorial Africa.
10.2307/4109912|In the course of revisional work on Continental African Bulbophyllum (Orchidaceae) two new species have been discovered.
10.2307/4110183|Calamus nielsenii, from the G. Mulu National Park, Sarawak, is described as new.
10.2307/4111000|A new species of Xylaria (Xylariaceae, Ascomycota) from western Cameroon is described on teleomorphic and cultural characters.
10.2307/4102999| A hybrid population involving Hyptis cruciformis Epl. and H. pachyphylla Epl. was discovered in the Chapada dos Veadeiros, Gois, Brazil. A hybrid index, using eleven characters was constructed, and by this means the structure of the population investigated. Pollination studies indicate the importance of feral hive bees (Apis mellifera adansonii Latreille) in the formation of the hybrid, and the wider implications of this are discussed. 
10.2307/4110985| A new genus of coelomycetes, Pseudocytoplacosphaeria, typified by P. coniicola sp. nov., is proposed, and the new species Ascochyta ulicis-caledoniensis, Phomopsis agrostidis, Phomopsis airae and Septocyta visci-britannica are described. In addition, the new combinations Phomopsis barbari (Cooke) Punith. and Septocyta visci (Bres.) Punith. & Spooner are proposed, and the following species are reported as new records for the UK: Ascochyta ligustri Sacc. & Speg., on Ligustrum, Ascochyta nigripycnidiicola Ondej on Vicia cracca, Marssonina mali (Henn.) S. Ito on Malus sylvestris, Monochaetia cryptomeriae M. Wilson & Ford-Rob, on Taxus, Myxothyrium leptideum (Fr.) Bubk & Kabt on Vaccinium, Septoria inconspicua Berk. & M. A. Curtis on Plantago, Sphaceloma populi (Sacc.) Jenkins on Populus and Salix, and Stagonospora bellunensis (Speg.) Jrst. on Molinia. 
23216737|Descriptions, illustrations, a distribution map and conservation assessments are provided for three new species of Syzygium from Indochina. Based on morphological characters, all three new species, Syzygium bokorense W. K. Soh & J. Parn., S. chantaranothaianum W. K. Soh &J. Parn. and S. cucphuongense W. K. Soh & J. Parn., belong to the subgenus Syzygium.
10.2307/4114616|Grewia hirsuta (Korth.) Kochummen is shown to be a later homonym. There are two correct names possible for the taxon, depending on how Grewia is demarcated. If the genus is treated in the broad sense as is current, then Grewia omphacarpa Miq. is correct. If Microcos is segregated from Grewia, as evidence suggests, then Microcos hirsuta (Korth.) Burret is correct.
10.2307/4113887|A new species of Sida (S. fryxellii) has been discovered and is described from India.
4110936|A new species of compound-leafed yam, Dioscorea bosseri Haigh & Wilkin is described and illustrated. It differs from D. bemarivensis Jum. & H. Perrier through having trifoliolate leaves on all stems. D. bemarivensis is always pentafoliolate, at least at the stem base. In addition, male flowers of D. bosseri are usually solitary and the anterior leaflet has three main veins, while in D. bemarivensis there are usually at least some flowers arranged in cymules on male inflorescences and the anterior leaflet usually has a single main vein. Petiole and petiolule lengths and tepal dimensions also differ between the two species, and while their ranges overlap, Rests show that their means are significantly different. A distribution map and conservation assessment are provided; the former suggests that these two closely related species may have been a product of sympatric speciation. In common with several other apparently unrelated species of Dioscorea from Madagascar (and D. bemarivensis), D. bosseri has unusual flattened, deltoid, translucent hairs on its leaves.
10.2307/4119382|Additional descriptive data are provided on Armillanella praecox, comb. nov.
10.2307/4114449|An isotype of Myrtella hirsutula F. Muell. proves to be of a species of Kania distinct from those already referred to this genus. Backhousia arfakensis Gibbs (later transferred to Metrosideros by Diels and given the new name M. gibbsiae) is considered to be synonymous.
20443401|Typifications of 11 species names are presented as a result of work on a taxonomic revision of the genus Prescottia Lindl.
10.2307/4117588|Two varieties are recognized in Brillantaisia pubescens, one having flowers approximately three times as big as the other. No correlation can be found with other characters, nor any geographical separation. The larger-flowered variety is described as var. riparia. Some discussion is given of possible causes of the floral dimorphism. The recent transfer of B. pubescens to Hygrophila is considered unjustified after study of pollen characters.
10.2307/4114517|A new species, Gloriosa sessiliflora, is described from Zambia, differing from G. superba in its sessile flowers, connivent tepals and only slightly bent style. The new species links the genera Gloriosa and Littonia, and the latter should probably be reduced. More information on fruit and seed is, however, needed before this decision can be taken formally.
20649689|Examination of the type from Burma of Guatteria costata in the East India Company herbarium at Kew shows that it belongs in Trivalvaria and provides an earlier name for T. dubia (Kurz) J. Sinclair. A new combination is proposed. A further synonym, Polyalthia montana Ridl., is lectotypified.
10.2307/4117787|A new species, Capparis kollimalayana is described from the Kolli Hills Medicinal Plants Conservation Area of Salem District, Tamil Nadu, India.
10.2307/4110957|Taeniophyllum coxii, a new record for the island of Mauritius, Indian Ocean is reported, and its habitat and ecology discussed. The discovery fills a gap in our knowledge of which floral elements of the genus occur in the western Indian Ocean.
10.2307/4103029|A new species, Saxifraga harry-smithii, is described from the Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan.
10.2307/4117823|Three taxa of Asystasia, the naming of which has been confused, occur in Peninsular Malaysia. None is native. A. nemorum Nees (syn. A. intrusa Blume, non (Forssk.) Nees) from Java has only been collected from Penang and Singapore. A. gangetica (L.) T. Anderson is widespread and is represented by two subspecies: a large-flowered taxon, subsp. gangetica (syn. A. coromandeliana Nees) which is a long-established introduction from India and a small-flowered taxon, subsp. micrantha (Nees) Ensermu (syn. A. intrusa (Forssk.) Nees) which is a recent introduction, probably from Africa. A key to the three taxa in Malaysia is provided.
10.2307/4114724|Jumellea usambarensis from Tanzania and Malawi is described, in preparation for the account of the genus in the Flora of Tropical East Africa. A key is provided for the two African species of the genus.
10.2307/4119789|From Pakistan two new species of Oxytropis and a new variety are described and three new combinations made at specific rank.
10.2307/4110569|The genus Canthium subgen. Canthium is discussed and recognized as occurring in tropical Africa; three additional tropical African subgenera are recognized: subgen. Bullockia (Bridson 1987), subgen. Afrocanthium and subgen. Lycioserissa (both Bridson 1991), the latter two being revised here. A key is provided to include the genera previously segregated from Canthium (Bridson 1985, 1986, 1987, 1987a) and the tropical African subgenera of Canthium. One new combination at subspecific rank is made, and one new variety described in subgen. Canthium, 3 new species and 1 new subspecies described in subgen. Afrocanthium, and 1 new subspecies described in subgen. Lycioserissa; one new name is provided for a species unplaced subgenerically. Keys are included for the species of subgen. Afrocanthium and subgen. Lycioserissa. Distributions are given and citations included for new taxa. A complete list of all African epithets in Canthium and Plectronia with their current position is appended (Appendix 2).
10.2307/4110437|Two new species of Ceropegia, C. barbigera from Ethiopia and Somalia and C. poluniniana from the Himalaya of western Nepal are described and illustrated. Relationships with other species are discussed.
10.2307/4119421|A new collection of Peziza apiculata Cooke in central Europe is reported from Czechoslovakia. As the variation of this very rare species is not fully known there follows a detailed account of the material examined which represents the first collection in Czechoslovakia.
20443304|Dovyalis spinosissima Gilg is reassessed and found to comprise three vegetatively distinct, allopatric, submontane species, for which a key, synoptic accounts and conservation assessments are presented. Dovyalis spinosissima sensu stricto is redefined as being restricted to the area between Malawi and north-central Tanzania; D. macrocarpa Bamps is resurrected for the taxon in the Albertine Rift (E of the Congo basin); D. cameroonensis is described for the first time from western Cameroon and SE Nigeria.
10.2307/4110048|The following new taxa are described from collections made by the authors in the Imatong Mountains, South Sudan, in 1980: Oreacanthus sudanicus (Acanthaceae); Bidens natator (Compositae) ; Euphorbia depauperata A. Rich. var. laevicarpa (Euphorbiaceae); Lobelia dissecta M. B. Moss subsp. humidulorum (Lobeliaceae); Dorstenia annua (Moraceae); and Panicum bambusiculme (Gramineae). The latter represent the first record of Panicum sect. Pseudolasciasis A. Camus on the African mainland.
10.2307/4110840|Recent biodiversity surveys in the Cayman Islands have generated several new records for the flora. All species with their vouchers are listed here.
10.2307/4117066|Evidence from field and laboratory studies, with particular reference to leaf development and corolla venation, is presented to show the magnitude of 'intraspecific' and the slight nature of 'interspecific' differences in Senecio L. subgen. Dendrosenecio Hauman ex Hedb. A new classification is made to accommodate this evidence. Support for Humbert's (1935) contention of the parallel evolution of high altitude variants from forest forms is found. Variation patterns within the subgenus are used to illustrate White's (1971) 'unwarranted (taxonomic) assumptions and speculations'. An hypothesis on the relationships of Dendrosenecio to other Senecio spp. is made.
10.2307/4102869|Coryneliospora rapaneicola on Rapanea from New Guinea is described as new.
10.2307/4110410|Philodendron subgenus Meconostigma is defined and described taxonomically and a revision of the 15 recognized species is presented; two new species, P. dardanianum and P. uliginosum, are described. P. selloum is reduced to the synonymy of P. bipinnatifidum. Keys to the three subgenera of Philodendron and to the species of subgen. Meconostigma are presented. Brief reviews are given of vegetative and inflorescence morphology and anatomy, floral biology, geography, ecology and the fossil record.
23489029|The inclusion of Isodictyophorus Briq. in Plectranthus L'Hr. is completed with the transfer of I. reticulatus (A. Chev.) J. K. Morton, for which a new combination, Plectranthus reticulatus B. J. Pollard, is made. Two IUCN conservation assessments are provided for P. reticulatus and P. defoliatus.
10.2307/4117841| Variation within the Eriocaulon transvaalicum N. E. Br. complex is discussed, and 4 new subspecies described: subsp. transvaalicum, subsp. dembianense (Chiov.) S. M. Phillips, subsp. tofieldifolium (Schinz) S. M. Phillips and subsp. hanningtonii (N. E. Br.) S. M. Phillips. The taxonomic position of E. infaustum N. E. Br. is discussed; it is closest to E. trilobum Krn. and E. heterolepis Steud. from India. The new species E. angustifolium and E. mbalensis from Zambia, E. selousii from Tanzania and Malawi, E. aethiopicum from Ethiopia, E. wildii from Zimbabwe and E. modicum from Tanzania are described. Photographs of the seeds, as seen under the scanning electron microscope, are provided for most taxa. 
10.2307/4108544|This genus, which was re-defined by the present author in 1951, is here enlarged to include Arcypteris Underwood, and a new key is provided to all known species, with a statement on synonymy for each and comments on some of them. Two new species from Malesia, P. intermedia and P. megaphylla, are described.
10.2307/4102936|A new genus and species of Orchidaceae from Zimbabwe, Oligophyton drummondii, is described, and its position in the Habenariinae and Platantheriinae is discussed. Scanning electron micrographs of the pollen and column are provided.
10.2307/4103124|Heliconia triumphans Linden ex Rodigas, a horticultural species originally described from Sumatra, is actually a member of the Marantaceae and is synonymous with Phrynium villosulum Miquel, also from Sumatra. Phrynium basiflorium Ridley of Malaya shares the distinctive growth habit, leaf pattern, and the unusual basal inflorescence with P. villosulum and is also synonymous. Evidence is presented suggesting that the horticultural species P. houtteanum Koch is also synonymous with P. villosulum. Amplified floral descriptions are given for P. tristachyum Ridley and Donax parviflorum Ridley. Extrafloral nectaries and possibly autogamy are reported in D. parviflorum for the first time.
10.2307/4109855|9 genera, comprising the tribe Stipeae, are surveyed and a collective description of their leaf-blade anatomy is provided.
10.2307/4117698|A new species of Barnadesia, B. woodii (Compositae: Barnadesieae), is described and illustrated from Saavedra in La Paz State, Bolivia. The new species is compared with other species in subgen. Penthea sect. Penthea. A key to the eight Bolivian species recognized is provided.
20443396|A new species of Philodendron, P. millerianum, is described from Atlantic Forest in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil. The species is illustrated and further comments are made.
10.2307/4110607|A new species of Erythrococca is described from Kenya, partially but not formally recognized in the Flora of Tropical East Africa. The known range of E. polyandra in Tanzania is extended.
4110900|A latin diagnosis is provided to validate the sectional name Isolepis R. Br. subgen. Isolepis R. Br. sect. Proliferate Muasya.
10.2307/4111152|Distyliopsis lanata N. A. Brummitt & Utteridge (Hamamelidaceae) is described as new from the Wau region of Papua New Guinea. The new species is illustrated and compared with D. dunnii (Hemsl.) P. K. Endress, previously the only species of Distyliopsis known from New Guinea. A key to both species is provided.
10.2307/4119073|The new genus Nesocodon with the single species N. mauritianus (Syn. Wahlenbergia mauritiana) is described from Mauritius.
10.2307/4117118|In Drypetes, 2 new varieties are described, and new records for East and South Africa are reported. Sibangea is re-established as a genus distinct from Drypetes; it has three species, one of which is newly described from Tanzania.
23489233|Six new species of Gomphandra (Stemonuraceae) are described from the Philippines. Gomphandra bracteata is restricted to southern Palawan, G. coi and G. psilandra are from Luzon, G. fernandoi is found in the eastern Visayan region, and G. dinagatensis and G. ultramafiterrestris occur on Dinagat Island. A new subspecies, Gomphandra luzoniensis subsp. septentrionalis, from the northern Philippines and Taiwan, is distinguished. Distribution maps and preliminary conservation statuses are provided for each taxon. A key to the Philippine species of Gomphandra is included.
10.2307/4119064|During the preparation of an account of the Ebenaceae for the 'Flore des Mascareignes' the following new taxa were recognized: Diospyros egrettarum, D. borbonica, D. hemiteles and D. revaughanii. These are described, and because out of the 14 native species recognized, only 4 correspond taxonomically and nomenclaturally with species at present accepted in the standard works covering this area, other notes are included, with a discussion of relevant historical, taxonomic and nomenclatural aspects.
25070243|Two new species, Sauvagesia ribeiroi Harley & Giulietti and S. oliveirae Harley & Giulietti, are described from the Chapada Diamantina and the discovery of S. linearifolia A. St.-Hil., new for Bahia, is recorded. The infra-generic classification of the genus and the significance of the new finds are discussed. A key to the new species, and S. semicylindrifolia Sastre, the species closest to them morphologically, is provided, which is harmonized with the key in a recent paper on the species of Sauvagesia that occur in Minas Gerais and Bahia. An analysis of leaf lamina and petiole anatomy and sepal morphology confirms the distinctness of the three species. The new species are illustrated and their conservation status is summarized. /// Duas novas espcies, Sauvagesia ribeiroi Harley & Giulietti e S. oliveirae Harley & Giulietti, so descritas da Chapada Diamantina, Bahia. Tambm,  apresentada a nova ocorrncia de S. linearifolia A. St.-Hil., para a mesma regio. A classificao infra-genrica do gnero e a importncia da ocorrncia dos txons so discutidos.  apresentada chave para as novas espcies e S. semicylindrifolia Sastre, a espcie mais similar. Esta chave  complementar e est de acordo com o recente trabalho que inclui as espcies de Sauvagesia de Minas Gerais e Bahia. Um estudo morfo-anatmico do pecolo, lmina foliar e spala confirmou a distino das trs espcies. As novas espcies so ilustradas e seu estado de conservao  analisado.
10.2307/4109736|Three species within Hyptis section Cyrta Benth. subsection Tetragonae Benth. are recognised. A fourth species, Hyptis imitans Epling is reduced to synonymy under H. recurvata Poit. A key and descriptions are given.
10.2307/4110361|A new genus of bamboo, Sphaerobambos S. Dransf. (Gramineae-Bambusoideae),is described from Malesia, consisting of three species: S. hirsuta S. Dransf., the type species from Sabah, Borneo, S. subtilis S. Dransf. from North Sulawesi, and S. philippinensis (Gamble) S. Dransf., comb. nov., transferred from Guadua. The genus is related to Dinochloa Blise and Bambusa Schreb.
23489145|A new species, Crinum malabaricum Lekhak & S. R. Yadav, is described from a seasonal stream in Periya village of Kerala state, India. Lectotypification of C. thaianum J. Schulze is also provided.
10.2307/4102959| Acalypha x koransis A. Radcliffe-Smith (A. crenata Hochst. ex A. Rich. x A. indica L.) is described from the Kora Game Reserve, Tana River District, Kenya. 
10.2307/4102875|The pollen morphology of 18 genera and 48 species of the Tribe Triclisieae (Menispermaceae) have been studied. In general the pollen is very small, rather simple with a reticulate tectum. Three main types have been recognized, inaperturate, tricolpate and tricolporate. The inaperturate type has only been found in the genus Tiliacora. The other two types occur more or less equally among the rest of the genera. Shape, length of colpi, size of reticulum and ornamentation of the muri provide pollen characters to further subdivide the tribe. These pollen types and subtypes are related to the genera, subgenera or sections recognized in the tribe and are generally found to support the existing classification. Although found to be of considerable taxonomic significance pollen morphology shows no single linear trend in the systematic relationships of the tribe as a whole.
10.2307/4109944|Craterostigma alatum Hepper and C. longicarpum Hepper are described as new species from East Africa.
10.2307/4117771| The seven binomials in Rudgea based on names of species originally described in the genus Coffea by Ruiz & Pavn are treated. Two of them are found to belong in different genera: Coffea acuminata is combined in Coussarea (C. acuminata (Ruiz & Pav.) Zappi) and Coffea microcarpa is combined in Palicourea (P. microcarpa (Ruiz & Pav.) Zappi. Of the remaining names, three are accepted at specific level (R. ciliata, R. foveolata and R. verticillata), while the other two are placed in synonymy within Rudgea. 
20649553|Three new species of Philibertia (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae), P. alba Goyder, P. urceolata Goyder and P. zongoensis Goyder are described from Bolivia and illustrated. Preliminary conservation assessments are made for these species. New records are reported for two further species.
10.2307/4109661|Jodrellia, a new genus separated from Bulbine, is described together with its recognized species. The important differences between Jodrellia and Bulbine are discussed. In addition to effecting new combinations and emending the existing descriptions, a new species, J. macrocarpa, is described. Illustrations and a key to the species are also presented.
4110938|A new species of yam from Western Madagascar, Dioscorea sterilis O. Weber & Wilkin, is described and illustrated. It differs from D. trichantha Baker mainly in its torus shape (saucer-shaped versus flat and discoid in D. trichantha) and the presence of a sterile flower at the base of each cymule of its male inflorescences. It grows mainly in deciduous forests on limestone. Dioscorea trichantha is lectotypified. The significance of torus shape for the systematics of Dioscorea in Madagascar is discussed.
10.2307/4110923|A new species of the genus Silene L., S. gangotriana Pusalkar, Singh & Lakshmin. from Gangotri National Park, Uttaranchal, India, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110400|Ophrestia breviracemosa from Zambia is described and illustrated. A key to the species of Ophrestia known from Zambia is provided.
10.2307/4110989|Two new species of Vigna L. subgenus Ceratotropis (Piper) Verdc., V. aridicola and V. tenuicaulis are described and illustrated. These two species are endemic to Sri Lanka and mainland Southeast Asia, respectively. Sectional designation and new species combinations are proposed.
10.2307/4111182|A new species of Hirtella from the submontane forest of Ecuador, H. aequatoriensis is described and illustrated.
20649679|Oricia lecomteana Pierre (Rutaceae), a rare and threatened shrub or tree of coastal lowland and lower submontane evergreen forest from Southeast Nigeria to Congo-Brazzaville, is transferred to Vepris A. Juss. as Vepris lecomteana (Pierre) Cheek & T. Heller and its taxonomic, geographic and conservation status is assessed.
10.2307/4109739|The neglected but valid name Centropodia Reichb. predates Asthenatherum Nevski and must therefore replace it. The combinations Centropodia forskalii, C. fragilis, C. glauca and C. mossamedensis are made.
4110941|Aulacocalyx camerooniana is described as a new species from Engon, (S Efoulan) in southern Cameroon. Its diagnostic characteristics are elucidated, notes on its conservation status are given and an updated key to species of Aulacocalyx occurring in Cameroon is provided.
10.2307/4117969|Species of two native Mascarene genera are discussed. 3 subspecies with 6 varieties of Acalypha integrifolia Willd. are recognized, the necessary new taxa described: subsp. panduriformis, var. saltuum, var. crateriana, and new combinations made: subsp. marginata and var. longifolia. In Claoxylon, C. setosum is described as new and, under C. linostachys, a new subsp. pedicellare described and the combination subsp. brachyphyllum made.
10.2307/4117779|Two new species of Sebaea, S. brevicaulis and S. dimidiata are described. Key taxonomic characters are listed to distinguish these new species and a new combination, Sebaea primulaeflora (Welw.) Sileshi is made.
10.2307/4110911|Lepanthes cribbii and L. whittenii, from Costa Rica, are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4113628|Fifty-nine species of corticioid Basidiomycetes are described from Korup National Park, South West Province, Cameroon. The genus Korupella P. Roberts & Hjortstam is described as new, as are the species Botryodontia crassispora P. Roberts, Ceraceomyces oligodontus P. Roberts, Hyphoderma granuliferum P. Roberts, Korupella denticulata P. Roberts & Hjortstam, Melzerodontia udamentiens P. Roberts, Phanerochaete percitrina P. Roberts &; Hjortstam, Phlebia epithelioides P. Roberts, and P. icterina P. Roberts. New species of Cerocorticium, Phlebia, Phlebiella, Phlebiopsis, Tomentella, and Trechispora are described, but not formally named. The new combination Candelabrochaete mexicana is proposed.
10.2307/4111078|The genus Aglaia (Meliaceae) is well represented in Borneo, with 60 species now recognised for the island. Twelve of these are endemic, of which three are described in this paper. Most of the remainder are also found in Peninsular Malaysia and Sumatra. Pannell's monographic revision of Aglaia was confined to treatment at the species level; no subspecies were recognised. For a regional flora, however, it is desirable to describe infraspecific variation in more detail. Seven subspecies for Borneo are recognised here, two of which require new names. All but one of these subspecies are included in the account of Aglaia submitted to the editors of the 'Tree Flora of Sabah and Sarawak'.
10.2307/4117916|Some corrections are made, in the light of further study, to the checklist of Indian Cucurbitaceae (Jeffrey 1980), especially in the genus Trichosanthes L. Neoluffa Chakr. is placed into the synonymy of Siraitia Merr. and new combinations in Siraitia and Hemsleya Cogn. ex Forbes & Hemsl. are made.
10.2307/4115859|Ovule structure and development are described for twelve species of Bromeliaceae, representing ten genera and all three subfamilies, including all three tribes of the polyphyletic subfamily Pitcairnioideae (Brocchinieae, Puyeae and Pitcairnieae). The characteristic micropylar and chalazal seed appendages of Bromeliaceae are compared with developing structures in the ovules. Chalazal seed appendages have also been reported in the putatively related family Rapateaceae, but they differ in detailed structure, and may have evolved independently in the two families.
10.2307/4110466|The new combination Gomidesia cordiifolia (DC.) Nic Lughadha is made to replace the superfluous name G. linkiana O. Berg. The name Myrcia cordiifolia DC. is lectotypified and discussed in relation to Myrcia cordifolia O. Berg.
20443323|Three species of Palisota occur in Tropical East Africa. The endemic P. orientalis K. Schum. is distinguished from the common central African P. ambigua (P. Beauv.) C. B. Clarke and a full synonymy is provided for the latter. Typification of the other two East African species, P. mannii C. B. Clarke and P. schweinfurthii C. B. Clarke, is discussed and the latter is lectotypified. The plants of P. mannii in East Africa are found to differ from the type, and a new combination, P. mannii subsp. megalophylla (Mildbr.) Faden is made. P. schweinfurthii is found to be variable in pubescence within East Africa but that variation is not considered taxonomically significant. A key to the East African species is provided.
10.2307/4118760|Ziziphus robertsoniana is described from the coast of Kenya. It is known from only three localities.
10.2307/4109177| Christella Lv. emend. Holttum sect. Christella is described and discussed, with a key to all known species, synonymy and description for each. New species described are: C. adenopelta, C. kumaunica, C. minima, C. nana, C. pacifica, C. subdentata, & C. timorensis, also the new variety C. harveyi (Mett.) Holttum var. connivens. 21 new combinations are made. The following doubtful names may possibly apply to species of this genus: Polystichum consanguineum Gaud., Nephrodium dicarpum Fe, N. griffithianum Fe, & Aspidium natalense Fe. Cyclosorus jerdonii Ching, included in a list of species of Christella in 1971, is here excluded. 
10.2307/4110484| A synopsis and key to the seventeen species in Indigofera section Indigofera from the Flora Zambesiaca region is presented, prior to a treatment of the genus for the Flora. A diagnosis of Section Indigofera, as delimited in Africa, is given; one new species, I. pseudomoniliformis Schrire, as well as two new varieties, I. subcorymbosa Baker var. grandis Schrire and I. emarginella Steud. ex A. Rich. var. marrupansis Schrire are described; I. homblei var. longiflora J. B. Gillett is raised to species level as I. longistaminata and is fully described, and the name I. nambalensis Harms is reinstated for an infraspecific taxon previously placed in I. rhynchocarpa Welw. ex Baker. 
23044682|Ipomoea L. is the most speciose genus of the Convolvulaceae, comprising c. 140 species in Brazil. Three new species are described and illustrated from Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina states: Ipomoea pampeana P. P. A. Ferreira & Miotto, I. riograndensis P. P. A. Ferreira & Miotto and I. sulina P. P. A. Ferreira & Miotto. Ipomoea L.  o gnero com maior riqueza especfica pertencente  Convolvulaceae, representado no Brasil por aproximadamente 140 txons. Foram reconhecidas trs novas espcies para os estados do Rio Grande do Sul e de Santa Catarina: Ipomoea pampeana P. P. A. Ferreira & Miotto, I. riograndensis P. P. A. Ferreira & Miotto e I. sulina P. P. A. Ferreira & Miotto.
10.2307/4118067|The African genus Anisopus (Asclepiadaceae) is revised. Two species, A. mannii N.E. Br. and A. efulensis (N.E. Br.) Goyder comb. nov., are recognized and illustrated. Marsdenia rhynchogyna K. Schum., a synonym of A. mannii, is lectotypified.
10.2307/4115667|Schizostachyum khoonmengii, a new species of bamboo found in Brunei Darussalam, is described, illustrated, and compared with S. brachycladum Kurz.
20443415|Two new species of Faramea are described for the Atlantic Forest of Bahia, Brazil. Their morphology, phenology, habitat and conservation status are discussed. /// Duas novas espcies de Faramea so descritas para a Floresta Atlntica da Bahia, Brasil, e discusses quanto a suas caractersticas morflogicas, fenologia, hbitat e estado de conservao so includas.
23489234|Three new species of Impatiens from West Sumatra, Indonesia, are proposed: Impatiens ekapaksiana, I. tribuana and I. wirabraja. A description, illustration and IUCN conservation status is provided for each species.
10.2307/4109590|The generic taxonomy of the tribes Melothrieae and Sicyoeae is clarified. The generic status of Doyerea and the generic distinctness of Gurania and Psiguria are confirmed. Dieudonnaea is included in Gurania, Frantzia, Polakowskia and Ahzolia in Sechium and Anomalosicyos, Sicyocaulis and Skottsbergiliana in Sicyos. Sechium is divided into Sect. Sechium and the new Sect. Frantzia. Nineteen new combinations, ten new species and one new name are proposed. Lists of accepted taxa studied, and of determinations of numbered exsiccata studied, arranged under countries and collectors, are given.
10.2307/4111151|A new species of Tylophora, T. arachnoidea, is described from central Somalia. An illustration is provided and the possible affinities of the species are discussed.
23489187|Six new species of Brassicaceae (Brayopsis chacasensis Al-Shehbaz & A. Cano, Descurainia canoensis Al-Shehbaz, Draba canoensis Al-Shehbaz, Trinidad, Ed. Navarro & D. Rodr.-Paredes, D. punoensis Al-Shehbaz, Ed. Navarro, Trinidad & A. Cano, Neuontobotrys camanaensis Al-Shehbaz & A. Cano, and Weberbauera ayacuchoensis Al-Shehbaz, A. Cano & Trindad) are described and illustrated, and their distinguishing characters from nearest relatives are discussed. Brief notes on the diversity of these five genera in South America, especially Peru, are discussed.
10.2307/4108474|In the present paper 13 new species of Commiphora and one new species of Boswellia are described. In Commiphora two new sections are described and several sectional names are validated. The identities of Boswellia bricchettii and Commiphora reghinii are discussed.
27822021|A new species of Trichodesma (Boraginaceae) is described from the southern region of Oman.
10.2307/4115830|A new Kenyan species, Ceropegia keniensis Masinde (Asclepiadaceae-Stapelieae), probably allied to C. vignaldiana A. Rich., is described and illustrated. It is characterised by its erect habit, fusiform roots, sessile, very narrowly elliptic-linear leaves, sessile inflorescences, and greenish-purple flowers. Notes on C. vignaldiana and allied taxa are given.
10.2307/4109696|The combinations Baptorhachis foliacea, Brachiaria paucispicata, Cleistochloa rigida, Holcolemma dispar, Panicum pilgerianum, Poecilostachys oplismenoides and Yakirra foliolosa are made.
10.2307/4114611|A new species, Ipomoea temascaltepecensis, is described from Mexico State, Mexico. It is closely related to I. ampullacea Fernald, with which it shares a woody, climbing habit, trilocular ovaries, tough, ovate, subherbaceous sepal bases, foliaceous bracts and an externally pubescent corolla. The new species is distinguished by shorter (15-28 mm long) sepals, an infundibular purple corolla, and shorter, included, heteromorphic stamens. The probable sister-taxon status of the new species to the moth-pollinated I. ampullacea is discussed in terms of the morphological differences between them, including pollen grain morphology. The role of pollination biology in speciation in Ipomoea is also considered.
10.2307/4114440|The typification of Crossandra nilotica is clarified. A new system is proposed for subdividing the African forms of C. infundibuliformis, resulting in two new subspecies being described. Four new species are described: three from Somalia and one from Malawi and Mozambique.
10.2307/4108141|Listera mucronata, a new species from China, Japan, India and Nepal, is described.
10.2307/4117909|Centemopsis sordida sp. nov. is described from northern Kenya.
10.2307/4119441|During studies of Stylosanthes specimens at Kew, the need to describe a new species, Stylosanthes salina Sousa Costa & Van den Berg, has arisen. The species is described and illustrated and information on DNA-ITS data are given. S. salina is endemic to the salty lakes of Laguna Salina del Cuajo, Laguna San Valentin and Laguna Mitla in the Mexican State of Guerrero.
10.2307/4119410|Thick walled hyphae of polypores react in cresyi blue with a wide variety of colours, not only according to the species involved, but also according to the provenance of the dye used. In most cases, the resulting colours are constant for a particular species although there are slight individual variations. In some of the genera investigated all or nearly all species reacted similarly, whilst in others rather wide differences in the manner of reaction occurred. These differences, taken with other characters, may indicate that taxonomical relationships inside a particular genus (e.g. Amyloporia, Piptoporus) are not as close as at present considered.
10.2307/4117586|Eleusine compressa is excluded from the genus on the basis of morphology, leafflavonoids and geographic distribution. The species is synonymous with O. dactyloides Edgew. of the forgotten genus Ochthochloa. A new combination, O. compressa, is made.
10.2307/4102983|Ossiculum, a monotypic genus of orchid from Cameroun, is described and its affinities in the tribe Vandeae discussed.
10.2307/4119068|New taxa of Ozoroa, Lannea, Rhus, Pistacia, Sclerocarya and Trichoscypha, recognized during the preparation of an account of the Anacardiaceae for the Flora of Tropical East Africa, are described and new combinations made. Addenda and corrigenda to Cufodontis' Enumeratio Plantarum Aethiopiae Spermatophyta and to the flora of Socotra are published in so far as they will not appear in Flora of Tropical East Africa. Unless otherwise indicated, specimens cited have been seen and are at Kew.
10.2307/4110861|Radiation of sporangiospore form in Kickxellnceap has resulted in aciculate (Coemansia, Martensella), acuminate (Dipsacomyces), fusiform (Kickxella), alate (Linderina, Martensiomyces), and ovoid (Spirodactylon, Spiromyces) sporangiospores, usually with distinctive spinose surface ornamentation. Sporangiospores of Spirodactylon and Spiromyces are dry at maturity whilst those of the other genera are enveloped in fluid. Sporangiophore radiation involves variations in arrangement and structure of the mesosporangial apparatus. Comparison of the morphology of the merosporangial apparatus in Kickxellaceae and Harpellales may indicate that these zygomycetous fungi are phylogenetically close.
10.2307/4110907|In many cases phylogenetic studies based on molecular data have led to changes in the classification of the Asclepiadoideae, but in others they have corroborated relationships previously inferred from morphological data. This study combines results of molecular analysis and morphology to provide a new subtribal classification for the New World genera Gonioanthela, Jobinia, Macroditassa, Peplonia and Orthosia. Our data allow us to propose the inclusion of Gonioanthela in the formerly monotypic Peplonia. This inclusion leads to five new combinations, P. axillaris, P. bradeana, P. hatschbachii, P. organensis and P. riedelii. A key to the species of the newly circumscribed Peplonia, description of the genus and its six species, as well as comments on distribution and habitat, are provided.
10.2307/4102956|Solanum virginianum L. is lectotypified with a Dillenius plate and the name replaces S. surattense Burm.f. and S. xanthocarpum Schrad. & Wendl., which are placed in synonymy. Secondly, S. linnaeanum Hepper & Jaeger is proposed as a new name for S. sodomeum auctt./S. hermannii for the reasons explained.
23489237|Since molecular analyses have demonstrated that Sarcostemma R. Br. is deeply nested in the predominantly Madagascan stem-succulent clade of Cynanchum L., the genus has been treated as a synonym of Cynanchum. Some of the former Sarcostemma species have been transferred to Cynanchum in the course of various Flora treatments, and some new species belonging to this radiation have been described under Cynanchum. The present contribution serves to complete the formal transfer of Sarcostemma taxa to Cynanchum, in which a total of nine species are concerned: Cynanchum arabicum, C. areysianum, C. brevipedicellatum, C. daltonii, C. forskaolianum, C. mulanjense, C. pearsonianum (a substitute name for Cynanchum pearsonii), C. sarcomedium (a substitute name for C. intermedium), and C. socotranum. In addition, six subspecies of Cynanchum viminale are newly combined: C. viminale subsp. australe, C. viminale subsp. brunonianum, C. viminale subsp. orangeanum, C. viminale subsp. stocksii, C. viminale subsp. thunbergii and C. viminale subsp. welwitschii. Finally, notes on recent introductions from southern Yemen are made, and illustrations of Cynanchum areysianum are provided.
23216399|The newly discovered, endemic Thai species Cissus amplexicaulis Trias-Blasi & J. Parn. is validly published. A latin diagnosis, a full description and an illustration are provided.
10.2307/4110037|Cyathea decurrens (Hook.) Copel. and related species are unique in the Old World in having stipe-scales like those of the New World species to which R. M. Tryon has restricted the genus Cyathea; they agree also in other characters with the American group of C. multiflora Sm. and it is concluded that they belong to the latter group. A key to the species of the group of C. decurrens is provided, with new information about distribution. C. croftii is described as a new species from Manus Island, and C. decurrens subsp. epaleata Holttum is raised to specific rank. Attention is called to the comparable distribution of the genus Heliconia (Zingiberales).
4110935| The genus Stachytarpheta Vahl is reviewed as it occurs in Brazil. A total of 79 species is recognised, five of these with subspecies or varieties. Sixteen species and nine subspecies or varieties are described as new; five new combinations are made. The morphology is described, and characters used in a cladistic analysis are discussed. An infrageneric system dividing the genus into 12 informal groups is also proposed. Illustrations and keys are provided. /// O gnero Stachytarpheta Vahl foi revisado para o Brasil e est representado por 79 espcies, incluindo txons infra-especficos (sub-espcies e variedades). Das 79 espcies reconhecidas para o gnero, 16 so inditas, as quais so aqui descritas, e cinco novas combinaes so propostas. O trabalho apresenta descrio morfologica e discusso dos caracters utilizados para a anlise cladistica. Tambm est sendo proposto um sistema de classificao infra-genrico, dividindo o gnero em 12 grupos informais. Illustraes e chaves dicotmicas tambm so fornecidas. 
10.2307/4119015|A New Species of Onopordum L., O. arenarium is Described from Iraq.
10.2307/4109864|Arisaema muricaudatum, a new species of Araceae from South India is described.
10.2307/4120633|Several new combinations and new synonomies are made affecting the following genera of Labiatae: Keiskea, Collinsonia, Chingyungia, Perrierastrum, Plectranthus, Nepeta and Pitardia. In addition, subtribe Hanceolinae (tribe Ocimeae) is recognized. This includes Isodon, Hanceola and Siphocranion.
10.2307/4111210|A new species of Suregada (Euphorbiaceae) from eastern Madagascar is described and illustrated. An amended key to the 15 species in Madagascar and the Comoro Islands is presented.
10.2307/4119336| Geopora sepulta is recognised as a British species based on a recent collection from Kent. This species is characterised by large, subterranean apothecia up to 45 mm diam. and large broadly ellipsoid spores (22.0 -)24.0 - 27.5(- 30.0) x 15.0 - 18.0(- 19.0) m. The main characters taken from an isotype specimen and British material of G. sepulta are compared with those of the isotype of G. arenicola. A key to distinguish the six known British species of Geopora is also provided. 
10.2307/4110839|Bulbostylis edwalliana is validly published.
10.2307/4110377|8 species of Panicum from southern tropical Africa are described for the first time.
23216395|Campomanesia cavalcantina Soares-Silva & Proena and Psidium ratterianum Proena & Soares-Silva (Myrtaceae), two new species from the Brazilian highlands are described and illustrated. Campomanesia cavalcantina is similar to Campomanesia eugenioides (Cambess.) D. Legrand var. eugenioides, but differs from this species in being an hemixyle, by the narrow to broadly elliptic-falcate leaves 1.7  4.6 times as long as wide with 8  15 lateral veins, by the less densely glandular leaves and flowers, and by the lanceolate, c. 7 mm long bracteoles which are persistent to young fruit stage. Psidium ratterianum appears to be most closely allied to P. australe Cambess. Both species share the hemixyle habit, similar leaf shape, leaf ratio and floral morphology. P. ratterianum differs from that species by its narrow, ascendant, strongly bullate leaves, bracteoles which are persistent in the fruit, expanded, funnel-shaped stigma and smaller, elliptic fruits. Anatomically, Psidium ratterianum differs from other species of Psidium, and from other new-world Myrtaceae (Tribe Myrteae), in that the leaves are amphistomatic, a character known to occur in the Australian genus Leptospermum. Campomanesia cavalcantina Soares-Silva & Proena e Psidium ratterianum Proena & Soares-Silva (Myrtaceae), duas novas espcies do planalto central so descritas. Campomanesia cavalcantina  similar a Campomanesia eugenioides var. eugenioides (Cambess.) D. Legrand. Difere daquela espcie por ser um subarbusto recurrente com folhas estreito a largo elptico-falcadas, 1,7  4,6 vezes mais longas do que largas, pelos 8  15 pares de nervuras secundrias, folhas e flores no fortemente glandulares e bractolas laminares, estreito-elpticas com c. 7 mm comp. que persistem at a frutificao. Psidium ratterianum parece ser aparentada a P. australe Cambess. Ambas compartilham hbito subarbustivo xilopodfero, formato de folha, razo foliar e morfologia floral. P. ratterianum difere daquela espcie pelas suas folhas ascendentes, fortemente buladas, bractolas persistentes nos frutos, estigma expandido, infundibuliforme e frutos menores, elpticos. Anatomicamente, Psidium ratterianum difere das espcies previamente estudadas de Psidium, e das outras espcies de Myrtaceae do Novo Mundo (Tribo Myrteae) pelas folhas anfiestomticas, carter conhecido apenas no gnero australiano Leptospermum.
10.2307/4103028|Pimpinella woodii sp. nov. is described from North Yemen.
10.2307/4113633|Chassalia laikomensis is described as a new species from the Bamenda Highlands of western Cameroon. Its diagnostic characteristics are elucidated in relation to other taxa of the genus with which it has been confused. Notes on its conservation status and on its main stronghold, Mount Oku and the Ijim ridge, are provided. A new combination is made for a lowland species, Chassalia pteropetala, from Mount Cameroon.
10.2307/4117108|A number of new species and a few new varieties and combinations, completed descriptions and extensions of range are published for several Malesian genera of Euphorbiaceae: see Contents below. New taxa are also included from the Bismarcks, Solomons, Santa Cruz Islands, New Hebrides and New Caledonia.
10.2307/4109941|A new species of Vitaceae from Peninsular India viz. Tetrastigma gamblei, discovered during investigation of the nomenclature and identity of Tetrastigma canarense Gamble, is described.
10.2307/4110149|A new species of Brachystelma, B. parviflora, is described from West Africa.
10.2307/4119074|A new species of giant Lobelia, L. sancta, with a branched inflorescence and coarsely dentate leaves, is described from the Ukaguru Mts in central Tanzania.
10.2307/4115690|E. leshumensis N.E. Br. is considered a synonym of Euphorbia eylesii and the reasons discussed, the differences between E. eylesii and E. neopolycnemoides are elaborated and a new closely related species is described. Two further species in subgenus Chamaesyce are described, plus two new species and a new variety in subgenus Esula, and a new subspecies in subgenus Eremophyton.
10.2307/4110042| This paper presents new information which has come to light during the continuing study of Euphorbiaceae for the Flora of Tropical East Africa, and during the course of routine naming of this family for the whole of Tropical Africa. In Andrachne, Caperonia and Discoglypremna, new records are reported for East Africa. In Croton, a new species and a new subspecies are described for Tanzania. In Hymenocardia, a new record is reported for the Cameroon. In Macaranga, three subsumptions are made, and a new record is reported for Ethiopia. In Meineckia, a new subspecific record is reported for Uganda, and three new specific provincial records are reported. In Micrococca, an unusual variant form of a widespread species is reported from Tanzania. In Phyllanthus, two new species are described from Tanzania, a variant form of a rare species is reported from the Cameroon, new records are reported from Kenya and Malai, and two new specific and a new varietal provincial records are reported. In Uapaca, new records are reported from Zambia and Angola. 
10.2307/4107973|A critical re-examination is made of the characters employed in assessing the relationships of Paeonia, with special reference to the vasculature of the flowers and peduncles. The floral vasculature of Magnoliaceae and Dilleniaceae is stem-like and consists of anthostrobili. No floral stele exists in Ranunculaceae or Paeoniaceae above the level of the sepals and the fertile organs are supplied by strands branching off from the vasculature of sepals or tepals, which together form a cluster or anthofasciculus. The order of branching of the stamen fascicle in the Dilleniaceae differs significantly from that of the Paeoniaceae. The vasculature of the follicles in Paeonia, Glaucidium and in the Ranunculaceae in the majority of the Helleboroideae is disjunct and the dorsal and ventral bundles are redistributed on separate strands in the receptacle. In the Dilleniaceae the follicle is of the normal 3-trace type. The leaf venation of Paeonia falls within the much wider range of leaf architecture found in the Ranunculaceae, but differs radically from that of the Dilleniaceae. The floral vasculature and leaf architecture of Ranunculaceae and Paeoniaceae differ from those of the Dilleniaceae by characters that determined their divergent evolutionary pathways early in angiosperm phylogeny. The basic chromosome number n = 5 is shared by Paeonia and Glaucidium and is discordant to both Ranunculaceae and Dilleniaceae. The correlation of other characters supports the inclusion of Glaucidium in the Paeoniaceae and its separation from Paeonia at generic level only.
23044636|In spite of the existence of a vast body of information on the plant diversity of the Amazon, there remain significant obstacles to informed decision-making and management for conservation. Species distributions are poorly understood and the relationships between diversity and composition of vegetation, ecosystem services and resilience to climatic fluctuations are insufficiently clear. The geographic distribution of phylogenetic diversity in relation to current protected areas is unexplored and very little is known about intraspecific genetic variability and its practical significance. Interpretation of vegetation differentiation and distribution remains relatively simplistic; there are still large parts of the basin for which few or no botanical data exist, and many rare and sparsely distributed species remain undiscovered. Improved understanding of the ecological roles, dynamics and associations of the species of greatest importance for the maintenance of sustainable livelihoods and ecosystem services, habitat restoration and adaptation to climate change is a high priority. In many cases these are common and widespread species. Some of these issues are explored by looking at the Cristalino region in northern Mato Grosso as a case-study. Effective integration, quality assessment, synthesis and application of existing data on the plant diversity of the Amazon will help to address these issues. However, more targeted information is needed from the ground. Future prioritisation of research effort will require a careful and pragmatic balance between the 'traditional' focus on rare and endemic species and species-rich communities, and the growing need to understand the key 'framework' elements that will determine the future of the Amazon environment. Similar situations are faced elsewhere in the tropics: for botanical research institutes in the 21st century this demands an urgent re-evaluation of core activities and concerted engagement with the issues and challenges facing conservation in a context of rampant population growth, climate change and environmental destruction. Apesar da existncia de um grande volume de informao a respeito da diversidade vegetal da Amaznia. uma srie de obstculos ainda dificulta a tomanda de decises devidamente informadas sobre conservo e manejo sustentvel da regio. Falta conhecimento com relao  distribuio das espcies, e s interaes entre diversidade e composio da vegetao, aos servios do ecossistema e sua adaptabilidade e resistncia s flutuaes climticas. A distribuio da diversidade filogentica das espcies em relao s reas atualmente protegidas ainda  desconhecida, e muito pouco  sabido sobre o significado prtico da variabilidade intracespecfica. A interpretao dos diferentes tipos de vegetao permanece extremamente simplificada, com grandes reas da bacia para as quais no h dados botnicos disponveis ou os mesmos so insuficientes, e muitas espcies raras ou esparsamente distribudas ainda aguardam descobrimento. Uma melhor compreenso dos papis ecolgicos, da dinmica e das associaes das espcies mais importantes para a manuteno de estilos de vida sustentveis e dos servios do ecossistema, recuperao de reas degradadas e adaptabilidade s mudanas climticas, so as grandes prioridades. Em muitos casos essas espcies so comuns e amplamente distribudas. Alguns desses temas so explorados utilizando a regio do Cristalino, no norte do Mato Grosso, como um estudo de caso. A integrao efetiva, o controle da qualidade, a sntese e a aplicao dos dados existentes da diversidade vegetal da Amaznia sero fundamentais para a soluo dessas questes. No entanto, ainda  necessrio gerar a informao relevante a partir do estudo da rea. A priorizao das pesquisas futuras requer um equilbrio cuidadoso e prtico entre o foco 'tradicional', interessado em espcies raras e endmicas e nas comunidades ricas em termos de espcies e a necessidade crescente de compreender os elementos da 'estrutura' que ir determinar o futuro do bioma amaznico. Situaes semelhantes esto sendo enfrentadas nos trpicos como um todo: os institutos botnicos do sculo 21 precisam reavaliar urgentemente as suas principais atividades e engajar-se de modo coordenado para incluir os tpicos e desafios causados pelo crescimento populacional desordenado, mudanas climticas e destruio ambiental.
10.2307/4119403|Typhula chamaemori, Rutstroemia chamaemori, Mycosphaerella chamaemori sp. nov.; Phaeonaevia gen. nov. with P. monilispora comb nov.; and Diplocarpon impressum comb. nov. are described from cloudberry leaves.
10.2307/4110870|Six species of gasteroid fungi from Zimbabwe are discussed and illustrations provided for five.
10.2307/4117059|The record of Commiphora pedunculata from Tanzania is shown to belong to another species. C. kilimandscharica and C. porensis, described by Engler from Tanzania, but never subsequently referred to by him, are considered and disposed of in synonymy in two other families.
10.2307/4114644|Clematis L. section Meclatis (Spach) Tamura subsection Orientates (Prantl) Tamura is discussed and revised. The following new taxa are described, C. ladakhiana, C. pamiralaica, C. orientalis L. var. baluchistanica, var. hindukushensis and var. robusta, C. tibetana O. Kuntze subsp. vernayi (C. E. C. Fischer) Grey-Wilson, var. laciniifolia and var. dentata, C. tangutica (Maxim.) Korsh. subsp. mongolica. Various new combinations are also made.
10.2307/4111037|Two new species of Sebaea R. Br., S. macroplera and .S. lineariformis are described and their distinguishing features discussed.
10.2307/4111206|In order to evaluate the taxonomic position of Parodianthus, morphological features of partial inflorescences, gynoecium and fruit were studied. The partial inflorescence is a two-flowered reduced raceme; the gynoecium is bicarpellate and paracarpous; the ovules are pendulous, marginally attached in the upper half of the locule; the fruit is a subdrupaceous schizocarp separating into two two-seeded mericarps. These characters suggest the inclusion of the genus in Verbenaceae sensu stricto, tribe Casselieae. This tribe has to also include Casselia and Tamonea.
10.2307/4108494|A new species Tylophora coriacea Marais is described, the combination Secamone volubilis (Lam.) Marais is made and a problematic and variable group is discussed.
10.2307/4117817|The tropical African species of Echinops are revised. Twenty species are recognized and a full taxonomic treatment with a key to the species and descriptions is provided. Two neotypes are selected. A list of representative specimens for each species is provided.
10.2307/4110602|Karyotypes of two species of Fortunatia and three of Camassia are described. F. biflora, C. leichtlinii subsp. suksdorfii, C. cusickii and C. quamash have the basic chromosome number x = 15 and F. arida has x = 17. The genome sizes of both species of Fortunatia are three times larger than those of the three species of Camassia. Heterochromatin amount and genome size are discussed in relation to the evolution of both genera.
10.2307/4109993|One new genus, 10 new species, one new variety and one new combination at the specific level are given here. A key is also given for the four species of the new genus Margelliantha. Disa ukingensis Schltr. which has recently been treated as a synonym of D. englerana Kraenzl. is resurrected.
10.2307/4119400|The strictly arctic-alpine distribution of Exobasidium warmingii Rostr., a basidiomycetous parasite of several species of Saxifraga L., is described. It is suggested that the fungus was restricted to the central European mountains before the glaciation. Here it outlasted this period and, together with its hosts, migrated to the north after the ice had retreated.
10.2307/4115852|Three new species of Grammitidaceae are described from Mount Jaya, Indonesian Papua, New Guinea: Grammilis clavala, G. velutina and Ctenopteris hymenophylloides.
10.2307/4115807|The taxonomic history of the genus Oxera (Labiatae) is discussed, and a key to it and its near allies is presented. A new informal subdivision of Oxera is proposed.
10.2307/4110773|A revision of Vicia L. subgenus Vicia (Maxted, 1991) has necessitated the modification of the group's nomenclature and the erection of three new infra-generic taxa. These names are recorded here to validate their use.
10.2307/4117848|Fruits of Stictocardia (Convolvulaceae) are more complex than those of related genera, and unique in possessing the following combination of characters: an enlarged calyx, thin exocarp, a 4-lobed septum, and a 4-lobed loculicidal endocarp. Fruit and other distinctive traits are discussed and the conclusion drawn that Stictocardia should be maintained as a distinct genus. A synopsis of species is given along with a discussion of probable pollination syndromes.
10.2307/4110774|Chiliocephalum tegetum Mesfin is described from the highlands of Ethiopia. Characters that distinguish it from the hitherto only known species in the genus are discussed, together with those that differentiate the genus from related genera in Gnaphaliinae. Full synonymy for C. schimperi Benth. is provided.
20443365|The World Grass Species databases have been in development at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew for the past decade, and represent many years of effort archiving and collating data into a central resource. Twenty-first century agrostology requires that workers in the field embrace the new technologies that have become available with increasing computer power and literacy. The databases have been available on Kew's website for several years, but there has been limited internal use of this resource and almost no external use. There are two databases, one containing full grass nomenclature and the other containing descriptions for all grass species. The nomenclature database provides citation details for all grass names contained therein. It produces regional checklists, provides accepted names and synonyms for all species and a number of other search possibilities. Until recently, the descriptions database was only accessible through the software INTKEY, and required considerable computer literacy to access. These databases are in the process of being integrated, upgraded and made web accessible. The current versions have involved an almost complete redevelopment of the descriptions databases. Species descriptions have been generated and made available through the Kew website for all 10,916 accepted species, and considerable documentation has also been made available. The major changes implemented in the nomenclature database are the provision of a link to these descriptions and species distribution from the 'search for synonyms' and regional and generic checklist queries. This provides the beginnings of a full World Grass Flora. Current facilities, as well as future plans for these databases, their integration, and scope for collaboration are discussed.
10.2307/4113648|A new and very unusual species of Pterocarpus (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae: Dalbergieae), P. monophyllus, from the sand dunes of the Rio So Francisco, Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4113636|The two Tropical African representatives of the type subsection of Luzula are each confined to very small areas, one in West and the other in East Tropical Africa. They are shown to belong to a species distinct from L. campestris (L.) DC. to which they have usually been referred, respectively, as Luzula campestris var. mannii Buchenau or Luzula campestris subsp. mannii (Buchenau) Weim., and L. campestris var. gracilis S. Carter. The relevant nomenclatural combinations are made, the two taxa are described in detail, and the specimens studied are listed.
10.2307/4117596|Stolzia christopheri, a new species of orchid from Tanzania is described.
10.2307/4117704|Clitoria chanondii W. Chuakul, a new species from Phu Chong-Nayoi National Park, Thailand, is described and illustrated.
23216750|The correct name in Diospyros L. (Ebenaceae) for a species from Tonga first described as Maba elliptica J. R. Forst. & G. Forst. and incorrectly known as D. elliptica (J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.) P. S. Green is D. foliosa (A. Gray) Bakh. In addition to the nominate variety, six additional varieties are recognised from Fiji and Samoa. As these varieties lack names under D. foliosa, the following new combinations are proposed: D. foliosa var. elliptica (J. R. Forst. & G. Forst.) Dorr, D. foliosa var. fijiensis (Bakh.) Dorr, D. foliosa var. fructuosa (A. C. Sm.) Dorr, D. foliosa var. iridea (Fosberg) Dorr, D. foliosa var. opaca (A. C. Sm.) Dorr, and D. foliosa var. savaiiensis (Christoph.) Dorr.
10.2307/4108497|Ascarina subsessilis is described as new and three new combinations are made in Sarcandra and Chloranthus. A summary of the literature dealing with the systematic position of the family is given.
20443331|Trichophorum  foersteri is validated.
10.2307/4111149|Two new species of Acanthaceae, Dicliptera minutifolia Ensermu, which is endemic to southern Ethiopia, and Peristrophe teklei Ensermu from Eritrea, Ethiopia, Saudi Arabia and Yemen, are described. Both taxa are illustrated, and their distributions mapped. The pollen morphology of both taxa is also described.
27822000|A new species of Dipcadi (Hyacinthaceae) that is allied to D. concanense (Dalzell) Baker but differs in its small flowers (13  18 mm long vs 35  47 mm long) and funnel shaped perianth tube (5  6  5  6 mm vs 18  27  4  5.5 mm) is described as D. goaense. The new species is apparently endemic, because it is known only from the type locality in Goa state of India. The type locality is at the foothills of Western Ghats and the habitat is a soil covered, lateritic, open area.
10.2307/4117851|In this paper, one new combination is made in Cnidoscolus, 24 new names, 16 new combinations, four changes of status and one new synonymization in Croton, two new names in Jatropha, one new combination in Paracroton and one new name in Tetrorchidium.
10.2307/4113635|Drypetes moliwensis is described as a new species from the east of Mt Cameroon. It is unusual in the genus in being unilocular and in having narrow sepals, in these showing affinities with Sibangea Oliv.
10.2307/4114729|A new species of Canavalia and a new species of Stylosanthes are described from the Brazilian state of Bahia.
10.2307/4114588|A new genus, new species and varieties, a new name and an amplified description, in the genera listed below.
10.2307/4110039|The identities of Cymbidium aloifolium (L.) Sw. and allied species are discussed. Four species are recognised in this group and a key is provided for their identification.
10.2307/4108539|During studies of plants of the Aldabra Group (Aldabra, Assumption, Cosmoledo and Astove atolls) and nearby areas of the Western Indian Ocean Region, in the course of preparation of a flora of the group a number of novelties have come to light and critical notes have accumulated. These include new species of Maillardia and Malleastrum, new varieties in Calophyllum and Flacourtia, a transfer in Lagrezia, reductions in Lagrezia, Acalypha, Euphorbia and Plumbago, observations in Ipomoea, and distributional extensions in Lagrezia, Poupartia and Ehretia, as well as those in genera where new species are described.
10.2307/4119077|The placing of the Polypodiaceae and usually the Grammitidaceae in an otherwise primitive gleichenioid group is criticized on the grounds of various vegetative and reproductive characters, in particular the structure of the sporangium and the indumentum of the gametophyte, which indicate that they are allied to the advanced indusiate families.
10.2307/4102914| A list of 310 species of cultivated outdoor plants in flower during the first thirteen days of 1975 at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, is provided. An analysis of them shows 125% to be winter flowering species, 479% spring flowering and 395% summer flowering; a discussion on recent weather trends is also included. 
20443269|The genus Pergularia L. is revised and two species, P. daemia (Forssk.) Chiov. and P. tomentosa L., are recognised. Patterns of morphological variation are outlined within the polymorphic and widely distributed P. daemia, and three regional subspecies are proposed. Two names are lectotypified and neotypes are proposed for two additional names. The current placement of all names published in Pergularia is also indicated. The conservation status of each taxon is assessed using IUCN criteria.
10.2307/4110753|The identity of Salsola imbricata Forssk. is discussed and a neotype is designated. Synonyms of the species are given as well as its geographical distribution.
10.2307/4113649|Lectotypes are designated for Scleria burchellii, S. lindleyana, S. tonkinensis, S. uleana and S. cyperinoides. Typification problems in S. purdiei and S. neogranatensis are resolved.
10.2307/4109775| Six new species, one subspecies and four varieties are described from East Africa. Five new combinations are made for species occurring in East Africa and adjacent countries, Zanthoxylum deremense (Engl.) Kokwaro extending to Malai and Vepris dainellii (Pichi-Serm.) Kokwaro from Ethiopia. 
10.2307/4109547|A new palm species, Livistona exigua, is described from Borneo (Brunei), the first dwarf species known in the genus.
10.2307/4110245|New records, mainly for Tanzania, are reported in the genera Aristogeitonia, Bridelia, Croton, Dalechampia, Drypetes, Erythrococca, Heywoodia, Margaritaria, Neoholstia, Phyllanthus, Suregada, Thecacoris, Tragiella and Zimmermannia. Corrections and alterations are made to the taxonomy used in Flora of Tropical East Africa in the genera Drypetes, Phyllanthus and Zimmermannia.
10.2307/4103115|An account is given of the ant-fern Lecanopteris mirabilis (C. Chr.) Copel. This fern has the unique features of external ant galleries and filamentous spores. The manner of growth of the rhizome and the development of the spore filaments are treated in some detail followed by a discussion of the possible biological implications of these features.
25070248|Keysseria pinguiculiformis J. Kost. forma nana J. Kost. is considered to be a synonym of Novaguinea rudalliae D. J. N. Hind, having been misplaced in Keysseria when described. Additional material is cited for this alpine taxon.
10.2307/4108108|The genus Obetia Gaud. (Urticaceae) is revised. Six species are recognized, of which one (O. aldabrensis) is new, and another (O. tenax) is transferred from the genus Urera Gaud. A presumably new species has been discovered, from eastern Ethiopia. Obetia is restricted to east and south tropical Africa, Madagascar, the Mascarene Islands, and the island of Aldabra. Some of the species are rare local endemics, which may be close to extinction.
10.2307/4117107|The leaf anatomy of the genera of Coscinieae is described. Material of Coscinium Colebrooke, Anamirta Colebrooke and Arcangelisia Beccari was examined. Coscinium differs in several characters from Anamirta and Arcangelisia which are remarkably similar to one another.
10.2307/4114578|While exploring the forests fo Chikmagalur (Karnataka) in India, an unusual distinctive new species of Dalechampia was discovered. It is described and a key to western and peninsular Indian species of Dalechampia is given.
10.2307/4119419|Dasyscyphus sinegoricus, D. lespedezae and D. ponticus are described as new from the USSR.
10.2307/4118785|A new species of Aloe, A. friisii Sebsebe & M. G. Gilbert, is described from Gamo Gofa Region, southwest Ethiopia.
10.2307/4119397|Armillariella rioussetii sp. nov. (Basidiomycetes, Tricholomataceae) is described from the south of France.
10.2307/4111039|A new species, Siphonochilus bambutiorum A. D. Poulsen & Lock, discovered in the Ituri Forest of Congo Kinshasa is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4109461|A latin description of the family Sphenostemonaceae P. van Royen (published in English in 1959) is given, for purposes of validation.
10.2307/4120636|A new subspecies of Hibiscus vitifolius L. is described from the Ngaia Forest, Meru District of Kenya, and its conservation status is assessed.
10.2307/4109667| Peucedanum trisectum C. C. Townsend, most closely related to P. lundense Cannon, is described from Zare. 
10.2307/4109964|Chromosome counts for over 80 species of Dendrobium are reported. While most have basic numbers x = 19 or 20, eight members of Sect. Latouria have x = 18, a number not previously reported for Dendrobium. Karyotypes and DNA amounts are also discussed.
10.2307/4113644|A new species, Strobilanthes willisii, is described from Ritigala, Anuradhapura District, Sri Lanka.
20443308|A new species, Garcinia tanzaniensis Verdc. is described from NE Tanzania.
10.2307/4110005|Badula fragilis is described as new; the new combination Badula nitida is published and a description given.
10.2307/4117906|The status of Crassula lanceolata as a synonym of C. campestris is confirmed; the typification of Tillaea pentandra is discussed and a neotype selected for Crassula ellenbeckiana. The variation in C. vaginata and C. alba and their putative hybrids is also discussed. Kalanchoe mortagei is transferred to Bryophyllum. The identity ofKalanchoe laciniata is discussed and K. ceratophylla proposed as the earliest available name for Asiatic plants previously recognized as K. laciniata. A new variety,K. citrina var. ballyi is described.
23044998|Lectoypifications of four species of Pseudolaelia Porto & Brade are presented as a result of an ongoing taxonomic revision of the genus.
10.2307/4109724|The flower parts of several genera (Aneilema, Commelina, Cyanotis and Tradescantia) in the Commelinaceae were studied with the scanning electron microscope after dehydration using critical point drying techniques. A disseminated extra cuticular layer was observed on the abaxial surface only of petals in Tradescantia species. The composition, function and origins of this layer were investigated. The layer was soluble in solutions of chloroform and ether but did not respond to enzyme treatment. This indicated that the components of the layer are waxy. Examination of very young buds showed that the layer was deposited at an early stage of development and was later fragmented during petal expansion. This suggests that the layer has a protective function in the maturing organ. Mucilaginous substances and spathes are among the protective measures employed by the other genera studied which obviate the necessity for this extra cuticular layer.
23489123|Four new species of Maesa are described and illustrated from the Malesian region: M. inculticola Utteridge and M. pilosa Utteridge are described from Borneo; M. fraseriana Utteridge and M. malayana Utteridge are described from Peninsular Malaysia. Distribution maps and notes on the conservation status and taxonomic affinities of each species are provided.
10.2307/4103117|Compound vascular bundles are absent from Palmae, but are found in all members of Pandanaceae and Cyclanthaceae studied, and in some genera of Araceae. These bundles are similar in TS but are found to be less similar between families when studied along their full course.
20443409|Knowledge of New Caledonian palms (Arecaceae) has increased dramatically during the past few years with a wealth of new morphological, anatomical, ecological and molecular data now available. This information makes necessary several changes in the definition of New Caledonian endemic genera. In this article, we present a synopsis of all palm genera of New Caledonia and the subtribes to which they belong, keys for their identification, and a checklist of the species with new combinations where necessary. We retain nine genera of Areceae instead of the 15 previously recognised. The monotypic genera Alloschmidia, Campecarpus, Moratia, Lavoixia and Veillonia, and the bispecific genus Brongniartikentia, are reduced into synonymy with other genera. We provide a description and discussion of the correspondingly enlarged genera Basselinia, Cyphophoenix, Cyphokentia and Clinosperma, as well as notes on the four subtribes now recognised on the island: Livistoninae, Archontophoenicinae, Clinospermatinae and Basseliniinae. In addition, we formally incorporate the monotypic genus Lepidorrhachis from Lord Howe Island within the Basseliniinae. As a result of the changes made here at the generic and specific levels, the family Arecaceae in New Caledonia now comprises 10 genera and 38 species. Five new combinations are made.
10.2307/4111022|The genus Eugenia is revised for East Africa. Four new species, E. toxanatolica, E. mufindiensis, E. lanaenis, and E. thikaensis, and one new subspecies, E. capensis subsp. multiflora, are described.
10.2307/4115645|A new tribal classification of Rhamnaceae based on a phylogenetic analysis of rbcL and trnL-F sequences of the plastid genome is outlined here. The last classification of the family by Suessenguth recognised five tribes. Eleven tribes are now recognised, three of which are new (Ampelozizipheae, Doerpfeldieae and Bathiorhamneae). The constitution of Rhamneae Hook. f. has been emended, and the name of one tribe has been corrected Zizipheae Brongn. to Paliureae Reissek ex Endl.; as suggested by Schirarend & Olabi 1994) and emended. Ventilagineae Hook. f., Colletieae Reissek ex Endl. and Gouanieae Reissek ex Endl. are retained. Pomaderreae Reissek ex Endl. and Maesopsideae Weberb. have been resurrected, as has Phyliceae Reissek ex Endl., which has also been emended. Three larger groups within Rhamnaceae are also described on the basis of the molecular data. However, there are no morphological characters marking these groups, and they are therefore given informal names in this treatment. A morphological cladistic analysis also included here demonstrates the problems of attempting phylogenetic reconstruction if only a few morphological characters are available.
10.2307/4114610|Satranala, a new Borassoid palm genus related to Bismarckia, Hyphaene and Medemia discovered in the rain forests of northeastern Madagascar is described as new, with a single species, S. decussilvae.
10.2307/4111112|Three species presently referred to Psychotria subgen. Heteropsychotria are shown by cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequence variation in the rps 16 intron (cpDNA) to form a strongly supported monophyletic group. It is suggested that this group be recognised taxonomically as a separate genus of the tribe Psychotrieae. The group includes the type species of Carapichea, C. guianensis, and Carapichea thus becomes the correct name of the genus. Morphologically, Carapichea is characterized by having stipules that are not shed by formation of an abscission layer, leaves that dry greenish or greyish, aperturate pollen, and planoconvex pyrenes with an adaxial furrow and preformed germination slits on abaxial ridges, but not along the margins. Two new combinations are made, Carapichea affinis (StandI.) L. Andersson and C. ipecacuanha (Brot.) L. Andersson. The rhizomes of C. ipecacuanha are the source of the drug ipecac.
24717392|Impatiens kerinciensis from Mt Kunyit, West Sumatra, Indonesia, is newly described and illustrated. The species is characterised by a yellow flower with a red spot on the two lower petals and hairs on the lower sepal, the dorsal petal and the two lateral sepals. This combination of morphological characters was previously unknown. The species is considered local, rarely encountered, and clearly an endemic of Sumatra.
10.2307/4115732|A new species of Kyllingiella, K. simpsonii, is described from southern Tanzania, northern Zambia and south-eastern Congo. It most resembles K. microcephala (Steud.) Lye but differs in the larger glumes and nutlets.
10.2307/4110235|Four new shrubby species of Becium from southern Africa are described and compared with Becium obovatum (E. Mey. ex Benth.) N. E. Br. var. obovatum, to which they are allied. Morphology (size and shape of leaves, calyx and corolla), micromorphology (surface of nutlets and types and density of hairs) and ecology were investigated. The new taxa are B. citriodorum, B. coddii, B. waterbergensis and B. reclinatum.
23216082|Two new species of legume, Caesalpinia celendiniana and Mimosa lamolina and one new variety, Caesalpinia pluviosa var. maraniona, from the inter-Andean Ro Maran Valley in northern Per are described and illustrated. These add to the already impressive tally of endemics known from the seasonally dry tropical forests of the Ro Maran Valley, which apparently far exceeds the endemic plant diversity from other nearby inter-Andean dry valleys in Per and southern Ecuador.
23045000|Taxonomic studies of Brazilian Meriania species (Merianieae  Melastomataceae) have identified taxonomic and nomenclatural gaps. The present work proposes one new synonym, M. sanchezii, for M. paniculata; one new neotypification of M. glabra; and five lectotypifications for M. calophylla, M. glabra var. parviflora (= M. glabra), M. paniculata, M. pergamentacea (= M. robusta), and M. urceolata.
10.2307/4107994|A new species, Calystegia stebbinsii, from El Dorado County, California, is described and illustrated. It differs from all other species of the genus in having pedate leaves deeply dissected into linear lobes. Three new infraspecific combinations are also made under related species.
10.2307/4109731|Ascolepis erythrocephala sp. nov. from Tanzania and Zimbabwe, resembles A. pusilla Ridley but differs inter alia in lacking a rhachilla. It is described and illustrated, together with two new varieties of A. pusilla.
10.2307/4107743|Two new varieties of Hybanthus enneaspermus (L.) F. Muell., both from Kenya, are described, together with further notes on Violaceae in the F.T.E.A. area.
20443406|The crisis facing the conservation of biodiversity is reflected in a parallel crisis in alpha taxonomy. On one hand, there is an acute need from government and non-government organisations for large-scale and relatively stable species inventories on which to build major biodiversity information systems. On the other, molecular information will have an increasingly important impact on the evidential basis for delimiting species and is likely to result in greater scientific debate and controversy on their circumscription. This paper argues that alpha-taxonomy built on the Internet (alpha e-taxonomy) can provide a key component of the solution. Two main themes are considered: (1) the potential of e-taxonomic revisions for engaging both the specialist taxonomic community and a wider public in gathering taxonomic knowledge and deepening understanding of it, and (2) why alpha-species will continue to play an essential role in the conventional definition of species and what kinds of methodological development this implies for descriptive species taxonomy. The challenges and requirements for sustaining e-taxonomic revisions in the long-term are discussed, with particular reference to models being developed by five initiatives with botanical exemplar websites: CATE (Creating a Taxonomic E-Science), Solanaceae Source, GrassBase and EDIT (European Distributed Institute of Taxonomy) exemplar groups and scratchpads. These projects give a clear indication of the crucially important role of the national and regional taxonomic organisations and their networks in providing both leadership and a fruitful and beneficial human and technical environment for taxonomists, both amateur and professional, to contribute their expertise towards a collective global enterprise.
10.2307/4109900|This precursor paper in connection with the account of the Rubiaceae for Flora of Tropical East Africa (Part 2) deals with the remainder of the Vanguerieae with the exception of Canthium and genera formerly confused with it which forms the subject of a separate account by D. M. Bridson. The genus Rytigynia is revised for the areas of Flora of Tropical East Africa and Flora Zambesiaca with the description of 15 new species. Apart from this, one new genus, 5 new subgenera, 4 new species, 6 new subspecies, three new varieties, 31 new combinations and one new name are published.
10.2307/4110248|New species of Melastomataceae in the genera Lavoisiera (L. noblickii), Microlicia (M. chrysantha, M. morii), and Tibouchina (T. noblickii, T. tomentulosa) are described and discussed.
10.2307/4102997| Hyptis sect. Eriosphaeria subsect. Pachyphyllae Epling is given new status at sectional rank. The section comprises four species of unusual habit, restricted to a montane region of Gois, Brazil. A hybrid between two of the species is the first authenticated record of hybridization within the genus. A key to the taxa is followed by a systematic account. 
10.2307/4111138|Trigonidium seemannii Rchb. f. is shown to be the correct name for plants currently referred to T. riopalenquense Dodson.
10.2307/4118981|Independent work on the family Verbenaceae for the Flora of Ethiopia and Flora of Tropical East Africa has convinced the authors that Svensonia and Chascanum cannot be maintained as separate genera.
10.2307/4102954|A new species of Osbeckia, O. mehrana, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115872|In a precursor to the treatment of Compositae part 3 for the Flora of Tropical East Africa, Emilia mbagoi is described and illustrated. It is endemic to an area of grassland in southern Tanzania.
10.2307/4109899|25 species are recognized from Somalia, one of which is described as new. These are disposed in 6 sections, one of which is described as new. The Section Spinosa Pax is divided into 5 subsections, 4 of which are described as new. Two new species records for Somalia are reported, one of which constitutes a new subspecies, herein described. One new variety is also described.
10.2307/4109967|The generic limits of the rattan palm genera Plectocomiopsis, Myrialepis and Bejaudia are re-examined and Bejaudia reduced to synonymy with Myrialepis. Areas of nomenclatural and taxonomic confusion are discussed. A new combination, Myrialepis paradoxa, is published for the only species in the genus, and five species are recognized in Plectocomiopsis, one of them new.
10.2307/4119439|Vigna subhastata is described from Department of Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Related to V. peduncularis Fawc. & Rendle, it differs chiefly in its characteristic foliage.
10.2307/4114362|A monotypic new genus of the Chenopodiaceae (Fadenia zygophylloides Aellen & Townsend, gen. & sp. nov.) is described from Kenya.
20443320|In this paper we describe the chromosome numbers of several species of Myrtaceae (subtribe Myrciinae) from south-eastern Brazil, in order to help determine the circumscription and limits of this group. The chromosomal counts of 20 species were obtained, 17 of which are new. The number 2n = 22 occurs in almost all of species and genera analysed except for the polyploid species Gomidesia gaudichaudiana and two species of Myrcia, with 2n = 44. With these results, our knowledge of the chromosome number in the subtribe Myrciinae increased from 12 (2.2%) to 29 species (5.4%). The occurrence of 2n = 22 in species of the four genera analysed did not help resolve taxonomic questions relating to the distinction between Myrcia, Marlierea and Gomidesia. Although less frequent in Mycriinae, polyploidy appears to have had an important role in the evolution of this family, with high frequency in Eugeniinae (22.5% of Eugenia species) and Myrtinae (50% of the species, 75% in Psidium).
23489049|Three new species of the genus Callicarpa L. (Lamiaceae) from Sulawesi are described and illustrated; C. anisodonta Bramley, C. mendumiae Bramley and C. pseudoverticillata Bramley. Distribution maps and preliminary conservation assessments are provided for each species. To enable identification, a key to the nine species of Callicarpa present on Sulawesi is included.
10.2307/4110606|Jatropha uncinulata is described as new from former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
10.2307/4108270|Two hybrids both involving Euphorbia amygdaloides & E. characias, E. x cornubiensis & E. x malahidensis, are described on the basis of reliably-documented herbarium material received at Kew.
10.2307/4115686|Rhaphidospora anisophylla is transferred to Justicia and J. inaequifolia is described as a new species. Both species are strongly anisphyllous, and are centred on northeastern Tanzania where thay are sympatric with another anisophyllous Acanthaceous species. Isoglossa anisophylla.
4111065| A multi-access key and checklist of the 45 accepted species of Microlicia which occur in the state of Bahia, Brazil are presented, aiming to help in the identification of specimens of this genus. /// Uma chave de mltiplo acesso e uma lista das 45 espcies atualmente aceitas de Microlicia ocorrentes no estado da Bahia, Brasil, so aqui apresentados, visando auxiliar na identificao de espcimes do gnero. 
10.2307/4109725|Taxonomic changes and descriptions of new taxa found necessary during the preparation of an account of the Rubiaceae for the 'Flore des Mascareignes' are made, including one new genus, 6 new species, one new subspecies, 7 new varieties, 15 new combinations and 9 general notes on other genera. Keys to the Mascarene species of Psathura, Chassalia, Gaertnera, Bertiera, Femelia, Myonima and Pyrostria are given.
10.2307/4111173|This paper describes one new genus, Namataea, and two new species, N. simplicifolia and Deinbollia mezilii, of Sapindaceae from Cameroon and Nigeria.
10.2307/4109896|The pollen morphology of eight genera and 11 species of the subtribe Oncospermatinae has been studied. In general the pollen is monosulcate, elliptical in polar view and small to medium in size. There is considerable variation in exine thickness, in ornamentation and in stratification. Deckenia has intectate clavate pollen, all the other genera have tectate pollen grains. The pollen of Acanthophoenix is reticulate with a thick tectum and foot layer while that of Oncosperma has thin tectum and clavate supratectal ornamentation. Tectiphiala has pollen with a perforate or scrobiculate tectum but with variation. The exine of Verschaffeltia and Roscheria is thin, the tectum perforate but smooth in the former and transversely ridged in the latter. Phoenicophorium is very distinct with echinate pollen with smooth supratectal spines and Nephrosperma has a thick exine, finely perforated tectum and thin foot layer. This wide range of variation in pollen morphology reflects the considerable morphological variability within the subtribe and throws little light on relationships between genera within the subtribe.
10.2307/4109828|Retispatha, a new, monotypic, Bornean climbing palm genus is described and illustrated and its relationships with other rattans discussed.
10.2307/4108606|Nyctanthes hirsuta L. (Jasminum hirsutum (L.) Willd.) is lectotypified on the illustration of Rava-pou in Rheede, Hort. Malab. 4, t. 47, a species of Guettarda.
10.2307/4115822|Two diploid chromosome numbers, 2n = 14 (x = 7) and 2n = 16 (x = 8) are reported for the recently described Albuca pendula. These differ from the majority of counts for the genus which have a characteristic asymmetrical bimodal karyotype based on x = 9. This Saudi Arabian species has adapted to growing on vertical cliff faces where it has an unusual pendent habit.
10.2307/4117690|Two new Mallotus species are described. Both belong to section Axenfeldia. M. hispidospinosus has a very characteristic fruit indumentum. M. viridis closely resembles M. brevipetiolatus but differs in the greenish-drying leaves with numerous glandular scales on the lower leaf surface, and in the slightly longer petiole. The two new Sauropus species belong to different sections. S. poomae with its long, ramiflorous inflorescences, belongs to section Schizanthi and S. temii with its typical staminate flowers and ovate to elliptic leaves, should be classified in section Hemisauropus.
10.2307/4115730|Keetia bridsoniae Jongkind and Keetia obovata Jongkind, new species from the forests of West Africa (Upper Guinea), are described and illustrated.
23044622|The European Commission (Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development under Council Regulation (EC) No 870/2004), has sponsored the European Project 'CYNARES' for the characterisation and conservation of Cynara species germplasm, focusing predominantly on artichokes. The project (2008  2012) involves seven project partners from France, Spain and Italy which share European germplasm collections. The accessions are currently being assessed at the morphological, biochemical and molecular levels as well as for disease resistance. Policy aspects addressed within this project include patenting resources to increase value to farmers producing well-recognised varieties and with known nutriceutical values. Moreover, European germplasm will be assessed, classified and patented hence protected by the third country, to avoid fraud and valorise the European products; three clones have already been sent for evaluation by registration authorities in Italy. The conservation of Cynara spp. germplasm and its utilisation are crucial to the project and were developed based on the CBD, the FAO's GPA for PGRFA, and the ITPGRFA. A CYNARES website documenting Cynara germplasm with project updating and information is available at: http://www.cynares.com/ or http://www.cynares.eu/. The site will also target farmers as well as other stakeholder needs. The website aims to be a focal point for all the activities related to Cynara spp. Anyone can register and contribute to the news updating, inserting scientific results, germplasm information or events announcement.
10.2307/4110715|A description is provided of Harveya alba, a parasite of tree roots in Uganda, Kenya and Rwanda.
10.2307/4109005|Thelypteris taprobanica sp. nov. is described from Sri Lanka. Amongst the diverse elements cited by Beddome when he described Nephrodium molle var. major (Handb. Ferns Brit. India, Ceylon & Malay Penins. Suppl.: 76 (1892)) was a collection made in Sri Lanka by G. Wall which I have identified as representing a distinct species.
10.2307/4102880|A computer-assisted clustering method is used to elucidate the distribution of grass genera throughout the world. The results are related to the theory of continental drift, and their implications for the phylogeny of the family are discussed.
10.2307/4109978|A revised listing of the Polygonatum species of Eastern Asia is presented, incorporating the concepts of Wang & Tang (1978) with those of Jeffrey (1979).
20443317|The taxonomy and nomenclature of Nervilia nipponica Makino is reviewed and a neotype is selected to stabilise the name. Following comprehensive field work in Japan and an analysis of herbarium material, a full description and distribution map is presented for this hitherto poorly known species. The chromosome number 2n = 72, the first record for the species, is reported, as are details of seed anatomy. Notes on ecology and conservation status are provided. Affinities with the Southeast Asian N. punctata, the Taiwanese N. taiwaniana and with other taxa from the Himalaya are discussed. Further clarification of this complex in Asia is pinpointed as an outstanding challenge to classification within the genus.
10.2307/4110199|Taxonomy of the genera Rosellinia and Astrocystis, and of some related or similar genera is considered, and emended descriptions of Astrocystis and Rosellinia are presented. Types of relevant genera have been studied and illustrated. A key is presented to the genera discussed, and to species of Astrocystis and Helicogermslita. The host spectrum of Astrocystis is widened to include grasses other than true bamboos (Gramineae, Bambusoideae), palms (Palmae) and Smilax (Smilacaceae). It is concluded that Astrocystidaceae is a synonym of Xylariaceae and not of Amphisphaeriaceae. The new species Rosellinia evansii, from England, Australia and California, Astrocystis hughesii from Sudan, A. palmarum from Bermuda, and A. sasae from Japan are described. An anamorph belonging near Geniculosporium is associated with Californian material of R. evansii and an apparently undescribed Dactylaria-like hyphomycete is reported as growing on the British material of this species. Astrocystis sublimbata is reported from UK & France. Rosellinia cocoes and H. smilacicolum are combined in Astrocystis. Helicogermslita is discussed and accepted as a good genus. New combinations are made in Helicogermslita for Anthostoma fleischhakii, Rosellinia valdiviensis and R. gaudefroyi. Anthostoma decipiens, the type of Anthostoma, is combined in Cryptosphaeria. Obolarina is accepted and not considered to be closely related to Helicogermslita. Fuckelia amoena, F. rhenana, and Diatrype adusta are considered but cannot be placed satisfactorily at present. Euepixylon is reinstated for Hypoxylon udum and Myconeesia is, ad interim, accepted as different from Anthostomella.
10.2307/4115733|Pogostemon globulosus (Doan) W. Chuakul comb. nov. is reported for the first time in Thailand with a full description.
10.2307/4118880| Two new species of Asystasia are described; A. richardsiae which is endemic to Tanzania and A. albiflora which is more widespread and occurs in Tanzania, Zare and Zambia. Both taxa are illustrated and their distribution mapped. Comparison of the two new taxa is also made with species that are considered most closely related to each, i.e. A. glandulosa Lindau and A. gangetica (L.) T. Anderson, respectively. 
23489196|A new species of Sciadocephala (Compositae: Eupatorieae: Adenostemmatinae), S. gracieliae, is described and illustrated from Mato Grosso State, Brazil  the first record of the genus for the country. Distinctions of the new species are discussed and the corolla colour is confirmed as green, an unusual colour in the Eupatorieae. A synopsis and key to the six species now recognised in Sciadocephala and a distribution map for the species are also provided.
10.2307/4117035|Monocladus is reduced to a synonym of Bonia based on morphological evidence, and four new combinations, Bonia saxatilis (L. C. Chia, H. L. Fung & Y. L. Yang) N. H. Xia, B. solida (C. D. Chu & C. S. Chao) N. H. Xia, B. levigata (L. C. Chia, H. L. Fung & Y. L. Yang) N. H. Xia and B. amplexicaulis (L. C. Chia, H. L. Fung & Y. L. Yang) N. H. Xia are made. The genus Bonia is delimited and a key to species is provided.
10.2307/4102958|Trapa natans L. is typified by a specimen from Italy and T. natans var. pumila Nakano ex Verdc. is validated.
27822018|Two new taxa of Justicia are recognised from Bolivia. Justicia fuentesii J. R. I. Wood is described as a new species. The two isolated population of Justicia mesetarum Wassh. & J. R. I. Wood can be distinguished by a range of minor morphological differences and are treated as distinct subspecies with subsp. chiquitana J. R. I. Wood described as new. The new taxa are illustrated and mapped.
10.2307/4110232|Seven new species and one new subspecies of Neotropical Chrysobalanaceae are described. Licania longicuspidata from Ecuador and L. belloi and L. riverae from Costa Rica belong to section Moquilea, while L. diegogomezii from Costa Rica, L. undulata from Colombia and L. petrensis from Peru and Venezuela are members of section Leptobalanus. A new subspecies L. micrantha subsp. atabapoensis from Venezuela and Parinari leontopitheci from Bahia are also described. The first collection this century of Couepia bondarii Prance is reported; it is the first to have a precise locality. The fruit of L. saizmannii is described for the first time.
10.2307/4110047|The species identified as Convolvulus rhyniospermus in the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa' is shown to be a variant of C. capituliferus Franch. The group of related species is revised.
10.2307/4119303|A taxonomic survey of the Swartzia acutifolia complex and a description of a new species, Swartzia linharensis, are presented. Swartzia acutifolia var. leiogyna is treated as S. submarginata var. leiogyna, S. acutifolia var. parvipetala as S. parvipetala, S. acutifolia var. submarginata as S. submarginata var. submarginata and S. acutifolia var. ynesiana as S. oblata. A key to the species from southeastern Brazil is provided.
10.2307/4110651|Cattleya Candida, Laelia cowanii and L. kautskyi are shown to be the correct names for C. quadricolor, Laelia brevicaulis and L. kautskyana. The names Laelia gardneri and L. mantiqueirae are validated.
10.2307/4117763|The southern African tree known as Lonchocarpus eriocalyx subsp. wankieensis (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae: Millettieae) is transferred to the genus Philenoptera Benth. and raised to specific rank as P. wankieensis.
10.2307/4109776|A little-known variety of Ipomoea barteri, I. barteri var. cordifolia, is recorded from E. Africa.
10.2307/4108886|A new species, Aeschynomene mediocris, is described from Zambia and Rhodesia. Although known before, adequate material has only recently been collected.
10.2307/4110243|Somatic chromosome counts are presented for 17 species of the genus Inga (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae), including 15 previously uncounted species. The basic chromosome number is x = 13, being consistent with two counts published previously. The plants were diploid (2n = 26), with the exception of all individuals examined of I. insignis and I. laurina, which were tetraploid (2n = 52).
10.2307/4118850|Indigofera spicata, sensu lato, is reassessed as comprising two species: I. spicata Forssk. and I. hendecaphylla Jacq. I. spicata is confined to Africa, Yemen, Madagascar and the Mascarenes. The most widespread species, which also occurs outside this region, should be known as I. hendecaphylla Jacq. An isotype of I. parvula Del. is located and identified as I. spicata.
20443242|Herbarium and field studies have revealed a greater diversity of the neotropical fern genus Danaea Sm. (Marattiaceae) than previously known. Five new species discovered in Peru are described here. These new species are Danaea arbuscula, D. cartilaginea, D. lingua-cervina, D. riparia and D. vivax. Line drawings of all these new species are provided. Danaea elliptica Sm. is synonymized under D. nodosa (L.) Sm. and D. ulei H. Christ is lectotypified.
10.2307/4114615|Hornstedtia sanhan, a new species from Vietnam, is described.
10.2307/4115743|Two new species of Asclepiadaceae (Cynanchum morrenioides and Blepharodon hirsutum) are described from the Pico das Almas (Bahia, Brazil) and illustrated.
20649574|A new combination, Cuviera cuvieroides (Wernham) Onana is proposed for the Central African taxon currently known as Globulostylis cuvieroides Wernham. A key to distinguish the seven species of the subgenus Globulostylis Verdc. is presented.
10.2307/4107741|Three new Laboulbeniales occurring on ground-beetles from Oceania are described. These species are Laboulbenia inversa, parasitic on Sloanella obscura Moore from Tasmania (Australia), Rhachomyces kenodactyli, parasitic on Kenodactylus capito Broun from Antipodes and Auckland Islands (New Zealand) and Rhachomyces moorei, parasitic on Trechimorphus diemensis Bates from Tasmania.
10.2307/4114358|This paper includes a review of the group Gardneriana in the genus Paspalum and descriptions of two new species, P. gemmosum and P. longiligulatum, from Brazil are given.
10.2307/4109723|The chromosome number of 2n = 26 is recorded for seven Araucaria species and the karyotypes of A. rulei F. Muell. and A. columnaris Hook. are illustrated. In A. rulei, an unequal interchange was found and a segmental aneuploid plant was also identified. Comparisons of these and previously described Araucaria karyotypes are made and inter-specific variation in karyotype morphology is demonstrated.
23044684|A new species of Capparis, C. tchaourembensis Fici, is described and illustrated. Its conservation status is assessed and its affinities with related taxa are discussed.
10.2307/4102984|The leaf anatomy of Ossiculum aurantiacum is described and compared with that of other Angraecoid orchids, particularly Calyptrochilum, which is considered to be closely related on morphological and cytological grounds.
10.2307/4115850| Five new taxa of Tridactyle are described and illustrated: T. exellii and T. thomensis from So Tom, T. aurantiopunctata from Principe, T. pentalobata from Gabon and T. anthomoniaca subsp. nana from Rio Muni in Equatorial Guinea. Maps of their distributions and notes on their habitat, cultivation and conservation are provided. 
10.2307/4110271| A new monospecific genus, Mysanthus, from the Brazilian states of Bahia and So Paulo is described and illustrated. Two varieties are recognized which have previously been described under the names Phaseolus uleanus Harms and Phaseolus dolicopsoides Hoehne. 
10.2307/4118896|The nomenclature and typification of Eulophia hians Spreng. is discussed and 2 new combinations made at infraspecific level.
20443263|Three new shrub species, Hermannia pseudofischeri Cheek, H. pseudathiensis Cheek, and H. vollesenii Cheek (Sterculiaceae), are described from East Africa as a precursor to a treatment of the genus for the Flora of tropical East Africa. Conservation assessments are made for all three species.
10.2307/4108130|A revision of Fritillaria crassifolia, F. kotschyana and their related species is presented together with a key. Three new subspecies of Fritillaria are described, F. crassifolia subsp. hakkarensis from southeast Turkey and northeast Iraq, F. crassifolia subsp. poluninii from northeast Iraq and F. hermonis subsp. amana from south-central Turkey, Syria, and Lebanon. Two new combinations are made at subspecific rank, and notes are given on related species. Fritillaria uva-vulpis sp. nov. is described from Iraq, Iran and Turkey. It has previously been confused with F. assyriaca Baker and F. canaliculata Baker.
23489154|An overlooked specimen collected by August Loher in Luzon about a century ago is belatedly identified as a species of Claderia (Orchidaceae: Epidendroideae: Cymbidieae). This is the first and only record of this genus from the Philippines, which now may well be extinct in this part of its range.
25070246|Afrothismia mhoroana Cheek (Burmanniaceae) is newly described from the Eastern Arc Mountains of Tanzania. Its affinities and conservation status are assessed. A key to the species of the genus is published.
10.2307/4110927|New Vigna luteola synonyms are presented, as well as synonyms which were mentioned in Flora Zambesiaca without indications of their type specimens.
10.2307/4119383|Basidiospores of Ganoderma eminii, G. alluaudii, alluaudii, Magoderna subresinosum, and Haddowia longipes are compared. Holes in the ecto-perisporium are considered to be artefacts.
10.2307/4115668|Dinochloa matmat is a new species from Central and East Java, Indonesia. It is here described and illustrated.
10.2307/4118848|Seven new species in Cyperaceae, Cyperus almensis, C. brumadoi, Eleocharis almensis, E. olivaceonux, E. obpyriformis, Lagenocarpus compactus and Scleria atroglumis are described and illustrated. One new combination, Cyperus pohlii subsp. bahiensis is made.
10.2307/4119309|Plectranthus cataractarum B. J. Pollard (Labiatae), a distinctive rheophyte, is described from western Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea (Bioco). Notes on its conservation, on the status of Solenostemon Thonn. and on rheophytism in Labiatae are made. New combinations are made for Solenostemon monostachyus (P. Beauv.) Briq. and its subspecies.
10.2307/4110649|Ligusticum thomsonii C. B. Clarke, widely distributed in the Himalaya, Xizang and other Chinese provinces, is shown to be identical with Seseli mucronatum (Schrenk) Pimenov & Sdobnina, which is widely distributed in E Kazakhstan and the Middle Asia mountains.
10.2307/4110045| Laccosperma (G. Mann & H. A. Wendl.) Drude is shown to be an earlier name for the African rattan palm genus currently (and incorrectly) known as Ancistrophyllum (G. Mann & H. A. Wendl.) H. A. Wendl. (non Ancistrophyllum Gppert). New combinations are published accordingly. 
10.2307/4108540|The following new taxa and combinations are proposed for E. Africa: Psilolemma S. M. Phillips, gen. nov., P. jaegeri (Pilger) S. M. Phillips, Drake-Brockmania haareri (Stapf & Hubb.) S. M. Phillips, Dactyloctenium bogdanii S. M. Phillips, sp. nov., and Trichoneura ciliata (Peter) S. M. Phillips.
10.2307/4118038|Uvaria pandensis is described as new from eastern Tanzania.
10.2307/4111158|A new Tremella species (Basidiomycota, Tremellales) is described from Cameroon in West Equatorial Africa.
23489205|Robert Elias Fries wrote a short paper entitled Verstreute Beobachtungen hinsichtlich der Familie Annonaceae presenting a variety of taxonomic novelties and changes in the Annonaceae, including two new genera. This was published in Arkiv fr Botanik in 1955. However a preprint version of the paper was circulated in 1953. While this earlier date for publication of Fries's new taxa seems to have been known and accepted by the contemporary community of specialists, it was not picked up by the standard indices and is in danger of being overlooked. Another omission is that some of Fries's new combinations are invalid in the paper. In looking for places where these combinations have been validly made, it became clear that further combinations proposed by Fries in the family account in Die Natrlichen Pflanzenfamilien are also invalid. All the invalid combinations are listed in this paper. Notable corrections for full citation of names in current use for Annonaceae species are Mischogyne elliotianum (Engl. & Diels) Le Thomas, Uvaria leptopoda (King) J. Sinclair, Uvariastrum hexaloboides (R. E. Fr.) N. Robson and Uvariopsis congolana (De Wild.) R. E. Fr. (Fries 1959).
10.2307/4119391|Aspects of the biology, ecology and taxonomy of Septobasidium clelandii are discussed. This fungus parasitizes female coccids (Callococcus leptospermi) which form galls in the wood of several species of Leptospermum and is also parasitic on another coccid inhabiting Melaleuca decussata without forming a woody gall. Harpographium corynelioides is shown to be the conidial state of S. clelandii.Nectria aurantiicola is a common hyperparasite of S. clelandii.
10.2307/4109694|A key and distribution map are given for the various closely related taxa which can now be distinguished within a group of plants previously named as Euphorbia heterochroma or E. stapfii. E. confertiflora and E. heterochroma var. mitis are reduced to synonymy under E. heterochroma and the status of E. stapfii is discussed. Three new species and two new subspecies from East Africa and two new species from Ethiopia are described and the reasons for distinguishing them given.
10.2307/4110101|Two new species are described (Alloteropsis papillosa, Rhynchelytrum kallimorphon), and two new combinations made (Cyrtococcum multinode, Melinis drakensbergensis).
10.2307/4119443|Confusion is still prevalent over the correct name for the common weedy Leonurus in the tropics; the relevant literature is in Russian. The correct name of the tropical plant previously misidentified as Leonurus sibiricus L. is Leonurus japonicus Houtt.
10.2307/4117038|A new species of Tylophora R. Br., T. urceolata Meve, is described from material collected on Mt Cameroon. The strong, twining plant is characterized by sessile, one-flowered inflorescences and unusual urceolate flowers.
10.2307/4117594|Three new species ofAntidesma from Malesia and Queensland are described.
10.2307/4102916|A new species of Gibasis, G. consobrina D. R. Hunt is described and an extended description of G. matudae D. R. Hunt given. G. linearis (Benth.) Rohw. is distinguished from G. graminifolia (Martens & Galeotti) D. R. Hunt, comb. nov. The range of G. aguensis (Standl. & Steyerm.) Rohw. is extended to Mexico. A recent classification of Gibasis is discussed and an alternative offered.
10.2307/4110170|Huernia saudi-arabica, a new species from Saudi Arabia, is described and contrasted with H. boleana and H. lodarensis.
10.2307/4117778| We record the recent discovery of a new species, Ancistrocladus tanzaniensis Cheek & Frimodt-Mller, the first African submontane (900 - 1500 m alt.) and the first Tanzanian species of Ancistrocladus, a genus of considerable current pharmaceutical interest. 
10.2307/4108003|The S. Indian Umbellifer previously named Heracleum pedatum is shown not to belong to Heracleum and is described as a new genus Vanasushava.
4110886| Four new species of Schefflera]. R. Forst. & G. Forst. from the state of Espirito Santo, Brazil, are described and illustrated: S. capixaba Fiaschi, S. grandigemma Fiaschi, S. kollmannii Fiaschi and S. ruschiana Fiaschi & Pirani. All of them are endemic to the rainforests of the mountains of the Espirito Santo state, and three (S. grandigemma, S. kollmannii and S. ruschiana) are endemic to the vicinity of the municipality of Santa Teresa. /// Quatro espcies novas de Schefflera J. R. Forst. & G. Forst. do estado do Esprito Santo, Brasil, so descritas e ilustradas: S. capixaba Fiaschi, S. grandigemma Fiaschi, S. kollmannii Fiaschi e S. ruschiana Fiaschi & Pirani. Todas so endmicas das florestas ombrfilas de regies montanhosas do estado do Esprito Santo, sendo tres delas (S. grandigemma, S. kollmannii e S. ruschiana) endmicas dos arredores do municpio de Santa Teresa. 
23216742|Pseudovigna sulaensis R. Clark & Burgt (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae), a new species from Sierra Leone, is described and illustrated. It is a herb from submontane grassland, with annual twining stems to several metres long, sprouting from a perennial woody rootstock. The erect inflorescences have violet flowers. The new species is only known from the Sula Mountains in northern Sierra Leone; it was found there at 10 localities, of which nine are on summits of hills. The pollen of the new species is analysed. Descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps of the other two species in the genus Pseudovigna, P. argentea (Willd.) Verde. and P. puerarioides Ern are provided. A key to the three species of Pseudovigna is given. Notes on generic characterisation, partly through molecular analysis, are also provided. The IUCN conservation status of P. sulaensis is assessed as Vulnerable; of the other two species as Least Concern.
20649628|Three new species of Acanthaceae, Lepidagathis pseudoaristata Ensermu, Acanthopale aethio-germanica Ensermu, and Rhinacanthus mucronatus Ensermu, are described from Ethiopia. The three species are illustrated and their distributions mapped. The three new species are also compared to their presumed closest relatives. L. pseudoaristata is restricted to the Bale and Sidamo Regions, A. aethio-germanica is more widely distributed in Ethiopia occurring in the Kefa, Arsi, Sidamo and Bale Regions, and R. mucronatus is a local endemic restricted to the Borana area in the Sidamo Region. The conservation status of each species is also assessed.
10.2307/4110862|Two new Russula species having the rare combination of spores with isolated warts together with the typical habit and oxydation reactions of the Russula nigricans group are here described: Russula gossypina sp. nov. from Madagascar is described in Gossypinae sect. nov.; R. pseudolateriticola sp. nov., widespread in Zambian miombo woodlands, is described as a new member of sect. Compactae.
23216749|The unispecific Fijian genus Pimia Seem. (Sterculiaceae) has long been considered to be related to genera that are now included in the Byttneriaceae (also known as Malvaceae-Byttnerioideae). Morphological characters, however, indicate that Pimia is a mixture of Commersonia J. R. Forst. & G. Forst. (Byttneriaceae) and Diospyros L. (Ebenaceae). The name of the sole species, P. rhamnoides Seem., is lectotypified with an element that is determined to be C. bartramia (L.) Merr. and thus Pimia becomes a synonym of Commersonia. An epitype for P. rhamnoides is also selected because the lectotype now lacks flowers, which were an important element of the protologue.
10.2307/4102944|Twenty-two species and three subspecies have been considered in this account of the orchids of Jordan. The taxa belong to the genera Anacamptis, Cephalanthera, Epipactis, Himantoglossum, Limodorum, Ophrys and Orchis. A synopsis of taxa, keys to the genera, species and subspecies are provided as well as descriptions and geographical distribution. Seven taxa, identified from herbarium collections, represent new records for Jordan.
10.2307/4110518|In the genus Croton, 2 new species, 2 new subspecies & 1 new variety are described, 1 species is reduced to synonymy, a new record for Mozambique is reported and a hitherto undescribed feature of the stamens of C. gratissimus Burch. has attention drawn to it.
10.2307/4110138|A new species of Archidendron and a new species of Albizia are described from New Guinea in connection with the preparation of a manual of the family covering Papuasia.
10.2307/4119307|Scape (peduncle) anatomy is investigated in 49 species of Stylidium Willd. ex Sw. using plant material embedded in glycol methacrylate polymer. In transverse section, the scapes are fairly uniform, comprising a uniseriate epidermis with stomata, a parenchymatous and chlorophyllous cortex, a cylinder of sclerenchyma, a band of vascular tissue and a central parenchymatous pith. There is no secondary growth. The presence of elongate palisade cells in the cortex of species from section Junceae appears to be a synapomorphy for the group. The arrangement of vascular tissue is the most variable feature. It may comprise 1-2 rows of discrete bundles, clusters of free bundles, groups of fused bundles or a continuous cylinder of vascular tissue and connecting fibres. Internally-located phloem was noted in 5. crossocephalum and members of section Verticillatae. The importance of scape anatomy in the identification of homologous vegetative features is discussed.
23216401|Originally described within Harveya, H. alba Hepper was transferred to Alectra, and nearly accommodated in its own monotypic genus. Recently published phylogenetic analyses support the placement of this species within Harveya as originally suggested by Hepper. The transfer is made here, and Harveya wysockiana is synonymised with H. alba.
10.2307/4110461|Four new Chinese species of Epimedium, all in cultivation, are here described. E. ilicifolium from Shanxi (Shensi), E. mikinorii from Hubei (Hupeh), E. myrianthum from Hunan and E. rhizomatosum from Sichuan (Szechwan).
24717375|The third part of the revision of the genus Phyllanthus L. (Phyllanthaceae) in Madagascar and the Comoro Islands treats the subgenera Swartziani comb. & stat. nov., Afroswartziani subgen. nov. and Emblica. Taxonomic history of the subgenus Phyllanthus is given and its circumscription is revised. Phyllanthus subgenus Afroswartziani subgen. nov. comprises thirteen species. One species P. ankazobensis is described as new to science. P. vatovaviensis and P. madagascariensis var. kalambatitrensis are validly published by this paper. Identification keys, descriptions and species notes (habitat, distribution and threats) are provided. Distribution maps and IUCN conservation assessments are provided for all species and varieties.
10.2307/4118859|Two new species, Euphorbia parkeri (subgenus Chamaesyce) and Euphorbia kingdon-wardii (subgenus Esula) are described from Burma (Myanmar).
20443268|Three new species of Poaceae, Poa asirensis Cope, Helictotrichon arctum Cope and Lepturus nesiotes Cope, are described from the Arabian Peninsula.
10.2307/4107966|The application of the names Cymbidium longifolium and C. elegans is discussed and clarified, and it is concluded that the traditional usage is correct.
10.2307/4115857|A new species of Cyperus, C. kituiensis, is described from south-eastern Kenya. It most resembles C. kwaleensis Lye but differs in spikelet and nutlet morphology.
10.2307/4118877|Herbarium collections of annual Umbellifers from the Socotran Archipelago have been variously attributed to species in Carum (C. calcicolum Balf. f, C. kuriense Vierh., C. pimpinelloides Balf. f., and C. trichocarpum Vierh.), or the corresponding combinations in Trachyspermum. Recent gatherings have been examined alongside the historic material, using fruit anatomy, scanning electron microscopy and classical morphology. Results show that this endemic species complex should best be treated as one variable species Trachyspermum pimpinelloides (Balf. f.) H. Wolff.
10.2307/4110590|The taxon Mucuna hainanensis Hayata subsp. multilamellata Wilmot-Dear, is described. Due to an extensive and long-standing nomenclatural confusion this was formerly known as M. nigricans (Lour.) Steud. var. nigricans. Additional details of gross morphology not appearing in earlier literature are here given for both it and subsp. hainanensis (formerly known as M. nigricans var. hainanensis). A further taxon, formerly known as M. nigricans var. hongkongensis Wilmot-Dear is reduced to synonomy under M. hainanensis subsp. hainanensis. Keys to distinguish these subspecies from each other and from the other lamellate-fruited species found on the Asian mainland (this including all those species involved in the nomenclatural confusion) are appended.
10.2307/4108471|The pollen morphology of 13 species of the genus Moringa has been studied. The pollen exine is rather distinctive and uniform in structure throughout the family. It is spheroidal, tricolporate with costate colpi, the ornamentation is psilate with sparse puncta, the endexine is very thick at the apertures but almost absent from the mesocolpial and polar areas, the foot layer is thick, the interstitium granular and the tectum thick. Six of the species have pollen grains larger than those of the rest of the genus. Pollen size correlates with macromorphology and it is postulated that polyploidy may be present. Pollen morphology and the relationship of the family is discussed.
10.2307/4102929|A provisional treatment is offered of the ten African and Arabian species of the genus Arisaema Mart. Two new species are described, A. mooneyanum Gilbert & Mayo and A. somalense Gilbert & Mayo.
20443330|Berlinia razzifera Mackinder & Wieringa from Gabon and Berlinia immaculata Mackinder & Wieringa from Cameroon and Gabon are described as new.
10.2307/4117267|Cassia pachycarpa De Wit is reduced to synonymy of C. grandis L. and Affonsea pteropoda Kostermans to that of Harpullia rhachiptera Radlk.
10.2307/4107993|Bowringia discolor sp. nov. is described from Ghana and a key to the genus presented.
10.2307/4110115|The status of the name Gibasis graminifolia is revised. New combinations in Gibasis are made for two species hitherto placed in Trandescantia and a further species of Tradescania reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/4110325|Glossostelma is reassessed in the light of collections made since Bullock (1952) reviewed the genus. Of the twelve species recognized here, four are newly described. Three new combinations are also presented. Four entities included within G. spathulatum sensu Bullock are treated at specific rank and some corrections are made to Bullock's synonymies.
10.2307/4107836|Ruellia pallida Vahl is reduced to synonymy of R. patula Jacq. but R. strepens var. caerulea Forssk. is not positively identifiable; a lectotype is chosen forBarleria bispinosa (Forssk.) Vahl, the name of a species confined to the south-western Arabian peninsula; Barleria diacantha Hochst. ex Nees and B. marghilomaniae Volkens & Schweinf. are reduced to synonymy of B. trispinosa (Forssk.) Vahl, the area of which is now extended from Arabia to N.E. tropical Africa; Barleria lanceata (Forssk.) C. Chr. is found to be taxonomically distinct from B. noctiflora L.f., but B. triacantha Hochst. ex Nees is found to be a synonym of it; Barleria appressa (Forssk.) Deflers is considered to be one of eight newly designated subspecies of B. prionitis L., a species now extending through tropical Asia, Arabia and tropical Africa; Justicia sulcata (Vahl) Vahl and J. suaveolens (Nees) Lindau are reduced to synonymy of J.flava (Vahl) Vahl; two variants are noted in Monechma debile (Forssk.) Nees in Arabia and N.E. tropical Africa; a lectotype not in the Forsskal herbarium is chosen for Ecbolium viride (Forssk.) Alston, and the relationship of the African and Arabian material of this species to that from Asia is discussed; the new combinatio Ecbolium violaceum (Forssk.) Hillcoat & J. R. I. Wood is made, and E. anisacanthus Schweinf. becomes a synonym of this; the new combination Isoglossa punctata (Vahl) Brummitt & J R. I. Wood is published and 1. oerstediana Lindau becomes a synonym of it; Dicliptera verticillata (Forssk.) C. Chr. is found to be distinct from D. chinensis L., and a lectotype is chosen for D. micranthes which is a synonym of the former; the new combination Peristrophe paniculata (Forssk.) Brummitt is published, and P. bicalyculata (Retz.) Nees is a synonym of this; Dicliptera zeylanica Nees is reduced to synonymy of D.foetida (Forssk.) Blatter; the name Hypoestes forskalei (Vahl) Solander ex Roem. & Schult. is considered to be correct for the species long known as H. verticillaris, and H. fastuosa (L.) Solander ex Roem. & Schult. is a mystery plant of unknown origin.
10.2307/4103038|The species complex comprising A. kilimandscharica, A. mannii and A. producta is discussed. The additional new species A. diffusa, and a new subspecies A. mannii subsp. aethiopica, both from Ethiopia, are described. A key and descriptions are provided.
10.2307/4109929|Crinodendron Molina, Dubouzetia Brongn. & Gris and Peripentadenia L. S. Smith are compared and considered to be more closely related to each other than any is to any other genus. The species, about 16 in all, are reviewed. Three sections are described in Dubouzetia; D. australiensis is described as new, the first record of the genus from Australia.
10.2307/4102913|Euphorbia robbiae Turrill is recorded from European Turkey and reduced to varietal rank under E. amygdaloides L.; a chromosome count is recorded for it.
10.2307/4114441|Chascanum arabicum Moldenke is shown to be a mixture. The type specimen belongs to C. laetum Fenzl ex Walp. and a second cited specimen is a quite dissimilar undescribed species, C.yemenense. The opportunity is taken to describe another taxon C. obovatum subsp. glaucum from other Arabian material.
10.2307/4110337|Restio mlanjiensis, a new species of Restionaceae from Mt Mulanje, Malawi, is described and its relationship to Restio mahonii is discussed.
20443246|76 species of poroid Basidiomycetes are recorded from Korup National Park, South West Province, Cameroon. Skeletocutis africana is described as new. Microporellus violaceocinerascens is recorded as new to Africa and an additional 20 species are recorded as new to Cameroon.
10.2307/4114575|The genus Aframomum (Zingiberaceae) is revised within the area covered by the Flora of West Tropical Africa. 24 species are recognized. Aframomum elegans from Mt Nimba is described as a new species. The combination A. subsericeum subsp. glaucophyllum (K. Schum.) J. M. Lock is made. Three other species, whose type material has been destroyed or is inadequate, are also discussed.
10.2307/4119312|Steganthera stevensii is newly described and illustrated.
10.2307/4102950|Four new sections are proposed in Callisia Loefl. for species referred to Phyodina Rafin. by Rohweder (1956) and recently transferred to Callisia by Hunt (1983). Callisia sect. Leptocallisia Bentham & J. D. Hooker is enlarged to contain other Phyodina spp., Leptorhoeo C. B. Clarke and C. ciliata Kunth. A conspectus of the sections is given.
10.2307/4108135|The correct name for the Indo-Malesian species first described as Euphorbia microphylla Roth, and more recently as E. bombaiensis Santapau and E. orbiculata H.B.K., is shown to be E. heyneana Sprengel. Two new combinations at subspecies rank are made.
10.2307/4119434|27 species of heterobasidiomycetous fungi within the Auriculariales, Ceratobasidiales, Dacrymycetales, Exidiales, Tremellales, and Tulasnellales are recorded from Korup National Park and the Korup Project Area, Cameroon. Of these 27 species, 21 have not previously been reported from Africa. Basidiodendron excentrispora is described as new. The new combinations Basidiodendron farinaceum and B. radians are proposed. The literature on African heterobasidiomycetous species is briefly reviewed.
10.2307/4107997|Five new species of succulent Euphorbia are described, two confined to Kenya, two confined to Tanzania, and one from Kenya and Uganda.
10.2307/4110050|Two new species of Ophiorrhiza L. (Rubiaceae), O. caudipetala and O. mussaendiformis are described from the Khasi Hills, Assam [Meghalaya], India.
10.2307/4108881|The genus Calorophus (Restionaceae) has been found to consist of two morphologically, anatomically and cytologically distinct parts. One of these parts is retained as Calorophus, the other is described as a new genus Empodisma.
10.2307/4120621|A taxonomy is proposed for Papuasian species of Calamus (Arecaceae) in which the fruits are borne in pairs, rather than singly. Five species are recognised. Calamus pholidostachys J. Dransf. & W. J. Baker is described as new, C. macrospadix Burret is reduced to synonymy with C. macrochlamys Becc., C. steenisii Furtado and C. laceratus Burret are both reduced to synonymy with C. zebrinus Becc., C. altiscandens Burret is accepted and the until now poorly known C fertilis Becc. is fully described for the first time.
10.2307/4109172|Notes are given on eight species of Aframomum (Zingiberaceae) from East Africa. One new species, A. usambarense, is described. The name A. laxiflorum is validated. A. crassilabium is regarded as nomen dubium. Other species recorded from the area are listed, but require further study.
10.2307/4108265|A neotype is proposed for Tragia pungens (Forssk.) Muell. Arg., and a full synonymy is presented. T. cinerea is established as a distinct species.
10.2307/4107970|Himantoglossum hircinum (L.) Spreng. subsp. affine (Boiss.) Sunderm. var. pseudocaprinum J.J. Wood is described from Iraq. A key to the two species and four subspecies of Himantoglossum, together with notes on distribution, is provided.
10.2307/4110075|Two new species and a new variety are described; one species and two varieties are reduced to synonymy. The reasons for these taxonomic changes are discussed and comments made on the relevant notes by N. E. Brown in Flora of Tropical Africa.
10.2307/4109829|The correct names of the Indo-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific strand Scaevola species are shown to be, respectively, S. plumieri (L.) Vahl and S. sericea Vahl.
10.2307/4110150|The taxonomy of three species complexes, centred upon S. pumila, S. sphacelata and S. megaphylla respectively, is examined. Four new varietal combinations are made: S. sphacelata vars. aurea, torta, sericea and splendida.
20443374|A new species of Ischaemum L. (Poaceae) from lateritic rocky plateau Goa, India, is described as I. yadavii. This species is similar to I. sanatpaui Bor but differs in its crustaceous bulged, lower glume of sessile spikelet; dorsally humped, narrowly winged keel of upper glume of sessile spikelet; and well-developed pedicelled spikelet.
10.2307/4117842| A key, descriptions and notes on circumscription and identification are given for the 9 species of Syngonanthus Ruhland which occur within the area covered by the Flora of Tropical East Africa and Flora Zambesiaca. S. exilis S. M. Phillips, 5. mwinilungensis S. M. Phillips and S. wahlbergii (Krn.) Ruhland var. sinkabolensis S. M. Phillips are described as new. Seed morphology as seen under the scanning electron microscope is discussed and photomicrographs provided. The basic structure of the surface sculpturing of the seed is found to be uniform throughout. 
10.2307/4118984|A new species of Vicia L. (Leguminosae-Vicieae) was discovered from western Syria. The little known V. hyaeniscyamus Mouterde was collected in the same area. Both species are relatives of Vicia faba L. and are members of Vicia section Faba (Miller) Ledeb. Descriptions and ecogeographic information are provided.
23489132|The endemic Brazilian genus Zomicarpa Schott traditionally comprised three species occurring in north-eastern Brazil. These species were critically revised, based on recent collections. Only two species are here accepted, described and illustrated: Zomicarpa pythonium (Mart.) Schott and Z. steigeriana Schott. The widely used name Z. riedeliana Schott is reduced to a synonym of the oldest name Z. pythonium. Other aspects including evolutionary relationships, ecology and geographical distribution are also discussed.
10.2307/4110643|The chorology of the grasses of Australia and New Zealand is examined and a classification into two kingdoms and seven regions is proposed.
20443254|As part of an ongoing study of the families of Asparagales for the "Anatomy of the Monocotyledons" volume series, leaf anatomical characters of a representative sample of 80 species, 32 genera and four subfamilies, including two tribes, of Hyacinthaceae are examined using both light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Raised 'pustules' or dark-coloured spots are a feature of leaves of some species. In comparison with many other geophytes, leaves of Hyacinthaceae possess relatively little sclerenchyma. There is a wide range of variation in crystal types in the family. The presence of copious mucilage, probably derived either from laticifer-like idioblasts or 'rhexigenetic' lacunae, is a possible synapomorphy for the subfamily Hyacinthoideae, especially the African tribe Massonieae. Lacunae may have evolved within the family in order to allow rapid leaf expansion in deciduous-leafed species from xeric habitats, although they are entirely absent from Massonieae, which have mostly prostrate leaves with relatively large mesophyll cells and relatively broad epidermal cells. Species with more erect leaves, such as many Hyacintheae, possess thickened periclinal epidermal cell walls, perhaps enabling the relatively narrow leaves to be held in a more upright position. Developmental heterophylly occurs in some genera with erect leaves.
10.2307/4111096|It is shown that Limonium maurocordatae (= Statice maurocordatae), originally described from eastern Ethiopia, is conspecific with L. distichum, a species distributed in eastern Ethiopia, Somalia and north-eastern Kenya. A neotype is proposed for L. maurocordatae and L. distichum is reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/4117782|A new species from north-western Somalia, Ceropegia ahmarensis Masinde (Asclepiadaceae - Stapelieae), probably allied to C. stenantha K. Schum., is described and illustrated. It is characterised by a climbing, succulent, glabrous stem; narrowly-ovate leaves; shortly pedunculate inflorescences; a corolla tube with a very slightly inflated base and corolla lobes with auriculate bases.
20649559|The type specimen of Metrosideros regelii is discussed. It contains a mixture of two species, representing different genera, and a lectotype is chosen. The generic position of the species is considered in the light of morphology and recent molecular evidence and the new combination, Mearnsia regelii, made.
10.2307/4118895|A new species of Psathyrella, P. yaoundeana, is here described from Cameroon.
10.2307/4113873|A new species and two new varieties are described for the genus Drypetes from Tanzania.
10.2307/4119722|The flower morphology and its relation to the pollination biology of four species of Clusia (Guttiferae) from the Gran Sabana (Guyana highland) belonging to three sections of the genus is described. The flowers of both genders of C. schomburgkiana (sect. Polythecandra) and of C. columnaris (sect. Omphalanthera) offer resin as a reward for small bees acting as pollinators. In both species the androecial morphology is highly derived. Functionally, this can be interpreted in terms of minimization of contact of the sticky resin and the pollen. Male flowers of C. pusilla and Clusia sp. of sect. Clusiastrum offer pollen as a reward for large, middle-sized and small bees, who vibrate the anthers to collect pollen. Female flowers are rewardless and unusual in the genus by the presence of long styles. The pollinating bees are probably deceived by the combination of papillose stigmas and the yellowish staminodes directly below these. The bees pollinate the stigmas when trying to vibrate them. The evolution of the flower biology in the genus Clusia is briefly discussed.
10.2307/4119784|Four new species and six new varieties of Antidesma L. are described from the Malesian area, with two new range extensions. Notes are given on the status and affinities of some stenophyllous species of Western Malesia and A. sphaerocarpum of Samoa is recorded from New Guinea.
4110944|Aspidosperma resonans H. J. Will. & Goyder (Apocynaceae: Rauvolfioideae) from the Bolivian inter-Andean dry valley system is described and illustrated. The charango, a guitar-like instrument characteristic of the region, is traditionally made from wood of this species. The conservation status of the species is discussed.
10.2307/4114613|Five new species, Andropogon leprodes, A. pungens, Chloris jubaensis, Eragrostis lutensis and E. trachyantha are described, and a new combination, Polypogon schimperianus, is made.
10.2307/4114518|The relationship between Hemizygia and Syncolostemon is discussed. Using the currently accepted generic delimitations, the new combinations Syncolostemon flabellifolius (S. Moore) A. J. Paton and Hemizygia comosa (Wright ex Benth.) A. J. Paton have to be made. The range of Syncolostemon is extended into eastern Zimbabwe, and Hemizygia occurs in Madagascar and India. Related genera with a similar distribution to Hemizygia are briefly discussed.
10.2307/4114473|The chromosome numbers of three new taxa, (one Alliaceae and two Hyacinthaceae) from Turkey are reported, together with the first chromosome record for the Turkish endemic, Muscari discolor, 2n = 18, (2x). The new taxa are Allium turcicum 2n = 16, (2x); Bellevalia anatolica 2n = 8, (2x); and Muscari anatolicum 2n = 18, (2x) and 2n = 36, (4x). One individual of A. turcicum was found to have an extra chromosome, 2n = 17 (16 + 1), a rare case of trisomy.
10.2307/4110924|A new species [of Eulalia], E. shrirangii (Poaceae), is described and illustrated from Maharashtra, India.
10.2307/4117759|The Afro-Madagascan genus Brachylaena is described, and a key to the eleven species is given. Five species are endemic to Madagascar. Six occur on the African mainland, with only B. huillensis widespread; the other five species are restricted to southern Africa. Descriptions, distribution data and notes on the species are provided. The genus is related to Tarchonanthus L., and the two genera belong to the tribe Mutisieae Cass.
20649629|Cyrtostachys Blume (Areceae: Arecaceae) is treated in this study as a genus of tree palms with a disjunct distribution pattern across Malesia and consisting of seven species. Three species are newly recognised (C. bakeri Heatubun, C. barbata Heatubun and C. excelsa Heatubun). Five previously accepted species (C. brassii Burret, C. kisu Becc., C. microcarpa Burret, C. peekeliana Becc. and C. phanerolepis Burret) are reduced to synonymy with C. loriae Becc. and one species (C. compsoclada Burret) is removed to Heterospathe as Heterospathe compsoclada (Burret) Heatubun, while C. ledermanniana Becc. is considered as a doubtful taxon. A determination key is presented and detailed descriptions provided for all taxa. A phylogenetic analysis of all species in the genus was performed based on morphological data. Despite the poorly resolved tree topologies, Cyrtostachys is resolved as monophyletic, with C. glauca H. E. Moore as sister to all other species, and the west Malesian species C. renda Blume probably representing a dispersal from within a Papuasian clade into the Sunda shelf. Natural history observations, including uses and conservation status are also presented in this monograph.
23489125|Relationships among 23 species of Zingiber Mill. were investigated using nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS1, 5.8S and ITS2) sequences. Phylogenetic analysis of the ITS region has resolved the taxa under study into four clades, which correspond with previously recognised sectional classification of the genus based on inflorescence type (sects Zingiber, Dymczewiczia (Horan.) Benth., Pleuranthesis Benth. and Cryptanthium Horan.). However, sects Zingiber and Dymczewiczia are weakly supported as separate groups and are more closely related to each other than to sects Pleuranthesis and Cryptanthium. Two species, Z. junceum Gagnep. and Z. gramineum Noronha, which were previously tentatively placed in both sects Zingiber and Dymczewiczia due to their ability to develop two inflorescence types, are allied with sect. Zingiber. The close relationship of the two sections based on ITS sequences together with similarity in pollen morphology supports an earlier proposal that sect. Dymczewiczia should be amalgamated with sect. Zingiber. Analysis of ITS sequence data also resolved the species under study into three groups according to geographical distribution.
10.2307/4110799|A revision of the genus Salvia L. in Colombia is presented. A key to the 42 species recognized is given together with short descriptions, distribution notes and maps. Illustrations of new taxa are provided. Four new species, S. chicamochae, S. falcata, S. nubigena and S. uribei are described. In order to account for variation found in many species, subspecies are recognized for S. rubescens, S. melaleuca, S. amethystina, S. pauciserrata, S. sphaceloides, S. bogotensis and S. rufula. S. carnea is shown to be a very variable species distributed throughout much of tropical America and embracing eight names formerly recognized at specific rank. S. moschata is shown to be synonymous with the variable S. tortuosa and it is suggested that its relationships need reevaluation. A number of species hitherto recognized are shown to be synonymous with other taxa.
10.2307/4119069|Pogonotium, a new genus, is described to include the aberrant Daemonorops ursina known from Malaya and Borneo; complete material of this species has shown that its inclusion in Daemonorops was incorrect. One further species, P. divaricatum, is described for the first time.
10.2307/4110140|Dasysphaera breviflora is described from Somalia and a key supplied for the separation of the four species of Dasysphaera as well as Volkensinia prostrata.
20443285|A study of selected taxa in the genus Rhinacanthus Nees (Acanthaceae) is presented. The R. nasutus (L.) Kurz-R. gracilis Klotzsch complex in Africa is reassessed, with one new species and one new variety described, one new combination made and one new status recorded. A further two, small-flowered species are described from eastern Africa, and the west African taxon R. obtusifolius (Heine) I. Darbysh. is recognised as distinct from the widespread R. virens (Nees) Milne-Redh. The conservation status of each taxon is assessed. Finally, a key to the species of Rhinacanthus in mainland Africa is presented.
10.2307/4114652|Two problems occurring within Mapania sect. Mapania are outlined. A new combination, M. sylvatica subsp. gabonica is made and a new subspecies, M. assimilis subsp. guianensis is described.
10.2307/4118978|The type collections of fifty-five species of agaricoid fungi described from Brazil by M. J. Berkeley between 1840 and 1876 have been examined and their generic position established. The following new combinations are proposed: Eccilia vespertilio (Berk.) Pegler (Agaricus vespertilio Berk.), Gymnopilus panurensis (Berk.) Pegler (Agaricus panurensis Berk.), G. psamminus (Berk.) Pegler (Agaricus psamminus Berk.), and Pleurotus submembranaceus (Berk.) Pegler (Lentinus submembranaceus Berk.).
10.2307/4110339|Pluchea succulenta Mesfin, a new species from Somalia, is described and illustrated. A key to the species of Pluchea known from Somalia is also provided.
20443274|A new species of Lagarosolen, L. coriaceifolium Y. G. Wei, from Guangxi province, China is described and illustrated. Its relationship with Lagarosolen integrifolius D. Fang & L. Zeng is discussed.
10.2307/4110291| A revision of Aulacocalyx Hook. f. is presented. The delimitation of Aulacocalyx from Heinsenia K. Schum. is discussed. Three combinations are made: Aulacocalyx pollens (Hiern) Bridson &; E. Figueiredo, A. pallens subsp. letestui (Pellegr.) E. Figueiredo and A. subulata (N. Hall) E. Figueiredo. Two new subspecies, A. subulata subsp. glabra E. Figueiredo and A. jasminiflora subsp. kivuensis E. Figueiredo, are described. 
23489344|Alysicarpus sanjappae, a new species (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae) from the Western Ghats of India, is described and illustrated. It resembles A. heyneanus Wight & Arn., but differs in having a prostrate habit, stems and branches strigose with a line of distant hairs, leaves usually 1-foliolate mixed with 3-foliolate, stipules and stipels distinctly ciliate only at the tip, secondary bracts, a glabrous pedicel, dark brown hairs present only on the margins at the tip of all sepals, a yellow corolla tinged with red, and rugose pods, as long as or slightly longer than the sepals.
10.2307/4114477|Pothos insignis has recently been collected for the first time in Brunei. A new description based on all available collections of this hitherto obscure species is given. Observations on stem architecture in Pothos sect. Allopothos are presented.
10.2307/4111087|Bulbophyllum kupense P. J. Cribb & B. J. Pollard is described and illustrated. Notes on its affinities, distribution, habitat and conservation are provided.
23216731|Two new species of Sloanea are described and illustrated: S. fasciculata D. Samp. & V. C. Souza and S. hatschbachii D. Samp. & V. C. Souza. Both species are endemic to the Atlantic Forest states of Esprito Santo and Paran in Brazil. S. fasciculata is similar to S. hirsuta (Schott) Planch. ex Benth., but has a fasciculate inflorescence and deeply-divided stigma. S. hatschbachii is similar to S. lasiocoma K. Schum. with regard to the morphology of the leaves, flowers and inflorescence, which is a frondose-bracteate raceme, but can be differentiated by the size of the style, the extension of the connective, and the length of the sepals.
20443408|A phylogenetic classification of tribe Poranthereae Grning (Phyllanthaceae Martynov) is presented, based on molecular studies using DNA sequence data of nuclear ITS and plastid matK regions in conjunction with morphological characters. The tribe contains eight genera, four subgenera and 111 species. Circumscription of the genera differs considerably from previous systems. Only Actephila Blume remains unchanged. Andrachne sensu lato is divided into five genera: Andrachne L., Leptopus Decne., Notoleptopus Voronts. & Petra Hoffm., Phyllanthopsis (Scheele) Voronts. & Petra Hoffm., Pseudophyllanthus (Mll. Arg.) Voronts. & Petra Hoffm.; two further species are transferred to Meineckia Baill. subgenus Petaliferae Voronts. & Petra Hoffm. Archileptopus P. T. Li is included in Leptopus; Oreoporanthera (Grning) Hutch. is included in Poranthera Rudge; Zimmermannia Pax and Zimmermanniopsis Radcl.-Sm. are included in Meineckia subgenus Meineckia. The genus Notoleptopus and Meineckia subgenus Petaliferae are newly described; Phyllanthopsis and Pseudophyllanthus are raised to generic level; Andrachne subgen. Phyllanthidea (Didr.) Voronts. & Petra Hoffm. is raised to subgeneric level. Six new combinations and a nomen novum are made at species level: Leptopus fangdingianus (P. T. Li) Voronts. & Petra Hoffm., Phyllanthopsis phyllanthoides Voronts. & Petra Hoffm., P. arida (Warnock & M. C. Johnst.) Voronts. & Petra Hoffm., Pseudophyllanthus ovalis (E. Mey. ex Sond.) Voronts. & Petra Hoffm., Notoleptopus decaisnei (Benth.) Voronts. & Petra Hoffm., Meineckia cerebroides (Petra Hoffm.) Voronts. & Petra Hoffm. and M. gracilipes (Petra Hoffm.) Voronts. & Petra Hoffm. Morphology and geographical distribution is discussed with special reference to petals, disc morphology and seed.
10.2307/4108477|A new cauliflorous species of Cola, C. porphyrantha, related to C. stelechantha, is described from Kenya.
10.2307/4115856|Two new Ceropegia L. (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae-Ceropegieae) species from Kenya, Ceropegia laikipiensis and C. manderensis, are described and illustrated. Ceropegia laikipiensis is a stein succulent with small, scale-like leaves and is closely related to C. arabica H. Huber var. powysii (D. V. Field) Meve & Mangelsdorff. Ceropegia manderensis has thin wiry stems and a globose tuber and is related to C. stenoloba Hochst. ex Chiov.
20649654|Tabebuia karsoana is a shrub or small tree species from the northern karst of Puerto Rico, where it is confined to ridges and hilltops. Its habit and general flower appearance are similar to those of T. haemantha (Bertero ex Spreng.) A. DC. However, T. karsoana is distinguished by leaflets densely covered with white peltate scales on both sides, the corolla fuchsia with a white microscopically papillose throat, the stamens with arcuate filaments, and the anthers divaricate and connivent, among other features. In addition, the two species' distributions do not overlap and their habitats are contrasting. According to IUCN criteria, the new species can be defined as "endangered" and consequently needs legal protection. /// Tabebuia karsoana es una especie de arbusto o rbol pequeo del karso norteo de Puerto Rico, donde crece sobre riscos y cimas. Es similar a Tabebuia haemantha (Bertero ex Spreng.) A. DC., en la forma de crecimiento y en la apariencia general de las flores. Sin embargo, T. karsoana es distinguible por sus hojuelas densamente cubiertas de escamas blancas y peltadas, sus corolas fucsia con la garganta blanca y microscpicamente papilosa, sus estambres con filamentos arqueados, y sus anteras divaricadas y coniventes, entre otras caractersticas. Adems, las reas de distribucin de las dos especies no se traslapan y sus hbitats son contrastantes. Con base en los criterios de la UICN, la nueva especie puede definirse como "en peligro", y consecuentemente amerita proteccin legal.
20443414|Croton imbricatus L. R. Lima & Pirani from Bahia, C. muellerianus L. R. Lima from Paran and C. pygmaeus L. R. Lima from Rio Grande do Sul are described and illustrated. They are included in Croton section Lamprocroton (Mll. Arg.) Pax because they are much branched subshrubs or shrubs, bearing leaves with a lepidote indumentum (at least in part), inflorescences lacking bisexual cymules, and pistillate flowers with bifid styles. /// Croton imbricatus L. R. Lima & Pirani da Bahia, C. muellerianus L. R. Lima do Paran e C. pygmaeus L. R. Lima do Rio Grande do Sul so descritas e ilustradas. Elas so representantes de Croton section Lamprocroton (Mll. Arg.) Pax e tal posicionamento sistemtico  devido ao hbito arbustivo ou subarbustivo bastante ramificado, com indumento da folhagem lepidoto pelo menos em parte, inflorescncias sem cmulas bissexuadas e flores pistiladas com estiletes uma vez bfidos.
10.2307/4110481|Two distinctive new species of Boesenbergia from Brunei Darussalam are described and illustrated; Boesenbergia jangarunii and B. bruneiana.
10.2307/4119314|On the basis of seed morphological and anatomical characters it is shown that the recently described third species of the genus Puna, P. bonnieae, from Argentina is referable to the genus Tephrocactus. The necessary new combination is made and the conservation status of the species is assessed.
10.2307/4129958|Paragelonium Leandri, an alleged Malagasy palaeoendemic genus, proves to be congeneric with the African genus Aristogeitonia Prain. The required new combination for the sole species is accordingly made, and a new species of Aristogeitonia is described. A new tribe is established for the genus Benoistia Perr. & Leandri, and a new species is described. The original placement of Claoxylopsis Leandri is confirmed and two new species are described.
23489135|A new species of Tibouchina Aubl. sect. Pleroma (D. Don) Cogn. is described and illustrated in this paper. Tibouchina tedescoi Meirelles, L. Kollmann & R. Goldenb. occurs in highland granitic outcrops from central Esprito Santo state, south-eastern Brazil. Uma nova espcie de Tibouchina Aubl. sect. Pleroma (D. Don) Cogn.  descrita e ilustrada neste trabalho. Tibouchina tedescoi Meirelles, L. Kollmann & R. Goldenb. ocorre em afloramentos rochosos inseridos em vegetao alto-montana na regio central do estado do Esprito Santo, sudeste do Brasil.
20443241|The characteristics of the group of species resembling Strobilanthes pentstemonoides (Nees) T. Anderson are discussed. The four species of this complex occurring in the Malesian region are defined and contrasted. S. pluriformis C. B. Clarke is lectotypified and S. murutorum J. R. I. Wood from Sarawak is described as new. A hitherto confused species from north east India is described as new under the name S. paniculiformis J. R. I. Wood. The common species of this complex in China, Vietnam and Thailand, hitherto treated under numerous different names is recognised as a single species, S. dimorphotrica Hance, with two subspecies. Subspecies dimorphotrica extends from eastern India through south China to Hainan and Taiwan islands while subspecies rex (C. B. Clarke) J. R. I. Wood is centred on Thailand but extends into four neighbouring countries. The new species are illustrated.
10.2307/4109588|An account is given of the Gynura species found in Africa. One new species, G. colorata, is described. Descriptions, synonymy (for Africa), distribution notes and an index of names used in Africa are given.
10.2307/4103162|Twenty-four taxa are described, of which Cyathicula tomentosa, Hymenoscyphus subpallescens, Encoelia glauca, Stioclettia luzulina, Didymella hebridensis, Tubeufia parvula, and Hyaloscypha quercina var. resinacea are new to science. In addition, eleven new combinations are made.
10.2307/4110638|A new species, Paspalum reticulinerve Renvoize, is described from Bolivia and compared with 6 other related species of section Pectinata Chase ex Rodriguez.
10.2307/4109180|The genus Adenolobus is considered genetically distinct from Bauhinia and shows similarities to the genus Cercis. It occurs in the drier parts of south-western Africa from southern Angola to northern Cape Province, and includes two species, one of which includes two subspecies. Descriptions, synonymy and distribution maps are given and a new subspecific combination is made.
10.2307/4108114|A new species of Pagamea (Rubiaceae) is described from the coast of Bahia, Brazil.
10.2307/4107735|Gasteroid Basidiomycota allied to the agaricoid genera of Russulaceae, occurring in Victoria State, Australia, are described and illustrated. In Russulaceae, Cystangium is the only gasteroid genus known to occur, whilst in Elasmomycetaceae, species belonging to Elasmomyces, Gymnomyces, Martellia, and Zelleromyces are reported. Cystangium phymatodisporum, Elasmomyces hepaticus, Gymnomyces eildonensis, and Zelleromyces daucinus are described as new. New combinations are proposed for Martellia (Octaviania) redolens, and Z. (Octaviania) striatus.
10.2307/4118878|Chrysogrammitis, a new genus in Grammitidaceae (Filicales) is described. Combinations are made for the two species known, which range from SE Asia through Malesia to Melanesia, and a key is provided for their identification.
20443410|A taxonomic revision of the palm genus Sclerosperma (Arecaceae) is presented. Three species are recognised: S. mannii H. Wendl., which is relatively widespread from Liberia to the Democratic Republic of Congo; S. walkeri A. Chev., which is apparently confined to the interior of Gabon and a band along the Congo River; and S. profiziana, a new species previously considered conspecific to S. mannii that is found in southwest Ghana, Congo, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Angola. The taxonomic history, morphology, distribution and conservation status of the genus and each species are discussed.
10.2307/4115726|Sirochloa, a new genus from Madagascar, is described, with one species S. parvifolia (Munro) S. Dransf., transferred from Schizostachyum Nees. It is characterised by the determinate inflorescence with the presence of subtending bracts and prophylls. The lemma possesses a long awn, and the branch system is unusual in having secondary branches developed most probably independently from the dominant main branch. The genus appears morphologically most similar to Decaryochloa A. Camus, a monotypic genus endemic to Madagascar.
10.2307/4119734|Following the discovery of unpublished material belonging to the late A. A. Pearson from the Republic of South Africa, the following species are described and illustrated, and proposed as new to science: Agaricus griseovinaceus sp. nov., Entoloma olivipes sp. nov., Hygrocybe aurantiorufa sp. nov., Inocybe cinnamomea sp. nov., I. pullata sp. nov. and Stropharia coccinea sp. nov.
10.2307/4111184|Leucas anandaraoana, a new species allied to L. flaccida R. Br. from the Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve in southeastern India, is described and illustrated.
20443352|A new species of Secamone, S. clavistyla T. Harris & Goyder, from Tanzania is described and illustrated, and S. whytei N. E. Br. from southern Malawi is treated as a subspecies of S. stuhlmannii K. Schum.
10.2307/4108548| Pearsonia Dmmer is enlarged to include Pleiospora Harv., nom. rejic., Phaenohoffmannia Kuntze, nom. illegit., Gamwellia Bak. f., Edbakeria R. Viguier and two species of Lotononis. A discussion of generic limits, nomenclature and distribution is followed by a revision of the eleven species and five subspecies, which occur mostly in southern tropical Africa, with one species in central Africa and one in Madagascar. 
10.2307/4108476|Selago montis-shebae (Selaginaceae) and Thesium davidsonae (Santalaceae) are described from South Africa (Transvaal).
10.2307/4108475|Pterostylis setifera from southeastern Australia is described and its affinities with the poorly known P. mitchellii are discussed.
23489032|The accepted names and associated synonyms of 12 Dioscorea L. species present in the flora of Madagascar are lectotypified and two new synonyms established.
10.2307/4107988|The name Gingidia J. W. Dawson (Umbelliferae) is validated, along with five new combinations at specific level.
10.2307/4110973|The genus Westphalina is reduced to synonymy under Mortoniodendron and its sole species, W. macrocarpa, is considered to be conspecific with M. pentagonum, a species previously known only from the type collection.
10.2307/4110853|Fifteen species of clavarioid Basidiomycetes belonging to the Cantharellales, Gomphales, and Lachnocladiales are described from Korup National Park, South West Province, Cameroon. Aphelaria korupensis, A. subglobispora, Clavaria afrolutea, Clavulina coffeoflava, Pterula anomala, P. crassispora, and P. parvispora are described as new. The new combination Clavulina ramosior is proposed, based on C. cavipes var. ramosior. Gomphus clavatus var. parvisporus is considered a synonym of G. brunneus.
20649583|Four species of tropical African Sarcostemma are transferred to Cynanchum together with two subspecies of S. viminale. In addition, Sarcostemma mulanjense is reduced to subspecific rank under C. viminale.
23489336|A description is provided for Eragrostis episcopulus (Poaceae), a previously undetermined grass species from the South Atlantic island of St Helena, together with notes on its ecology, history and conservation. The taxon appears to belong to subgen. Eragrostis, and shows affinities with southern African species including E. minor. E. episcopulus has an estimated world population of just over 2,000 individuals, 90% of which occur in two sites, with the remainder scattered along 15 km of the island's south coast. All sites are located on the upper parts of cliffs facing prevailing mist-laden winds, between 250 and 550 m altitude. The communities are rich in other rare endemic vascular plants (e.g. Bulbostylis lichtensteiniana, Ceterach haughtonii, Eragrostis saxatilis) and Ramalina lichens. They represent refugial pockets of native diversity amongst degraded scrub, which is now heavily dominated by non-native invaders and thus many locations merit protection. Threats are posed from grazing by rabbits and competition from invasive plant species. As a first step in the long-term conservation of Eragrostis episcopulus, seeds have been collected and an ex situ collection established on St Helena and at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. E. episcopulus is evaluated as critically endangered CR B1ab(ii,iii,iv,v) + B2ab(ii,iii,iv,v) based on the IUCN Red List categories v3.1.
10.2307/4118882| Two new species of Eriocaulon are described from Cameroon, E. asteroides S. M. Phillips which also occurs in E Nigeria, and E. parvulum S. M. Phillips, known only from Cameroon. Both are illustrated, and SEM photographs are provided of the seeds, and also of the seed of E. pulchellum Krn. 
10.2307/4117008|D. M. Dring's almost completed monograph of the Clathraceae is presented, edited for publication by R. W. G. Dennis.
10.2307/4109670|This paper contains descriptions of 13 new taxa (including 8 new species) and 22 hew combinations; synonymies and distributions are provided where necessary.
23489243|A new species in the Iridaceae, Cypella boliviana, is described from eastern Bolivia. The new species is illustrated with photographs and its relationship with similar species is discussed.
10.2307/4109559|Thre new species of Plumbago, P. stenophylla, P. glandulicaulis and P. ciliata, an one new species of Limonium, L. distichum, are described from tropical East Africa.
10.2307/4118982|The identity of Aloe penduliflora Bak. is a puzzle not solved by Reynolds, as the plant has apparently been collected only twice. It is shown by SEM that its leaf surface anatomy is similar to only one species, namely A. confusa Engl. This species is shown to match what is known of the macroscopic characters of A. penduliflora. These two names must be regarded as referring to the same species, and as A. penduliflora Bak. is the older name, it has priority and A. confusa Engl. is to be regarded as a later synonym of it.
23489030|The tree species Gilbertiodendron newberyi Burgt (Leguminosae: Caesalpinioideae) is described and illustrated. The new species is related to G. ogoouense (Pellegr.) J. Lonard s.s. Trees of G. newberyi can grow to 51 m high and 197 cm trunk diam. The new species is ectomycorrhizal, grows gregariously, and presents ballistic seed dispersal. G. newberyi is endemic to Korup National Park in Cameroon, and is assessed as Endangered D under the criteria of IUCN.
10.2307/4115762|The boundary between the genera Pseudanthus and Stachystemon is shown to have been further reduced and effectively eliminated by the discovery of S. axillaris A. S. George, with the consequence that Stachystemon should again be subsumed under Pseudanthus. This paper has been rendered necessary as a result of studies undertaken in conjunction with the preparation of the account of Subfamily Oldfieldioideae for the author's forthcoming 'Genera Euphorbiacearum'.
20649549|Two new species of Rhynchospora, R. acanthoma and R. rupestris, are described and illustrated. Their geographical distributions are discussed. The status of R. exilis and its synonymy is clarified.
10.2307/4109865|Coffea liberica Bull ex Hiern is lectotypified.
10.2307/4103025|The chromosome numbers of three named species of Eulophia are given. Meiosis studies reveal chromosome associations (multivalents and secondarily associated bivalents). The analysis of chromosome pairing suggests a basic number x = 7 for these species. E. stenophylla and one cytotype of E. streptopetala are probably hexaploids (2n = 42) and E. paivaeana subsp. borealis and the other cytotype of E. streptopetala dodecaploids (2n = 84).
10.2307/4114656|Harveya coccinea Hepper with red flowers from Tanzania, and H. kenyensis Hepper with white flowers from Kenya are described as new species. Both are parasitic, probably on tree roots in forest, and devoid of chlorophyll.
10.2307/4110146|23 species of Xanthomyrtus are recognized, including 7 new species. A key to the species is given.
10.2307/4110066|The plant hitherto known as Peucedanum heracleoides Bak. is transferred to Physotrichia as P. muriculata (Welw. ex Hiern) Droop & Townsend. Erythroselinum and Lefebvrea are maintained as a genera distinct from Peucedanum and L. droopii sp. nov. is described from Tanzania. Peucedanum aberdarense Wolff is reduced to var. bipinnatum of P. friesiorum Wolff and P. canaliculatum Verdcourt to subsp. australe of P. harmsianum Wolff. The identity of P. winkleri Engl. is discussed. Five new tropical African Peucedanum species are described.
10.2307/4109553|Bulbostylis basalis, sp. nov., is described from Aldabra; it possesses the characteristics of Bulbostylis except that it lacks an enlarged persistent style-base. Cyperus bigibbosa, sp. nov., is distinguished from C. kyllingia, and C. obtusiflorus is reduced to varietal rank as C. niveus var. leucocephalus.
10.2307/4111044|Sectional delimitation of Scutellaria sect. Coccineae Epling and sect. Speciosae Epling is discussed and it is concluded that they are best merged. Reevaluation of species limits within the section also suggests that previous species delimitation was too narrow. S. atriplidfolia Benth. and S. cuatrecasana Fern. Alonso are placed in synonymy under S. coccinea Kunth. S. ventenatii Hook., S. lehmannii Regel and S. trianae Planch. & Linden are placed under S. incarnala Vent. S. speciosa Epling is placed in synonymy under S. aurala Lem. Notes on S. roseocyanea Epling and S. alborosea Lem. are also provided. Neotypes and interpretative epitypes are selected for some of these names.
10.2307/4119719|Eight new species of Eriocaulon are described from eastern and southern tropical Africa: E. laniceps, E. polhillii, E. fuscum, E. taeniophyllum, E. burttii, E. chloanthe, E. mulanjeanum and E. maronderanum. The group of species related to E. buchananii Ruhland is discussed and a key is given to these. Variation within E. mutatum N. E. Br. is discussed; the new variety majus is described and E. angustisepalum H. E. Hess is reduced to varietal level. Seed testa morphology of all the species is discussed and SEM photographs provided.
10.2307/4113641|Two new species of Acritopappus, A. catolesensis D. J. N. Hind & Bautista and A. pintoi Bautista & D.J. N. Hind from the Chapada Diamantina, Bahia State, Brazil, are described and illustrated. The genus is predominantly from the campos rupestres of Bahia and Minas Gerais States, and 15 species are now recognized in Bahia. The first new species, because of its typical monopodial primary axis and decussate side branches and inflorescences, falls into a group of non-viscid leaved species. The second species, unique in the genus, is a distinctive tree, and has unusual leaf and inflorescence characters. The tree-like nature of the species in the genus is discussed relative to the terminology usually applied to many members of the Compositae found in Brazil.
10.2307/4119341|This paper describes a new Chinese species, Epimedium campanulatum, with flat spurless petals approximating to those of the primitive ancestor of Epimedium and gives the distinguishing features of two allied species, E. platypetalum K. I. Mey. and E. ecalcaratum G. Y. Zhong.
10.2307/4108490|Cyphostemma pachypus, a remarkable succulent-stemmed species, is described from Kenya.
10.2307/4102881|Two computer-aided analyses of the distributions of 228 species on 14 coral islands of the western Indian Ocean are presented. The first compares the floristic affinities of the islands and shows that the Aldabra Group form a unit distinct from the other 10 islands. The second compares species in terms of their world-wide distribution, and demonstrates six chorological units contributing to the flora of the islands. Possible explanations of the results are discussed. A list of all the 228 species, giving their known distributions in the islands, is appended.
10.2307/4110705|Asystasiella is considered for the moment to include two species, A. atroviridis (T. Anders.) Lindau from Bangladesh and Assam, and A. africana S. Moore from S. E. Kenya and N. E. and E. C. Tanzania. Its spheroidal, porate, spinulate pollen is very different from that of Asystasia and other related genera. However, the two species now included have a different corolla morphology. The related genus Odontonemella is sunk into Mackaya. A new lectotype is designated for the name Asystasiella.
10.2307/4111098| Brenaniodendron J. Lonard is considered a later homonym of Brenandendron H. Rob. (Asteraceae) and thus requires a new name. Micklethwaitia is proposed as a new generic name to accommodate the single species Brenaniodendron carvalhoi (Harms) J. Lonard. 
10.2307/4110748|Eragrostis astrepta and E. pascua are described from Ethiopia, and E. kuchariana and E. psammophila from Somalia. Their relationships within the genus Eragrostis are discussed.
10.2307/4117946|A new species, Convolvulus verdcourtianus Sebsebe is described and illustrated from Somalia.
23216084|Apuleia Mart., a genus of the Leguminosae native to South America, is revised. Species limits within the genus were tested using morphometrics and shape analysis of leaflets and fruits. Morphological evidence indicates that although there is great variation in Apuleia, the genus cannot be reliably separated into different species or infraspecific taxa. Apuleia is monospecific, comprising the single species A. leiocarpa (Vogel) J. F. Macbr.
10.2307/4109998|This paper contains a synopsis of Feretia and descriptions of 2 new subspecies; synonymies and distributions are provided.
10.2307/4110513|Eleven species of Coccomyces de Not. and one species of Propolis (Fr.) Corda are reported from Mt Kinabalu, Sabah. Ten of the Coccomyces species are described as new: C. agathidicola, C. basizonatus, C. croceus, C. fuscus, C. kinabaluensis, C. kirkii, C. paraphysincrustatus, C. phyllocladicola, C. triseptatus and C. urceoloides. A key to distinguish these species is given.
23216091|Fourteen new species of palms (Arecaceae) from Madagascar are described and named, based on material collected over the last 15 years. Twelve species belong to the genus Dypsis, namely D. andilamenensis Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. anjae Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. betsimisarakae Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. culminis Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. dracaenoides Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. gautieri Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. gronophyllum Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. jeremiei Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. metallica Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. reflexa Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf., D. sancta Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf. and D. vonitrandambo Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf. and two species belong to the genus Ravenea: R. beentjei Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf. and R. hypoleuca Rakotoarin. & J. Dransf. Despite the fact that most of these species have been recorded from protected areas that are difficult to access in the eastern region of Madagasacar, they are all threatened. Based on IUCN categories and criteria, seven are Critically Endangered and seven are Vulnerable.
10.2307/4117762|The genus Philenoptera in the tribe Millettieae is reassessed as comprising twelve species confined to Africa and Madagascar. A key to the genus is given and nine new combinations are made.
10.2307/4119401|A new genus Protocreopsis with the typespecies P. zingibericola, sp. nov., is proposed. P. palmicola, sp. nov., is also described. Both have primitive stromata, the structure of which separates them from Hypocreopsis Karsten.
23216398|A taxonomic revision of the genus Gomphostemma Wall. ex Benth. in Sabah and Sarawak is presented. Three species, G. microcalyx Prain, G. javanicum (Blume) Benth., and G. curtisii Prain are recognised; one new species, G. hirsutum Walsingham, is described.
10.2307/4117261|Additional records of Euphorbiaceae from Siam are presented. Myladenia serrata gen. & sp. nov., four new species in Acalypha, Claoxylon, Glochidion and Antidesma, and three new varieties are described. Two new combinations are made and numerous new geographic records established.
10.2307/4111083|Whitfieldia orientalis from the eastern lowlands of Kenya and Tanzania is described and its habitat, phytogeography and taxonomic relationships discussed. The species has long been confused with W. stuhlmannii, a species from western Tanzania and Congo (Kinshasa).
10.2307/4107965|Coffea angustifolia Roxb. is identified as Pittosporum moluccanum (Lamk.) Miq.
10.2307/4119370|Maesa decipiens is described from montane forest in New Guinea. It is morphologically similar to Maesa beamanii, but differs in indumentum and leaf characters, as well ecological requirements. A revised description of M. beamanii is given, following recent field observations.
10.2307/4110582|Leaf anatomy of a species from the island of Badija on the east Adriatic coast of Yugoslavia, that has been determined as Arbutus andrachne L., was investigated using light and scanning electron microscopy and compared with that of a typical form of Arbutus andrachne L. from Greece, Arbutus unedo L. and Arbutus andrachnoides Link., well known as a hybrid between A. unedo and A. andrachne. The Arbutus taxon from the east Adriatic coast of Yugoslavia was found to be closest in leaf anatomy to the hybrid A. andrachnoides but not identical with it.
10.2307/4108894|The infrageneric classification of the genus Angraecum is reviewed. Included is a key to the 19 sections recognized by the writer, of which three are established for the first time, as well as a complete index to all species that have been included in Angraecum, indicating their correct taxonomic disposition.
10.2307/4108383|The Velloziaceae of the Old World have been revised, a new classification, incorporating anatomical evidence, is proposed, and a key to all the genera of the family is given. This is followed by identification keys, synonymy and distribution of the members of the two Old World genera, the monotypic South African genus Talbotia, and the genus Xerophyta which contains three sections, defined on anatomical features, and 28 species, 4 of which are described as new.
10.2307/4109806|Diagnoses of twenty-four new species of African Impatiens are presented together with those of fourteen subordinate taxa. New combinations in African species are also included in preparation for a forthcoming revision.
10.2307/4118892|A new species of Basananthe from eastern Kenya, B. sessilicarpa J. B. Gillett ex Verdc., formerly confused with B. hanningtoniana (Mast.) W. J. de Wilde, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110209|Four new species of Dichapetalaceae are described, three in the genus Dichapetalum, all from Costa Rica: D. costaricense, D. grayumii and D. hammelii. The fourth is Stephanopodium magnifolium from Bahia, Brazil.
10.2307/4118852|The phenetic relationship between the species of Vicia section Atossa series Truncatulae (B. Fedtsch. ex Radzhi) Maxted was investigated. This series contains two species V. balansae Boiss. and V. abbreviata Fisch. ex Spreng. which have recently been reduced to subspecific rank. Morphological data were gathered from 40 herbarium specimens belonging to the series. Each specimen was scored for 13 vegetative characters, 30 inflorescence characters, 2 legume characters and 1 seed character. The data matrix was analysed using cluster analysis and ordination methods. The results of the analysis indicate that two species are discernible, although observations of herbarium specimens indicate that rare intermediate forms are found. A key and descriptions for the two species are provided.
10.2307/4109932|The agaricoid Fungi from Cuba described by W. A. Murrill and F. S. Earle are revised on the basis of modern taxonomic criteria. A total of 82 species have been examined microscopically, and the microstructure is described and illustrated. The following new combinations are proposed: Agrocybe musae (Pholiotina musae Earle); Collybia sulcatipes (Marasmius sulcatipes Murr.); C. underwoodii (Marasmius underwoodii Murr.); Crepidotus subelatinus (Geopetalum subelatinum Murr.); Hygrocybe earlei (Hydrocybe earlei Murr.); and Marasmiellus earlei (Omphalina earlei Murr.).
10.2307/4119431| The genus Balanites is completely revised. Nine species and 11 infraspecific taxa are recognised with revised synonymy. One subspecies (B. maughamii subsp. acuta) and two varieties (B. wilsoniana var. glabripetala and B. rotundifolia var. setulifera) are described for the first time. The status of all Balanites taxa is discussed and four species are reduced in rank: B. welwitschii (Tiegh.) Exell & Mendona to subspecies and B. mayumbensis Exell, B. scillin Chiov. and B. tomentosa Mildbr. & Schltr. to variety. Fuller justification is given for the earlier (Sands 1983) reduction of B. orbicularis Sprague to synonymy and B. somalensis Mildbr. & Schltr. to subspecific rank, as well as for the new variety of B. aegyptiaca, var. pallida Sands. A distinctive but sterile specimen from Ethiopia is described under the provisional name, 'Omo Valley'. Scale leaves, the foliole of foliage leaves, spine form and branching, bud and inflorescence position, elongation in early fruit development and the distance between spines and their subtending leaf (supra-axillary interval) are all defined as new and useful diagnostic characters. Two species, B. glabra Mildbr. & Schltr. and B. rotundifolia (Tiegh.) Blatt., are found to have 4-merous flowers in a genus previously thought to be consistently 5-merous. Multi-access keys to the species and to the varieties of B. aegyptiaca (L.) Delile are presented, and an additional key to vegetative material is provided. Scientific names, collections examined and vernacular names are indexed. 
10.2307/4110611|A new species of Corchorus L., C. parvifolius Sebsebe, is described and illustrated from central Somalia.
10.2307/4110770| In Clutia, a new species (C. sessilifolia) is described from Zimbabwe, a new variety (var. monticoloes) is described under C. whytei from Zambia, a Zimbabwean species (C. stellerodes) is reduced to varietal rank under a sympatric species (C. monticola), 3 reductions to synonymy are made (C. gracilis, C. inyangensis, C. volubilis), and 2 South African species (C. galpini, C. pulchella) are reported for the first time from north of the border. These changes are all necessitated by information which came to light during the course of preparation of the account of the genus for 'Flora Zambesiaca'. 
10.2307/4118782|The genus Erithalis is reported from Brazil for the first time, and a new combination is made (Erithalis insularis). Several new synonyms within the genus Psychotria are presented and the application of the name Rudgea jacobinensis is clarified.
10.2307/4117917|Peripentadenia phelpsii Hyland & Coode is described as new; it is known only from recent collections from the Mossman area of Queensland. Notes on related genera and species are given.
10.2307/4108892|Two new species, Galium brenanii and G. tanganyikense, are described from East Africa in connection with an account of the family Rubiaceae for the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa'.
10.2307/4120632|Hyptis bahiensis Harley is described from the Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brazil. A key is provided that includes its close relatives, and its conservation status is discussed.
10.2307/4110301|A new species of Brachystelma Sims from the Jos Plateau in Nigeria, B. bracteolatum Meve, is described and illustrated. The new species resembles the W African B. constrictum and the E African B. lineare in its grass-like leaves, but is quite different in its corona structure.
10.2307/4109994|An old Australian record is referred to a new species, C. insularum, and C. helenae (J. A. Schultes) Meikle var. barbatus, a new variety, is described from Ethiopian material.
23489023|Three new species of Piptolepis, P. campestris, P. monticola and P. schultziana, are described and illustrated from Minas Gerais State, Brazil. Diagnostic characters, descriptions and taxonomic comments on the species are given. Their affinities are assessed and IUCN threatened categories noted.
10.2307/4114643|The genus Beiselia Forman was recently discovered in Mexico and a brief generico-specific description has been published. A full account of the gross morphology, anatomy, pollen and chromosome number (2n = 26) of B. mexicana Forman is now given and its affinities are discussed. It is concluded that it belongs in tribe Bursereae of Burseraceae.
20443329|Heterobasidiomycetes known from the Kimberley Region of Western Australia are reviewed. Six species belonging to the Auriculariales, Dacrymycetales, and Exidiales are reported, including Heterochaete ochroceracea described as new.
10.2307/4115691|Indopolysolenia burmanica Deb & Rout is described as a new species of the Rubiaceae from Burma.
10.2307/4109663|The correct name for Euphorbia platyacantha Pax non Drake is shown to be E. dumeticola Bally & S. Carter. The identity of the historical collections Goetze 463, 464 and 465 is discussed.
10.2307/4109708|Four species, Habenaria keayi, H. malacophylla, H. myodes, and Eulophia clavicornis var. nutans are added to orchid flora of the Arabian peninsula. Several extensions of range of other species are also reported.
10.2307/4115753|Two new species of Stachys have been described from tropical Africa: S. kulalensis Sebsebe from northern Kenya and S. pseudohumifusa Sebsebe from southern Tanzania, Zambia and Cameroon.
10.2307/4102982|Two new taxa, Peristylus superanthus J. J. Wood and Bulbophyllum ambrosia (Hance) Schltr. subsp. nepalensis J. J. Wood, from Nepal, and two varieties of Dendrobium subclausum Rolfe from Papua New Guinea are described. Kuhlhasseltia halconensis J. J. Wood is proposed as a new name for Herpysma merrillii Ames. Five new combinations, viz. Peristylus nematocaulon (J. D. Hook.) J. J. Wood, Anoectochilus luzonensis (Ames) J. J. Wood, Glomera pendulata (P. Royen) J. J. Wood, Bulbophyllum masonii (Senghas) J. J. Wood and Flickingeria puncticulosa (J. J. Sm.) J. J. Wood are made. The synonymy and infraspecific variability of Dendrobium subclausum is discussed and two new varieties proposed here. Pedilochilus oreadum P. Royen is considered conspecific with P. obovatum J.J. Sm.
20443270|A new species of Scorodophloeus Harms, S. torrei, is described from coastal Mozambique.
10.2307/4103040|A study of the holotype of Metasocratea hecatonandra Dugand shows that this monotypic genus is not different from Socratea H. Karsten, having been based on a misinterpretation of the position of the embryo. The new combination Socratea hecatonandra (Dugand) R. Bernal is made. This article is offered as a precursory contribution to the Genera Palmarum of Moore, Dransfield & Uhl, currently in press.
10.2307/4117075|Various taxonomic notes and records of Amaranthaceae are presented. The record for Deeringia amaranthoides from mainland Africa is shown to be Celosia populifolia. Digera muricata subsp. trinervis, subsp. nov., is described from E. Africa with a var. patentipilosa, var. nov., and a var. macroptera, var. nov. Digera muricata previously recorded from W. Africa is Cyathula prostrata. The genus Psilodigera Suess. is reduced to synonymy under Saltia R. Br. Notes are given on Amaranthus graecizans subsp. thellungianus. A key is presented to the 3 species of Bosea based on seed characters. The taxonomic, ecological and distributional distinctness of Achyranthes aspera and A. bidentata is considered.
10.2307/4111042|The taxonomic position of the only Asian representative of the tropical African and Madagascan genus Brillantaisia P. Beauv., B. thwaitesii (T. Anderson) L. H. Cramer, is resolved. Morphological characters, which have contributed to the confusion surrounding this species, are discussed. Results of cladistic analysis which place the species within Hygrophila are accepted as the most appropriate working hypothesis of the relations of this species currently available.
10.2307/4107838|74 genera, comprising the tribe Eragrostideae, are surveyed and a collective description of their leaf-blade anatomy is provided.
10.2307/4110925|A new species of Mnesithea, M. veldkampii (Poaceae) is described and illustrated from Maharashtra, India.
20649653|A new species of Agrianthus, A. carvalhoi, (Compositae: Eupatorieae: Gyptidinae) is described and illustrated from Bahia State, Brazil, and is compared and contrasted with A. luetzelburgii.
10.2307/4111072|Euplassa Salisb. is an endemic South American genus of trees, very rarely shrubs, comprising 20 species. The genus is distinguished from other American genera of Proteaceae by the combination of paripinnate adult leaves, curved style, four fused or distinct hypogynous nectaries and indehiscent fruit. It occurs mainly in submontane and montane areas in the northwest Andes, the Guyana Highlands and southeastern Brazil, although two species are Amazonian and one species is very widespread. The centre of diversity for the genus is southeastern Brazil where 11 of the 20 species occur. A key to the species is presented and a new combination, Euplassa organensis (Gardner) I. M. Johnst. subsp. laxiflora (Meisn.) Plana is made.
10.2307/4118998|Euphorbia makallensis from a little known region of Ethiopia is described as new, and the ecology and distribution outlined.
10.2307/4108375| A New Species of Crocus from Honaz Da in South Western Turkey is Described and Its Relationships with Other Species Discussed. 
20443318|Re-examination of the morphology and habitat of plants that have been classified as a variety of Scabiosa japonica, var. acutiloba H. Hara, and molecular phylogenetic analyses of plastid DNA using PCR-SSCPs (single-strand conformation polymorphisms of PCR products analysis) lead to the conclusion that var. acutiloba has to be recognised as a distinct species, for which the correct name is S. jezoensis Nakai. S. jezoensis is distributed in Hokkaido and the northernmost part of Honshu. It is clearly referable to sect. Prismakena Bobrov based on its fruit character, the epicalyx being quadrangular and without a sulcus or sometimes shallow and widely 8-sulcate. All Scabiosa species of East Asia belong to sect. Prismakena except for S. japonica which belongs to sect. Scabiosa. Sect. Scabiosa is widely known from Europe, Africa and central Asia, and S. japonica is an isolated representative in Japan.
10.2307/4110270|Five previously noted species of Coffea from Tanzania (Bridson 1982 & 1988) are formally named and provided with full descriptions; an additional anomalous taxon is noted. A formal combination under Coffea is made for the Angolan Psilanthopsis kapakata Chev.
10.2307/4111113|Three new species, Psychotria moseskemei Cheek, Psychotria martinetugei Cheek and Psychotria lebrunii Cheek are described from material previously referred to as Psychotria chalconeura (K. Schum.) E. M. A. Petit. A key, table of distinguishing characters and notes on conservation are given for all four of the taxa previously known as P. chalconeura.
20443359|Results from previous studies using DNA sequence analysis, phytochemistry, morphology and wood anatomy have suggested a division in Bocoa Aublet. In this paper, a detailed morphological study strongly supports a divide. The generic name Trischidium Tulasne is reinstated and five species of Bocoa (B. alterna (Benth.) R. S. Cowan, B. decipiens R. S. Cowan, B. limae R. S. Cowan, B. mollis (Benth.) R. S. Cowan and B. racemulosa (Huber) R. S. Cowan) are transferred into it. Bocoa prouacensis Aublet, the type species of the genus, and B. viridiflora (Ducke) R. S. Cowan remain in Bocoa, and a new species, B. ratteri H. E. Ireland, is described. A synopsis of Trischidium and of Bocoa, with keys to genera and species, are presented.
10.2307/4110858|An overview of a small group of Xylaria species thought to be related to X. comosa is given, including the proposal of the new species X. comosoides for a taxon with distinctly spiralling germ slits on the ascospores. New distributional data for the included taxa are given. A short review of the current intrageneric classification is presented.
10.2307/4109942|The genus Ipsea Lindl. containing 2 species is revised. Inter- and intrageneric affinities are discussed. A new combination in the related genus Pachystoma B1, viz. P. hirsuta (Joseph & Vajravelu) Sathish Kumar & Manilal is proposed.
25070250|Robiquetia tongaensis, an endemic species of epiphytic orchid, is newly described from Tonga. Its conservation status is also assessed.
20443393|A new species of Dracaena, D. kupensis, from Mt Kupe and the Bakossi Mts, Cameroon, is described and illustrated, its affinities noted and its conservation status assessed. Comparison is made between it and D. phanerophlebia Baker.
20649638|Allamanda calcicola Souza-Silva & Rapini, an overlooked new species endemic to the limestone outcrops along the So Francisco River Basin, in south-western Bahia and northern Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated. It was confused with A. martii and A. schottii, two species from eastern Brazil, which (along with A. polyantha) form a different complex of closely related species. However, A. calcicola is more closely related to A. puberula, another species from the semi-arid region of Brazil.
10.2307/4110247|The invalidly published Monvillea kroenleinii Kiesling, recently described from the Chaco of western Paraguay, is validated as Cereus kroenleinii N. P. Taylor and its range significantly extended to include north-eastern Bolivia and western Brazil.
23489055|Eriosema triformum Burgt (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae), a new species from Guinea in West Africa, is described and illustrated. E. triformum is a pyrophytic herb with unifoliolate leaves, from submontane grassland at 1,250  1,600 m altitude. The species exhibits three phases during the year: a dormant phase during which only the underground tuber remains; a flowering and fruiting phase during which the plants are erect and 6  16 cm high; and a sterile, leafy phase during which the scrambling stems may grow to 60 cm length. E. triformum is only known from a 16 km long part of the Simandou Range, north and south of Pic de Fon. Most nearby mountain ranges in Guinea were visited to search for E. triformum. In 19 other localities, submontane grassland habitat was found; but E. triformum was not found. The IUCN conservation status is assessed as Endangered. A key to the 10 unifoliolate species of Eriosema from Guinea and surroundings is presented.
20443389|A taxonomic revision of the genus Borassus L. (Arecaceae. Coryphoideae: Borasseae) is presented. Five species are recognised: B. aethiopum from Africa and Madagascar, B. akeassii from West and Central Africa, B. madagascariensis from Madagascar, B. flabellifer from South and Southeast Asia and B. heineanus from New Guinea. Pollen morphology and leaf anatomy are examined and the taxonomic history, morphology, distribution, ecology and conservation status are discussed.
10.2307/4110647|Iphiona pinnatifida and Pentanema ligneum are described as new species from Somalia; both species are illustrated. I. pinnatifida is compared with I. phillipsiae (S. Moore) A. Anderb., the only other species known from Somalia and also with I. anthemidifolia (Bak.) A. Anderb., a species endemic to the coast of Yemen (Hadramut: Mukalla and Ras Fartak). Pentanema, with its centre of diversity being in South-Central Asia, is represented in Africa by two species. P. indicum (L.) Ling, a well known species from Asia, known by a variety of names in Africa, is shown to be a widespread introduced weed; Vicoa leptoclada (Webb) Dandy is placed in its synonymy.
10.2307/4115868|A new species ot Jungia, J. woodii (Composilae: Mutisieae: Nassauviinae) is described and illustrated from the Zongo Valley, La Paz, Bolivia. This distinctive purple-flowered species is clearly a member of Jungia L. f. sect. Jungia in that it is a scrambling perennial with few-flowered capitula, sub-oblong phyllaries, and glabrous beakless achenes. However, it possesses a combination of auriculate petioles, suborbicular leaf lamina and barbellate pappus setae not found in other species in the section, or elsewhere in the genus. The new species is compared with other species in Jungia sect. Jungia as well as other species possessing purple corollas. A key to the eight Bolivian species is provided.
10.2307/4111034|The monotypic genus Cynarospermum, based on Blepharis asperrima from India, is described. The new genus, belonging to subfam. Acanthoideae, is compared with Blepharis, its closest relative.
10.2307/4103079|Data previously presented as simple scatter diagrams are re-examined using multivariate methods. In general the results confirm those previously obtained, though some doubt is thrown upon the varietal status of H. confinis var. confinis, the distinctness of the H, rudis-tamba-collina cluster, and also that of the H. cymbaria-variabilis-formosa cluster. In particular the recognition of H. subplumosa in south tropical Africa is upheld.
10.2307/4114478|Eriosema x provectum C. H. Stirt. and E. x woodii C. H. Stirt. are described as new. These distinctive hybrids have been collected a number of times in the Port Durnford-Mtunzini and Mandini areas of Natal.
10.2307/4103076|The pollen morphology of 7 African species of Peponium is examined and used to clarify the limits of existing species and to establish the affinities of previously undetermined specimens. A key to the pollen characters is given and a new species, P. sublitorale from Aldabra, is described.
10.2307/4115751|Herbarium material from Ethiopia, Somalia and Kenya, previously included under Endostemon tereticaulis (Poir.) Ashby (Labiatae) have been found to belong to a separate species, earlier described as Orthosiphon kelleri Briq. The new combination, Endostemon kelleri (Briq.) O. Ryding is made. Synonymy, morphological description, habitat, comparisons with other species, illustrations, distribution map and a key to the species of the E. tereticaulis group are provided.
10.2307/4119781|The vascular architecture of the flower and adjacent vegetative parts of Hypecoum leptocarpum, Dicentraformosa, Chelidonium majus and Eschscholzia caespitosa (Order Rhoeadales sensu Hutch.), was elucidated. With evidence from a limited study of several other species, it is demonstrated that the four species conform to an underlying pattern with variations. This nodal pattern is shown to have features in common with some vegetative organs, and the bearing of some aspects of the floral vasculature on theories of Angiosperm flower evolution and development are briefly considered. While recognizing the limited taxonomic significance of so small a species sample, the suggested pattern is regarded as supporting the retention of the groups within the Order. Comment is made on the significance of the number of dichotomous pattern components within the axis. Vascular features of the pedicel often some distance from the morphological receptacle are demonstrated as significant in interpreting the vasculature of the flower.
10.2307/4117844|Medusagyne oppositifolia Baker is the sole member of Medusagynaceae Engl. & Gilg and its phylogenetic position has been unclear. Analysis of rbcL sequence data indicates a close and strongly supported relationship to Ochnaceae and Quiinaceae, but does not resolve the relationships between these taxa. Together the three families form a monophyletic group with a somewhat more distant relationship to other linalean groups including Malpighiaceae, Linaceae and phyllanthoid Euphorbiaceae.
10.2307/4114650|Nine species of Poa are recognized in Ethiopia. Their variation and interrelationships are discussed and a key and descriptions are provided. The new Ethiopian endemic species P. hedbergii S. M. Phillips is described.
10.2307/4110756|In recent years, most authorities on Cyperaceae have supported a narrow circumscription of Scirpus. To implement this approach, many new combinations are required and several of these are made here. Actinoscirpus is recognised as a monotypic genus, containing A. grossus comb. nov. It is argued that this genus is closely related to, but distinct from, both Bolboschoenus and Schoenoplectus in several respects. Bolboschoenus nobilis comb. nov. is separated from B. maritimus and a key is provided to distinguish the two. Scirpus beccarii is transferred to Isolepis. S. acaulis is transferred to Phylloscirpus and problems relating to this genus are briefly discussed. Finally it is suggested that Amphiscirpus should be retained as a genus, with its sole species A. nevadensis.
10.2307/4107844|Lonchocarpus kanurii is described as new from Wajir District, Kenya, with small foliage and few (1-5) leaflets.
20443326|A new species, Begonia kingdon-wardii Tebbitt, is described and illustrated. This native of Kachin State, northern Myanmar is distinguished from all other Begonia species by the combination of its 4-locular, rhomboid, shortly 4-winged fruit and its symmetric, elliptic or ovate-elliptic leaf blades, which have obtuse or very shallowly cordate bases.
10.2307/4109668|This paper contains the descriptions of 2 new taxa (1 new species and 1 new sub-species); new synonymies are cited where applicable.
23489193|Tachigali acrensis van der Werff and T. pilosa van der Werff are described and illustrated. T. acrensis is only known from the type collection made in the state of Acre, Brazil, while T. pilosa has been collected several times in forest plots made in the Department of Pasco, Peru.
10.2307/4110825|Circumscription of Flacourtiaceae was investigated with a phylogenetic analysis of plastid rbcL DNA sequences, and the family was found to be composed of two clades that are more closely related to other families in Malpighiales than to each other. In one of these, that containing the type genus Flacourtia, Salicaceae are embedded, whereas the other clade includes the members of the peculiar and poorly known South African Achariaceae. The latter family name is conserved against all listed synonyms. Thus we propose the recognition of two families: i) Salicaceae sensu lato, including tribes Banareae, Bembicieae, Scolopieae, Samydeae (syn. Casearieae), Homalieae, Flacourtieae, Prockieae and Saliceae, as well as Abatieae (by some authors of Passifloraceae) and Scyphostegieae (Scyphostegia of the monogeneric Scyphostegiaceae); and ii) Achariaceae sensu lato, including tribes Pangieae, Lindackerieae, Erythrospermeae and Acharieae (Acharia, Ceratiosicyos and Guthriea of Achariaceae). Several genera considered by many previous authors to be members of Flacourtiaceae are excluded from Malpighiales: Berberidopsis and Aphloia fall near the base of the higher eudicots. Several tribes require different names from those used in previous systems, and we include an appendix indicating a tentative revised tribal taxonomy for both Salicaceae and Achariaceae sensu lato.
10.2307/4114732|Glycine minima Willd. is a synonym of Teramnus labialis (Linn.f.) Spreng.
10.2307/4110964|Elaeocarpus section Elaeocarpus in southern India and Sri Lanka is revised. Nine species are recognised, including three new species (E. hedyosmus Zmarzty, E. variabilis Zmarzty and E. taprobanicus Zmarzty) and one new variety (E. serratus L. var. weibelii Zmarzty). Elaeocarpus hedyosmus Zmarzty sp. nov. is the well-known E. amoenus sensu auctt. redescribed. The original syntypes of E. amoenus Thwaites included three different species, and Meijer's (1995) lectotypification means that this name must be restricted to a distinct, less well-known species. Elaeocarpus variabilis Zmarzty is the well-known E. glandulosus sensu auctt. (syn. E. oblongus sensu auctt.) redescribed. The name E. glandulosus Wall. ex Merr. must be applied to a northern species, probably E. hygrophilus Kurz, after Merrill's (1951) validation of the name E. glandulosus Wall. Elaeocarpus subvillosus Arn. is lectotypified. It is common for collections from the Wallich Herbarium to be erroneously cited in descriptions of southern Indian Elaeocarpus. The author's determinations of this material are included as Appendix 1. Appendix 2 lists other exsiccatae. An index to accepted names and synonymy is given as Appendix 3.
25070241|The genus Doryopteris J. Sm. is reassessed in the Hawaiian Islands. Examination of herbarium material reveals six endemic species. Diagnostic characters to differentiate them include fertile lamina dissection, lamina indumentum, morphology of the pinnae/segments and sori. At least two taxa are of hybrid origin (Doryopteris subdecipiens W. H. Wagner and D. takeuchii (W. H. Wagner) W. H. Wagner). A key and illustrations of the species are provided and their conservation status is considered.
10.2307/4110099|One new species is described from Thailand, tow new species and two new varieties are described from New Guinea, and one new name for a New Guinea species is published.
10.2307/4110309|Bryodes micrantha Benth., described from Mauritius, is reported for Madagascar. A second species, originally described as Bryodes madagascariensis Bonati, is conspecific with Psammetes nigerica Hepper, thus extending the range of this monospecific West African genus to Madagascar. The new combination Psammetes madagascariensis (Bonati) Eb. Fisch. & Hepper is made.
23216390|A revision of the genus Talbotiella Baker f. (Caesalpinioideae: Leguminosae) is presented. Four species from Cameroon are described as new and a species of Hymenostegia, also from Cameroon, is transferred to Talbotiella bringing the number of species in Talbotiella to eight: T. bakossiensis Cheek, T. batesii Baker f., T. breteleri (Aubrv.) Mackinder & Wieringa, T. ebo Mackinder & Wieringa, T. eketensis Baker f., T. gentii Hutch. & Greenway, T. korupensis Mackinder & Wieringa and T. velutina Burgt & Wieringa. The centre of diversity is Cameroon where six of the eight species occur, five of which are country endemics. Vegetative characters that can be used to distinguish the species are provided in tabular form. Species distributions are mapped and all species are assessed for conservation status.
23044675|A species-level review of the genus Clinopodium in Bolivia is presented. Characters used to distinguish taxa are discussed and evaluated with emphasis being given to nutlet characteristics for the first time. Nine species are described, seven from Bolivia, one of which, C. pilosum J. R. I. Wood is described as new. Bystropogon uniflorus Rusby ex Briq. is treated as subsp. uniflorum (Rusby ex Briq.) J. R. I. Wood of C. axillare (Rusby) Harley and its typification is discussed. Three subspecies of C. bolivianum are recognised, one of which subsp. diffusum J. R. I. Wood is described as new. Notes on salient characteristics of each taxon, on intermediate forms and on the distribution of each species are provided, as well as a key to species, maps and illustrations.
10.2307/4110922|While preparing the account of Sansevieria for the Flora Zambesiaca, two species, both of which resemble the East African species S. conspicua N. E. Br. (Brown 1913) in their large-flowered, cylindrical inflorescences, were found in the Kew Herbarium and are described here as new species. In S. conspicua, the perianth tube is 38 - 42 mm long, while in S. longistyla it is 50 - 65 mm long and in S. pedicellata, 80 - 90 mm long.
10.2307/4108379|Four new species and two new varieties of Dissotis are described from Tanzania, two new species of Memecylon from Kenya and new synonyms are established for other species of Dissotis and Gravesia from Tropical Africa.
10.2307/4109866|10 new species, including 1 from Oman, and 1 new variety are described. A number of changes in taxonomic status of some known species are made and the reasons for doing so discussed. Two established sections, Trichadenia Pax and Tirucalli Boiss., are raised to subgeneric level and a new section, Somalica, erected in the former.
23489053|A synopsis of the largely Peruvian genus Englerocharis Muschl. is presented, and the new species E. ancashensis Al-Shehbaz, A. Cano & Trinidad is described and illustrated. An updated generic description of Englerocharis and a key to its four species are given. The generic differences between Englerocharis and Brayopsis Gilg & Muschl. are discussed.
23489335|The African genus Schistostephium Less. (Compositae: Anthemideae) is revised; eight species are recognised. A key to the species is provided, together with descriptions and illustrations. Conservation assessments have been carried out for each species. Six names are lectotypified: Tanacetum crataegifolium DC., Schistostephium saxicola Hutch. and Schistostephium villosum Hutch. (here all regarded as synonyms of Schistostephium crataegifolium (DC.) Fenzl ex Harv.), Schistostephium dactyliferum Hutch. (treated here as a synonym of Schistostephium heptalobum Oliv. & Hiern), Tanacetum argyraeum DC. (treated here as a synonym of Schistostephium flabelliforme Less.) and Schistostephium oxylobum S. Moore.
10.2307/4110808|Four new species are described and discussed. New chromosome counts are recorded for two of the species.
10.2307/4119328|The genus Ancylanthos is considered monotypic; new combinations are made for three species previously placed in it: - Fadogiella rogersii (Wernham) Bridson, Lagynias monteiroi (Oliv.) Bridson, Tapiphyllum rhodesiacum (Tennant) Bridson. The genera Fadogiella, Lagynias and Tapiphyllum are lectotypified.
10.2307/4113733|A revision of the genus Ethulia (Compositae: Vernonieae) is presented. A total of 18 species, 9 of them new, and 3 subspecies, 2 new, plus one incompletely known species, is recognised. Hoehnelia is sunk within Ethulia. One species is widespread in the Old World, 15 species are restricted to Africa and Madagascar and 3 or 4 species are restricted to isolated islands in tropical Asia.
10.2307/4111163|The genus Moldenhawera Schrad. (Leguminosae: Caesalpinioideae) is endemic to eastern Brazil, with a marked concentration of taxa in the state of Bahia. A cladistic analysis supports the monophyletic nature of the genus. The genus is here revised. Of the nine species recognised, two are described as new, Moldenhawera nutans L. P. Queiroz, G. P. Lewis & Allkin and M. papillanthera L. P. Queiroz, G. P. Lewis & Allkin. In addition, a new variety, M. blanchetiana Tul. var. multijuga L. P. Queiroz, G. P. Lewis & Allkin, is described. A key to species identification, a map of their distribution and illustrations of four species are provided together with a list of numbered exsiccatae. The biogeography and evolution of Moldenhawera are discussed.
10.2307/4110453|The genus Neuracanthus is divided into 3 sections; 30 species are recognised, with a further 5 subspecies and 3 varieties. From tropical Asia (India to Vietnam) 4 species and one subspecies are recognised, all referred to sect. Neuracanthus which also has two species in north and northeast Africa. From Madagascar 6 species (3 newly described) are recognised, all of which are referred to sect. Didymosperma in which a further 6 species (1 described as new) from continental Africa are also included. The remaining 12 species (2 newly described) are referred to sect. Leucobarleria and are characteristic of the dry areas of northeastern tropical Africa and southern Arabian Peninsula. Many species appear to be very local and are poorly known. While the genus is clearly defined, its relationships to other genera and its position within the Acanthaceae are obscure.
10.2307/4115702|The name Centella ulugurensis (Engl.) Domin, omitted from the account of the Umbelliferae for the "Flora of Tropical East Africa", is accounted for.
10.2307/4109613|A new combination is made in Crassula (Crassulaceae).
10.2307/4118078|Two new species of Aristida, A. amazonensis and A. lanigera, from Brazil are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110231|Six new species of Barringtonia J. R. Forst. & G. Forst., B. belagaensis, B. pseudoglomerata and B. sarawakensis from Malaysia, B. palawanensis and B. ridsdalei from the Philippines and B. waasii from Sri Lanka are described and illustrated.
20443412|Sleumer's (1971) revision of Casearia (formerly Flacourtiaceae, now Salicaceae) is reviewed to correct the specific delimitation, nomenclature and geography of some of the West and Central African species. As a result, Casearia inaequalis Hutch. & Dalz. and C. prismatocarpa Mast. are resurrected, the latter to replace C. calodendron Gilg ex Engl. Casearia michelsonii, from the mountains of East Congo (Kinshasa), is described as new. A revised key to the species of West and Central Africa is presented and their distributions are mapped.
10.2307/4110393|Mimosa tweedieana Barneby ex Glazier & Mackinder is proposed as a new name for Mimosa pigra sensu Barneby, and new combinations under Mimosa pigura L. are made for the two varieties previously under Mimosa pellita Humb. &: Bonpl. ex Willd.
10.2307/4110069|The genus Multidentia Gilli is reinstated and the circumscription enlarged to include taxa formerly dispersed amongst Canthium sensu lato, Vangueriopsis and Pygmaeothamnus. In all 11 species are recognised; 7 new combinations are made at specific rank and one at varietal level; 2 new species and one new subspecies described and 2 poorly known species noted; new synonyms are indicated and distributions given.
10.2307/4110261|Twelve species of the pantropical genus Parkia R.Br., which occur from NE India to Fiji, are enumerated and illustrated. They include petai (P. speciosa) which is eaten as a spicy vegetable in SE Asia. All belong to section Parkia, and they appear to be more closely related to the African species of this section than to the American ones. A key and distribution maps are given. Scattered references indicate that pollination is by both large and small pteropodid bats, and a variety of animals, including monkeys and birds, are potential dispersal agents.
23489247|The new large tree species Luetzelburgia amazonica D. B. O. S. Cardoso, L. P. Queiroz & H. C. Lima is described, illustrated and discussed based on collections from the state of Rondnia in Brazil. It is the only species of the genus occurring in the Amazon basin. Luetzelburgia amazonica resembles L. trialata (Ducke) Ducke based on the number and morphology of leaflets, fruit size and the dark brown sericeous indumentum on the inflorescence, but differs mainly in its larger flowers, pinkish petals and very distinct standard petal shape. A nova espcie de rvore Luetzelburgia amazonica D. B. O. S. Cardoso, L. P. Queiroz & H. C. Lima  descrita, ilustrada e discutida baseada em colees do estado de Rondnia, Brasil, sendo, portanto, a nica espcie do gnero que ocorre na Bacia Amaznica. Luetzelburgia amazonica se parece com L. trialata (Ducke) Ducke pela morfologia e nmero de fololos, tamanho dos frutos e o indumento serceo marrom escuro da inflorescncia, mas difere principalmente pelas flores maiores com ptalas rseas e morfologia do estandarte bem distinta.
10.2307/4110392|Microfungi from herbarium collections of Scottish alpine plants were investigated. Taxa new to the British Isles or from previously unrecorded hosts are presented.
10.2307/4102932|Uvaria tanzaniae, Uvariodendron oligocarpum, Uvariopsis bisexualis, the first hermaphrodite member of the genus, and Monanthotaxis discrepantinervia are described as new from Tanzania; Melodorum gracile is transferred to Sphaerocoryne; and further records are given of Isolona cauliflora; Isolona hexaloba is recorded from Tanzania for the first time under its correct name.
10.2307/4102901|Lindtneria pterospora Reid, sp. nov., is described, based on a recent collection from Ghana, received from A. G. Rose. This is the first representative of the genus from the tropics.
10.2307/4119012|Two new genera, Chiarinia and Sennia, and three new species, Chiarinia jubae-fluvii, Sennia sciap-sciaple and Filicium somalense, were described by Chiovenda in his Flora Somala. In the present paper it is shown that Chiarinia is a synonym of Lecaniodiscus Planch. ex Benth. (Sapindaceae), as C. jubae-fluvii is conspecific with L. fraxinifolius Baker, that Sennia is a synonym of Dialium L. (Leguminosae subfam. Caesalpinioideae), as S. sciap-sciaple is conspecific with D. orientate Bak. f., and that Filicium somalense is conspecific with Haplocoelum inopleum Radlk. (Sapindaceae). All three species are members of the coastal forests of East Africa. No nomenclatural changes are necessary because of these identifications.
10.2307/4120630| A new species of Parkinsonia L. (Leguminosae: Caesalpinioideae), P. peruviana, from the dry thorn scrub forests of the inter-Andean Maraon Valley, Amazonas, Peru, is described and illustrated. The status of Parkinsonia species in Peru is outlined and a key for their identification is provided. 
10.2307/4119317|As a result of the recircumscription of Helichrysum Mill, by A. Anderberg and others, many species in that genus have been transferred to a number of segregate genera. In 1991, Bracteantha Anderb. & Haegi, was proposed to accommodate five Australian species of the former Helichrysum. However, Xerochrysum Tzvelev (1990), has nomenclatural priority over Bracteantha, and the following new combinations are proposed: Xerochrysum bicolor (Lindl.) R. J. Bayer, Xerochrysum palustre (Flann) R. J. Bayer, Xerochrysum papillosum (Labill.) R. J. Bayer, Xerochrysum subundulatum (Sch. Bip.) R. J. Bayer, and Xerochrysum viscosum (DC.) R. J. Bayer.
23489248|Herbarium-based studies of Mucuna lead us to make a new combination for a Hawaiian taxon. Mucuna persericea, formerly M. sloanei var. persericea, is an endangered species according to IUCN criteria. It is narrowly endemic to the island of Maui. With its recognition at the species level, we conclude that the genus is represented in Hawaii by three native species, plus several alien species, which are locally cultivated and potentially naturalised. We provide a key to aid in the identification of both the native and cultivated taxa.
10.2307/4111031| Two new species of Macaranga Thouars are described: M. glandibracteolata from Sabah and M. angulata from Sabah, Brunei and Sarawak. Both species are typical of Macaranga section Pachystemon (Blume) Mll. Arg. in being myrmecophytic trees with recurved stipules that produce Beccarian food-bodies from the abaxial surface, and having connate, erect styles that persist on the apex of the fruit. Macaranga glandibmicteolata is distributed in east and west Sabah in lowland forest; M. angulata occurs in lower montane forest from 1000 - 1500 m in Sabah, Brunei and northern Sarawak. 
10.2307/4117705|Aristolochia phetchaburiensis W. Chuakul & P. Saralamp, a new species from Phetchaburi Province, Thailand, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4113738|The pollen morphology of Olea has been investigated by a number of authors, e.g., Aubert et al. (1959), Tarnavschi & Serbanescu-Jitariu (1960), Benichou (1962), Horowitz & Baum (1967), Straka & Simon (1967), Bonnefille (1971), Renault-Miskovsky et al. (1976), Ferguson & Poole (1976), Wickens (1976), Pacini & Vosa (1979) and Maley (1980). In this study a number of Olea species (17 species out of a total of c. 20) representative of the genus has been examined and the results are compared with those of other authors. Throughout, the general morphology of pollen is similar although there are some minor features that allow grouping and separation of certain species under study.
10.2307/4114659|Acacia piptadenioides, a distinct new species from Bahia, Brazil is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117776|Recent field work in West Africa has led to the discovery of two further undescribed species of Eriocaulon: E. bamendae from Cameroon and E. nadjae from Equatorial Guinea. Their taxonomic position is discussed, both are illustrated and SEM photographs are provided of the seeds, and also of the seed of E. zambesiense Ruhland.
10.2307/4113600|Two individuals of Phaedranassa dubia (Kunth) MacBride were each found to have 2n = 46 chromosomes. One is a ditelosomic, differing from the other by having one pair of metacentric chromosomes replaced by a pair of telocentrics equivalent in length to one of the arms of the metaceritrics.
10.2307/4110876|The new species Favolaschia pegleri Parmasto found in East Asia on dead culms of Arundinella hirta (Poaceae) is described. Favolaschia pegleri has an epicuticular structure without acanthocystidia but with well-developed dendrohyphidia, basidia-like clavate cells and oleocystidia. The relationships of Favolaschia with Tricholomataceae (Agaricales sensu lato), Physalacriaceae (Cantharellales) and Corticiaceae (Aphyllophorales sensu lato) are discussed.
23216079|Twenty-one species of Megalastrum are here recognised for Central America. A dichotomous indented key is given to identify the species, and each species is provided with a description, complete synonymy, discussion, specimens examined, and illustrations. Eight new species are described: Megalastrum apicale R. C. Moran & J. Prado, M. costipubens R. C. Moran & J. Prado, M. glabrum R. C. Moran & J. Prado, M. gompholepis R. C. Moran & J. Prado, M. intermedium R. C. Moran & J. Prado, M. longiglandulosum R. C. Moran & J. Prado, M. mexicanum R. C. Moran & J. Prado, and M. sparsipilosum R. C. Moran & J. Prado. Two new combinations are made: M. galeottii (M. Martens) R. C. Moran & J. Prado and M. heydei (C. Chr.) R. C. Moran & J. Prado. The central mountains of Costa Rica and Panama are the most species-rich region in Central America, harbouring 15 species, 10 of which are endemic.
10.2307/4109871|It is shown that Hypseloderma Radlk. (1932) is a synonym of Camptolepis Radlk. (1907), and that Hypseloderma jubense (Chiov.) Radlk. is a synonym of Camptolepis ramiflora (Taub.) Radlk. The range of the latter taxon is considerably enlarged by this identification.
10.2307/4110954|The NE tropical African species of Emilia are revised and 14 species are recognised. Of these, five species are newly described and illustrated: E. herbacea, E. adamagibaensis, E. negellensis, E. serpentina and E. arvensis. One taxon is kept as Emilia sp. until more material is available. Brief diagnostic descriptions, synonyms, habitat and distributional data are provided for the existing taxa.
10.2307/4109772|Two Vernonia species from southern Arabia, hitherto confused under the name V. atriplicifolia, are separated and descriptions given. One, the true V. atriplicifolia Jaub. & Spach, should be known by its earlier name of V. spatulata (Forssk.) Sch. Bip. For the other, the name V. arabica F. G. Davies is published. K areysiana, a third and similar species from the area is illustrated for comparison.
10.2307/4115865|Corollonema boliviense Schltr. is synonymous with Oxypetalum brachystemma Malme. The characters used to distinguish Dactylostelma Schltr. and Metoxypetalum Morillo from Oxypetalum R. Br. are not diagnostic, and both genera are placed in synonymy under Oxypetalum. Dactylostelma boliviense Schltr. is transferred to Oxypetalum as O. dactylostelma Goyder. Only one species is recognised in the former Metoxypetalum, this is combined under Oxypetalum as O. retusum (Markgr.) Goyder.
10.2307/4108590|Sphacelotheca suddiana is described from the Sudd in southern Sudan, infecting the remarkable new marsh grass Suddia sagittifolia Renv., described in the preceding paper (Kew Bull. 39: 455-461 (1984)).
10.2307/4117249|Three new species are described from eastern Africa: Andropogon aridus, Anthephora pungens and Cenchrus somalensis. Six new combinations are proposed: Andropogon gayanus var. polycladus, A. ligulatus, Dichanthium bladhii, D. insculptum, D. pertusum and D. radicans.
10.2307/4107864|Two new Chinese species, Vernonia albosquama from Guangxi and Cremanthodium pteridophyllum from Yunnan, are described, and the new name Aster platylepis is published for the species previously known as Doronicum latisquamatum.
10.2307/4108116|Four new species of Schizostachyum Nees are described; S. undulatum from Sumatra is related to S. brachycladum Kurz; S. pleianthemum from Sumatra, S. pilosum and S. hantu from Borneo, are related to S. grande Ridl. S. blumei Nees, S. longispiculatum (Kurz ex Munro) Kurz and S. latifolium Gamble are discussed; S. longispiculatum is a synonym of S. blumei; S. latifolium is different from S. blumei. S. biflorum McClure is a synonym of S. iraten Steud.
10.2307/4110875|A new species of Rhodocybe (Entolomataceae) is described from East Africa based upon a collection made by Prof. David N. Pegler in 1968 in the Zika Forest, Entebbe, Uganda. This new taxon is another new member of section Rhodocybe. Rhodocybe pseudonitellina is reported also from East Africa for the first time.
10.2307/4118745|The history, nomenclature, classification and relationships of the genus Hapaline (Araceae) are discussed. Seven species, one, Hapaline celatrix, new to science, are described and illustrated and a key is provided.
20649578|A new genus, Cleistesiopsis, was segregated from Cleistes based on morphological and molecular characteristics, and two new species of Cleistes: C. batistana and C. elongata, both occurring in the Brazilian Central Plateau (Central-Western Brazil), are described and illustrated. Furthermore, a key to genera currently recognised within Pogonieae is presented. /// Um novo gnero, Cleistesiopsis,  segregado de Cleistes com base em caracteres morfolgicos e moleculares, e duas novas espcies de Cleistes: C. batistana e C. elongata, que ocorrem no Planalto Central, no Centro-Oeste do Brasil, so descritas e ilustradas. Alm disso, uma chave para os gneros que atualmente compem a tribo Pogonieae  apresentada.
10.2307/4108382|The author describes and illustrates six ascomycetes new to science, one representing a new genus Tarbertia, and twenty other microfungi imperfectly known or new to the British flora.
25070249|Recent studies on Miscanthus (Poaceae) for the Flora of China project have indicated that some material, which had formerly been identified as M. sacchariflorus (Maxim.) Hack., is an unrecognised species. The material is from a region of central China to the south of the main distribution range of M. sacchariflorus. This new species, M. lutarioriparius Liu ex S. L. Chen & Renvoize, is described here for the first time. The genus Rubimons B. S. Sun is reviewed and reduced to synonymy in Miscanthus.
10.2307/4113630|Dialypetalanthus fuscescens Kuhlm., endemic to Amazonia, has been treated as the sole member of Dialypetalanthaceae Rizzini & Occhioni. Various affinities have been suggested, but its phylogenetic position has remained unclear due to the unique combination of characters indicating an affinity with Rubiaceae (e.g. opposite leaves, interpetiolar stipules and an inferior ovary), in which family it was originally placed, or Myrtales (free petals and numerous stamens). Analysis of rbcL sequence data indicates that Dialypetalanthus is a member of Rubiaceae sensu stricto and falls in Ixoroideae sensu lato sensu Bremer with relatively strong bootstrap support (83%). Within the subfamily, Dialypetalanthus falls with a group of other neotropical taxa, but this position is not well supported. In the successively weighted trees Dialypetalanthus fell in a clade with the New World taxa Calycophyllum, Capirona, Condaminea, Hippotis, Pentagonia and Pogonopus. However, this clade received bootstrap support of <50%. On the basis of these data we recommend inclusion of Dialypetalanthus in Rubiaceae, but data for other loci and further morphological analysis will be required before its exact relationships can be determined.
10.2307/4117821|A new genus of the tribe Polygonateae (Convallariaceae) from West China is described and named Heteropolygonatum. This genus is similar to Polygonatum, but differs from it in having short outer stamens and long inner ones, imbricate tepals, and both terminal and axillary inflorescences. Heteropolygonatum contains two species: H. roseolum and H. pendulum. In this paper, the former species is newly described and defined as the type of the genus, and the latter species is transferred from Polygonatum. They were also examined karyologically and proved to be diploid with a basic chromosome number of x=16, which does not coincide with that of Polygonatum.
10.2307/4109175|Twenty-seven species of microfungi collected by R. Brown near Edinburgh at the end of the 18th century are identified.
10.2307/4103158|Three new species and one subspecies are described from Turkey and their relationships within the genus are discussed.
10.2307/4118789|Calamus mogeae (Arecaceae) from Sumatra is described as new.
4110889|Oxypetalum cordifolium subsp. harleyi Fontella & Goyder from the state of Bahia in NE Brazil is described and illustrated. The flabelliform lobes of the corona and the blade-like retinaculum indicate a close relationship not only with Oxypetalum cordifolium (Vent.) Schltr., but also O. mexiae Malme, O. pedicellatum Decne. and O. subriparium Malme. The characters used to distinguish these species are re-examined and the taxonomy of the group is revised. Five taxa are recognised and are treated as regional subspecies of O. cordifolium. The subspecies are largely allopatric, although at its southernmost limit (eastern Rio de Janeiro) the distribution of subsp. brasiliense converges with that of subsp. pedicellatum, and the local variant subsp. mexiae occurs at the northernmost limit of subsp. brasiliense (Vicosa in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais). Four new combinations are proposed and Gothofreda cordifolia Vent., the basionym of O. cordifolium, is lectotypified. A key to the five subspecies is presented.
27822012|The pantropical genus Psychotria L., probably the largest among angiosperms, occurs in different Brazilian vegetal formations. This work determined the chromosome numbers and karyotypic characteristics of ten species of Brazilian Psychotria. The chromosome numbers ranged from 2n = 22, in five species (P. hoffmannseggiana (Willd. ex Roem. & Schult.) Mll. Arg., P. lupulina Benth., P. marginata Sw., P. tenerior (Cham.) Mll. Arg., and P. trichophora Mll. Arg.), to 2n = 40, in P. mapourioides DC., and 2n = 44 in four other species (P. carthagenensis Jacq., P. gracilenta Mll. Arg., P. longipes Mll. Arg. and P. suterella Mll. Arg.). In addition to these differences, great variations in chromosome lengths and karyotypic formulae were also observed among these species. Chromosome length varied from 5.59 m to 0.90 m and no relationship was detected between chromosome numbers and lengths in any species. Chromosomes are principally metacentric, except for P. mapourioides that presents mainly submetacentric chromosomes. Karyotypic asymmetry rate (TF%) ranged from moderate (TF% = 38.83) to highly symmetric (TF% = 50.00). The difference in chromosome numbers of Psychotria carthagenensis (2n = 44) and P. mapourioides (2n = 40) is very important to taxonomists, because these have great difficulty in identifying and differentiating these two species with the sole use of morphological characteristics, since some individuals have intermediate characteristics between both species. Although this study does not allow for a consistent cytotaxonomic analysis, not even to delimit P. subgen. Psychotria and P. subgen. Heteropsychotria, this karyotype analysis of some Brazilian species, along with their morphology, may contribute to a better knowledge of the genus.
10.2307/4109555|Apart from those from the rare P. aldabraensis St. John, all the widely viariable Pandanus collections made on Aldabra in 1969 are considered to belong to P. tectorius Parkinson.
10.2307/4109627|Details of Australian orchids in the J. E. Smith herbarium are given and the identities of Caladenia catenata (Smith) Druce, Diuris aurea Smith and Dipodium punctatum (Smith) R. Br. are established. The nomenclature of Diuris punctata Smith is clarified.
10.2307/4114476| Three new species, Mikania glabra, Aspilia decumbens and Verbesina pseudoclausseni, are described for the Serra do Gro Mogol and the surrounding area in Minas Gerais State, Brazil. New combinations are proposed in Lychnophora and Vernonia, and a modified synonymy is given for Vernonia pycnostachya. 
10.2307/4107957|Study of Madagascan material previously treated under Stemodiopsis (Scrophulariaceae), adds new information on Nesogenes. The combination N. madagascariensis (Bonati) Marais is published.
23044624|In the Xiangxi region of western Hunan province, China, 335 taxa belonging to 87 families and 119 genera are utilised as wild vegetables. In order to take advantage of this naturally occurring resource we examined the horticultural and the associated socio-economic aspects of these taxa. Wild vegetables, as the mainstay of human diet and Chinese traditional medicines, have played an important role in the daily life and income of local ethnic groups for centuries. We examine candidate species for their prevalence and their potential to offer returns, for example in cereal production and tourism, and indicate horticultural management and processing technologies which may exploit wild vegetable availability.
10.2307/4111174|A disjunct population of a taxon hitherto named as Euphorbia gossypina is described as subspecies mangulensis. E. persistens is reduced to synonymy under E. clavigera. Three new species related to E. schinzii are described: E. limpopoana, E. acervata and E. plenispina.
10.2307/4110806|Tephrosia heterophylla Vatke is considered to be an earlier name for the species currently called T. schweinfurthii Defl. in southern Arabia and northeast tropical Africa. Synonymy, typification and a distribution map are given.
10.2307/4118065|The genus Endostemon N.E.Br., widespread in tropical Africa and with one species in India, is revised and 18 species, placed in 4 sections, are recognized. One new species, Endostemon albus A. J. Paton, Harley & M. M. Harley, and two new sections, sects Oblongi Ayob. ex A. J. Paton, Harley & M. M. Harley & Leucosphaeri A. J. Paton, Harley & M. M. Harley are described. Endostemon leucosphaerus (Briq.) A. J. Paton, Harley & M. M. Harley is transferred into Endostemon from Erythrochlamys Briq. The circumscription of Endostemon is discussed and the morphological and palynological differences between Endostemon and related genera are illustrated. Endostemon can be distinguished from related genera by its short, villous anthers which are attached to the corolla just below the throat, a small shield-like swelling near the base of the style just above the nutlets and by the pollen having short colpi and alternately wide and narrow mesocolpia. The phytogeography of the genus is discussed. There are two centres of diversity, Angola and the Somalia-Masai region, each having different components.
10.2307/4108381|New combinations are proposed for three species of Hibbertia. The status of Hibbertia stricta (DC.) F. Muell. is discussed.
10.2307/4119323|The genus Heteromorpha is revised. Seven species (including seven varieties) are recognized. Eight species from Madagascar are excluded. The name H. stenophylla Welw. ex Schinz is reinstated and H. transvaalensis Schltr. & H. Wolff is considered a variety of it. A new species, H. occidentalis P. J. D. Winter, is described. A narrower view of H. arborescens (Spreng.) Cham. & Schltdl. than that of recent authors is applied; the species is subdivided into five varieties. Two of these, var. frutescens P. J. D. Winter and var. montana P. J. D. Winter are new. The circumscription of H. involucrata Conrath is broadened to accommodate other central African forms of the species; H. stolzii H. Wolff is added to the synonymy. Data are analyzed cladistically and the supposed phylogeny is presented in the form of a cladogram.
10.2307/4117913|The genus Spathoglottis in Australia and the Pacific Islands is revised. Seven species are recognized in this study as occurring in the area. Several previously recognized species are reduced here to synonymy.
20649592|A new species of Elymus L., E. gangotrianus Pusalkar, D. K. Singh & S. K. Srivast., is described from Gangotri National Park, Uttaranchal, India. The species differs from the closely allied E. microlepis (Melderis) Melderis in having longer spikelets, green or creamy-yellow lemma, with scabrid outer surface; palea 3/4 the length of lemma; palea keels glabrous below, scabrous above and yellow or creamy anthers.
10.2307/4115812|In a precursor to a revision of Antidesma in Malesia and Thailand, two new species, one new subspecies and two new varieties are described and illustrated. Seven species are reduced in rank to varieties, four of which are rheophytic forms of widespread species. The necessary new combinations are made and their types and full synonymies are given.
20649555|Matelea sartago-diaboli is described from the Ro Grande inter-Andean dry valley system of central Bolivia, and compared with the recently described Argentinian endemic M. calchaquina. The new species is illustrated, and its conservation status discussed.
10.2307/4117100|Embelia xylocarpa, sp. nov., is described from eastern Africa.
23216196|The genus Isoglossa Oerst. (Acanthaceae) is revised in west Africa, with particular emphasis upon the Cameroon Highlands. Four species are recognised, including Isoglossa dispersa I. Darbysh. & L. J. Pearce newly described here, and a second new species for which further flowering material is required before description, here called Isoglossa sp. A. Lectotypes are chosen for I. glandulifera Lindau and I. nervosa C. B. Clarke and the status of the latter species in relation to the eastern African I. membranacea C. B. Clarke is discussed. The habitat, ecology and conservation status of each species are considered, and gregarious mass-flowering is reported in I. dispersa.
10.2307/4110918|A new species, Crinum binghamii Nordal & Kwembeya, is described from marshy areas in western Zambia. It is morphologically similar to C. buphanoides in having star-shaped flowers and distichously arranged leaves, but differs in its leaf morphology, longer peduncle and fewer flowers. A key to the seven species in mainland Africa with star-shaped flowers is provided.
10.2307/4118721|Detailed morphological investigations have shown that the name Dendrobium purpureum Roxb. has been applied at various times to six distinct taxa: D. capituliflorum Rolfe, D. catillare Rchb. f., D. constrictum J. J. Sm., D. kraemeri Schltr., D. morrisonii Schltr. and D. purpureum Roxb. The name D. catillare has itself been misapplied to a species which is here described under the new name D. taveuniense. D. purpureum var. candidulum Rchb. f. is here raised to the level of subspecies. Each taxon is described and illustrated and a key is provided for their identification.
10.2307/4108105|The genus Wissmannia is reduced to Livistona and the new combination L. carinensis (Chiov.) J. Dransf. & N. W. Uhl published.
23044620|Seed-based methods are generally the most efficient for propagating and storing plant germplasm, but these methods are not always adequate, and some species can benefit from in vitro methods for conservation. For species that produce few or no seeds in the wild, plants may be propagated in vitro, and in vitro shoot tips can provide material for cryostorage when seeds are not available or are recalcitrant. In vitro propagated plants may also serve as subjects for research, without depleting the genetic resources of the species. Clonal plants can be used to test out suitable habitat and can be used for basic research on endangered species, without disturbing the wild population. Despite the effectiveness of widely used techniques, however, there are still species that resist initiation into culture or that may be difficult to root or acclimatise. Similarly, tissue cryopreservation methods may be restrained by cost, particularly in maintaining multiple genotypes of many species. Maintaining such genotypes in vitro is also costly and runs the risk of loss or change over time. Examples of the successful use of in vitro methods will illustrate the variety of applications of these techniques, but costs and specific challenges will also be discussed to help define areas where further research is needed to realise the potential of in vitro methods as a tool for conservation.
10.2307/4109552|A computer-assisted method of chorological analysis is applied to the Gramineae of the Middle East. The resulting chorological classification of the species into a hierarchy of Kingdom, Region, Domain and Endemic Centre is illustrated by maps.
10.2307/4115652|A new species of Mikania, M. glandulosissima, is described and illustrated from the Chapada Diamantina of Bahia State, Brazil.
10.2307/4110336|A new species, Psoralea abbottii, from southern Natal Province and north-eastern Transkei in South Africa is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4108604|A new species C. superba D. V. Field & I. S. Collenette is described and compared with C. arabica Huber of which a full description is given.
20443399|Indagator fordii Halford, described as a monotypic tree genus in the Sterculiaceae-Helmiopsideae from Queensland is shown to be incorrectly placed there and better placed in Brownlowiaceae/Malvaceae-Brownlowioideae (formerly Tiliaceae). It represents the second generic record of that group from Australia. Its conservation status is assessed, its affinities discussed and a key to the genera of the Brownlowiaceae-Diplodisceae is presented.
10.2307/4113612|A synopsis of the Euphorbiaceae of Sumatra is offered, following a pattern set in previous accounts, particularly that in The Euphorbiaceae of Borneo, to which reference is made wherever possible-a full list of synonyms and literature is given only for those taxa not occurring in Borneo. New taxa are listed on p. 374. An unexpected late loan of Sumatran material from Leiden contained many taxa not treated below; these are listed in an un-indexed addendum on p. 374 and attention is drawn to them by * printed beside each pertinent genus entry. The loan also provide one extra genus, Dalechampia.
10.2307/4110599|The nomenclature and typification of Suaeda vermiculata Forssk. ex J. F. Gmelin, S. aegyptiaca (Hasselq.) Zoh. and S. monoica Forssk. ex J. F. Gmelin are discussed with notes on their identity and geographical distribution.
10.2307/4115851| Three new species of Dryopteris (Pteropsida: Dryopteridaceae) from West Africa are described and illustrated. Dryopteris amblyodonta J. P. Roux appears to be restricted to the Loma Mts in Sierra Leone, D. glandulosopaleata J. P. Roux to Mount Cameroon and montane regions in adjacent Nigeria, and D. occidentalis J. P. Roux to the mountains of Guinea, Cte d' Ivoire and Nigeria. The diagnostic features of each species are discussed. These taxa have formerly all been mistakenly identified as D. inaequalis (Schltdl.) Kuntze, a taxon restricted to South Africa. 
10.2307/4114464|The pollen morphology of Streptosiphon hirsutus Mildbr. is described and illustrated with light, scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The pollen is isopolar, prolate to subprolate, 3-colpate, with a triangular outline in polar view and a rectangular outline in equatorial view. The surface is perforate on the apices of the mesocolpia, and perforate and fossulate towards the apertures. On each apocolpium is a triangular depression with a granular protuberance at the pole. The exine stratification is complex and is believed to be unique to this species. At each mesocolpial apex of the grain is a double arcade of columellae, separated by a cavea. The foot layer is discontinuous. The endexine is highly fractionated and lamellated at the colpi. The pollen morphology confirms the position of Streptosiphon as a separate genus within the Acantheae and suggests affinities with Crossandra Salisbury and Crossandrella C. B. Clarke.
10.2307/4108552|Two new species of Diaphananthe, D. laticalcar and D. sarcorhynchoides, are described from W. Africa and a new var. nana of Polystachya affinis.
23216751|A fungus causing conspicuous leaf spots of Prunus serotina was recently collected in Surrey, UK. It proved to represent an undescribed species which also cannot be referred to any known genus. The species is described as Miricatena prunicola gen. et sp. nov.
10.2307/4109608|Thirty genera were identified amongst the logs cast up on the shores of Aldabra Atoll in the western Indian Ocean. The possible origins of the woods and the means by which they may have reached the Atoll are discussed. It is considered that the woods are largely eastern in origin, with perhaps elements from other areas, and probably represent a mixture of wood from natural vegetation and timbers cut for commercial use.
10.2307/4110413|Section Pterocoma is revised; its species are keyed out and enumerated, and Dicoma sessiliflora and D. zeyheri are discussed. Section Psilocoma is delimited and the Dicoma anomala species complex discussed. A new species, D. elliptica and a new subspecies, D. sessiliflora subsp. stenophylla, are described. Dicoma argyrophylla is reduced to subspecific rank under D. zeyheri, and Dicoma anomala var. attenuata S. Moore is raised to species level. A new subspecific combination is made for D. vaginata O. Hoffm. in D. kirkii Harv.
10.2307/4118046|The name Corybas diemenicus (Lindley) H. G. Reichb. has been misapplied to a new taxon which is described here as C. incurvus D. Jones & M. Clements.
10.2307/4108997|Seventy-four species and nine varieties described by J. M. Berkeley in the Polyporaceae from 1836 to 1843 have been reviewed and the types examined, except in seven cases where the types have not been traced. Twenty-one species are accepted (thirteen of them combined in other genera), the remainder are treated as synonyms. Five names are illegitimate (of which one is superfluous), and two species belong in other families. Two new combinations are proposed: Phellinus discipes (Berk.) Ryv., and Coriolopsis strumosa (Fr.) Ryv.
10.2307/4110544|Leucaena shannonii subsp. magnifica and L. collinsii subsp. zacapana, two new subspecies endemic to south-eastern Guatemala, are described and illustrated. Detailed distribution maps of the two taxa are presented along with notes on their ecology, economic potential and conservation status.
10.2307/4111203|Lavandula bramwellii Upson & S. Andrews is described as a new species endemic to the south- west area of Gran Canaria, Canary Islands.
10.2307/4108878|Leroya richardiae, sp. nov., a second species in this endemic Madagascan genus, is described.
23216400|Peristylus balakrishnanii, is described and illustrated from Rutland Island, Andaman Archipelago, India.
10.2307/4113877|This paper supplements the author's 1938 monograph of Epimedium. It describes a new Chinese species, Epimedium dolichostemon, close to E. fargesii Franchet, provides a key to the species of central and eastern China including the new species recorded from China since 1938, modifies the key to cultivated taxa of Epimedium in European Garden Flora (1989) and provides an English translation of the key and descriptions of new Chinese species (E. simplicifolium and E. wushanense) published in Chinese by T. S. Ying in 1975.
20443258|Reduction of several genera of the subfamily Magnolioideae to the genus Magnolia L. has resulted in many new combinations. Although most of them were already made, some taxa especially in the genus Manglietia Blume need to be transferred formally to the genus Magnolia. A total of 26 new combinations and names are proposed here.
10.2307/4118980|The Antirheoideae are represented by five distinct groups of species in the Malay Peninsula, viz., Antirhea (one sp.), Guettarda (one sp.), Timonius sensu stricto (12 spp. including four incompletely known) and two other groups (one sp. each) provisionally maintained in Timonius until their generic status can be established by further comparative studies. Three new combinations are made (one at species level, one raised from varietal to species status, and one at varietal level); one new species is described. A synoptical key is provided for the identification of genera and species-groups, and another key is given for the identification of species in Timonius s.s.
10.2307/4110974|Goodyera afzelii Schltr. is newly recorded from Mozambique. The genus has previously not been reported for tropical Africa. This brings the number of genera in subtribe Goodyerinae in tropical Africa to five. A revised key to the genera of the subfamily Spiranthoideae for the Flora Zambesiaca region is presented.
10.2307/4110182| The following new combinations are made: Celcistraceae-Campylostemon mucronatum (Exell) J. B. Hall, Hippocratea dewildemaniana (N. Hall) J. B Hall Ochnaceae-Ouratea reticulata var. turnerae (Hook. f.) J. B. Hall. 
10.2307/4107868|Fourteen new species of grasses are described in the genera Paspalum, Panicum, Ichnanthus, Mesosetum, Andropogon, Streptostachys and Axonopus.
10.2307/4119075|The new species Caesalpinia dauensis is described from NE Kenya.
10.2307/4110021|A new species of Parkinsonia, P. raimondoi, is described from Somalia, remarkable for its few pinnae with those of the top pair elongated.
10.2307/4109170|An account is given of the vegetation and habitats on the Kenya side of Mt. Elgon based on personal observations made during many years residence in the area. This is followed by a check-list of the gymnosperms and angiosperms.
10.2307/4115724|The shapes of involucral bracts, pistils and achenes of Hepatica falconeri are more similar to H. nobilis than Anemone flaccida, but the radical leaves resemble those of A. flaccida in shape. In the Anemone species, new leaves emerge first, from subterranean stems, and then flowering begins. In H. falconeri, the flowers appear first, and new leaves then develop as in other Hepatica species. H. falconeri has the chromosome number 2n = 14. The chromosome complement consists of six pairs of median- and one pair of subterminal-centromeric chromosomes bearing satellites, a karyotype which is similar to that of the Japanese Hepatica nobilis var. japonica. The chromosome number of 2n = 14 for H. falconeri is reported here for the first time. These results indicate that H. falconeri is better placed in Hepatica than in Anemone.
23489250|A new species, Gypsophila afghanica is described and illustrated. It resembles G. saponarioides but has pubescent and glandular leaves, foliaceous linear bracts and shorter calyx and pedicel. The species so far is only known from a high altitude location in the Hindu Kush mountain range growing on granite slopes, and amongst granite outcrops and rocks.
10.2307/4107834|Chionothrix hyposericea Chiov. (from Somalia) is transferred to the genus Dasysphaera, and D. breviflora C. C. Townsend placed in synonymy with it.
10.2307/4118862|This paper lists the 10 small-flowered Chinese species of Epimedium and provides a key and the description of a new species E. stellulatum, related to E. pubescens Maxim, and introduced into cultivation in Britain from Wudang Shan, north-western Hubei.
10.2307/4118036|Keys to 15 families and 194 species of agaricoid fungi are provided, based on revisions of the type collections of species described by Berkeley & Curtis, Earle and Murrill.
10.2307/4117780|Indigofera patula Baker is described here in more detail, together with the new subsp. okuensis Schrire & Onana, a taxon endemic to Mt Oku in North West Cameroon, West Africa.
20649649|The species of the genus Heteropsis, known throughout Brazilian Amazonia as "cip-titica", have long been the target of intensive commercial collection because of the valuable fibre which is made from their aerial roots. The fibre is widely used in regional craft manufacture and forms part of the extractive industry of the region, based on forest products. In this study, two new species are described, Heteropsis duckeana M. L. Soares and H. croatii M. L. Soares, and a new combination is made, H. robusta (G. S. Bunting) M. L. Soares; descriptions, illustrations and conservation status are given. /// As espcies do gnero Heteropsis conhecido na Amaznia brasileira como cip-titica, tem sido alvo de intensas coletas comerciais na regio por ser fonte de fibras valiosas adquiridas a partir das razes areas. Estas razes so muito utilizadas para confeco de artigos artesanais, fazendo parte da economia extrativista da regio, baseada em produtos florestais. Neste trabalho, duas novas espcies e uma nova combinao do gnero Heteropsis so descritas, a saber: H. duckeana M. L. Soares, H. croatii M. L. Soares e H. robusta (G. S. Bunting) M. L. Soares respectivamente; descries, ilustraes e avaliaes do estado de conservao de cada espcie so fornecidos.
20649674|One species of Caralluma, C. wilhelmii Thulin, and two species of Ceropegia, C. kaariyei Thulin and C. gypsophila Thulin, from the Somali National Regional State (Ogaden) of Ethiopia, are described and illustrated. Caralluma wilhelmii is compared with the eastern African C. priogonium K. Schum. and its relatives, whereas Ceropegia kaariyei is compared with C. laikipiensis Masinde from Kenya. Ceropegia gypsophila is closely related to and compared with C. sandersonii Decne. ex Hook. f. in southern Africa.
10.2307/4110714|A new species of Byrsonima, B. stannardii, is described and illustrated. It occurs in Bahia and Minas Gerais States, Brazil.
10.2307/4117951|A new genus, Taeniorhachis, and a new species, T. repens are described from near Mogadishu, Somalia.
10.2307/4109989|Hymenophyllum elongatum & H. bougainvillense from Bougainville are described.
10.2307/4110747| Two new species. Licania megalophylla Prance from Western Ecuador and Couepia joaquinae Prance from Amap, Brazil, are described and illustrated. 
27821994|Two new species of Anthurium from Bahia, eastern Brazil, are described and illustrated. Both species belong to sect. Urospadix Engl. and are so far only known from the type locality, Serra do Teimoso, although they are common locally. Anthurium teimosoanum E. G. Gon. & J. G. Jardim is known from the lowermost altitudinal zone of this upland area, whereas A. molle E. G. Gon. & J. G. Jardim was only collected near the summit.
10.2307/4110297|Evidence from gross morphology and pollen morphology is used to show that the anomalous species Dolichos junodii (Harms) Verde, does not belong in Dolichos L. A proposal is made to transfer the species to the genus Nesphostylis Verde., with which it shares many characters. A new combination is proposed: Nesphostylis junodii (Harms) Munyenyembe & F. A. Bisby comb. nov.
10.2307/4113637|A new species, Aristolochia andina F. Gonzlez & I. Vargas, is described from Bolivia. The new species is similar to A. killipiana O. C. Schmidt, from Peru, from which it differs in several floral characters. A study of the species of Aristolochia that grow above 2000 m in Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia, shows that A. andahuaylensis Ahumada and A. mastersiana O. C. Schmidt are synonyms of A. weberbaueri O. C. Schmidt, and that branched trichomes, previously reported to occur only in A. fosteri Barringer (Barringer 1986) are also present in A. andina sp. nov. and A. killipiana. A key and a map of distribution for these species are provided.
10.2307/4119405|Two rust species, Puccinia wondo-gennetensis sp. nov. on Impatiens hochstetteri Warb. and Uromyces senecionis-gigantis sp. nov. on Senecio gigas Vatke, are described from Ethiopia.
10.2307/4110049|Tillandsia lambrostachya, a new species of bromeliad from Mexico, is described.
10.2307/4119425| A stilboid hyphomycete wrongly identified with the inoperculate discomycete Cordierites coralloides Berk. & Curt. by von Hhnel is redescribed as Dennisographium episphaeriae Rifai, gen. et spec. nov. The morphology, anatomy and taxonomy of these two unrelated and confused parasitic species are fully discussed. 
20649675|The new species Coccinia ogadensis Thulin, from eastern Ethiopia and central Somalia, and Momordica argillicola Thulin, from eastern Ethiopia, south-central Somalia and north-eastern and eastern Kenya, are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117911|A two-spiked, dioecious Aponogeton, discovered in Satara district (Maharashtra) proved not only a first record of such a species from India but also undescribed. Allied to A. decaryi Jumelle from Madagascar, it is known only from the type locality after which it is named. It is in cultivation at Kew.
10.2307/4110494|Ziziphus hajarensis Duling, Ghaz. & Prendergast is described as an endemic tree species from the Hajar Mountains in the Sultanate of Oman. An identification key to species of Ziziphus in the Arabian Peninsula is given.
10.2307/4107853|An account of sixteen named (and four undescribed from Yunnan) species of Mucuna Adans. found in China and Japan is offered, with keys and distribution maps. One new species, M. lamellata, is described. All specimens cited have been seen.
10.2307/4117856|A new monospecific genus, Oryxis, from the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais is described and illustrated. The species has been previously known by the names Dolichos monticola Mart. ex Benth. and Dolichopsis monticola (Mart. ex Benth.) J. A. Lackey ex G. P. Lewis.
27822010|Two new species of Lonchocarpus from Brazil, assigned to sect. Laxiflori Benth., are described and illustrated and their affinities, geographical distribution and conservation status are discussed. Lonchocarpus laticiferus from arboreal caatinga vegetation of Bahia State, and deciduous forest of Minas Gerais State is related to L. montanus A. M. G. Azevedo ex M. J. Silva & A. M. G. Azevedo. Lonchocarpus graciliflorus, known only from the rain forest of Paran, is morphologically similar to L. longiunguiculatus M. J. Silva & A. M. G. Azevedo. Duas novas espcies de Lonchocarpus do Brasil, pertencentes  seo Laxiflori Benth., so descritas e ilustradas e tem suas afinidades, distribuies geogrficas, alm de seus status de conservao, discutidos. Lonchocarpus laticiferus occure na caatinga arbrea do estado da Bahia e nas florestas estacionais deciduais de Minas Gerais, o qual assemelha-se morfologicamente a L. montanus A. M. G. Azevedo ex M. J. Silva & A. M. G. Azevedo. Lonchocarpus graciliflorus, conhecida apenas das florestas ombrfilas do Paran, que  semelhante morfologicamente a L. longiunguiculatus M. J. Silva & A. M. G. Azevedo.
10.2307/4109773|There are no characters to separate Peekelia Harms, based on a Papuasian plant, from the genus Oxyrhynchus Brandegee otherwise known only from the opposite side of the Pacific. The necessary new combination is made.
23044987|Seven recently established (2007  2010) systems of classification for flowering plants (Magnoliidae or angiosperms) are uniformly arranged in a linear fashion to allow ready comparisons with an eighth proposed anew here. Uniform names and orthography are used throughout with author abbreviations; however, the choice of names above the rank of family are not standardised as rules of priority do not apply. Full bibliographic information is not given but is available both in print and online. The numbers of names per rank for each system is given. Two previously unpublished names recognised by Takhtajan in 2009, Aextoxicales and Polypremaceae, are validated. In addition nine suborder and two family names are established: Alseuosmiineae, Campynematineae, Crossosomatineae, Geissolomatineae, Mazaceae, Proteineae, Rehmanniaceae, Rutineae, Sarraceniineae, Simmondsiineae, and Smilacineae.
10.2307/4118756|Thottea abrahamii (Aristolochiaceae) a new species is described and illustrated from Peninsular India. Its phytogeographic significance is discussed.
10.2307/4110740|The genus Sclerochiton Harvey is revised. A total of 19 species is recognised, one of these with 3 subspecies. Five species (S. apiculatus, S. glandulosissimus, S. hirsutus, S. tanzaniensis and S. uluguruensis) are described as new. Two new combinations (S. insignis and S. vogelii subsp. congolanus) are published. An infrageneric system dividing the genus into two subgenera and one of these into five sections is also proposed.
10.2307/4115689|Grewia gillettii is described as a new species from Ethiopia, Somalia and the Yemen Arab Republic.
10.2307/4110024|A partial synopsis of the Euphorbiaceae-Platylobeae of Australia is offered. The Stenolobeae, endemic to Australia, are omitted as are accounts of the species of Calycopeplus, Euphorbia and Phyllanthus. Synostemon is sunk into Sauropus and the 18 new recombinations made; other new combinations are Adriana glabrata var. subglabra, Croton stockeri and Drypetes lasiogyna var. australasica; Sauropus albiflorus subsp. microcladus is a stat. nov.; new taxa: Sauropus hubbardii and S. latzii, Glochidion sessiliflorum vars. pedicellatum & stylosum, Sauropus brunonis var. ovatus, S. elachophyllus var. glaber and var. latior S. glaucus var. glaber.
23489033|Thismia filiformis is described and illustrated as a new species from Khao Yai National Park, Thailand. The conservation status and affinities of the new species are discussed.
10.2307/4102993|The monospecific genus Aethiocarpa and its only species A. lepidota is described and its relationships within Sterculiaceae are discussed.
10.2307/4109930|In preparation of tropical African Flora accounts of Protea a rather broader species concept than that of Beard's 1963 revision has been adopted, with greater use of subspecific rank for geographical variants. One new species, P. matonchiana, is described from Zambia, eight new subspecies and one new variety are described, and eleven new combinations are made at subspecific rank.
10.2307/4111132|A new species of Elachyptera from Bahia, Brazil, E. coriacea, is described and illustrated. Affinities with other species are discussed, and a key for identification of species from South America is provided.
20443257|Chionanthus greenii Lombardi, a new species of Oleaceae, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by the unique combination of strigose indument, short congested in inflorescences, small corolla lobes and reniform anthers, which do not match any described South American species.
10.2307/4115734|This paper presents two short notes relating to our previous work with Urticaceae. Firstly, the formerly misplaced holotype of Pouzolzia latifolia Wedd. has been located at G. Examination of this has resulted in P. latifolia being here reduced to synonymy of P. guatemalana var. nivea (S. Watson) Friis &: Wilmot-Dear. Secondly, Droguetia iners (Forssk.) Schweinf. subsp. iners, a widespread subspecies in tropical Africa and parts of Asia, is recorded for the first time from Madagascar.
10.2307/4111049|Annona warmingiana Mello-Silva & Pirani is a replacement name for Annona pygmaea (Warm.) Warm. 1892, non W. Bartram 1791.
10.2307/4110949| The tribe Ocimeae is fully revised for continental South East Asia (Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam). In all, 77 taxa including 70 species and 14 varieties are recognised under 9 genera: Hyptis Jacq., Siphocranion Kudo, Isodon (Schrad. ex Benth.) Spach, Anisochilus Wall. ex Benth., Plectranthus L'Hr., Basilicum Moench, Orthosiphon Benth., Ocimum L. and Platostoma P. Beauv. This first part of the revision includes a general introduction covering the Ocimeae in SE Asia and taxonomic accounts of the Hyptidinae (Hyptis) and Hanceolinae (Siphocranion and Isodon). Descriptions, full synonyms relevant to South East Asian Floras, maps, line drawings, information about ethnobotany, distributions, habitats, ecology, endemism and conservation, selected specimen citations and an index to accepted names and synonyms are given. In all parts, 16 new species (including 11 validated names) and 3 new varieties are described in the genera Anisochilus, Isodon, Orthosiphon, Plectranthus and Platostoma. In this part, Isodon colaniae S. Suddee & A. J. Paton is validated and Isodon meeboldii (W. W. Sm.) S. Suddee is presented as a new combination. Two floristic elements are identified here: the Indo-Burmese and Sino-Himalayan elements that enter the area from the northwest and north, and the Indo-Chinese element that enters the area from Indo-China. Most species of Platostoma, the largest Indo-Chinese element, especially section Mesona and section Ceratanthus, are concentrated along the Mekong River in the Indo-Chinese peninsula around the Bolovens-Langbian plateaus. In all, there are 33 (43%) taxa endemic to the area of study. Seventy-four taxa were assessed according to IUCN red list criteria. Fourteen taxa were assessed as threatened. Two, Plectranthus tomentifolius and Orthosiphon truncatus are believed to be extinct. 
10.2307/4103023|V. poskeana Vatke & Hildebrandt as previously circumscribed for the Flora Zambesiaca area was heterogeneous. In a revised classification, given below, the more distinct of the entities are treated as separate species. A new species (V. samfyana) and a new subspecies (V. poskeana subsp. botswanica) are described and a new combination (V. bractifimbriata) is made.
10.2307/4107744|Polyrhabda atriplicifolia gen. et sp. nov. is described from Somalia.
10.2307/4110205|Chromosome numbers were surveyed in populations of Acacia karroo Hayne and A. tortilis (Forssk.) Hayne sampled across their wide geographical range. Only one cytotype, with a chromosome number 2n = 52, was found in populations of A. karroo and A. tortilis subspecies tortilis, spirocarpa and heteracantha. Both 2n = 52 and 2n = 104 were found in populations of A. tortilis subspecies raddiana. It was concluded that most common morphological varieties of A. karroo and A. tortilis subspecies tortilis, spirocarpa and heteracantha are tetraploids, but the possibility of isolated cases of other cytotypes cannot be excluded given that naturally sterile trees have been documented previously in A. karroo. The cytotypes of A. tortilis are more variable. Clarification will require more detailed analysis.
10.2307/4109698|Three new species of Maytenus, M. drummondii, M. nguruensis & M. richardsiae are described for the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa', and one variety is raised to specific level as M. keniensis.
10.2307/4114439|Verbena brasiliensis Vell. is here circumscribed so as to include plants with clasping leaf-bases that have habitually been referred to V. bonariensis L. The characters that distinguish the two species are pointed out. For these and a third species, V. litoralis Kunth, synonymy, descriptions, a summary of the distribution in South America and specimen citations of adventive material elsewhere are provided. Nomenclature is discussed and typification of names has been carried out where possible.
20443413|A new species of Dioscorea from Morondava prefecture in Western Madagascar is described. Dioscorea bako Wilkin differs from D. alatipes Burkill & H. Perr. by its usually shallowly and irregularly lobed leaf margins, broader leaf blade (grey-green below), longer petiole and the broadly cuneate area where the petiole is inserted onto the leaf blade in the basal sinus. It is pubescent, especially densely on young shoots and inflorescences. It is endemic to Morondava Prfecture and is endangered under IUCN Red List category criteria (IUCN 2001). The unusual morphological features of its inflorescences, some of which are shared with D. alatipes are discussed. Dioscorea bako is a favoured food source for people of the Menabe region and is reported by them to be increasingly hard to find. Immediate conservation measures are necessary to ensure that it remains extant and, in the medium to long term, research should be undertaken to guide its sustainable utilisation.
10.2307/4111091| A new species, Chamaecrista deltoidea, from the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil is described and illustrated. The species is included in section Absus and may be distinguished from other species in this section by its sessile leaves with deltoid leaflets. 
10.2307/4117880|Revised, illustrated descriptions are provided for the type collections of all the species of Lepiota Pers. ex. S. F. Gray described by Berkeley & Broome from Ceylon. Thirty-four species of Macrolepiota albuminosa (Berk.) Pegler and Xerulina asprata (Berk.) Pegler are proposed as new combinations.
10.2307/4109735|Kleinia saginata, sp. nov., is described from Arabia (Dhofar) having been found to require description during the course of preparation of an account of the genus Kleinia in the Middle East.
10.2307/4110064|The agaricoid Fungi from Cuba described by Berkeley & Curtis (1868) are revised on the basis of modern taxonomic criteria. A total of 188 species have been examined microscopically, and the microstructure is described and illustrated. The following new combinations are proposed: Claudopus arachnoideus (Marasmius arachnoideus Berk. & Curtis); Collybia atroviridis (Marasmius atroviridis Berk. & Curtis); Flammulaster scobifer (Agaricus scobifer Berk. & Curtis); Gerronema sanguineum (Omphalia sanguineus Sacc.); Hydropus putredinus (Marasmius putredinus Berk. & Curtis); Lepista purpurascens (Hiatula purpurascens Berk. & Curtis); Mycena subglobosa (Marasmius subglobosus Berk. & Curtis); and Rhodoarrhenia pensilis (Laschia pensilis Berk. & Curtis).
10.2307/4108889|The identity of certain W. African geocarpic species of Aframomum is elucidated and an identification key provided. A. leptolepis is shown to be recorded from Cameroun and Fernando Po only, while the widespread plant mistaken for it is described as a new species, A. geocarpum. Two other new species are described, A. atewae from Ghana and A. cordifolium from Sierra Leone, Ivory Coast and Ghana.
10.2307/4115648|Two new species of Paralychnophora, P. atkinsiae and P. patriciana, are described and illustrated from Bahia State, Brazil. Delimiting characters of the genus are discussed and new combinations are made in Paralychnophora for two species recently described in Eremanthus.
10.2307/4115683|The genus Pseudotectaria Tard. (type species Tectaria decaryana C. Chr.) is re-described and four species, constituting a new Section, are added to it. A key to all species and a synonymy for each is appended. The chromosome number of P. decaryana was found to be 2n = 82.
10.2307/4110644|Ligustrum nepalense Wall. is differentiated from L. confusum Decne. and L. sinense Lour.; L. indicum (Lour.) Merr. is sunk into L. sinense Lour.; L. lindleyi comb. nov. is established as the correct name for the plant previously called L. massalongianum; L. leucanthum comb. nov. for L. molliculum Hance and L. acutissimum Koehne; L. hookeri is shown to be Olea capensis L.; subsp. chinense subsp. nov. is described as the Chinese representative of L. robustum (Roxb.) Blume; subsp. microphyllum stat. & comb. nov. is established for the Chinese representative of L. obtusifolium Sieb. & Zucc.
10.2307/4110520|E. yunnanensis is described as a new species from Yunnan.
10.2307/4102939|4 tribes comprising the sub-family Arundinoideae, Arundineae (40 genera), Aristideae (3 genera), Thysanolaeneae (1 genus) and Micraireae (1 genus), are surveyed and a collective description of their anatomy under each tribe provided.
10.2307/4107954|A new species of Gastrolobivm is described, whose closest relative is probably G. grandiflorum F. Muell.
10.2307/4111199| In preparation for a full, annotated checklist and keys of Bolivian Acanthaceae major taxonomic notes on 28 species of Justida from Bolivia are presented together with incidental comments on numerous other species. Many of these species occur in the neighbouring countries of Peru, Brazil, Paraguay and Argentina. Information is placed in the systematic sequence presented by Graham (1988) and discussion is made with reference to the sections recognised there. 21 new species are described (Justicia adhaerens, J. arcuata,J. beckii,J. chaparensis, J. chuquisacensis, J. dryadum, J. israelvargasii, J. kessleri,J. lutensis, J. megalantha, J. mesetarum, J. obovata, J. pluriformis, J. praetermissa, J. rhomboidea, J. squalida, J. steinbachiorum, J. umbricola, J. vernalis, J. yungensis and J. yuyonsis), a new name (J. rubriflora) is coined for Jacobinia glaziovii, two new combinations are made (J. albadenia and J. tenuistachys), subspecies are recognised and described for J. aequilabris, J. boliviana, J. kuntzei and J. tocantina, a.nd J. lilloi is shown to be an extreme variant of J. thunbergioides. The paper is illustrated with line drawings, SEM photos of pollen and a table. 
10.2307/4119444|Current studies by Nunes on the Passifloraceae of the Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brazil, have brought to light the need to lectotypify two species of Passiflora, P. alata Curtis and P. galbana Mast., based on their original illustrations.
20649545|Three new species are described in Barleria L. sect. Stellatohirta M. Balkwill from tropical Africa: B. aristata from south-central Tanzania, B. aenea from south-western Tanzania and northeast Zambia, and B. purpureotincta from south-western Zambia. Their affinities and conservation status are discussed.
20649627|Preparation of a catalogue of the plants of Colombia requires 30 new combinations in Stenostephanus Nees and five in Justicia L. to bring nomenclature up to date. Three new names Justicia littoralis J. R. I. Wood, J. albicans J. R. I. Wood and J. magdalenensis J. R. I. Wood are coined for Jacobinia lindaviana Rusby, Chaetothylax leucantha Leonard and Justicia disparifolia J. R. I. Wood respectively. The genus Pelecostemon Leonard is considered to belong to sect. Chaetothylax (Nees) V. A. W. Graham of Justicia L. Several species of Stenostephanus from Colombia and Venezuela are treated as synonyms of earlier species.
10.2307/4109831|A new species, Endostemon ctenoneurus R. Harley, is described and illustrated from Northern Kenya.
10.2307/4108595|8 species of Pouzolzia, including two new ones (P. fadenii, from the coastal forests of Kenya, and P. conulifera from lowland riverine vegetation in Cameroun), are reported from tropical Africa. The taxonomic validity of one of the previously described species (P. shirensis from Malawi) remains to be confirmed, another species (P. cordata, nom. illegit., from Tanzania) is known from drawings only. P. erythraeae and P. piscicelliana are known only from the literature, but are shown with all probability to be synonyms of Australina acuminata.
10.2307/4115655|Five new species: Arisaema cochleatum, A. xuanweiense, A. wumengense, A. zhui and A. echinoides are described from China. Their relationships and distinguishing characters are discussed.
20649590|Strobilanthes pothigaiensis, a new species of Strobilanthes (Acanthaceae) allied to S. foliosus T. Anderson from southern Western Ghats, India, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4114463|The affinities of the monotypic genus Streptosiphon are discussed. The genus, which is at present only known from one small forest area in southern Tanzania, possesses a corolla-type which is unique in the Acantheae.
23489140|A new species of Zygostates Lindl. (Orchidaceae: Oncidiinae), Z. chaparensis Toscano & R. Vsquez, from Bolivia is described and illustrated, and a new combination, Z. nectarifera (Senghas) Toscano, is proposed.
10.2307/4108541|The Angiosperm families display a logarithmic distribution, modified by an excess of monogeneric families and a dearth of large ones. This can be ascribed to a combination of natural and psychological causes, from which a stable compromise, expressed algebraically by the constancy of the mean, has emerged.
10.2307/4108593|The family Hydnangiaceae is defined and emended. Two Hydnangium species, H. carneum and H. archeri are shown to occur in Victoria State, Australia and detailed, illustrated descriptions are provided. Podohydnangium australe gen. et sp. nov. is proposed for a hitherto undescribed fungus with a gasterocarp bearing a stipe-columella, a partially exposed basal gleba, and statismosporic, spinose, hyaline spores; it is a genus intermediate between Laccaria (Tricholomataceae) and Hydnangium. Comparative scanning electron micrographs and light micrographs are also provided.
10.2307/4103069|The re-discovery of the extremely rare and endangered Nogra filicaulis (Kurz) Merr. is recorded after one hundred years from a locality in Madhya Pradesh, India, about 1600 km from the type locality. No earlier specimen, including the type, has been traced.
10.2307/4110305|A new species of Zehneria from Mt Kilimanjaro, Tanzania is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4108378|Recent collections in Brazil, especially the extensive ones made by the New York Botanical Garden, have necessitated the description here of five new species of Hyptis and one new Salvia. The occurrence of Clinopodium vulgare L. as an introduction in Brazil is recorded, and other Labiatae of interest are briefly discussed.
10.2307/4119072|Roscoea nepalensis, a distinctive new species from Nepal is described.
4111068|A new species of Cycnium (Scrophulariaceae sensu lato), C. breviflorum, is described from Tanzania and bordering Kenya. So far it is only known from the northeastern highlands, and is very local in its distribution.
10.2307/4118079| A recently described Senecio from Paran, Brazil, S. serranus Zardini is transferred to the genus Graphistylis (Dusn) B. Nord. A revised key to the tribe Senecioneae in Brazil is provided. 
10.2307/4117026|Some important species of Ocimum are typified to avoid further confusion in the literature. O. x citriodorum Vis. is shown to be the correct name for the allohexaploid O. americanum sensu Pushpangadan & Sobti. O. americanum L. is the correct name for the widespread diploid species sometimes referred to as O. canum Sims. An interpretive epitype is provided. The relationships between the economically important varieties of O. basilicum L., and O. x citriodorum, O. minimum L. and O. tenuiflorum L. and the resultant taxonomic problems are explored with reference to crossability studies and chromosome numbers. O. tenuiflorum is reproductively isolated from all other taxa in this study. No viable seed was produced in crosses involving O. minimum, although nutlets were formed in some cases. O. minimum is recognized as a species here in order to reflect the morphological differences and the observed reproductive isolation. O. x citriodorum crosses with some varieties of O. basilicum but not others. All crosses between varieties of O. basilicum produced viable seed. This has important consequences which limit the usefulness of varietal names within the complex. It is suggested that a system of standardised descriptors is needed to allow accurate identification and unambiguous communication of forms within this economically and medicinally important group.
10.2307/4102960|The relationships between Oreoschimperella Rauschert & Trachyspermum Link are discussed, and a key to the taxa in E Africa and tropical Arabia given; Trachyspermum arabiae-felicis C. C. Townsend is transferred to Oreoschimperella with var. laevis var. nov. described; T. aethusifolium var. verrucosum var. nov. is also described.
10.2307/4109868|Heteromorpha kassneri Wolff is relegated to the synonymy of H. involucrata Conrath and H. angolensis (Norman) Norman to that of H. gossweileri (Norman) Norman. H. papillosa sp. nov. is described from Namibia, and there are notes on H. pubescens Burtt Davy and H. transvaalensis Schlecht & Wolff. A broad view of H. trifoliata (Wendl.) Ecklon & Zeyher including H. arborescens Cham. & Schlecht. and the herbaceous and sub-shrubby plants occurring mostly in central and west Africa is perpetuated. A tentative key is supplied to the mainland African species of the genus.
10.2307/4109910|Nine new taxa are described: six species (Pavetta diversicalyx, P. lynesii, P. nitidissima, Tarenna luhomeroensis, T. roseicosta & T. uzungwaensis), two subspecies (Oxyanthus lepidus subsp. kigogoensis & Pavetta johnstonii subsp. breviloba) and one variety (Pavetta subumbellata var. subcoriacea).
10.2307/4110272|A neglected species, Stachys nemorivaga Briq. from Zambia, Angola and Zaire is compared with allied species and neotypified.
10.2307/4110178|The subtribe Chionachninae, genus Glyphochloa and species Parahyparrhenia tridentata are newly described. The following new combinations are proposed: Chionachne javanica, C. macrophylla, Coelorhachis geminata, Glyphochloa acuminata including vars. stocksii & woodrowii, G. divergens including var. hirsuta, G. forficulata, G. goaensis, G. mysorensis, G. ratnagirica, G. santapaui, G. talbotii, Heteropholis cochinchinensis, Microstegium falconeri, Phacelurus gabonensis, Robynsiochloa goalparensis, Rottboellia cochinchinensis, Saccharum hildebrandtii, S. perrieri and S. viguieri.
10.2307/4117814|The present paper is a monographic revision of the genus Alafia. The study is based mainly on herbarium material, but, in addition, the author has seen living plants in the wild belonging to 7 of the 23 species maintained here (15 in continental Africa and 8 in Madagascar). Two keys are provided - the first for species indigenous to mainland Africa and the second for those found in Madagascar. It has been possible to trace almost all the type specimens of the names and synonyms discussed here.
10.2307/4118893|The preparation of the account of the family Myricaceae for the Flora of Tropical East Africa necessitates a number of new combinations with their transfer to the genus Morella Lour.; D. Killick has made new combinations for the South African species which he revised in 1969. Polhill and Verdcourt have dealt with those which occur only further north. In this way cumbersome authorities have been avoided. Blanket new combinations have not been made for species in floras with which the authors are unfamiliar.
10.2307/4120623|Four new species of Svitramia (Melastomataceae), S. integerrima, S. minor, S. petiolata and S. wurdackiana are described and illustrated. The genus now includes six species, all endemic to Brazil. The centre of diversity lies in the Serra da Canastra, Minas Gerais State. All the species occur on rocky slopes in the southwestern part of the state.
10.2307/4108262|Pistillate plants of Pandanus halleorum Stone, recently described from a single staminate collection from Malekula, New Hebrides, have been collected from Vanua Lava, New Hebrides, permitting completion of the description of this species. It is now clear that the nearest related species is P. taveuniensis St. John, of Taveuni, Fiji. The new collection confirms the position of P. halleorum in Sect. Cauliflora Stone.
20443351|Geissois bradfordii H. C. Hopkins sp. nov. from New Caledonia is described and illustrated. Compared with its closet relatives, it has narrow, shortly petiolulate leaflets and is known from a single stretch of riverine forest on ultramafic substrate in southern Grande Terre.
10.2307/4115831|Arisaema jethompsonii, a new species from the Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu, allied to A. tortuosum (Wall.) Schott, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110836|A new species of Cruddasia, C. multifoholata, from Thailand is described.
10.2307/4109629|This brief paper presents information needing to be published before the appearance of the account of part of the family for the Flora of Tropical East Africa, now with the editors, and the description of a new taxon for the Flora Zambesiaca area. In Drypetes usambarica, a new variety is described for Tanzania, and its relationship to other varieties of the species tabulated. In Mallotus, a new form of M. oppositifolius var. oppositifolius is described for Zimbabwe. In Phyllanthus, a well-known Linnaean species is neotypified.
27821986|Barleria fulvostellata C. B. Clarke, a highly variable species of dry miombo (Brachystegia) woodland in eastern Africa, is studied in detail in preparation for the treatment of the Acanthaceae in the Flora of Tropical East Africa and Flora Zambesiaca. Four geographically allopatric subspecies are recognised for the first time, and a fifth taxon within the complex is highlighted but needs more material prior to full recognition. The affinities of B. fulvostellata are considered and the conservation status of each subspecies is assessed.
10.2307/4109660|Elasmomyces capitis-orae Dring and Hydnangium redactum Dring are described as new; the genus Richoniella is discussed and a key provided.
10.2307/4110426|The genus Pilea Lindl. in tropical Africa is revised, excluding the species known only from Madagascar and the Mascarenes. 10 species and 10 infraspecific taxa are considered indigenous: P. manniana, P. rivularis, P. tetraphylla, P. angolensis (with subsp. christiaensenii), P. goetzei, P. johnstonii (with subsp. kiwuensis and subsp. rwandensis), P. usambarensis (with var. engleri and var. veronicifolia), P. sublucens, P. holstii, and P. bambuseti (with subsp. aethiopica); 2 species are considered introduced: P. microphylla and P. nummulariifolia, of which only the former has become naturalized. The position of the genus Neopilea, originally described from Madagascar, is reconsidered, and it is found that the two species proposed in this genus are both referable to Pilea rivularis in the broad sense, and hence Neopilea becomes a synonym of Pilea. Accounts are given of the morphology, and distribution of all species.
20649669|A review of the genus Isoglossa Oerst. in east Africa is presented in preparation for the FTEA Acanthaceae treatment. Variation in pollen type within the African Isoglossa is summarised and its implications for generic circumscription are considered. The occurrence of periodic gregarious monocarpy (a plietesial life cycle) within Isoglossa is reviewed, with reference to other occurrences of this phenomenon in the Acanthaceae. The relationship of African taxa of Isoglossa to the Asian I. dichotoma (Hassk.) B. Hansen is reviewed and a tabular synopsis and key are presented for this group in east Africa, together with the description of three new species (I. paucinervis, I. ventricosa, I. bondwaensis), one new subspecies (I. membranacea subsp. septentrionalis) and one new name (I. bruceae) within the group. A further three new east African species (I. variegata, I. faulknerae, I. multinervis) and one new subspecies (I. substrobilina subsp. tenuispicata) are described, and the status of I. salviiflora in relation to I. floribunda is reassessed. The conservation status of each taxon is considered.
10.2307/4110087|By investigating one species from each genus, 101 genera, comprising the tribe Paniceae, are surveyed and collective descriptions of the leaf-blade anatomy of the different groups are provided. Two possible methods by which C
10.2307/4110952|Keys and full descriptions are presented to the species of Lysiloma found within Central America and southeast Mexico, together comprising Mesoamerica. The four species recognised - L. acapulcense, L. aurita, L. divaricata and L. latisiliqua - are widespread and morphologically variable, and are of considerable ecological and economic importance throughout the region.
10.2307/4117874|This synopsis of the taxonomy of Solanum L. Section Solanum recognises 14 species in South America, with additional infra-specific taxa. Two new combinations have been made, S. polytrichostylum Bitt. var. lorentzii (Bitt.) Edmonds and S. pentlandii Dun. subsp. interandinum (Bitt.) Edmonds and S. itatiaiae Glazion ex Edmonds is given valid publication. Methods used in delimiting the taxa are briefly described, a key to the species is given, and their areas of distribution, chromosome numbers and the more important synonyms are listed.
10.2307/4103043|Several species of witchweeds (Striga) in the Sudan severely parasitise sorghum, maize and other crops, reducing their yield. This paper describes these economically important species, and also the others that are not known to parasitise crops, and provides a key for the identification to all ten species. References to taxonomic literature and type specimens, synonymy and taxonomic notes, vernacular names, hosts, phenology, insect pollinators and field notes are included, as well as line drawings of all the species of Striga occurring in the Sudan.
10.2307/4103020|A new subgenus, new sections and new species are described and a complete new subdivision of the genus proposed.
24717390|The misinterpreted Thrixspermum hewittii (based on Dendrocolla minima Ridl., non Blume) is transferred to Pennilabium. The species is still only known from the type collection from Sarawak and is here illustrated for the first time.
10.2307/4115810|The genus Notechidnopsis Lavranos & Block is revised and shown to be monophyletic. Two species, N. columnaris (Nel) Lavranos & Bleck and N. tessellata (Pillans) Lavranos & Bleck are recognised. The holotypes for both species have been found in the Bolus Herbarium (BOL).
10.2307/4110755|Two new species, Piptadenia santosii and P. irwinii, a new subspecies, P. obliqua subsp. brasiliensis and two new varieties, P. irwinii var. unijuga and P. killipii var. cacaophila are described from Bahia, Brazil. All but variety cacaophila are illustrated. Three of the taxa are closely related to plants growing thousands of kilometres from the Bahian localities and, as such, present fascinating phytogeographical disjunctions.
10.2307/4110014|The pollen morphology of the subtribe Hyptidinae (Labiatae) is given. Pollen grains are 6-colpate, with reticulate surface sculpturing, which ranges from a type with large lumina surrounding numerous small puncta to a type with smaller lumina surrounding fewer larger puncta. This range appears to represent an evolutionary series, but taxonomic applications are limited.
10.2307/4108139|Two new species are described, L. tormentorii Marais from the Mauritian islands of Gunner's Quoin and Round Island, and L. aldabrense Marais from the Aldabra Archipelago. The combination L. lomatophylloides (Balf. f.) Marais is made for the species from Rodrigues.
10.2307/4115862|This paper provides a key to the 10 species recognised here in section Salvia sect. Secundae, which is confined to Brazil, Peru and Ecuador. Additionally nomenclature, synonymy, and ranges of distribution of all the species are included. Two of the species, Salvia harleyana and Salvia xanthotricha, both from Brazil, are described here for the first time.
10.2307/4115693|Poa royleana Nees ex Steudel, treated as a synonym of Poa annua by earlier authors, was found to be different from P. annua after examination of the type specimen and is compared with the other species of Himalayan Poa having similar spikelet characters.
10.2307/4111101|Xerocomus cisalpinus is recorded for the first time from the British Isles and, because of the difficulty in delimiting the xerocomoid boletes, is transferred to the genus Boletus.
10.2307/4120634|Thailentadopsis Kosterm. is resurrected to accommodate three Asian species of tribe Ingeae that are rejected from neotropical Calliandra Benth., Havardia Small, Painteria Britton & Rose and Pithecellobium Mart., all genera with which species of Thailentadopsis have been previously associated. The closest genus to Thailentadopsis appears to be Cathormion Hassk. from SE Asia and Australia. Two new combinations are proposed and a key to species is provided.
10.2307/4108602|Eria hindei Summerh. (Orchidaceae) is reduced to the synonymy of E. pudica Ridl.
10.2307/4109988|All species of Sphaerostephanos sensu Holttum 1971 known to occur in Asia (excluding Malesia) are described, including two new species S. gaudichaudii and S. kurzii; the following new combinations are published: S. hirtisorus (C. Chr.) Holttum and S. validus (Christ) Holttum.
4110898| Two new names, Plectranthus epilithicus B.J. Pollard and P. occidentalis B.J. Pollard, are erected and typified in Plectranthus L'Hr. to accommodate taxa transferred from Solenostemon Thonn. 
10.2307/4110428|The pollen morphology of 17 species of Ecbolium and 10 species, 5 subspecies and 1 hybrid of Megalochlamys is described. Each of the 2 genera has a distinctive pollen type: Ecbolium pollen is heterocolpate, 3-colporate with 6 subsidiary colpi, usually semitectate reticulate or fine reticulate, with well-spaced fairly short columellae in the exine; Megalochlamys pollen is 3-colporate with narrow weak colpori, subsidiary colpi absent, sculpturing usually differentiated with semitectate fine reticulate apocolpia and mesocolpia, and semitectate fine rugulate apertural faces, the columellae long and densely spaced, decreasing in height across the apertural faces. Generic and species relationships suggested by the pollen morphology are discussed.
20443251|Thirty-five species, two subspecies and two varieties of Syzygium Gaertn., Myrtaceae from Malaysian Borneo and Brunei Darussalam are formally described, in preparation for a revision of Myrtaceae for the Tree Flora of Sabah and Sarawak.
10.2307/4110879|Inonotus afromontanus Ryvarden, I. microsporus Ryvarden, and I. palmicola Ryvarden are described. A key is provided to subsaharan Inonotus species.
10.2307/4110525|Chaetocalyx subulatus, a new species from Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
23489185|A revision of Andropogon and Diectomis in Madagascar is presented with nine species and two subspecies (including eight native and seven endemic species) in Andropogon, and one species in Diectomis. Andropogon itremoensis from the Itremo Massif is described and illustrated. The Itremo Massif is briefly described and the conservation implications of the new species are discussed. Full typification is presented for species endemic to Madagascar and lectotypes are selected for five names. Distribution maps are presented.
10.2307/4110040|The construction of higher group classifications is discussed, especial attention being paid to the implications of the serial endosymbiotic theory, the application of cladistic principles, the purposes for which a higher group classification is required, and the relationship between classification at this level and the principal Codes of Nomenclature. A five-kingdom classification is proposed, with two kingdoms in the superkingdom of prokaryotes and three-plants, fungi and animals-in the superkingdom of eukaryotes; within the plants, four subkingdoms-protists, chromophytes, chlorophytes and rhodophytes-are recognized.
10.2307/4110931|Zeuxine strateumatica, an Asiatic orchid with weedy tendencies that was reported in Florida in the USA for the first time in the 1930s and is now found in five south-eastern States, has recently been reported from the Hawaiian island of Maui.
10.2307/4119067|A list of microfungi collected on St Kilda in September 1978 is given; five Agarics additional to Watling & Richardson's 1971 list are also listed.
10.2307/4107961|Peucedanum inaccessum C. C. Townsend is described from North Yemen.
10.2307/4110546|Tyiophora biglandulosa (Endl.) F. Muell. has a wide distribution in Melanesia and Lord Howe and Norfolk Islands. T. brackenridgei A. Gray, T. tapeinogyne Schltr., T. tapeinogyne var. glabrata Schltr., T. insulincola S. Moore, T. aneityensis Guillaumin, T. tannaensis Guillaumin and T. acutipetala Guillaumin are placed in synonymy.
10.2307/4110519|A new genus, Stachyandra, is established to accommodate the four endemic Madagascan multifoliolate species previously assigned to Androstachys Prain.
10.2307/4111183| Polystachya biteaui (sect. Polychaete), a new species from the island of So Tom, is described and illustrated. 
10.2307/4119063|Recent field work in East Africa has revealed the occurrence of 6 natural hybrids; 3 further hybrids are indicated from herbarium material. Species suspected of hybrid origin are also discussed and the importance of hybridization as a factor in the evolution and taxonomy of African Impatiens is indicated.
20649556|Bulbophyllum fendlerianum is newly described based on a collection of August Fendler in Venezuela, deposited at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. It was previously confused with B. manarae, but differs significantly from the latter species in its petal and lip shape, particularly the callus.
10.2307/4109557|A new species, Chloris diluta, from Rhodesia and the Transvaal, is described.
10.2307/4108111|Kania nettotensis and K. platyphylla are described from New Guinea.
10.2307/4110672|Striga pinnatifida, a new species closely related to S. angustifolia (Don) Saldanha, is described from Ethiopia.
10.2307/4110238|A new species of Kraussia from Socotra is described and a table showing the more significant differences between all 4 species of the genus included.
10.2307/4120629|A new species of Adelobotrys DC., A. ruokolainenii Schulman, is described and illustrated. Biogeographical and ecological data suggest that the new species is a narrow-range endemic of northern Peruvian Amazonia, restricted to a particular geological formation. It is endangered by anthropogenic habitat destruction.
23044630|The ex situ conservation of plant species is a challenge for all signatories of the Convention on Biological Diversity to meet. In Italy, all conservation-related issues are supervised by the Ministry for the Environment and Protection of Land and Sea, but so far no national plan has been drafted, let alone funded, for ex situ plant conservation. As a contribution towards the establishment of a scientifically based policy, a national project has been launched, under the coordination of the Botanic Garden of Palermo. In its framework, the Botanic Garden of Pisa is developing a set of criteria for assessing Italian ex situ collections of threatened plant species. The criteria will be applied to datasets obtained by the Italian seedbanks through questionnaires. Requested data include resources and procedures, documentation systems, facilities and accessions. The expected results consist of the production of printed or electronic material concerning a) the technical-scientific profile of the Italian seed banks and of their collections; b) the ecogeographic profile of seed collections of selected species and c) the evaluation of the method used for gathering and analysing data. The project is currently under way and the results are due by September 2010. The documents and protocols which will be produced within the project will enable a stronger interaction of the Italian seed banks with other national and European seed bank networks.
20443288|Vanilla imperialis, a new record for the country, is reported from western Ethiopia and its conservation status is discussed. A key to the Ethiopian species of the genus is provided.
10.2307/4102991|18 dicotyledonous taxa are discussed. The taxa are either newly recorded from Jordan or they have been collected at new localities. They belong to the families Boraginaceae, Capparaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Linaceae, Rosaceae, Umbelliferae and Valerianaceae.
10.2307/4109176|The name Eureiandra eburnea is validly published for the first time for a new species from Mozambique, Zambia and Rhodesia.
10.2307/4110206|Trianthema hecatandra, a new species from Falcon State, Venezuela, is described.
10.2307/4113871|Psilotrichum leptostachys sp. nov., P. lanatum sp. nov. and P. stenanthum sp. nov. are described from Somalia.
10.2307/4102987|Twenty-eight species of Fungi collected during the "Kew Assistants' Expedition to Malaysia, 1985" are recorded and briefly described. Microporus luteo-ceraceus Reid is described as new, and Chaetocalathus semisupinus (Berk. & Br.) Pegler and Lenzites colliculosa (Berk.) Reid are proposed as new combinations.
23216732|A new species is here described: Scleria rubrostriata A. C. Arajo & N. A. Brummitt, a herb from the Atlantic forest of Esprito Santo State, south-eastern Brazil. A key to the sections of Scleria and to the American species of Scleria sect. Schizolepis is provided, and an illustration of the new species and comparison to similar taxa are given. Uma nova especie  aqui descrita: Scleria rubrostriata A. C. Arajo & N. A. Brummitt, uma erva nativa da Floresta Atlantica do Sudeste brasileiro, no Estado do Esprito Santo. A chave taxonomica para identifica o das sees de Scleria e das espcies americanas de Scleria sect. Schizolepis so fornecidas, bem como a ilustrao do novo taxon e dados comparativos com taxa relacionados.
20443350|Descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps and conservation assessments are provided for four new species of Codia from New Caledonia in the south-west Pacific. Codia jaffrei H. C. Hopkins & B. Fogliani and C. mackeeana H. C. Hopkins & B. Fogliani are quite large trees, occurring in forest on ultramafic and non-ultramafic substrates respectively, while C. belepensis H. C. Hopkins and C. triverticillata H. C. Hopkins & Pillon are shrubs in ultramafic scrub ('maquis'). Codia triverticillata is the second species in the genus with whorled, rather than opposite, leaves.
10.2307/4108545|A new species, Oldenlandia hygrophila, is described from India, followed by an attempt at a morphological evaluation of the flowering part of the shoot in the subgenus Oldenlandia.
10.2307/4103159|This paper contains descriptions of 48 new taxa (including 18 new species), discussions of nomenclatural problems and many new combinations needed for the first volume of the account of the family Rubiaceae for the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa'.
10.2307/4110988|Sommieria Becc. (Arecaceae: Arecoideae: Areceae: Iguanurinae) is considered to comprise a single species, S. leucophylla Becc. Sommieria elegans Becc. and S. affinis Becc. are treated as synonyms. The taxonomic history, morphology, distribution, ecology and natural history, uses and conservation status are discussed.
4110942|The type of Elaeocarpus crenulatus R. Knuth is found to have curved seeds and embryos and therefore cannot be considered part of the Fissipetalum group. It is separated from the rest of the specimens previously identified with it; this material is now treated as E. myrtoides A. C. Sm., and is found to have straight seeds and embryos. Specimens from the Western and Eastern Highlands Provinces of Papua New Guinea are given new subspecific status: E. myrtoides subsp. vinkii Coode. A further collection from Mt Piora is identified as E. amabilis Kaneh. & Hatus. (previously 'incertae sedis'); this collection is treated as new: subsp. piorae Coode. It is suggested that E. crenulatus sensu stricto is a member of the Coilopetalum group and that E. myrtoides and E. amabilis may be related and fit better with E. schoddei Weibel, than in the Fissipetalum group.
10.2307/4110548|Psilotrichum suffruticosum is described from Tanzania. It is unique in the genus in its suffruticose habit combined with strongly 3-nerved tepals.
20443309|A new species of Vitex, V. morogoroensis Walsingham & S. Atkins, is described, and a key provided to distinguish it from V. buchananii Grke.
20649610|Ceiba rubriflora Carv.-Sobr. & L. P. Queiroz, a new species of Malvaceae subfamily Bombacoideae from the State of Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. It is considered to be endemic to calcareous outcrops in the valley of the Rio So Francisco, in the western region of the state. Notes on distribution, ecology and phenology are given. Relationships with related species are discussed and an addition to the key to species of Ceiba Mill. published by Gibbs & Semir (2003) are provided.
10.2307/4107969|Bulbophyllum dennisii from the Solomon Islands is described. A new description and illustration is provided for B. cerinum Schltr. from Papua New Guinea.
10.2307/4102911|This paper contains descriptions of 6 new taxa (including 4 new species) and new combinations needed for the first volume of the account of the family Rubiaceae for the Flora of Tropical East Africa.
10.2307/4110871|Leccinum neotropicalis and Leccinum talamancae are two new species of Leccinum from Costa Rican oak forests. They are described, illustrated, and compared to similar taxa. The new-combination Leccinum cartagoense is proposed.
10.2307/4117941|Palaquium zeylanicum Verdc. is described as new from southern Ceylon.
10.2307/4110185|One hundred and forty-five taxa of fungi are reported from the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador. Jafneadelphus tectipus Spooner, Odonticium australe Reid and Pholiota galapagensis Pegler are described as new species. New combinations proposed are Henningsia galapagensis (Cooke & Bonar) Reid, Hygrocybe parvula (Peck) Pegler, Jafneadelphus foliicolus (P. Henn.) Spooner, Leucocoprinus minimus (Berk.) Pegler and Phellinus maxonii (Murr.) Reid. Amplified descriptions and extended synonymies of certain species previously inadequately known are given.
10.2307/4113739|This paper presents new data useful in the consideration of the relationships between Amaryllis belladonna L., type species of the monotypic South African genus, and species of the South American genus Hippeastrum Herb. A. belladonna (2n = 22) has a karyotype comprising 4 pairs m + 1 pair m-sm + 6 pairs sm chromosomes; the m pairs are shorter than the other ones. The pair m-sm has a terminal satellite on the short arm; the secondary constriction proximal to this is a nucleolar organizer, as demonstrated by Ag-NOR banding. The constant basic karyotype in Hippeastrum (x = 11) is more asymmetrical and comprises 4 m + 4 sm + 3 st; the m are shorter than the others. One st chromosome has a terminal nucleolar organizer (NOR) secondary constriction on the short arm. Furthermore, the karyotype is also more asymmetrical because it has more variation of chromosome total length. The DNA content in A. belladonna is 2C = 38.29 pg while in diploid species of Hippeastrum studied, it ranges from 26.90 pg to 34.18 pg, being represented in this paper by H. parodii with 2C = 29.93 pg. These results indicate that important chromosome differences exist between South African and South American taxa. These differences are supported by morphological and anatomical studies reported by other authors.
10.2307/4111026|The new genus Mtonxia (Compositae: Astereae) is described and illustrated, based on a single new species, M. glandulifera, from Tanzania. Affinities are with Grauanthus and Nidorella. In the Astereae, the new species Felicia flava is described, and in the Inuleae the new species Inula rungrvensis and Sphaeranthus samburuensis.
10.2307/4115761|A new species of Galanthus from N. E. Turkey, G. koenenianus, is described.
10.2307/4109860|Schliebenia Mildbr., hitherto considered a genus endemic to Tanzania, is included in Isoglossa, the two species being combined into one as I. salviiflora. Adhatoda eylesii from Zambia and Zimbabwe is transferred to Isoglossa where it makes a distinctive group with two new species, I. mbalensis from Zambia and I. ufipensis from Tanzania, with a possible fourth species of the group also noted from Tanzania but not described. I. eliasbandae from Malawi, and I. anisophylla and I. imbricata from Tanzania, are newly described species.
10.2307/4111075|A new species of cirrate rattan from Sulawesi, Calamus suaveolens W. J. Baker & J. Dransf., a close relative of the C. aruensis Becc. complex in New Guinea and the Pacific, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117109|8 new species of Panicum are described from Tropical South America and a review of the group Lorea is presented.
10.2307/4119297|Gomphocarpus is a genus of mostly of shrubby herbs with non-tuberous rootstocks native to Africa, Arabia and adjacent territories south of the Dead Sea. The genus is here restricted to a putatively monophyletic assemblage of 20 species in several complexes. The corona lobe is remarkably constant in form within a species and is the most useful organ for species determination. The concept of G. fruticosus proposed by Bullock (1952) has been rejected, and 5 regional subspecies are recognised. Several other species sunk into G. fruticosus by Bullock have been reinstated. The G. glaucophyllus complex consists of 5 species native to fire-prone habitats in the Brachystegia belt of south-central Africa and grasslands further south. The conservative status of all taxa has been assessed - the majority being in the Lower Risk: Least Concern category, but information is lacking for G. tomentosus subsp. frederici, and G. munonquensis must be considered Vulnerable a it is known only from four collections. An epitype is designated for Asclepias fruticosa L., and a further 15 names are lectotypified. An index to the most 200 names published in Gomphocarpus is included to indicate their currently accepted names.
10.2307/4111006|An unusual species of rattan from New Guinea, Calamus maturbongsii (Calamoideae: Arecaceae), is described as new. Although some superficial similarities to other New Guinea rattan species and the West Malesian Calamus section Platyspathus are noted, the extraordinary morphology and expansion mechanism of the inflorescence together with peculiar vegetative features indicate that C. maturbongsii is a striking new species of uncertain affinities.
10.2307/4110712|Two new taxa in the genus Protium are described from the Atlantic coastal forests of Brazil. Both of the new taxa are considered in serious danger of extinction. Protium bahianum is a unifoliolate species related to P. brasiliense; outside of Bahia state it also occurs in at least one of the pockets of moist forest found in the otherwise semi-arid caatinga vegetation of Pernambuco state. Protium icicariba var. talmonii apparently replaces the typical variety north of the Rio Claro in southern Bahia.
10.2307/4109973|Two new species of Ceropegia L. are described, C. swaziorum from Swaziland and C. powysii from Kenya; problems relating to allied species are discussed.
10.2307/4129970|Lathyrus belinensis N. Maxted & D. J. Goyder sp. nov. from Antalya, Turkey, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110017|An account of the popular, edible mushrooms of Zambia is provided, together with a list of vernacular names. Termitomyces titanicus, Amanita flammeola, A. zambiana (Amanitaceae) and Lactarius kabansus (Russulaceae) are described as new.
10.2307/4109002| Fourteen notes by the compiler and several authors are presented arising from critical examination of a collection of plants made on the Nyika Plateau in Malai in 1972 by an expedition from Wye College. The genera concerned are Clematopsis, Polygala, Hibiscus, Allophylus, Vigna, Rubus, Vernonia, Osteospermum, Buddleja, Haumaniastrum, Solenostemon, Plectranthus, Protea, Gnidia and Thesium. Four new species are described, ten new combinations are made, two specific names are reduced to synonymy, and various new records for the 'Flora Zambesiaca' area are made. 
23216389|The Ganitrus group of Elaeocarpus L. (incl. Elaeocarpus Sect. Ptilanthus Schltr.) as found in Malesia is examined and some understanding reached. The group is more complex and speciose in eastern Malesia, especially in Papuasia (with the Philippines, Sulawesi and Maluku somewhat less rich) than in western and central Malesia. E. angustifolius Blume (syn. E. ganitrus & E. sphaericus auctt. mult.)  the source of the ornamental beads known as rudraksha of eastern commerce, from which malas or rosaries are made  is considered to be very variable in Malesia and probably varies further in the extremes of its range; outside Malesia the Ganitrus group is represented by 'E. angustifolius s.l.' only. The following species are recognised: E. altisectus Schltr. with a new subsp. carrii Coode from New Guinea; E. angustifolius Blume; E. avium Coode sp. nov. from New Guinea; E. buderi Coode; E. dolichostylus Schltr. with E. chloranthus treated as var. chloranthus (A. C. Sm.) Coode from New Guinea, with a new var. elliptifolius Coode from the Talaud/Sangihe Is. and a new var. hentyi Coode (replacing and re-interpreting subsp. collinus Coode) from New Guinea; E. fulvus Elmer; E. kaniensis Schltr.; E. ornatus Coode sp. nov. from New Guinea; E. osiae Coode sp. nov. from Bougainville I.; E. ptilanthus Schltr.; E. ramiflorus Merr. and E. trichopetalus Merr. & Quisumb.  a total of 12 species although the last two are perhaps not truly distinct from E. angustifolius. The stone sculpturing is discussed and some useful characters revealed. Attention is drawn to a collection from mid-altitude in Papua New Guinea, inadequately known but probably a new species in this group.
23044683|Strychnos jacarepiensis E. A. Manoel & E. F. Guim. is described and illustrated as a new species from Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil. It differs from S. gardneri by the terminal inflorescence and shorter corolla tube, and from S. brasiliensis by the connate and amplexicaul interpetiolar stipule, velutinous calyx lobes, villous filaments and discoid seeds.
10.2307/4110326|Two new Brazilian species of Andira (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, tribe Dalbergieae), A. carvalhoi and A. cordata, are described and illustrated. The possible influence of dispersai by either large rodents or bats respectively in determining their distributions is discussed.
4110891|A new hybrid Adiantum x moranii J. Prado (=A. humile Kunze x A. petiolatum Desv.) from Brazil and a new species of Adiantum (A. windischii J. Prado) from Brazil and Bolivia are described and illustrated. The hybrid can be easily recognised by its intermediate morphology; unfortunately, no living plants have been found for cytological study. A. windischii belongs to the A. latifolium group and is known from Brazil, where it has a wide distribution, and from one locality in Bolivia.
10.2307/4110174| Binectaria laurifolia Forssk. (1775) is typified with a specimen in the Forsskl herbarium (C) and shown to be identical with Mimusops schimperi A. Rich. (1851). The necessary new combination Mimusops laurifolia (Forssk.) Friis is made. The taxonomy, natural distribution and habitats of the species are discussed. The specimens of Mimusops laurifolia from the tomb-flora of ancient Egypt are presumed to be of cultivated origin. 
10.2307/4109991|The new genus Eriostylos is created to accommodate the Somali Centema stefaninii Chiov.
10.2307/4117944|Two new species of Habenaria Willd. Sect. Podandria (Rolfe) P. F. Hunt from Congo and Cameroun are described.
10.2307/4115662| A new species of Diospyros, D. uzungwaensis Frimodt-Mller & Ndangalasi, is described from the Udzungwa Scarp Forest Reserve in Tanzania. The new species appears to belong to sect. Brevituba F. White and to be closest to D. soubreana F. White from the Guineo-Congolian forest of West Africa. It is suggested that this resemblance is yet another example of the affinity between the montane forest flora of the Eastern Arc Mountains in East Africa and the West African forest flora. 
10.2307/4113735|Five new species, 2 new subspecies and a new variety are described. Six new combinations are made at varietal rank. Keys are provided for varieties of V. adoensis Schultz Bip. and V. longipedunculata De Wild. occurring in the Flora Zambesiaca area.
10.2307/4117025|Resumption by the author in 1991 of field work in the Cayman Islands, together with new information from other sources, has so far resulted in 74 new species records in 40 families. Four of these families (Schizaeaceae, Araliaceae, Oxalidaceae and Rafflesiaceae) are likewise new records. Encyclia kingsii (Orchidaceae) and Caesalpinia bonduc var. caymanensis (Leguminosae) are new combinations; Chionanthus caymanensis var. longipetala (Oleaceae) is a new variety; Banara caymanensis (Flacourtiaceae) is a new species, and Scolosanthus aff. bahamensis (Rubiaceae) is a probable new species still under study. Another new species in Pisonia (Nyctaginaceae) is indicated but not named or described. One species, Hemidiodia ocymifolia (Rubiaceae) has been deleted from the Flora. The total non-cultivated Cayman flora now stands at 674 species, representing a statistical increase of slightly more than 12%.
10.2307/4114442|The genera Glossocardia Cass. and Neuractis Cass. (Compositae, Coreopsidinae) previously known from Bangladesh & India, and southern China, SE Asia, Indonesia and Australia, respectively, are here reported to occur also in Africa. Glossocardia bosvallia (L.f.) DC. is known from Chad and Niger, and Neuractis bidens (Retz.) Veldk. from the coast of Tanzania.
10.2307/4102867|The Kickxia aegyptiaca complex is revised. Six discretely dispersed subspecies are recognized, ranging from the Western Sahara, the Mediterranean coast of North Africa to the Sudan Republic, Sinai and Israel. The varieties and forms previously recognized are considered to be local growth forms and of doubtful taxonomic importance. A key to the subspecies is provided.
10.2307/4107975|New combinations in Callisia, Gibasis and Tradescantia, and a new name in Tradescantia, are published, and Tradescantia zebrina re-established.
23044634|Professor Stephen Hopper has suggested that 'possibly the most significant future challenge facing plant conservation is the achievement of a global shift in value systems towards acceptance of the old cultural wisdom that humans are part of, not separate from, nature'. Here I examine this challenge for contemporary humanity experiencing increasingly divergent 'lifeworlds' and ask if it is possible to be 'all netted together', and achieve cultural consilience in the face of increasing plant extinction. The first part of the article explores a hybrid approach to botanical education, where 'border crossings' between 'Pokmon' and plant-based inquiry might facilitate 21st century urban children to engage more intimately with the living world. The second part highlights how botanic gardens can facilitate expressions of lost botanical knowledge carried through human migration from rural to urban contexts. The article ends with a discussion intended to provoke interdisciplinary discourse between botanical science and botanical education, contextualised within the wider literature that examines the role of botanic gardens.
10.2307/4109169|Corythea multiflora Standl. is considered to be distinct from C. filipes S. Wats. (Acalypha filipes (S. Wats.) McVaugh), and is combined under Acalypha.
20649678|Deinbollia oreophila Cheek (Sapindaceae) is described from the submontane forests of the Cameroon Highlands, extending to the Obudu Plateau of Nigeria. It is unusual in being the only submontane species of the genus in West and Central Africa, and in being glabrous, with bright white raised lenticels. Its morphological variation and its conservation status are assessed.
10.2307/4119418|Eighteen species of Gasteromycetes are described of which eleven are new to Trinidad and Tobago. Of these, Dictyophora merulina and D. multicolor are reported for the first time from the neotropics, although the collection of the latter has been made the type of a new variety, i.e. var. laeticolor because of its brilliant colouration. The genus Sclerangium is accepted for S. geaster and its allies, and the new combination S. bermudense is proposed; a new variety of this species, viz. var. trinitense is described. Another new combination made is Calvatia turbinata.
10.2307/4110210|Solanecio harennensis Mesfin and Solanecio tuberosus Sch. Bip. ex A. Rich. var. pubescens Mesfin are described from the highlands of Ethiopia. A key to the species of Solanecio found in Ethiopia is also provided.
10.2307/4117073|The numbers of species of fungi in southeast England are compared by orders and families with those of Rhum and Yorkshire.
10.2307/4115749|The generic limits within the Asparagaceae are revised. Only the genus Asparagus is now recognised, with two subgenera: Myrsiphyllum and Asparagus. Seed testa morphology is examined in detail and a key to the morphotypes is provided. One new combination in the genus Asparagus is made. A key to the two subgenera is provided.
10.2307/4103077|The woods of Schouwia purpurea ssp. arabica (Vahl) Maire, and Fabrisinapis fruticosus C. C. Townsend are described for the first time. As would be expected from their gross morphology, these members of the Cruciferae share more features of wood anatomy in common than they do with other Cruciferae or Capparaceae from similar habitats. Very limited statistical analysis could be applied to the data, since at this stage it is difficult to distinguish between genotypic and phenotypic/ecological variations in the wood anatomy.
10.2307/4117707|Strombosiopsis nana, a new species from Liberia, is described and illustrated. It is the second species of this hitherto monotypic genus which was previously only known from Nigeria to Angola and Uganda. A key to the two species is provided.
20649588|Typhonium stigmatilobatum V. D. Nguyen, a new species from Vietnam, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4102871|Teleutospores of Uromyces geranii, U. truncatulus, and U. carpathicus are compared using the scanning electron microscope.
23489201|Aphyllorchis annamensis Aver., a narrow-endemic to Vietnam is reduced as a synonym of A. caudata Rolfe ex Downie. A lectotype is also designated for A. caudata.
10.2307/4118983|A new species, Grewia ogadenensis, occurring in Ethiopia and Somalia is described.
10.2307/4113655|Lavatera x clementii is formally named as a new nothospecies, its putative parents being L. thuringiaca L. and L. olbia L.
10.2307/4107739|Ischaemum malabaricum sp. nov. from India is described. This is allied to I. tumidum Bor and I. semisagittatum Roxb. The distinguishing characters are tabulated.
10.2307/4114569|The new combination T. armena var. lycica (Baker) Marais is made and new synonymy for various species of tulip, mainly Turkish, is given.
10.2307/4110800|Four new taxa are described and illustrated and a new combination is made. The description of Mariscus palustris is emended.
10.2307/4113639|Calamus laoensis, C. solitarius, C. paudflorus and C. bimaniferus are described from Laos and nearby parts of Northeast Thailand.
10.2307/4103068|The reunion of Setcreasea K. Schum. & Sydow and Separotheca Waterfall with Tradescantia L. is proposed. The component species are reviewed, and new names or combinations published for three sections and three species.
10.2307/4117264|31 new taxa of Orchidaceae from South Central Africa are described, including 3 new genera and 25 new species.
10.2307/4111081|A new scheme of classification of gymnosperms is proposed in this paper, based mainly on the Bract Scale and Seed Scale Complex theory as well as the Multi-nerved leaved evolutionary line in gymnosperms. Twelve families are involved in the new system.
20649551|Marcetia candolleana A. K. A. Santos & A. B. Martins, is apparently restricted to Mucug, Bahia (Brazil), where it occurs in areas of campo rupestre vegetation. This new species is closely related to the sympatric M. mucugensis Wurdack, but can be easily recognised by its semi-prostate to procumbent habit, reddish glandular-hirsute indument, loose and flexuous branches, leaves with inconspicuous reticulation on the abaxial surface, connectives very shortly prolonged below the thecae, style curved towards the apex, not exceeding the anthers, and pendulous fruit. /// Marcetia candolleana A. K. A. Santos & A. B. Martins,  aparentemente restrita a Mucug, Bahia (Brasil), onde ocorre em reas de campo rupestre. Esta nova espcie  proximamente relacionada  M. mucugensis Wurdack, mas pode ser facilmente reconhecida por seu hbito semi-prostado a procumbente, indumento glandular-hirsuto, vinceo, ramos flexuosos, folhas inconspicuamente reticuladas na face abaxial, conectivos muito curtamente prolongados abaixo das tecas, estilete curvo no pice, no ultrapassando o comprimento das anteras, e fruto pndulo.
10.2307/4115739|Vellozia campanuloides, V. canelinha and V. caudata, three new species from Pico das Almas, Rio de Contas, Bahia, Brazil are described and illustrated.
24717376|Six new species of Pavetta L. are described from the Wet Evergreen forests of Ghana, Ivory Coast and Liberia: Pavetta sonjae, P. bomiensis, P. abujuamii, P. ankasensis, P. quasidigita and P. sapoensis, the first of these with ornamental potential. The last three are considered 'litter-bin' species, a morphological syndrome whereby forest understorey plants accumulate litter in their leaf axils. Certain venation patterns are defined precisely and used to delimit species. The six new species are illustrated, compared with similar species and their conservation status is evaluated.
20649684|A new species, Diplazium mickelii Mynssen & Sylvestre, only known from the mountain forests of Esprito Santo, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4109710|Chromosome counts are given for 11 species of Piper L., and are compared with results obtained by earlier workers. A basic number of x = 13 was found in all species counted in this study. Most of the New World species were diploids and the Old World species were found to be polyploids.
23489150|A new species of Amomum, A. carnosum from Nagaland, north-east India is described and illustrated. Its IUCN status is assessed as Endangered.
20443300|A new species, Crinum jasonii Bjor & Nordal, is described from pan habitats in the Luangwa Valley in SE Zambia. The new species is distinct both morphologically and in DNA sequences. Speciation has taken place at the diploid level. Within the genus, two different seed strategies were discovered in the study area: species growing in more or less wet habitats, such as C. jasonii, possess corky, water-repellent seed surfaces with very high capacity for buoyancy, and species growing in drier habitats possess rough to papillose surfaces and sink immediately in water.
10.2307/4110396| Nine new names and fifteen new combinations are made in the Euphorbiaceae subfamily Acalyphodeae. 
10.2307/4118752|Eragrostis dayanandanii, a new species of grass allied to E. malayana Stapf from Tamil Nadu, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4119003|Rhytidocaulon sheilae is described and its relationship with the other species of Rhytidocaulon is discussed. A key to the six species of the genus is given, as well as a figure showing comparative details of all six.
10.2307/4111209|Rinorea fausteana Achoundong and Rinorea thomasii Achoundong are described as new species from South West Province (S.W.P.), Cameroon. The first is a submontane forest species which appears to be endemic to the Bakossi Mts and Rumpi Hills area and the second is a lowland forest species which extends from the Korup National Park to the foothills of both Mt Cameroon and Mt Kupe. The affinities and conservation status of both species are discussed.
10.2307/4117912|In part 1 evidence for the identity of Jacquin's Pothos acaulis is presented and a lectotype chosen which removes this name from the group of bird's nest Anthuriums (sect. Pachyneurium) to which it has been variously applied hitherto. A description of the species, previously known either as A. martinicense or A. lanceolatum, is given, together with a key and notes on two related species of sect. Urospadix in the Lesser Antilles, A. dussii and A. willdenowii. Part 2 treats the four large bird's nest Anthuriums from the Caribbean to which the epithet acaulis has been historically applied. Descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps and a key are given, and the nomenclature, variability and inter-relationships of the species are discussed. A neotype is selected for A. hookeri. In Part 3 the 'Anthurium crassinervium' complex is discussed.
10.2307/4110411|Turraea pevelingii, apparently endemic to Somalia is described and its relationships with other African species examined, particularly with respect to bud-scales and phyllotaxy. A review of species groupings and of the pollination biology of the genus in Africa is given.
10.2307/4110908|A new species of Loricaria (Compositae: Inuleae sensu lato), L. cinerea, from Azuay Province, Ecuador, is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to Loricaria sect. Loricaria and brings the total number of species known from Ecuador to ten. A short nomencaltural note is provided on the effective lectotypification by Cuatrecasas in the only revision of the genus. A key to the Ecuadorian species is provided.
10.2307/4114589|The use of the scanning electron microscope (SEM) for examining seeds of Crassula L. sect. Rosulares Haw. and the effects of preserving fluids on Crassula seeds are discussed.
10.2307/4109990|A second species of Nelsia, N. tropidogyna, is described from Angola.
10.2307/4102945|Chromosome numbers of 12 species and a hybrid of Hemerocallis L. are reported and the karyotypes described. The results are compared with previous reports.
10.2307/4110966|Two taxa, E. arnhemicus F. Muell. and E. polydactylus Schltr. are recorded for the first time from the Lesser Sunda Islands, the former also from Java and Sulawesi. This is also a range extension for the Fissipetalum group of species.
10.2307/4108996|Field and herbarium studies of the dwarf mistletoes (Arceuthobium, Viscaceae) that parasitize Juniperus in the Old World have demonstrated that there are three species: A, azoricum sp. nov. on J. brevifolia in the Azores, A. juniperi-procerae Chiov. on J. procera from Ethiopia and Kenya, and A. oxycedri (DC.) M. Bieb. (sensu stricto) on several species of Juniperus from Spain and Morocco to the western Himalayas.
10.2307/4102943|17 species of monocotyledons, other than orchids (treated in a separate paper) from Jordan are discussed. Some species are recorded for the first time; others are rare and recorded from new localities. The taxa belong to the families Araceae, Gramineae and Iridaceae. Maps showing their distribution in Jordan are provided, as well as remarks on their habitat, especially for the genus Crocus.
10.2307/4109838|A new genus, Kairothamnus, and new species in Cleidion, Glochidion, Homalanthus, Mallotus and Phyllanthus from New Guinea are described; the paper is a necessary precursor to the forthcoming 'Euphorbiaceae of New Guinea' to be published in the Kew Bulletin Additional Series shortly.
20443244|The East African species Melandrium syngei Turrill and M. lomalasinense Engl. are formally transferred to Silene following recent changes in generic delimitation in the tribe Sileneae.
10.2307/4117855|Two new species of Dichapetalum from Central America are described, D. morenoi from Costa Rica and Nicaragua and D. moralesii from Costa Rica. A key to all neotropical members of the genus is provided.
23489235|The new species Capparis kebarensis Fici (Capparaceae) is here described and illustrated. Its affinities are discussed.
10.2307/4115870|Vilex scabra is provided with an emended description and discussed. Vitex cochinchinensis is reinstated as a species and lectotypified. A lectotype is also selected for V. longisepala.
10.2307/4120626|Two new species of Phyllanthus (Euphorbiaceae), P. caesiifolius Petra Hoffm. & Cheek and P. nyale Petra Hoffm. & Cheek, are described from the Bakossi Mts area, South West Province, Cameroon. Both are placed in subgen. Phyllanthus sect. Phyllanthus subsect. Swartziani G. L. Webst.
10.2307/4119398|The true identity of Lactarius mammosus is discussed.
10.2307/4102884| Thirteen species of obligately lichenicolous fungi belonging to the Ascomycotina are reported for the first time from the British Isles and additional notes are included on a further four species. The former section Hemigrapha (Mll. Arg.) is established as a genus and the combination H. astericus (Mll. Arg.) validated. The new combination Adelococcus nephromatis (Crouan) is made, two new species (Niesslia cladoniicola and Pleospora leptogiicola) are described, and eight taxa previously placed in Pharcidia Krb. are transferred to Stigmidium Trevis. 
10.2307/4113882|Three new species and one subspecies of Psychotria and one species of Chassalia from Tanzania are described; an amplified description of the poorly known P. triclada Petit is also given; P. usambarensis Verde, is newly reported from the Nguru Mts.
10.2307/4109765| Barleria sunzuana from Sunzu Hill, Mbala District, Zambia, and B. lactiflora from northern Malai and south-western Tanzania, are described as new species, while B. polyneura, previously known only from Angola, is recorded from Malai. 
20649606|The first occurrence of the genus Metarungia Baden (Acanthaceae) in west Africa is recorded with the discovery of an isolated population of the widespread eastern African taxon M. pubinervia (T. Anderson) Baden in eastern Nigeria. The conservation status of this species is discussed.
10.2307/4129965|Examination of the original material of Phryma Forssk. which, in the author's view is certainly also the basis of Priva adhaerens (Forssk.) Chiov., has demonstrated that the name has been applied to a different species for which a new name is required.
10.2307/4107990|Leaves of all the eleven species of Cocculus recognized by Diels (1910) have been examined, and it has been shown that certain epidermal anatomical characters have taxonomic value at the species level.
10.2307/4114625|The monotypic genus Microschoenus is shown to have been placed wrongly in the family Cyperaceae. It is referable to Juncaceae and the species should be known as Juncus duthiei.
10.2307/4102899|The characters traditionally used to separate Bauhinia petersiana and B. macrantha are critically examined and are mostly found to show ranges of variation overlapping between the two taxa. The geographical ranges of the taxa are almost exactly complementary. It is concluded that subspecific separation is more appropriate than specific recognition, and the most reliable character to distinguish the subspecies is the indumentum of the lower surface of the leaf. A new combination, B. petersiana subsp. serpae, is made and a distribution map is given.
10.2307/4118761|Dichapetalum korupinum, a new species from the Korup National Park in Cameroun, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115670|The monotypic genus Cotylonychia was originally placed in Sterculiaceae and considered to be related to genera that are now included in Malvaceae - Byttnerioideae. Vegetative and floral characters show that it should be excluded from this alliance and from other Malvales. It is identical with the monotypic brassicalean Pentadiplandra (Pentadiplandraceae).
10.2307/4117699|Trichocline spathulata, endemic to Western Australia, is not considered congeneric with species of Trichocline from South America. The new combination Amblysperma spathulata (A. Cunn. ex DC.) D.J. N. Hind is proposed, and the reasons behind it discussed.
10.2307/4111207|A new tribe, Kupeaeae Cheek (Triuridaceae) is proposed here to house three species, all from Africa. Two of these species are newly described here: Kupea jonii Cheek and the second, for which a new genus is proposed, Kihansia lovettii Cheek. Notes on the ecology, phenology and conservation status of the new species are given. Each of the three species is critically endangered.
10.2307/4109827|The conifer genus Taiwania is shown to have been first collected in 1868, antedating previous records by 36 years.
10.2307/4102908|The typification and nomenclature of Plantago pumila Linn, f., P. exigua Juss. ex Murray and P. indica L. are discussed. The correct name of the plants known as P. pumila sensu Willdenow is P. exigua Juss. ex Murray whose type locality is India, not Egypt. P. indica L. (1759) is an illegitimate synonym of P. psyllium L. (1753) and the latter, a nomen confusum; Psyllium ramosum Gilib. (1781) being an invalid name under Art. 23, item (3) of the Internat. Code Bot. Nomencl. (1972), Plantago arenaria Kit. (1801) is the next available name for plants hitherto known as P. indica sensu Pilger (1937), non Linn. (1759) and P. ramosum (Gilib.) Aschers. (1847).
10.2307/4102883|The family Vahliaceae is revised, one genus with five species being recognized. Keys, synonymies and distributions are given for these and for their infraspecific variants.
20649646|A revision of the genus Seddera Hochst. (Convolvulaceae: Cresseae) throughout its area of distribution is presented and a total of 31 species is recognised. The description, ecology, distribution, conservation status and phenology of all species are presented. Seven species, Seddera hadramautica R. R. Mill (S Yemen), S. ogadenensis Sebsebe (Ethiopia: Ogaden), S. namibica Sebsebe (Namibia), S. retusa R. R. Mill (Oman), S. rhodantha R. R. Mill (Ethiopia: Sidamo), S. semhaensis R. R. Mill (Yemen: Semha island, Soqotran archipelago), S. velutina R. R. Mill (Oman), and one subspecies, S. glomerata (Balf. f.) O. Schwartz subsp. dhofarensis R. R. Mill (Oman) are described in this paper as new taxa.
10.2307/4109976|A new genus, Plagiantha, one new species of Chloris and seven new species of Panicum are described from Bahia.
10.2307/4115809|The species of Xyris (Xyridaceae) known from the Flora Zambesiaca area are listed, and a key is provided with notes on identification, distribution and taxonomy. Three new species, X. porcata and X. laniceps from Zambia, and X. asterotricha from Zimbabwe, are described.
10.2307/4119366|The new genus Kupea, with the only species K. martinetugei is described in the Triuridaceae from western Cameroon and its conservation status assessed.
10.2307/4114614|Two new endemic Euphorbiaceae from Sri Lanka are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4103035|The Sida cuneifolia-complex-usually considered to consist of a single widespread species only-is shown to consist of six distinct species: S. cuneifolia Roxb. endemic to India and five species in Africa. Four of the African species are without validly published names and are described here: S. massaica, S. tanaensis, S. shinyangensis and S. tenuicarpa.
10.2307/4110110|The specific distinctness of H. albanicum (Bald.) Bornm. and H. boissieranum Vis. & Panc. is reiterated; the first putative hybrid in the genus is reported; and H. ciscaucasicum (Rupr.) Grossh. & Vved. is reduced to subspecific rank under H. villosum (M.B.) G. Don.
10.2307/4118973|The circumscriptions of two confused species, Eleocharis nigrescens and E. setifolia, are emended and the differences between them clarified. E. microlepis, which was previously conspecific with E. nigrescens, is now regarded as being distinct. A new subspecific combination, E. setifolia subsp. schweinfurthiana, is made.
23216089|Two new species of Pleonotoma Miers (Bignonieae, Bignoniaceae) from Brazilian Amazonia are described and illustrated: Pleonotoma fissicalyx B. M. Gomes & Proena and P. longiflora B. M. Gomes & Proena. P. fissicalyx is characterised by foliaceous prophylls of the axillary bud, 3-ternate leaves, a large number of short racemes concentrated at the apex of the flowering branch with many visible pedicel scars, a laterally fissured, almost spathaceous calyx, and a small, narrow hypocrateriform corolla with subexserted anthers; the fruits are unknown. P. longiflora is characterised by the combination of weakly tetragonal branchlets with unribbed angles, non-foliaceous, flat, rounded prophylls of axillary bud with an eccentric tip, 2-ternate leaves, broad axillary racemes, an elongate tubular calyx and a hypocrateriform corolla up to 12 cm long; its inclusion within Pleonotoma is confirmed by molecular phylogeny.
10.2307/4117920|This account validates new synonymy and new species of Calamus and Daemonorops as a precursor to a foresters' manual of Sabah rattans.
10.2307/4110459|14 species of the genus Fuirena Rottb. are recognised in the Flora of Tropical East Africa (FTEA) region. Their morphology, anatomy and cytology is investigated. Keys, descriptions and distributions of the species in the FTEA area are presented here.
10.2307/4120628|Elaeocarpus gardneri Coode and E. coloides Schltr. subsp. ridsdalei Coode from New Guinea are described as new, and placed in the 'Coloides' subgroup of the Monocera group.
10.2307/4119432|Trachycalymma is revised and contains 10 species in tropical Africa. Two species are newly described from Ethiopia (T. pseudofimbriatum and T. minutiflorum) and one from Congo (Kinshasa) (T. shabaense), one species is transferred from Pachycarpus E. Mey. and one from Asclepias L. The delimitation of T. pulchellum (Decne.) Bullock is reassessed and three species recognised. T. cucullatum (K. Schum.) Bullock is excluded from the genus, recircumscribed, and returned to Asclepias.
10.2307/4118718|A revision of the genus Bidens L. in Africa is made. Sixty-three species are recognized. All African taxa hitherto assigned to Coreopsis L. are transferred to Bidens L. One new species is described, i.e. B. sierra-leonensis Mesfin. Two neotypes and seven lectotypes are selected.
23489034|During a revision of the genus Ischaemum for the Flora of Thailand, a new species, Ischaemum thomasii, was discovered. A description and illustration are presented here. Two taxa are reduced to synonymy: Ischaemum barbatum Retz. var. glaberrimum Bor and I. tenuifolium A. Camus are placed under I. barbatum Retz. and Andropogon burmanicus Bor, respectively. A further four names are lectotypified: I. aristatum L. subsp. imberbe Hack. var. imbricatum Hack., I. aristatum L. var. arfakense Rendle, I. magnum Rendle and I. macrurum Stapf ex Ridl.
10.2307/4110417|Studies of the floral and pollen morphology of Asystasia striata show that this species is not an Asystasia, nor even a member of Justicieae. Its true position appears to be in Whitfieldia (Ruellieae), and the new combination W. striata (S. Moore) Vollesen is proposed.
10.2307/4110386| A parsimony analysis of Haumaniastrum was carried out and six new sections recognized. The species concept is discussed and 35 species, 6 described for the first time, are recognized with only one extending out of Africa to Madagascar. The genus has its centre of diversity in S Zare where all six sections are represented. A new infrageneric classification, based on the results of a parsimony analysis, is proposed. Six sections are recognized. A key to the species and sections, full descriptions and distribution maps are provided. 
10.2307/4110805|The identity of the palm genera Roebelia Engel, and Platenia Karsten, for long not understood, is finally established, based on recent topotypic collections. Roebelia is included in synonymy with Geonoma, and the combination Geonoma solitaria (Engel) Jahn ex A. W. Hill noted. Platenia is confirmed as a synonym of Syagrus, and Platenia chiragua Karsten is neotypified and included in synonymy under Syagrus sancona Karsten.
10.2307/4119726|Four new species of Mapania are described and illustrated. Mapaniopsis is reduced to the sectional level in Mapania.
10.2307/4110538| The pollen morphology of 398 species from all but five of the 53 genera of the Sapotaceae defined by Pennington (1991) in his recent generic review, has been studied using light, scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Within the family pollen diversity is sufficient for twelve pollen types to be described, eleven of which have been further subdivided. A key to the pollen types and further keys to the numerous subtypes that occur within Pollen Types I - VIII are provided. In two Chrysophyllum species, C. marginatum subsp. marginatum and C. inornatum, the structure of the pollen wall is anomalous within the Sapotaceae. The infratectum is comprised of long, slender columellae whereas in all other species examined it is narrow, granular or comprised of reduced columellae. In the other anomalous species, Englerophytum stelechantha, the apertures are more or less porate and represent an extreme of the colporate condition observed in other species in the family. The pollen types are considered in relation to Pennington's revision of the family and the contribution that pollen morphology has made towards resolving taxonomic uncertainties. A broad tribal correlation is observed between Mimusopeae with Pollen Types I & III; Isonandreae with Pollen Type II; Sideroxyleae with Pollen Type VI; Chrysophylleae with Pollen Type VII and Omphalocarpeae with Pollen Type VIII. There are examples of genera in which only one pollen type or subtype occurs, although not exclusively: Burckella, Pollen Type I; Sarcosperma, Pollen Type IV and Omphalocarpum, Pollen Type VIII. A few pollen subtypes are restricted to only one genus: Delpydora subtype VIIC; Sarcaulus, subtype XIA; Chromolucuma, subtype XIC and Diplon, subtype XIIA. Pollen Type IX occurs only in Pouteria, sect. Oxythece. Aperture configuration and the appearance of the tectum from scanning electron microscopy have been found to be particularly useful in defining differences between pollen types. The wall stratification, comprising a very thick tectum and foot layer intersected by a narrow infratectum, is unusual. Both the functional rationale of this type of pollen wall and the occurrence of a granular infratectum in both primitive and more highly evolved angiosperm families are considered. A variable number of (usually 3-4 or 4-5) regularly spaced apertures between pollen grains within single samples is apparently normal within the Sapotaceae, possible reasons for this are discussed. Two major evolutionary trends are postulated, culminating either in 3-4-colporate, prolate grains with continuous equatorial endexinous thickening and differentiated ornamentation, or in 4-5-colporate, subprolate grains with discontinuous equatorial endexinous thickening and undifferentiated ornamentation. Pollination in the Sapotaceae is not well documented; possible vectors include insects, bats and wind. Available data is summarized and discussed. A number of fossil records for the Sapotaceae from the upper Cretaceous onwards are reviewed and a summary diagram provided. Pollen characteristics from selected, mainly Tertiary, records for the family from many parts of the world are compared with the pollen types described in the present paper. Some previously described affinities of fossil pollen with recent sapotaceous pollen types are considered doubtful, in particular an early record from the upper Cretaceous. An appendix provides, from published data and personal observations, the main characteristics of pollen in four families allied or associated with the Sapotaceae: Ebenaceae, Myrsinaceae, Styracaceae and Symplocaceae. Characteristics of pollen in two other families: Burseraceae and Meliaceae less closely associated with Sapotaceae but with pollen that often shows similar characteristics, are also summarized. Features by which the various grains can be distinguished from those of Sapotaceae are highlighted. Two tables provide data for; 1. Correlation of pollen types with Pennington's systematic arrangement and 2. A list of all species examined, arranged systematically and providing full pollen data in condensed form. 
10.2307/4117765| The external morphology of seeds of Aleurites erratica O. Deg., I. Deg. &: Hummel, known only from beach drift in the SW and central Pacific, was compared with that of members of the Aleuritinae (Aleurites, Vernicia, Reutealis) and Omphalea in this region (all Euphorbiaceae), and found to match Omphalea papuana Pax & K. Hoffm. from Papuasia and NE Australia. Reversals of the usual pattern of easterly oceanic surface currents in the South Pacific at these latitudes and strong westerly winds are associated with El Nio episodes and could explain how drift seeds from the SW Pacific reached Kanton Atoll, Phoenix Group, Kiribati, from where A. erratica was first described. 
10.2307/4110327|Preparatory to an account of Jasminum for the Flora of Thailand, the following new taxa, combinations and synonymies are proposed J decipiens and J. perrisanthum spp. nov., J annamense subsp. glabrescens and subsp. kerrii, J. coarctatum var. vanprukii, J. funale subsp. sootepense, J. lanceolaria ssp. scortechinii and J nobile subsp. rex combs. & stats. nov. The variation and extensive synonymy of J. elongatum is reviewed.
10.2307/4110591|An account of the 13 species of Mucuna Adans. found in the Philippine Islands is offered, with keys and distribution maps. One new species, M. diplax Wilmot-Dear, is described; one former species, M sericophylla Perk., is reduced to a variety of M. pruriens (L.) DC.
10.2307/4115661|Plectranthus porphyranthus, a new species from Zimbabwe, is described. The alliances between the new species, and P. venteri, P. grandidentatus and P. hadiensis are discussed.
23216087|Three new species of Eupatorieae (Asteraceae) were collected in the "campos rupestres" of the Cadeia do Espinhao, Minas Gerais state, Brazil, in the Itacolomi State Park, located between the cities of Ouro Preto and Mariana, Minas Gerais, Brazil, during a floristic survey focusing on Compositae in this area. Eupatorium semiamplexifolium, Mikania badiniana, and Stevia alexii are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4109824|The genus is described and its history discussed; some differences from Ching's original statement on the genus are indicated, and species from Africa are added to his list. A key to all known species is provided, with synonymy and description for each, including the following which are new: Pseudocyclosorus gamblei and P. ornatipes. The new combination P. canus (Baker) Holttum & Grimes is published, with a discussion of its involved synonymy. New information on chromosome numbers is included. The name Nephrodium multijugum Baker, placed as a synonym of Dryopteris ochthodes (Kunze) Kuntze by Christensen in his Index Filicum, is excluded.
24717347|A new species of Ichthyothere, I. woodii (Compositae: Heliantheae: Milleriinae) is described and illustrated from the cerrados of the Department of Santa Cruz, eastern Bolivia. The distribution of Bolivian and Brazilian species is tabulated, and the large number of species in cerrado and campos rupestres vegetation commented on.
10.2307/4115688| Fifty-eight species of Aphyllophorales and Heterobasidiomycetes from Sabah, Malaysia are enumerated. The new species Gloiothele granulosa Hjortst. & Spooner, Radulodon cirrhatinus Hjortst. & Spooner and Steccherinum aggregatum Hjortst. & Spooner are described, and the new combinations Mycoaciella brunnea (Jlich) Hjortst. & Spooner, Protohydnum sclerodontium (Berk. & Mont.) Hjortst. & Spooner and Radulomyces copelandii (Pat.) Hjortst. & Spooner are proposed. Ceraceohydnum Jlich is reduced to synonymy under Mycoaciella Erikss. & Ryv., and a key to the species of Mycoaciella is presented. Keys to distinguish the genera Radulodon, Radulomyces and Sarcodontia, and to the species of Radulodon are also offered. 
10.2307/4110458| The alleged distinctions between Domohinea and the Afro-Comorese genus Tannodia are considered insufficient for recognition at generic rank. Domohinea is therefore accorded subgeneric status under Tannodia, and the appropriate new combinations are made. In addition to this, one new section ( Amyreophylla), four new species, T. grandifolia, T. nitida, T. obovata and T. pennivenia, and three new varieties, T. perrieri var. latifolia and var. ludiifolia and T. grandifolia var. myrtifolia, are described in Tannodia subgenus Domohinea from Madagascar, and the Comorese T. cordifolia is reported from Madagascar for the first time. The mainland African genus Neoholstia is returned to sectional rank under Tannodia, which is now considered to be an Afro-Malagasy genus of nine species disposed in two subgenera each with two sections. Three species are mainland African, one having two varieties, one species is Comoro-Malagasy and five are Malagasy, one of which has two varieties and another has one. 
10.2307/4108117|Two new species of Lysimachia (Primulaceae) are described: L. assamica C. M. Hu from northeast India and L. sumatranica C. M. Hu from Indonesia.
10.2307/4110541|Lindernia zanzibarica Eb. Fisch. & Hepper and L. longicarpa Eb. Fisch. & Hepper from Tanzania, and L. sudanica Eb. Fisch. & Hepper and L. niamniamensis Eb. Fisch. & Hepper from Sudan and Uganda are described as new species. L. zanzibarica is related to the Asiatic L. antipoda; L. longicarpa to L. abyssinica; L. sudanica to L. yaundensis and L. welwitschii, and L. niamniamensis to L. acicularis, L. welwitschii and L. yaundensis.
10.2307/4115664|Evidence from macro- and micromorphology is used to clarify the taxonomic position of Hemigraphis neocaledonica Heine, which is here transferred to Brunoniella Bremek. A new combination: Brunoniella neocaledonica (Heine) Moylan is proposed. Brunoniella is a new genus record for New Caledonia. The geographic distribution of Hemigraphis remains unaffected.
10.2307/4109450|Eight African species of Eleusine are recognized in this paper, the majority being localised in parts of East and North East Tropical Africa. Each species is described and a k is provided. Eleusine africana Kenn.-O'Byrne is reduced to a subspecies of E. indica (L.) Gaertn., and E. indica (L.) Gaertn. var. intermedia Chiov. is raised to specific rank as E. intermedia (Chiov.) Phillips. Two new species are also described: E. semisterilis Phillips from Kenya and E. kigeziensis Phillips from southwest Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and adjacent parts the Congo.
10.2307/4111165|The genus Antidesma (Eupharbiaceae-Phyllanthoideae) in Madagascar and the Comoro Islands is revised. The two endemic species as well as their three varieties and two forms hitherto recognised were found to be conspecific with A. madagascariense, a species earlier considered to be endemic to the Mascarenes. A. madagascariense var. hildebrandtii, comb, nov., is accepted as the only infraspecific taxon. It differs from the type variety by its tomentose floral disc and is confined to northern Madagascar.
10.2307/4118894|Two new species of Plectranthus are described from Ethiopia and northern Kenya: P. marrubatus which is part of the P. hadiensis complex and P. gillettii which is closely related to P. puberulentus J. K. Morton.
10.2307/4109460|An account is provided of the spore form and structure in the genus Crepidotus (Agaricales) together with an atlas of transmission and scanning electron micrographs. A revised classification of the British species is also presented.
10.2307/4113743|Cynoglossum furcatum Wall. is shown not to be a synonym of C. zeylanicum (Lehm.) Brand.
10.2307/4109839| A commentary is given on the structure of Macaranga in New Guinea and the Bismarcks and on the modes of variation found within the species occurring there. Nine new species are described, namely M. ducis. M. galorei, M. intonsa, M. johannium, M. palustris, M. stellimontium. M. sulensis, M. suwo and M. tsonane. 
10.2307/4108492|Fourteen species of Decaspermum are recognized from New Guinea. Two new combinations are made and one new variety is described.
10.2307/4109975|85 genera, comprising the tribe Andropogoneae, are surveyed and a collective description of their leaf-blade anatomy is provided.
10.2307/4110109|A new species of Archidendron and anew subspecies of Mucuna gigantea are described and a new name proposed in Archidedron. These are needed in connection with a forthcoming account of the Leguminosae of New Guinea.
10.2307/4107867|The 10 South American species of Schizachyrium are revised with key, full synonymies, and a brief discussion of variation in S. condensatum.
10.2307/4108472| Cyathula mollis, most closely related to C. pobeguinii Jacques-Flix, is described from eastern C.A.R. 
10.2307/4114723|Two shrubby succulent species of Euphorbia from the southwest of the Arabian peninsula, one spineless, the other spiny, are described as new.
10.2307/4109870|The Somalian endemic species Neuracanthus thymifolius Chiov. is referred to a new genus, Acanthostelma, differing from Neuracanthus in its inflorescence, calyx, corolla, anther cells, pollen and stigma.
10.2307/4115698|J. G. Baker's Oncoba ('Flacourtiaceae') is revealed as being Turraea sericea Sm. (Meliaceae). His error is explained. A detailed description and illustration of the species and notes on its flower biology and ethnobotany are presented. The affinity of the species is shown to be with two East African species rather than other species in Madagascar. This small group seems to be the element of Turraea closest to Humbertioturraea.
10.2307/4107757|Four new species and one new subspecies are described: Andropogon crossotos, Aristida anaclasta, Cymbopogon schoenanthus subsp. velutinus, Festuca cryptantha & Panicum socotranum. One new combination is made: Rytidosperma subulata. The collector referred to as Wood is J. R. I. Wood.
20649663|As part of systematic studies of the genus Elatostema (Urticaceae) and its sister genera, it was apparent that different names had been applied at the tribal level for these genera. This paper proposes that the tribal name Elatostemeae be used for the genera currently delineated as belonging to tribe Lecantheae (Friis 1993). It is also proposed that the authorship of the currently recognised tribes in the Urticaceae should be attributed to Charles Gaudichaud-Beaupres as described in H. L. C. de Freycinet's "Voyage autour du mondeexecut sur les corvettes de S. M. l' Uranie et la Physiciene", published in 1830.
10.2307/4119365|Dacryodes trapnellii Onana, a tree known only from Zambia and formerly confused with Dacryodes edulis (G. Don) H. J. Lam, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4102878|The differences between Brachiaria and Eriochloa are briefly examined. E. biglumis and E. stapfiana are described as new species, with E. fatmensis a new combination.
10.2307/4110750|A re-evaluation of the systematic position of Arisaema nepenthoides (Wallich) Martius, the type species of the genus, and A. wattii J. D. Hooker is presented, based on the morphological and cytological examination of living material as well as herbarium specimens. The quincuncial leaf arrangement of these two species shows that they are distinct from others previously placed in section Arisaema (in the sense of Murata 1984). Section Arisaema is thus recognized as containing only these two species and the remaining ones are grouped into a newly recognized section for which the name Pedatisecta Schott ex Engler is taken up. Arisaema biauriculatum W. W. Smith ex Hand.-Mazz. is newly recognized as a synonym of A. wattii.
10.2307/4117024|The Asian genus Aganosma is revised. Eight species are recognised of which one has two varieties. The complex nomenclatural issues in the genus are discussed.
10.2307/4108990| The correct spelling of the specific epithet for Terminalia bentzo (L.) L.f is discussed and a new subspecies, subsp. rodriguesensis Wickens, is recognized. The new combination Memecylon ovatifolium (Poir) Wickens is made and M. confusum Bl. and M. myrtiforme Naud. are recognized as distinct endemic species. 
10.2307/4109457|All the available documents concerning the building of the Palm House have been examined in an attempt to discover who actually designed it. The loss of certain crucial plans has prevented any positive conclusions, but it is suggested that Decimus Burton was responsible for the overall design which was modified in certain particulars by the constructional engineer, Richard Turner.
20443416|A new monotypic genus and a new species of Monimiaceae, Grazielanthus arkeocarpus from the Brazilian Atlantic coastal forest are described, illustrated and compared with morphologically related taxa. The new taxon occurs in the State of Rio de Janeiro in the central coastal plain and was collected in the Poo das Antas Biological Reserve, municipality of Silva Jardim (2230 - 2233S; 4214 - 4219W). The new taxon is represented by dioecious climbing shrubs of the sub-canopy that have urceolate, four-lobed flowers and a fleshy hypanthium that is closed until the fruit ripens. When ripe, the hypanthium ruptures irregularly and the fruitlets are exposed. The relationships between the new genus and other neotropical (Hennecartia J. Poiss. and Macrotorus Perkins) and paleotropical (Palmeria F. Muell.) genera are discussed.
10.2307/4114505|The life cycle and shoot organization of Monstera adansonii Schott var. klotzschiana (Schott) Madison, an herbaceous, root-climbing liana, were studied in populations occurring in remnant areas of moist tropical forest in the Brazilian State of Pernambuco. A field study of the shoot architecture of individual plants showed that this taxon exhibits different phases, each linked to a particular microhabitat. A terminology is proposed for the different morphological units based on the recognition of primary modules, which colonize new host trees by means of terrestrial stolons and aerial flagelliform shoots, and secondary modules, which carry out assimilation and most sexual reproduction. The architectural model which the plant most closely resembles is that of "Chamberlain". The taxonomic value of shoot architectural characters is discussed.
10.2307/4115750|A taxonomic account is provided of the species of Asplenium L. (Aspleniaceae: Pteridophyta) occurring on the south Atlantic islands: Tristan da Cunha, Inaccessible, Nightingale, Stoltenhoff, Middle and Gough Islands. Complete descriptions are provided for all the species. Illustrations, and notes relating to their distribution, intraspecific variation and their relationships are included. A new combination Asplenium aequibasis (C. Chr.) J. P. Roux is proposed and extensions to the distributions of A. monanthes L. and A. platybasis Kunze ex Mett. var. subnudum C. Chr. reported.
10.2307/4110492|The subtribes of the Ocimeae are discussed and new definitions of Plectranthinae and Ociminae are provided. The position of Hanceola, Siphocranion and Isodon within the tribe Ocimeae is discussed and the three genera are placed as incertae sedis. A key to the subtribes of the Ocimeae and genera incertae sedis are presented. The genus Skapanthus is placed in synonymy with Isodon.
10.2307/4109448|Anatomical and morphological details are recorded for the species Davallia denticulata (Burm. f.) Mett., D. solida (Forst.) Sw., Humata repens (L. f.) Diels, Araiostegia membranulosa (Wall, ex Hook.) Holtt., A. multidentata (Wall, ex Hook.) Copel. and Davallodes borneense (Hook.) Copel. The distinctive characters of the genera are discussed, based on the details described and also on a consideration of other species. A new assessment is made of the distinctions between Araiostegia and Davallodes; this involves consideration of Paradavallodes Ching, a genus established to include Araiostegia membranulosa and A. multidentata. It is concluded that the species included by Ghing in Paradavallodes are not sufficiently distinct from those left by him in Araiostegia to warrant recognition of the new genus. The species originally named Davallia membranulosa Wall, ex Hook., placed by Gopeland in Davallodes and by Ching in Paradavallodes, is therefore here transferred to Araiostegia. The concluding discussion includes reference to the status and contents of the family Davalliaceae and its possible relationships to other families; it is suggested that (as here delimited) it is an epiphytically adapted offshoot from the terrestrial group of ferns which includes Tectaria.
10.2307/4117843|The arundinoid genera Crinipes, Nematopoa, Styppeiochloa, Piptophyllum and Zenkeria are shown to form a monophyletic clade, based on leaf anatomical and morphological data. This clade, here called the crinipoid grasses, is closely related to the reedy Arundineae sensu stricto (Arundo, Phragmites, Molinia, Hakonechloa), and less closely related to the Danthonieae (including the Cortaderieae). Dichaetaria appears to be a member of the Arundineae sensu stricto, rather than of the crinipoid grasses. Relationships among the crinipoid grasses are complex, due to a lack of congruence among the various genera, but there is some indication of a grouping of Zenkeria with Nematopoa and Styppeiochloa, while another grouping includes Piptophyllum, Leptagrostis and Crinipes. This suggests an Indian-Sri Lankan-Madagascan-southern African biogeographical pattern, rather than an Indian-Ethiopian relationship.
10.2307/4110051|10 genera, comprising the tribe Arundinelleae, are surveyed and a collective description on their leaf-blade anatomy is provided.
10.2307/4110173|Two new species are described from western Iran, a further species (H. shelkovnikovii Grossh.) is recorded as new to that country, and two more gatherings cited for the recently-described H. rubro-tinctum C. C. Townsend.
10.2307/4114522|The new species Bauhinia brevipedicellata is described. It is known by one collection from the Schwanner range of Borneo.
10.2307/4110917|Cyperus matagoroensis Muasya & D. A. Simpson, C. tatandaensis Muasya & D. A. Simpson and C. longispicula Muasya & D. A. Simpson, three new species from eastern and southern Africa, are described and illustrated.
20649546|Four new species of Asparagus (Asparagaceae) from the Flora Zambesiaca area are described and illustrated; the need for more collections is highlighted to assess their conservation status. Asparagus botswanicus Sebsebe is known from a single locality in Botswana; A. chimanimanensis Sebsebe occurs in Zimbabwe and Mozambique; A. richardsiae Sebsebe is known in Zambia and A. radiatus Sebsebe is from a small restricted area (Goba) in Mozambique and Umbeluzi Gorge in Swaziland.
10.2307/4108554|In Alchornea, one form is recorded as new for Tanzania and one species is reduced to synonymy; in Mallotus, a variety is reduced to synonymy and a new form is described; in Neoboutonia the name N. africana is shown to be unusable for either of the species to which it has been applied; and in Phyllanthus, two new species are described and a new name is proposed.
10.2307/4114510|Following fieldwork in Yunnan and the recent introduction of several Sino-Himalayan bamboos, an additional 10 species are now considered to belong in the genus Borinda Stapleton. B. albocerea, B. edulis, B. frigidorum, B. fungosa, B. hsuehana, B. lushuiensis, B. papyrifera and B. perlonga from Yunnan, and B. fansipanensis from N Vietnam, were all originally described in Fargesia Franch., while B. schmidiana from S Vietnam was originally described in Arundinaria Michx. This extends the distribution of Borinda along a continuous belt of mountain ranges from western Nepal to southern Vietnam, and brings the total number of species in the genus to 18.
10.2307/4110398|A new species of Swertia, S. squamigera, from Tanzania is described and compared with related species. The affinities of the new species to S. adolfi-friderici, S. fimbriata and S. kilimandscharica are discussed. An identification key for the fimbriated uninectariate species is included.
10.2307/4110104|The genera Monotheca and Spiniluma are considered to be generically distinct from Sideroxylon. Monotheca consists of only one species, M. buxifolia, distributed from Pakistan to S. Ethiopia. Spiniluma comprises two species, S. oxyacantha, occuring in Ethiopia, and S. discolor, restricted to Socotra. Both genera occur in dry Olea- and Juniperus-forest and in evergreen scrub. Descriptions, synonymy and specimen citations are given, and the new combination Spiniluma discolor is made.
10.2307/4109705|The nomenclature and taxonomy of two very confused species, Artemisia dubia Wall. ex Bess. and A. myriantha Wall. ex Bess., are clarified and nomenclatural synonymies are given. The former is shown to be a member of Subgen. Dracunculus (Bess.) Peterm., Sect. Latilobus Y. R. Ling, and the latter to be a species of Subgen. Artemisia, Sect. Viscidipubes Y. R. Ling.
20649609|Three closely affiliated species of Heterospathe Scheff. (H. elegans (Becc.) Becc., H. humilis Becc. and H. versteegiana Becc.) from New Guinea are revised. They are reduced to a single species which is divided into two subspecies, and the new combination H. elegans subsp. humilis (Becc.) M. S. Trudgen & W. J. Baker is made. The subspecies can be readily distinguished by their growth habit. Epitypes are designated for the three previously published names, as informative material on the habit is not included in the existing type specimens. A new, potentially related species is described as H. pullenii M. S. Trudgen & W. J. Baker.
10.2307/4110914|Material of Pilea from Mt Jaya has been studied for the Flora of Mt Jaya and as part of ongoing investigations into the classification of the genus. Characters important for species delimitation are discussed and a brief discussion of the species number worldwide included. Three new species, Pilea craspedodroma, P. johnsii and P. jayaensis are described and illustrated. Molecular sequence data for these new species has been deposited on Genbank and accession numbers given. Three new names, to replace P. thymifolia RidL, P. alpestris Ridl. and P. trinervia Ridl. are proposed.
23044686|Cyperus digitatus var. khasianus is re-instated and a lectotype for the variety and Cyperus hookeri are selected.
10.2307/4110203|Parapiptadenia ilheusana, a new species from Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115644|A phylogenetic analysis of 589 plastid rbcL gene sequences representing nearly all eudicot families (a total of 308 families; seven photosynthetic and four parasitic families are missing) was performed, and bootstrap re-sampling was used to assess support for clades. Based on these data, the ordinal classification of eudicots is revised following the previous classification of angiosperms by the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (APG). Putative additional orders are discussed (e.g. Dilleniales, Escalloniales, Vitales), and several additional families are assigned to orders for future updates of the APG classification. The use of rbcL alone in such a large matrix was found to be practical in discovering and providing bootstrap support for most orders. Combination of these data with other matrices for the rest of the angiosperms should provide the framework for a complete phylogeny to be used in macro-evolutionary studies.
10.2307/4114501| Angostura Roem. & Schult. as understood by Engler is defined more narrowly here. The species excluded from Angostura are recognized as species of Conchocarpus J. C. Mikan. Three new species of Angostura (A. alipes Kallunki from Ecuador, A. quinquefolia Kallunki from Par and Maranho, Brazil, and A. simplex Kallunki from western Amazonas, Brazil, and San Martin, Peru) are described, and three new combinations in this genus are made. In Conchocarpus, 24 new combinations are made, and the following 21 new taxa are described: C. bellus Kallunki, C. cauliflorus Pirani, C. concinnus Kallunki, C. cuneifolius var. confertus Kallunki, C. cyrtanthus Kallunki, C. dasyanthus Kallunki, C. diadematus Pirani, C. fissicalyx Pirani, C. furcatus Kallunki, C. gaudichaudianus subsp. bahiensis Kallunki, C. grandis Kallunki, C. hirsutus Pirani, C. inopinatus Pirani, C. insignis Pirani, C. longipes Kallunki, C. mastigophorus Kallunki, C. modestus Kallunki, C. oppositifolius Kallunki, C. punctatus Kallunki, C. santosii Pirani & Kallunki, and C. sordidus Kallunki. With the exception of C. grandis from Amazonian Brazil, all are native to the coastal forests of eastern Brazil. As a result, seven species of Angostura and 45 of Conchocarpus are recognized. Keys to the taxa of both genera are provided. Lectotypes are designated for Cusparia grandiflora Engl., C. macrocarpa Engl., C. paniculata Engl., C. toxicaria Engl., Galipea odoratissima Lindl., and Lasiostemum silvestre Nees & Mart. and an epitype for Galipea elegans A. St.-Hil. The new combination, Rama nodosa (Engl.) Kallunki, is made for Cusparia nodosa. The tribe Cusparieae DC. and subtribe Cuspariinae Engl., based on the illegitimate generic name Cusparia Humb., are renamed Galipeeae Kallunki and Galipeinae Kallunki. 
10.2307/4113740|Results of experiments with grass 'seed' germination are reported and briefly discussed.
20443347|This paper presents a taxonomic synopsis for the genus Lepistemon Blume in Australasia (including continental Asia, Malesia, tropical Australia, Melanesia, and the islands of the western Pacific). All names published for the region are dealt with. Five species are recognised, one with six varieties. A lectotype is chosen for L. binectariferum. A key is provided for all accepted taxa and an index of specimens examined is included.
10.2307/4110645|Information on the occurrence, distribution and/or variation of 59 taxa is provided. Forty-five of the taxa are new for Cyprus; seven of these are recently described endemic taxa. Consequently the native or naturalized taxa (sp. + ssp.) of the Flora of Cyprus should be considered as 1646 rather than 1601 recorded by Meikle in the "Flora of Cyprus".
10.2307/4110962|A checklist of Cyperaceae recorded as having economic, ethnobotanical and horticultural importance is presented. Data have been obtained from the literature and herbarium material. Forty-five genera and 502 species/infraspecific taxa are included.
10.2307/4118891|A new species of Harpalyce (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Brongniartieae), H. lanata, is described and illustrated from recently collected material from the southern Chapada Diamantina, state of Bahia, Brazil.
10.2307/4115869|A little known species Plectranthus montanus described from India is lectotypified. This name has priority over Plectranthus cylindraceus, a well known and widespread species in Africa. A new combination, Paralamium griffithii (Hook. f.) S. Suddee & A. J. Paton is made and a lectotype is chosen. Paralamium gracile, the first name published under this genus and a recently published name Plectranthus daoi are treated as new synonyms of Paralamium griffithii.
20443259|Schefflera racemifera, a new species of Araliaceae from the state of Esprito Santo, Brazil, is described and illustrated. It resembles S. longipetiolata (Pohl ex DC.) Frodin & Fiaschi, from which it is distinguished by its leaves with 11-14 (vs. 7-10) leaflets and, in the inflorescences, by flowers racemosely (vs. umbellately) arranged in the primary (as opposed to the secondary) branches. It is so far known only from submontane rainforests in the vicinity of Santa Maria de Jetib in the aforementioned state. /// Schefflera racemifera, uma espcie nova de Araliaceae do estado do Esprito Santo, Brasil,  aqui descrita e ilustrada. Assemelha-se a S. longipetiolata (Pohl ex DC.) Frodin & Fiaschi, da qual  diferenciada essencialmente pelas folhas com 11-14 (vs. 7-10) fololos, e nas inflorescncias, pelas flores agrupadas em racemos (vs. umbelas) ao longo dos ramos primrios (vs. secundrios). Schefflera racemifera  conhecida apenas de florestas ombrfilas submontanas dos arredores de Santa Maria de Jetib, no estado do Espro Santo.
23045005|A new species of Impatiens, I. kunyitensis from Kerinci Seblat National Park, West Sumatra, Indonesia is described and illustrated. It has a unique combination of characters, including red and green stems and white flowers in which the lower sepal is bucciniform and abruptly constricted into a curved, short, violet spur. This combination of characters makes determining the relationships of I. kunyitensis difficult.
10.2307/4117029| Piranhea securinega is described as new from Serra de Itapiraaba, Municpio de Januria, Minas Gerais, Eastern Brazil, and the genus Celaenodendron, with one species in Western Mexico, is transferred to Piranhea. A key to the resultant four species is presented. Furthermore, a new variety of P. trifoliolata Baill. is described from Venezuela. 
10.2307/4110013|Lasiurus Boiss. is regarded as a monotypic genus. For nomenclatural reasons the name L. hirsutus is invalid and is replaced by L. scindicus Henr.
10.2307/4111100|After examination of Velenovsky's herbarium material in Prague, it has been found necessary to change the name of Conocybe appendiculata to C. velata.
20443388|A taxonomic revision of the genus Phymatidium Lindl. is presented. Ten species and two varieties are recognised. One species, P. glaziovii Toscano, and one variety, P. delicatum var. curvisepalum Toscano, are newly described. A key to species and varieties is presented. Each species and variety is described and illustrated, and history and synonymy discussed.
20649656|Described and illustrated is Warneckea austro-occidentalis R. D. Stone, an endemic of tropical forests in Cameroon's South West Province and adjacent Nigeria. The name W. mangrovensis (Jacq.-Fl.) R. D. Stone is also proposed at species level for the taxon originally described as W. fascicularis var. mangrovensis Jacq.-Fl. An IUCN (2001) status of endangered is assigned for both W. austro-occidentalis and W. mangrovensis.
10.2307/4111134|A new species of Rhus was identified during preparation of the Flora of Oman. It is apparently endemic to the drier eastern part of the southern province of Dhofar, Oman.
10.2307/4109687| The genus Pittosporum Banks ex Gaertn. in Africa and Arabia has previously been divided into 24 species and a considerable number of subspecies and varieties, and it has been believed that Africa was a secondary centre of variation and speciation for the genus. More recent collections have added many specimens which are intermediate between the hitherto accepted taxa. It seems therefore impossible to uphold the large number of species and the complex infraspecific hierarchy which has been accepted in African Pittosporum. Instead a taxonomy is proposed with the following species: P. viridiflorum Sims, P. abyssinicum Del., P. mildbraedii Engl., P. goetzei Engl., and P. cacondense Exell & Mendona, with a number of informally described taxa under the most variable species, P. viridiflorum. 
10.2307/4119438|Recent studies have shown the need for nomenclatural changes and new synonymy in Vigna (Leguminosae-Papilionoideae), in the Flora Zambesiaca area. Vigna juncea Milne-Redh. var. corbyi is described as new.
10.2307/4107754|Two species of Gastonia and five species of Polyscias are described; keys to both groups are provided.
10.2307/4107989|The surface-patterns on the endocarps of Cocculus are described and illustrated with SEM photographs. The value of these patterns in the taxonomy of the genus is discussed.
10.2307/4115728| A new species of Aquifoliaceae, Ilex prostrata, from Minas Gerais State, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The species is known so far only from the "campos rupestres" (vegetation of rock outcrops at high altitude) from the Serra do Cip, a southern portion of the Espinhao Range in the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. 
10.2307/4110990|Two new species of Vigna L. subgenus Ceratotropis (Piper) Verdc., V. exilis and V. nepalensis are described and illustrated. They are endemic to mainland Southeast Asia and the South Asian Himalayan foothills, respectively. In addition, a new combination is made for V. trinervia, and two species are given a new status and combination as V. grandiflora and V. trinervia var. bourneae. Recent studies of Vigna subgenus Ceratotropis have necessitated the modification of the group's nomenclature; these new combinations are validated here.
20649640|Blepharodon crabronum from the pre-Cambrian serranias of eastern Bolivia is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4103120|An interesting collection of Trichoglottis from Thailand is discussed and illustrated.
10.2307/4110832|The combination Tylophora cuspidata (K. Schum.) Meve & Omlor (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadeae) is made, based on Oncostemma cuspidatum K. Schum. This is needed because of the rejection of Tyiophora oblonga N. E. Br. against O. cuspidatum.
10.2307/4108371| Populations of Cistus palhinhae from the Sargres Peninsula and C. ladanifer from the Caldeiro mountains of southern Portugal have been sampled for the number of valves per fruit and characteristics of the leaf. It is established that the fruits of the former are not typically 6-locular, nor those of the latter typically 10-locular, and that leaves are of greater diagnostic value. 
10.2307/4117819|Rhabdodendron is the sole genus in Rhabdodendraceae and affinities have been suggested with Chrysobalanaceae, Rutaceae and Phytolaccaceae. Analysis of rbcL sequence data indicates a placement within Caryophyllidae sensu Chase, Soltis, Olmstead et al. 1993, but without a particularly close relationship to any of the other families. On this basis we support the familial rank Rhabdodendraceae and place it in Caryophyllidae, without reference to a particular order. The molecular results are discussed in the light of the morphological, anatomical and biochemical characters of Rhabdodendron.
10.2307/4110177|Two new families, Cyclocheilaceae and Nesogenaceae are described for the non-Australian genera previously included in the Chloanthaceae. One new genus, Asepalum, is described, and the combination A. eriantherum (Vatke) Marais is made. The genus Nesogenes is reviewed and a key to the species provided.
27821988|Fuirena bidgoodae Hoenselaar & Muasya, a new species of Fuirena Rottb. from eastern Africa, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4118724|In Uapaca, a new species (U. lissopyrena) is described from the Flora Zambesiaca area, Uapaca nitida var. sokolobe f. longifolia is upgraded to varietal rank in its own right, and U. benguelensis Muell. Arg. is subsumed under U. kirkiana Muell. Arg., which name has priority by only one week. Furthermore, the genus is recorded from Kenya for the first time.
20649589|Vanda longitepala, a new species of orchid from northern Burma is described and discussed.
10.2307/4113603|In Margaritaria discoidea, 4 varieties are now recognized, these having in the past been treated variously as distinct species, as subspecies or merely as synonymous with typical M. discoidea.
10.2307/4120635|Acacia petrensis, a new species growing on limestone rocks and nearest related to A. mahrana in Yemen, is described from northern Somalia.
20443267|A new species Diplolophium boranense is described and its relations within the genus discussed.
10.2307/4129960|The cristate bird's-nest fern from Norfolk Is. is here called Asplenium australasicum f. robinsonii stat. & comb. nov.; A. (c pteridoides" from Lord Howe Is. is resolved into A.pteridoides and A. surrogatum sp. nov.; a hybrid between A. difforme and A. dimorphum is recorded from Norfolk Is.; Cheilanthes humilis comb. nov., C. nitida comb. nov. and C. brownii are established as the correct names for three Australian species; the endemic Marattia from Lord Howe Is. is called M. howeana stat. nov.; Sticherus lobatus and Ophioglossum pendulum are recorded from Lord Howe Is.
10.2307/4110970|Two new species of Coffea from eastern Madagascar are described: C. rakotonasoloi and C. montis-sacri.
10.2307/4119001|The new species Carissa praetermissa Kupicha, endemic to Mozambique, is described.
10.2307/4102942|An examination of the type of Aerides elongata Bl. shows it to belong to the genus Renanthera Lour., not to Porphyrodesme Schltr.
10.2307/4107746|Haplocoelum scassellatii Chiov. is shown to represent a distinct subspecies of Lecaniodiscus fraxinifolius; the species is further divided into subsp. vaughanii and subsp. fraxinifolius. The distribution of the three subspecies is mapped. Haplocoelum jubense (Hypseloderma jubense) has been studied; it appears to be an endemic taxon, but material is insufficient for a reassessment of the taxonomic status of this species.
10.2307/4108133|A computer-aided method of chorological analysis is applied to the Gramineae of India. The resulting chorological classification of the species into a hierarchy of Kingdom, Region and Endemic Centre is illustrated by maps.
10.2307/4113874|In Acalypha, two new records are reported for Australia, both from the Kimberley Region of Western Australia; one of them is sufficiently distinct to be regarded as constituting a new subspecies.
10.2307/4110035|Pericampylus macrophyllus Forman is described from Burma.
23216200|A pilot study of leaf outline morphometrics was carried out on populations of five species of Heteropsis located in the Reserva Florestal Adolpho Ducke near Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil: H. flexuosa (Kunth) G. S. Bunting, H. macrophylla A. C. Sm., H. spruceana Schott, H. steyermarkii G. S. Bunting and H. tenuispadix G. S. Bunting. The aim of the study was to investigate quantitative methods for discriminating species within a local area based on vegetative morphology in a genus where fertile parts are often difficult to find in the field; this study focussed on leaf outline shape. Using digital images of 347 leaves, outlines were captured as coordinates using the TpsDig software and analysed using Elliptic Fourier Analysis (EFA). Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was used to reduce the 160 elliptic Fourier coefficient descriptors to a smaller number of independent shape variables corresponding to the principal component axes. The first nineteen shape variables (constrained by the smallest species sample, N = 20) were then subjected to Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) to find new axes that would discriminate the five species to the maximum extent. The first six shape variables were visualised by a reification procedure in order to illustrate their characteristic contribution to the total shape variation within all five species. The results showed that the mean shapes of all five species were significantly different, but shape variation within each species overlapped with the others. Percentage assignment of individuals to their correct species was encouragingly high given that only outline shape was used, but was not high enough overall to provide reliable identification. Elimination of one species (H. steyermarkii) using easily observed qualitative vegetative characters improved discrimination of the remaining four. The investigation of new approaches to identification is potentially valuable for conservation of natural populations  the root fibre of Heteropsis is extracted from primary forest and is a valuable non-timber forest product that forms the basis for an important local industry in Amazonia.
20649648|Two new combinations, one new and one resurrected name in Plectranthus L'Hr. are provided for species formerly placed in Leocus A. Chev.; conservation assessments are made for five species.
10.2307/4117255| A new species of Alo, A. dumetorum from Moyale in northern Kenya, is described and its relationships with other species discussed. The species has 2n = 14 chromosomes, and a karyotype typical of diploid aloes. 
10.2307/4111146| In this revision of the genus Leonotis four new taxa are described and illustrated: L. grandis Iwarsson & Y. B. Harv. from the Southern Highlands of Tanzania, N Malawi and NE Zambia; L. decadonta Grke var. porotoensis Iwarsson & Y. B. Harv. from the Southern Highlands of Tanzania; L. myricifolia Iwarsson & Y. B. Harv. from the Southern Highlands of Tanzania, E Zambia and N Malawi; and L. myrothamnifolia Iwarsson & Y. B. Harv. from the Mafinga Hills bordering Malawi and Zambia. The new combination L. decadonta Grke var. vestita (Briq.) Iwarsson &: Y. B. Harv. is made and differences between the varieties of L. decadonta are described. A lectotype is selected for L. decadonta. This work accepts both varieties of L. nepetifolia (L.) R. Br., var. nepetifolia and the recently much-ignored var. africana (P. Beauv.) J. K. Morton. 
20443367|100 species representing 48 genera from the grass tribes Aveneae and Poeae, 30 genera from other tribes of Pooideae and outgroups were studied using matK chloroplast sequence data to address systematic questions. Data were evaluated using maximum parsimony and Bayesian methods. The results support a broadly delineated subfamily Pooideae with Brachyelytrum and Nardus/Lygeum as basal lineages. Aveneae/Poeae + Bromeae/Triticeae + Brachypodium are sister to a polytomy that contains the strongly supported lineages Meliceae and Stipeae, including Ampelodesmos. A further, but less well supported, assemblage within this polytomy consists of Aveneae subtribe Duthieinae + Anisopogon + Phaenosperma. Brachypodium is sister to a well-supported lineage that includes Aveneae/Poeae and Bromeae/Triticeae. Within Aveneae/Poeae, two clades are apparent, which do not completely correspond to the traditional tribes Aveneae and Poeae. We argue that Aveneae and Poeae should be maintained as separate tribes rather than being merged under Poeae. The position of several genera and minor lineages within both clades is examined with reference to morphology, biogeography, ecology, and current taxonomic treatments. On the basis of a number of synapomorphies from morphological and molecular data, the monotypic genera Lygeum (Lygeeae) and Nardus (Nardeae) are lumped under the Nardeae. Brachypodium is supported as a separate tribe, Brachypodieae.
10.2307/4109700|Calamus dransfieldii Renuka sp. nov. is described from Kerala, India.
10.2307/4114626|Arachnitis quetrihuensis Dimitri (Corsiaceae) is reported as a new record for the Falkland Islands. It represents an eastward extension of the range of the species from southern mainland South America, and it is also the first record of the genus and family for the islands.
10.2307/4110107|Species of three native Mascarene genera are discussed. Phyllanthus pileostigma, P. phillyreifolius Poir. vars. crassistigma, gracilipes and stylifer are described. The combination Lautembergia neraudiana is made. The relationships between Drypetes and Guya are discussed; Guya integrifolia (Vahl) Perrier (Lightfootia integrifolia Vahl) is shown to have Benn. in Flacourtiaceae.
10.2307/4110180|This paper contains the description of 1 new species of Ixora and 2 new species of Pavetta.
10.2307/4129968|Russula grossa, from Sikkim, is shown to be allied to R. ochricompacta, from North America, and to belong to Russula subsection Ochricompactae.
10.2307/4110580|The genus Apodanthera in Bahia State (Brazil) is revised; 8 species are recognized, of which 4 are newly described.
10.2307/4102957|A modified technique for the symbiotic germination of terrestrial orchids has been used to propagate 23 species of European orchids in vitro. Of these, 14 have been grown on to the seedling stage of development. So far, tubers have formed on three of these and four have been transferred to a soil-based compost.
10.2307/4110114|Clerodendrum minutiflorum Baker is reduced to a variety under C. glabrum E. Meyer.
10.2307/4109936|A new species, Coelachyrum annuum, is described from Egypt.
10.2307/4111167|A new species of Senecio, S. harleyi, is described and illustrated from the state of Bahia, Brazil. The position of the new taxon within the genus Senecio sensu stricto and its affinity to S. regis is discussed; both are illustrated. A new section of the genus, section Bahiana, is described and its affinities to other sections in subgenus Senecio discussed. A key to the species in the genera of the tribe Senecioneae in Bahia is provided; twelve species and five genera are recognized as occurring in the state.
10.2307/4117106|The pollen morphology of 3 genera and 5 species comprising the tribe Coscinieae (Menispermaceae) has been studied. The pollen is small, 3-aperturate with a perforate or reticulate tectum. Two main pollen types are recognized (1) tricolporate found in the genera Anamirta and Arcangelisia and (2) triporate found in the genus Coscinium. Pollen morphology supports taxonomy by showing a closer relationship between Anamirta and Arcangelisia than with the more distinct genus Coscinium.
10.2307/4102990|A second and third (Zambian) collection of Volkiella Merx. & Czech, a monotypic Namibian genus of debatable relationship, have allowed examination of young as well as mature inflorescence structures and reinterpretation of the floral morphology. This has led to placing the genus near to Lipocarpha.
24717386|Descriptions, distribution maps and preliminary IUCN conservation assessments for all five species of Thunbergia that occur in Nepal are provided. A new species, T. nepalensis, is described from western Nepal. T. lutea T. Anderson and T. coccinea Wall. ex D. Don are lectotypified.
27822001|Arundinella kokutensis Teerawat. & Sungkaew is described and illustrated here as a new species from Kut Island, Trat Province, Thailand.
10.2307/4110385|The generic delimitation of Platostoma P. Beauv., Haumaniastrum P. A. Duvign. & Plancke and previously recognized allied genera is examined on a global basis for the first time this century. A parsimony analysis was carried out and the generic concept applied is discussed. Platostoma and Haumaniastrum are recognized here with Acrocephalus, Geniosporum, Ceratanthus, Octomeron, Mesona, Nosema and Limniboza being placed in the synonomy of Platostoma. The previously recognized Acrocephalus group of genera is renamed the Platostoma group. Benguellia is considered to be more closely related to Orthosiphon than to the Platostoma group. Platostoma is a paraphyletic genus due to the exclusion of Haumaniastrum. Platostoma is divided into three subgenera: subgen. Acrocephalus is broadly equivalent to Asiatic species of Geniosporum and Acrocephalus, but with the inclusion of some African and Madagascan species: subgen. Octomeron is monotypic; subgen. Platostoma is divided into four sections, sect. Platostoma, sect. Ceratanthus, sect. Mesona and sect. Limniboza. Platostoma is found in tropical Africa, Madagascar, tropical Asia and N Queensland. The genus has not been fully revised, but 45 species are recognized with 4 described for the first time. A key to the infrageneric taxa is provided and the recognized species are listed with their types, synonomy and distribution. The mainly African genus Haumaniastrum is found to be more closely related to the African Platostoma sect. Limniboza rather than the Asiatic sect. Acrocephalus as had been previously proposed.
10.2307/4117764|Consideration is given to the characters supposedly separating Clematopsis from Clematis, and it is considered that these do not warrant generic recognition. At sectional rank the correct name for Clematopsis is Clematis sect. Pseudanemone. A key to taxa recognised which were formerly included in Clematopsis on the African mainland is given. A new subspecies is described in C. chrysocarpa, and specific rank is given to Clematis uhehensis. Appropriate names under Clematis, and synonymy, are given for mainland African taxa formerly referred to Clematopsis, including two new subspecific combinations, and Madagascan taxa are enumerated briefly.
10.2307/4109695|In Croton, a description is amplified and a new record is reported for Mozambique. In Erythrococca, a new combination is made. In Tragia, three new species and two new varieties are described, and a new record is reported for Zambia. This information has come to light largely during the course of the preparation of the account of the family Euphorbiaceae for Flora Zambesiaca area.
10.2307/4110863|Two new species, Inocybe conspicuospora and I. glaucodisca, are described in the subgenus Inocybe from Zambesian woodland.
10.2307/4119360|Recent work on the systematics of Caesalpinia and its allies has demonstrated that Pomaria should be treated as distinct from both Caesalpinia and Hoffmannseggia. Combinations within Pomaria species of North America have already been made. Here we make the necessary combinations for five South American taxa and three South African species.
20443332|Between the submission of the paper by van der Niet & Cribb (2006) and its publication, Satyrium hallackii subsp. ballii was incorrectly changed to var. ballii. The correct combination is made herewith.
10.2307/4110307|Themelium, a new genus in Grammitidaceae (Filicales) is described. Combinations are made for the five species known, which range from SE Asia through Malesia to Polynesia, and a key is provided for their identification.
27821984|The African genus Welwitschiella has traditionally been placed in tribe Heliantheae. Our phylogenetic analysis of chloroplast DNA ndhF sequence data, however, reveals that it is part of tribe Astereae. In order to assess the relationships of this genus within the tribe, we produced a phylogeny based on ITS (nrDNA) sequence data of a sample including Amellus, African Conyza, Chrysocoma, Felicia spp., Mairia, Poeciliopsis, Printzia, Welwitschiella and Zyrphelis. Both parsimony and Bayesian analyses were done. The Bayesian analysis showed that African genera form a basal grade in tribe Astereae along with the Chinese Nannoglottis and South American and New Zealand genera, with Printzia being the earliest diverging member of the tribe. Mairia occupies an isolated position. Amellus, Chrysocoma, Felicia, Poecilolepis and Zyrphelis belong to subtribe Homochrominae, a South African radiation that also includes the St Helena endemics Commidendron and Melanodendron. Pteronia appears isolated, though it might be close to the Homochrominae. Welwitschiella is placed in the latest diverging African clade, subtribe Grangeinae, which also includes Grangea, Psiadia, Nidorella, and the African Conyza species except C. gouani. This subtribe is sister to the Eurasiatic subtribe Bellidinae, and together they are sister to the Astereae crown lineages of Australasia-Asia and South and North America.
10.2307/4110306|Neoschumannia kamerunensis is newly reported from the Central African Republic. The reasons for this apparently disjunct distribution are discussed.
10.2307/4103121|Ceratostylis anjasmorensis J. J. Wood & Comber and Cleisostoma comberi J. J. Wood from Java, and Calanthe baliensis J. J. Wood & Comber from Bali are described.
10.2307/4111211|A new species, Psiadia pascalii (Compositae), endemic to Mayotte, is described and illustrated. Its habitat and conservation status are described.
10.2307/4114622|Thilachium roseomaculatum sp. nov. from Kenya is described and compared with its closest relatives. The vegetation of the type locality is described.
10.2307/4102873|It is pointed out that Amaryllis dubia was not intended by Linnaeus as a binomial and that Kuntze is the correct authority for the combination Hippeastrum puniceum, of which the robust plant with bigger flowers is established as var. majus, comb. nov.
10.2307/4110328|Seven new combinations are made in Senna Miller and eight in Chamaecrista Moench for taxa occurring in Madagascar. Lectotypes are chosen for seven species and one subspecies, and two further taxa are lectotypified and placed within the synonymy of more widespread African species.
10.2307/4118860|Somatic chromosome counts are presented for four species of the genus Roscoea (Zingiberaceae), including two previously uncounted species and new populations of R. cautleoides and R. tibetica. All of the plants were collected in Yunnan province, China. The basic chromosome number was 2n = 2x = 24 for all plants examined, and chromosome morphology was uniform.
10.2307/4119061|The pollen morphology of 24 mostly American genera and about 100 species of Commelinaceae has been studied, with emphasis on the tribe Tradescantieae. The pollen is very variable in size between and, to a limited extent, within genera. With four exceptions, all the species examined have monosulcate pollen. The exceptions are Tinantia anomala which has three germinal apertures, Tinantia pringlei which has an extended sulcus, Zebrina pendula which shows evidence of three germinal apertures, and Tripogandra grandiflora in which the long-filamented anthers have apparently infertile grains. Four main types of tectum ornamentation were observed in the Tradescantieae and a further five in the other genera examined (tribe Commelineae). In both tribes specialization in the pollen seems to accompany specialization in the androecium. Genera having an actinomorphic androecium and pollen with an insulate tectum, such as Tradescantia and Cyanotis, contrast with those in which the androecium is zygomorphic and the pollen tectum is verrucate-granulate or tuberculate/spinulate, such as Tripogandra and Commelina. The variation revealed by this preliminary survey implies that pollen evidence will be of value in solving problems of classification at tribal and subtribal levels.
10.2307/4114359|The awned genera of Andropogoneae are grouped into sub-tribes with the aid of numerical taxonomy. Seven sub-tribes are recognized, including Germainiinae W. D. Clayton.
10.2307/4117701|A new combination, Pseudolotus villosus, based on Dorycnium villosum Blatt. & Hallb. is proposed. A neotype is selected for Dorycnium villosum. Pseudolotus makranicus is treated as a synonym of P. villosus. Taxonomic relationships of the genus Pseudolotus are discussed.
27821995|Zornia decussata, a new species from Venezuela, is described and illustrated. It belongs to sect. Anisophylla of subgen. Zornia and occurs in the Federal Territory of Amazonas, in the region of Rincones de Chacorro. The species is characterised mainly by its decussate bracteoles which lack an auricle, by the presence of a cataphyll between the stipules and by the delicate habit of the plant.
10.2307/4110926|Holcoglossum omeiense Z. H. Tsi ex X. H.Jin & S. C. Chen, a new species of Orchidaceae from China is described and illustrated, and its relationship with allied taxa discussed.
20649691|It is shown that the single record of the genus Brucea J. F. Mill. (Simaroubaceae) from Yemen in the Arabian Peninsula (Wood 2886), identified as Brucea antidysenterica J. F. Mill., is based on a misidentification. The specimen is actually Polyscias fulva (Hiern) Harms in the Araliaceae, a genus and species not previously recorded from the Peninsula although a common pioneer tree of submontane forest in neighbouring continental Africa.
10.2307/4103030|A flowering specimen of Lonchocarpus kanurii Brenan & Gillett having unexpectedly become available, an amplified description of the species is offered.
20649544|A taxonomic revision of the palm genus Podococcus (Arecaceae) is presented. Two species are recognised: P. barteri, a species relatively widespread in a coastal band from Nigeria to the D. R. Congo and P. acaulis, a species previously considered conspecific to P. barteri, almost exclusively confined to Gabon. The taxonomic history, morphology, distribution and conservation status of the genus and each species are discussed
10.2307/4115832| A new species of Lantana from Cuba, L. elenievskii I. E. Mndez, is described, and a key provided to the small-leaved species from the Bahamas and the Greater Antilles. 
10.2307/4117691|The new, apparently monotypic genus Colobocarpos is described from Thailand and Laos, based on Croton nanus Gagnep. and, as its new synonym, C. colobocarpus Airy Shaw. The genus should probably be classified in the tribe Codieae of the subfamily Crotonoidae, but its exact relationships are uncertain.
10.2307/4109164|Crocus olivieri Gay belongs to a small group of closely allied species occurring in the Balkans and Asia Minor. A key to these and their subspecies is provided and the relationship between the species is discussed.
10.2307/4109692|1 new species from Ethiopia, 7 new species, a subspecies and a variety from East Africa, and a species and subspecies from both Tanzania and Zambia are described. E. chamaecormos Chiov. is reduced to synonymy under E. schizacantha Pax.
10.2307/4115828|Impatiens etindensis is described as new from Mt Etinde near Mt Cameroon in southwest Cameroon. It is unusual among African Impatiens in being epiphytic, and unique in its large ellipsoidal or spherical tubers. The new species is illustrated and its ecology and taxonomic affinities are discussed.
23216396|Pilea carautae M. D. M. Vianna & R. J. V. Alves (Urticaceae) is described and illustrated. This new species is endemic to the Cabo Frio region in Rio de Janeiro State, Southeastern Brazil. P. carautae is considered threatened by IUCN standards due to its extremely restricted geographic area of occurrence.
23044986|The flowering plant family name Pteleocarpaceae has been used recently but has not been validly published since no Latin description has been provided. The family includes one genus, Pteleocarpa Oliv., with one species, P. lamponga (Miq.) Bakh. ex K. Heyne, a forest tree from western Malesia. It has previously been referred to several different families, most commonly to Boraginaceae. The family name is here validated by provision of a Latin description, with some additional comments and reproduction of two illustrations.
10.2307/4107991|Cocculus madagascariensis Diels is shown to be a synonym of the New World C. diversifolius DC.
10.2307/4109583|The tropical African genus Stereochlaena consists of 5 species, of which S. annua, S. caespitosa, S. tridentata and S. foliacea are described as new.
10.2307/4107752|A discussion of the nomenclature of two Lippia species is presented. Plants currently called L. microcephala Cham. and L. iodophylla Schauer should be called L. hermannioides Cham. and L. triplinervis Gardn. respectively.
10.2307/4102872| After discussing the criteria for separating Englerastrum from Coleus, the conclusion is reached that Englerastrum does not occur in Sri Lanka and that Coleus elongatus Trimen (Sri Lanka), as well as C. scandens Grke (East Africa), should not be placed in Englerastrum as hitherto. 
20443324|Commelina acutispatha De Wild. is the oldest name for the species usually known as C. thomasii Hutch. The new combinations: Commelina petersii subsp. loandensis (C. B. Clarke) Faden and Cyanotis speciosa subsp. madagascarica (C. B. Clarke) Faden are made and the basionyms are lectotypified.
20649593|Alchornea lojaensis, a new species of Euphorbiaceae collected in tropical montane rainforest of Ecuador is described and illustrated. The species belongs to the group of Alchornea with pinnately nerved leaves and its affinities and differences in relation to A. discolor and A. fluviatilis are discussed. /// Alchornea lojaensis, uma nova Euphorbiaceae coletada em floresta tropical montanhosa do Equador,  descrita e ilustrada. A espcie faz parte do grupo das Alchornea com folhas peninrveas e suas afinidades e diferenas em relao  A. discolor e A. fluviatilis so discutidas.
23489188|An account of the five species of Talinum native to Bolivia based on field and herbarium studies is presented. Line drawings, photographs and SEM images of seeds highlight differences in habit, inflorescence and seed morphology. A key to the species is provided and notes on diagnostic characteristics, ecology and distribution are provided. Talinum porphyreum M. Mend. & J. R. I. Wood is described as new. Additionally Phemeranthus punae (R. E. Fr.) Eggli & Nyffeler, long placed in Talinum, is recorded for the first time from Bolivia, indicating the presence of the genus Phemeranthus in Bolivia. The opportunity is taken to lectotypify this species.
10.2307/4114617|Vepris felicis, a new species from Liberia and adjacent Guinea, is described and illustrated. It is easily distinguished by its simple, mostly (sub-) opposite leaves.
10.2307/4111213|Cyrtochloa mindoroensis S. Dransf. is described as new from Mindoro, Philippines. Dinochloa major Pilg. from Bataan, Luzon, is transferred to Cyrtochloa as C. major (Pilg.) S. Dransf.
23489204|A new species of Lespedeza Michx. (Leguminosae) from Cambodia is described for the first time. This is the first record of the genus for the country.
10.2307/4114727|Specimens of an epiphyte collected in Ghana and Ivory Coast have proved to belong to an undescribed genus of Periplocaceae which is here named Epistemma. The single species E. assianum D. V. Field & J. B. Hall is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4102907|The taxonomy, nomenclature and distribution of four species of the genus Pityrogramma Link, introduced from the New World and naturalized in Asia, and the lectotypification of Gymnogramma calomelanos var. aureo-flava Hook. (1862) are discussed. P. austroamericana Domin is considered to be a species distinct from P. calomelanos var. aureo-flava (Hook.) Weatherby ex Bailey, which represents a variant of P. chrysophylla (Sw.) Link.
24717391|The species Maesa ruficaulis, previously only known from the type collection and placed into synonymy, has been recently collected in the lowland forests of southern New Guinea and is shown here to be a distinct taxon. A full description is provided based on the new collections, the name is lectotypified, and the conservation status is assessed.
10.2307/4114567|Elaeocarpus bilongvinas is described and its relationships discussed; comparisons are made with known species and the difficulty in placing the new species in existing infrageneric groupings demonstrated.
10.2307/4111136|Eriocaulon pseudoescape, a new species from Thailand is described and illustrated.
20443286|An afromontane to afroalpine group of species commonly included in the genus Satureja is studied by biometrical methods and revised. Satureja simensis (Benth.) Briq., S. kilimandschari (Grke) Hedberg, S. uhligii Grke and S. pseudosimense Brenan should be known under the following names: Clinopodium simense (Benth.) Kuntze, C. kilimandschari (Grke) Ryding, C. uhligii (Grke) Ryding var. uhligii and C. uhligii var. obtusifolium (Avetta) Ryding, respectively. The taxa can only be distinguished by polythetic criteria, and by the use of different criteria for Ethiopia and for other parts of Africa.
10.2307/4119783|Gonystylus eximius sp. nov. and G. affinis Radlk. var. elegans var. nov. are described from Sarawak.
10.2307/4109834|Four new species are described: Brachiaria breviglumis, B. longiflora, B. pungipes & Digitaria melanotricha. One new name is proposed: Echinochloa rotundifiora. Eight new combinations are made: Acroceras gabunense, A. hubbardii, Brachiaria chusqueoides, B. squarrosa, B. subulifolia, B. umbellata, Echinochloa callopus & Eriochloa rovumensis.
20649658|A key is presented to the Nepenthes group Montanae in Peninsular Malaysia, Thailand and Cambodia. Nepenthes bokor Cheek is described from Cambodia and Nepenthes thai Cheek from peninsular Thailand. The affinities of both taxa are discussed and their conservation status assessed.
20649626|Descriptions and information about 26 species of Strobilanthes Blume are provided. Sixteen species are described as new: Strobilanthes bilabiata J. R. I. Wood, S. fragrans J. R. I. Wood and S. trichantha J. R. I. Wood from Thailand, S. borii J. R. I. Wood and S. parvifolia J. R. I. Wood from India, S. chrysodelta, J. R. I. Wood, S. muratae J. R. I. Wood, S. ramulosa J. R. I. Wood, S. tanakae J. R. I. Wood and S. wardiana J. R. I. Wood from Burma, S. disparifolia J. R. I. Wood from Laos, S. fusca J. R. I. Wood from the Philippines, S. longipedunculata Terao ex J. R. I. Wood from Vietnam, S. longistaminea J. R. I. Wood and S. pusilla J. R. I. Wood from Indonesia and S. orientalis J. R. I. Wood from East Timor. Species placed in Aechmanthera Nees and Sericocalyx Bremek. are transferred to Strobilanthes, resulting in the new name Strobilanthes sulewesiana J. R. I. Wood for Sericocalyx collina Bremek. and the new combinations Strobilanthes tomentosa (Nees) J. R. I. Wood, Strobilanthes celebica (Bremek.) J. R. I. Wood and Strobilanthes schomburgkii (Craib) J. R. I. Wood for the species hitherto known respectively as Aechmanthera gossypina (Wall.) Nees, Sericocalyx celebicus Bremek. and S. schomburgkii (Craib) Bremek. The new combinations Strobilanthes barisanensis (Bremek.) J. R. I. Wood and S. persicifolia (Lindl.) J. R. I. Wood are made, the latter based on an earlier name for the relatively well-known S. anisiphylla (G. Lodd.) T. Anderson. Kjellbergia celebica Bremek. is renamed Strobilanthes kjellbergii J. R. I. Wood. Some 22 species are illustrated with line drawings for the first time. Pollen of 16 species is illustrated with scanning electron micrographs. The more widespread species are mapped.
10.2307/4118037|From continental Africa 4 new species and 4 new subspecies of Ficus are described: F. chirindensis, F. faulkneriana, F. muelleriana, F. pachyneura, F. ottoniifolia subsp. macrosyce & subsp. multinervia, F. polita subsp. brevipedunculata, and F. scassellatii subsp. thikaensis; thirteen new combinations at subspecific rank are made. For F. calyptrata Vahl a neotype is designated.
23489148|A new species of Mucuna similar to M. pruriens (L.) DC. but differing in its woody perennial habit, considerably larger flowers, flattened pods and black seeds, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110003|Rosularia setosa, a new species from Upper Galilee, is described.
10.2307/4110742|Lemurophoenix with a single species, L. halleuxii from north-eastern Madagascar is described and its affinities discussed.
23216728|Five new species of the genus Dichorisandra J. C. Mikan are described based on field, herbarium and cultivation studies. The species described here are only known from the Atlantic rain forest from the State of Bahia, Brazil and have anthers with introrse longitudinal slits that are functionally poricidal. D. subtilis Aona & M. C. E. Amaral is characterised by its small habit, erect, densely pilose leaves, flowers in congested inflorescences, 5 stamens and a verrucose ovary. D. variegata Aona & Faden presents terminal, erect or sometimes decumbent inflorescences sprouting from the base of the plant, leaf blades sparsely to densely pilose and with two white longitudinal broad stripes above, and 5 ( 6) stamens. D. jardimii Aona & M. C. E. Amaral is characterised by the axillary inflorescences that perforate the leaf sheaths and arise either directly from the rhizome or from normal terrestrial branches, 5 stamens, a verrucose ovary and cylindrical fruits. D. ordinatiflora Aona & Faden presents axillary inflorescences that perforate the leaf sheaths, inflorescences distributed evenly along the stem, and a reddish indumentum. D. conglomerata Aona & M. C. E. Amaral can be recognised by its completely glabrous leaves, terminal inflorescences, the large number of flowers per cincinnus (7  10 flowers), and 5 stamens. Discussion of relevant characters, comparisons with closest relatives, descriptions, information on conservation status and illustrations are provided. Cinco novas especies do gnero Dichorisandra J. C. Mikan so aqui descritas com base em estudos de campo, de herbrio e de cultivo. As cinco espcies so restritas  Mata Atlntica da Bahia, e apresentam anteras rimosas introrsas com pice formado pelo dobramento dos sacos polnicos externos, sendo funcionalmente poricidas. D. subtilis Aona & M. C. E. Amarai  caracterizada pelo pequeo porte e hbito ereto, folhas densamente pilosas, inflorescncia congesta, pednculo curto ou ausente, 5 estames e ovrio verrucoso. D. variegata Aona & Faden apresenta ramos prostrados, inflorescncia terminal ou decumbente localizada na base da planta, face adaxial da folha com duas estrias longitudinals alvas evidentes, lmina densa a esparsamente pilosa e 5 (  6) estames. D. jardimii Aona & M. C. E. Amarai  reconhecida pela inflorescncia rompendo a bainha dos ramos axilares, originando-se de ramos partindo diretamente do rizoma ou de ramos j desenvolvidos, 5 estmes, ovrio verrucoso e frutos cilindricos. D. ordinatiflora Aona & Faden apresenta inflorescncias laterais rompendo a bainha foliar e distribudas ao longo do caule, alm do indumento de colorao avermelhada. D. conglomerata Aona & M. C. E. Amarai pode ser caracterizada pela inflorescncia terminal, atravs dos cincinos multifloros (7  10 flores) e 5 estmes. Ilustraes e discusso dos caracteres diagnsticos, status de conservao e comparaes com as espcies prximas so apresentadas.
20649632|The tree species Berlinia korupensis Mackinder & Burgt is described as new. The species is endemic to the southern part of Korup National Park in Cameroon. Seventeen trees have been found so far, the largest being 42 m high and having a trunk diam. of 88 cm. The new species is assessed as Critically Endangered (CR D) under the criteria of IUCN. Two distribution maps are included; one map indicating the single locality in Cameroon near the Nigerian border where the new species was found and another map of the permanent plot where 14 of the 17 trees were recorded. A line drawing is also included, along with colour photographs of the flowers and the trunk.
20649673|The new species Euphorbia suborbicularis Thulin, E. kabridarensis Thulin, E. piceoides Thulin and E. michaelii Thulin, from the Somali National Regional State (Ogaden) of Ethiopia, are described and illustrated. E. suborbicularis is probably related to the eastern African E. polyantha, E. kabridarensis is obviously a close relative of E. intricata in south-eastern Ethiopia, southern Somalia and north-eastern Kenya, E. piceoides is close to E. adjurana in southern Ethiopia and northern Kenya, whereas E. michaelii is apparently related to E. xylacantha from northern Somalia and adjacent parts of Ethiopia.
10.2307/4108879|An ultrastructural study is presented of basidiospores of the six British species of Ganoderma (Aphyllophorales) with particular reference to the surface ornamentation.
10.2307/4110667|Ten species and one variety of bromeliads are described as new and one, previously known from only one collection and incompletely described, is now illustrated.
10.2307/4108887|It is shown that the commonly occurring Craterispermum in East Africa is not C. laurinum (Poir.) Benth. as usually supposed but C. schweinfurthii Hiern. Some other notes on synonymy are also given, together with a preliminary key.
20443378|A new species of Eulalia Kunth, E. madkotiensis Manish K. Kandwal, B. K. Gupta & S. K. Srivast., is described and illustrated from the Gori valley in Pithoragarh District of Uttaranchal, India. The species is closely allied to E. staintonii Bor.
10.2307/4119318|The new combinations Shirakiopsis aubrevillei (Leandri) Esser, S. elliptica (Hochst.) Esser, and S. trilocularis (Pax & K. Hoffm.) Esser are proposed for three former species of Sapium congeneric with Asian species of Shirakiopsis.
10.2307/4103123|A new species of Olyra is described and distinguished from allied species in a key.
10.2307/4114655|The long-lost 22 illustrations to William Hunter's 1803 ms. on Penang plants have come to light. 12 of Hunter's new species which were eventually published in 1909 are typified by drawings in this set. An associated volume of ms. descriptions and drawings hitherto attributed to William Roxburgh proves to be in the handwriting of William Hunter.
4111067|Colleters, a secretory structure under-reported in botanical literature, are described in all four genera of Erythroxylaceae, and compared to two genera of its sister family Rhizophoraceae. Erythroxylaceae colleters are of the same type as those of Rhizophoraceae but position, arrangement, shape and size differ between all examined genera. No correlation between colleter morphology and family could be observed.
24717349|A new purple-flowered discoid Calea (Compositae: Heliantheae: Neurolaeninae), Calea woodii (Calea sect. Meyeria (DC.) Benth. & Hook. f.), is described and illustrated from the Serrana de Cochs and the Serrana de Santa Brbara, Chiquitos, Department of Santa Cruz, Bolivia. The relationship of this species is discussed and a key to the purple-flowered species of Calea sect. Meyeria is provided. The Brazilian C. purpurea G. M. Barroso, is lectotypified together with the Bidens edentula G. M. Barroso, C. nervosa G. M. Barroso, and Ichthyothere pruinosa G. M. Barroso (= I. connata S. F. Blake).
10.2307/4118750|Polysporangiate anthers, previously unknown in the Melastomataceae, are reported from 16 species of Chaetostoma and Microlicia. The possible biological significance and taxonomic implications for the problematic tribe Microlicieae are discussed.
10.2307/4110913|Whilst preparing a floristic study of the Orchidaceae subtribe Spiranthinae Lindl. for the Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brazil, a new species of Sarcoglottis Presi was discovered; Sarcoglottis riocontensis is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4117269|Nine new species and five infraspecific taxa of Leguminosae from New Guinea are described, and seven new combinations are made, in connexion with the preparation of a manual of the family covering Papuasia. The genera discussed are Abarema, Archidendron, Cynometra, Desmodium, Gompholobium, Kingiodendron, Maniltoa, Millettia, Pongamia, Schleinitzia and Tephrosia.
10.2307/4108098|The application of the genus concept is examined, and is shown to involve a compromise between biological reality and practical convenience.
20649613|Polygala is the largest genus in the family Polygalaceae, with about 110 species and 30 varieties. Polygala altomontana is a new species described from southern Brazil and is placed in the subgenus Polygala characterised by flowers with a crested keel. P. altomontana occurs in the high grasslands in Paran and Santa Catarina states and has a prostate habit, leaves opposite, rarely alternate, fleshy and glandular, white flowers, persistent corolla and narrowly winged fruits with a persistent style and stigma. This species was recognised during a revision of the Polygalaceae for southern Brazil. A description, illustrations and observations on habitat and geographic distribution are presented. /// O gnero Polygala  o mais rico dentro da famlia Polygalaceae, abrangendo cerca de 110 espcies e 30 variedades. Polygala altomontana  uma nova espcie, descrita para a regio sul do Brasil, e est includa no subgnero Polygala, caracterizado por apresentar flores com carena cristada. P. altomontana  encontrada nos campos de altitude dos estados do Paran e Santa Catarina e apresenta um hbito prostrado, folhas opostas raramente alternas, carnosas, glandulosas, flores brancas, corola persistente, fruto estreitamente alado, estilete e estigma persistentes no fruto. Esta espcie foi reconhecida durante a reviso da famlia Polygalaceae na regio sul do Brasil. So fornecidas descries morfolgicas, ilustrao, observaes sobre hbitats e distribuio geogrfica.
10.2307/4110609|Six new species are described and two new combinations are made in Psiadia which were found necessary during the preparation of the account of the Compositae-Astereae for the 'Flore des Mascareignes'. Notes are also provided for the seventeen other species of Psiadia and for the endemic genera Sarcanthemum and Rhamphogyne.
10.2307/4119436|A new species of Brachystelma Sims, B. swarupa Kishore & Goyder, from the States of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, South India is described and illustrated. The new species is allied to B. ciliatum Arekal & T. M. Ramakrishna and B. laevigatum Hook. f.
10.2307/4110972|Hemizygia stalmansii (Labiatae) is described and illustrated. Its relationships to H. transvaalensis (Schltr.) Codd and H. ramosa Codd are discussed. It appears to be endemic to the highly diverse Songimvelo Game Reserve and the neighbouring Malolotja Nature Reserve in Swaziland. An IUCN conservation rating of vulnerable (VU, D2) is given.
10.2307/4110298|The specimens and literature relating to the first validly published bamboo name, Arundo bambos L. are discussed. A previously overlooked specimen collected by Hermann in Sri Lanka, and used by Linnaeus for his Flora Zeylanica, is selected as the lectotype. This specimen is clearly the common thorny bamboo of India, which had conventionally been known as Bambusa arundinacea (Retz.) Willd., or more recently as Bambusa bambos (L.) Voss. Bambusa arundinacea was apparently described from a mixed collection, and it is lectotypified to maintain conventional application of the names of the components, Bambusa arundinacea and Bambusa vulgaris Schrad. ex Wendl. Bambusa bambos (L.) Voss takes priority over the taxonomic synonym Bambusa arundinacea (Retz.) Willd. and is the correct name to use, although Bambusa arundinacea remains the name representative of the type of the conserved genus Bambusa.
10.2307/4114731|Maniltoa basifoliola is described from New Guinea.
10.2307/4108131|Polygala dunnii sp. nov. is described from Coimbatore, India. P. carnosa Mukerjee is established as a synonym of P. pellucida Lace and P. glaucescens Wall, ex Royle as a synonym of P. furcata Royle.
10.2307/4110603|A new species of Coelogyne from the Solomon Islands and Bougainville is described here for the first time.
10.2307/4113736|A brief account of the Colombian species of Lepechinia is provided. This includes a key to the eight recognized species, maps of their distribution and descriptions of three new species L. ramosa J. R. I. Wood, L. velutinaJ. R. I. Wood and L. vulcanicola J. R. I. Wood.
10.2307/4109549|Aerva hainanensis How is transferred to the genus Psilotrichopsis on the basis of external and pollen morphology.
10.2307/4110951|Corona and stigma head characters used to recognise the South American genera Amblystigma, Fontellaea, Lugonia, Melinia, Mitostigma, Philibertia, Podandra, Steleostemma and Stelmatocodon are shown to be unreliable, arbitrarily separating closely allied species. It is proposed that Philibertia be redefined to accommodate the other genera. A synopsis of the genus, now comprising 40 Andean or temperate species, is presented together with a discussion of affinities, both within the genus and more widely. 25 new combinations are made in Philibertia, four new species and one variety are described from Bolivia, and four new names proposed. In addition, Melinia harleyi Fontella, which is excluded from the enlarged concept of Philibertia, is transferred to Hemipogon, and M. urbaniana K. Schum. is transferred to Oxypetalum as O. melinioides. All names in Philibertia are accounted for, and an index to exsiccatae presented.
10.2307/4107998|Seven new African species are described: Digitaria arushae, D. asthenes, D. calcarata, D. gymnotheca, D. monopholis, D. rukwae and D. sacculata. Four new combinations are made for African species: D. major (Van der Veken) Clayton, D. monobotrys (Van der Veken) Clayton, D. redheadii (C. E. Hubbard) Clayton and D. remotigluma (de Winter) Clayton. The genus Digitariella de Winter is sunk in Digitaria and the genus Digitariopsis C. E. Hubbard reviewed but considered to be part of Digitaria; a key to the related species is presented. Amendments to the account in the 'Flora of West Tropical Africa' are given for the following species: Digitaria acuminatissima Stapf, D. argillacea (Hitchc. & Chase) Fernald, D. atrofusca (Hack.) A. Camus, D. horizontalis Willd. and D. setifolia Stapf.
10.2307/4110274|C. mudugensis, a new species from the Mudug area of Somalia is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110797|The pollen morphology of the type specimen of Voanioala gerardii, a new Madagascar palm genus, is described. The morphology is discussed and comparisons made with the pollen of other species within the family. Particular attention is given to pollen morphology of species within the subtribe Butiinae, of other species of palms occurring in Madagascar and of species from other tribes within the subfamily Arecoideae.
10.2307/4109972|Four new species of Baphia are described from the part of Africa around the Gulf of Guinea.
10.2307/4113640|A new genus, Catolesia (Compositae: Eupatorieae: Gyptidinae), is described from the State of Bahia, Brazil. It is represented by a single species, Catolesia mentions, a distinctive poorly-branched shrub from the campos rupestres. The position of Catolesia is discussed in relation to other genera in the subtribe in Bahia.
10.2307/4119412|Scytinostroma albo-cinctum (Berk. & Br.) comb. nov. and S. phaeosarcum sp. nov., tropical species with brown context, previously not distinguished, are here separated.
23044992|Anthurium morii, A. raimundii, A. talmonii and A. zappiae are proposed as new species from the state of Bahia in north-eastern Brazil. A. raimundii occurs in the restinga vegetation of the Bahian Atlantic Forest region, while the other three species are from the seasonally dry campo rupestre vegetation of the interior of the state. Descriptions, illustrations and IUCN conservation ratings are provided for each species.
10.2307/4117952|Pouzolzia conulifera, described from Cameroon, is shown to be conspecific with the Neotropical Phenax sonneratii, which has the earlier name. The nomenclature and distribution of the combined taxon is discussed.
10.2307/4118854|Eleven genera from eight families are considered. One new species is described under Habenaria Willd. (Orchidaceae), and three new combinations (one under Chamaecrista Moench (Leguminosae - Caesalpinioideae) and two under Psydrax Gaertn. (Rubiaceae)) are proposed. 14 names (10 of species, four of varieties) are sunk under the following genera: Crotalaria L. (Leguminosae-Papilionoideae), Heracleum L. (Umbelliferae), Lasianthus Jack (Rubiaceae), Vernonia Schreber (Compositae), Strobilanthes Blume (Acanthaceae), Plectranthus L'Herit. (Labiatae) and Luisia Gaudich. (Orchidaceae). Two cases of nomenclatural obscurity (Strobilanthes Blume (Acanthaceae) and Persicaria (L.) Miller (Polygonaceae)) are clarified.
10.2307/4110156|A specimen collected by Gossweiler in Angola has proved impossible to match with any species already described. Furthermore it cannot be accommodated in any known genus. It is therefore described here as a new genus and species Gossweilerochloa delicatula.
10.2307/4103081|Haplophyllum rubro-tinctum sp. nov. is described from northern Iran, and several nomenclatural changes or reductions to synonymy are made. Three more records are given for the recently described H. laeviusculum C. C. Townsend, and H. popovii Korovin is recorded for the first time from Afghanistan.
20443319|A new species of Lagopsis, L. darwiniana Pjak, is described and illustrated. It was collected from dry stream beds and stony slopes in the Jargalant Hayrhan ridge (Altai Mountains), Western Mongolia.
10.2307/4110416|The hair and spore characters of Forster's Pteris humilis type material (Green's lectotype in GOET and the isolectotype in BM) indicate that these specimens are not conspecific with Cheilanthes sieberi Kunze as suggested by Green (1988); rather the material is referrable to Cheilanthes tenuifolia (Burm. f.) Sw.
27822013|The genus Orthophytum Beer comprises 53 species, all narrow endemics to south-eastern and north-eastern Brazil. In this study we present meiotic and mitotic chromosome numbers of 12 species of this important genus in Bromeliaceae. For six of these taxa we are reporting the first cytogenetic study. Orthophytum albopictum, O. amoenum and O. burle-marxii presented 2n = 100 chromosomes and O. hatschbachii, O. mucugense, O. vagans, O. supthutii, O. zanonii and O. ophiuroides showed 2n = 50 chromosomes. These results are consistent with the proposed basic number of x = 25 for Bromeliaceae family. In the genus Orthophytum, polyploidy seems to play an important role in chromosome evolution associated with habitat differentiation among diploid and polyploid species.
10.2307/4111033| Two new species of Cynometra from Mayotte in the Comoro Archipelago: Cynometra mayottensis Labat & O. Pascal and C. floretii Labat &: O. Pascal, are described and illustrated. /// Deux nouvelles espces de Cynometra de Mayotte dans l'Archipel des Comores : Cynometra mayottensis Labat & O. Pascal et C. floretii Labat & O. Pascal, sont dcrites et illustres. 
10.2307/4110996|A new species of Rhaptopetalum, R. geophylax, is described from western Cameroon. It is vegetatively similar to R. depressum Letouzey, but differs in several floral characters.
20649630|Previous circumscriptions of Olinia rochetiana A. Juss. (Oliniaceae) presented a taxonomically variable and widespread species complex in central and tropical East Africa. Results of numerical phenetic analyses of morphological variation within O. rochetiana sensu lato indicate the existence of four taxa which are recognisable at specific rank corresponding to O. huillensis Welw. ex A. & R. Fern., O. ruandensis Gilg, O. rochetiana A. Juss. sensu stricto and O. usambarensis Gilg ex Engl. The analyses also indicate that O. huillensis, hitherto reported to occur only in Angola, occurs widely in southern Africa and shows geographic segregates characterised as O. huillensis Welw. subsp. huillensis, O. huillensis subsp. burttdavii Sebola and O. huillensis subsp. discolor Sebola (Map 2). The major delimiting characters were found to be the shapes of petals and leaves, presence or absence of indumentum and the degree of hairiness on floral parts, and the form of inflorescence units (i.e. being either compact or spreading). Phenetic and ecological concepts of species are applied at the specific and subspecific ranks, respectively. Keys to distinguish between the species and infraspecific taxa are presented, and full descriptions and citations of examined specimens are provided.
10.2307/4129964|Dendrobium assamicum, a new species of Orchidaceae from the Nowgong district of Assam, India is described.
10.2307/4117774|Marcetia eimeariana, a new species from Bahia, Brazil, is described.
10.2307/4115827| Meriania sanchezii and Miconia picingubensis, two new melastome species from So Paulo, Brazil, are described and illustrated. Both occur in the forests on the slopes of Serra do Mar/Serra da Bocaina, in the eastern part of the state, near the Rio de Janeiro border. 
10.2307/4110584| A new species of Stephanopodium, S. gentryi, is described from the lowland Choc region of Colombia. 
4111062|Platymiscium is included in the pantropical Pterocarpus clade of tribe Dalbergieae along with other woody genera with yellow petals. At the generic level, Platymisdum is unique within the Leguminosae by the presence of opposite leaves and interpetiolar stipules. Platymisdum is endemic to the Neotropics from Mexico through Central America to southern Brazil and Bolivia, occupying dry and wet forest habitats. The results of preliminary phylogenetic analyses support the hypothesis that Platymisdum arose in South America and radiated into Central America. Several species are highly valued for their wood by the timber industry throughout the Neotropics. The comparative morphology of Platymiscium species is investigated, reviewed and presented. Platymiscium comprises 19 species (29 taxa) of forest trees. Four species complexes consist of taxa widespread throughout South America, and 15 species are narrowly restricted endemics. All species are described and their distribution, phenology, habitat, vernacular names, uses, and conservation status discussed. One species, P. calyptratum M. Sousa & Klitg., is described as new. All 29 taxa are mapped, and 13 species (23 taxa) are illustrated. Keys are provided to all species and infraspecific taxa, and the treatment includes a full list of numbered exsiccatae. This forms part of the author's ongoing studies in the Pterocarpus clade.
23044678|Five Chinese species of Epimedium (Berberidaceae), E. simplicifolium T. S. Ying, E. baojingensis Q. L. Chen & B. M. Yang, E. zhushanense K. F. Wu & S. X. Qian, E. glandulosopilosum H. R. Liang and E. elachyphyllum Stearn are the only species of the genus previously described with unifoliolate leaves. Here, the authors review these five species based on extensive examination of specimens in herbaria and careful observation in the field and garden. E. simplicifolium is treated as a synonym of E. acuminatum Franch., and with the exception of E. elachyphyllum, the taxa are found to have predominantly trifoliolate and only occasionally unifoliolate leaves. Neotypes for E. zhushanense and E. glandulosopilosum are designated. In addition, we describe some characters of E. baojingensis, E. zhushanense, E. glandulosopilosum and E. elachyphyllum.
20443366|A synopsis of grasses published in 1823 by Giuseppe Raddi in his Agrostografia brasiliensis is presented. The correct identification, critical comments and geographical data for each taxon are provided. A website for consulting the types of the Raddi's taxa is indicated.
20443376|The grass species played an important role in the daily life and economy of ancient Egypt. Cereals: wheat and barley have been cultivated since time immemorial, the earliest finds date back to 7300-6000 BP. They were used in ancient Egypt for making bread and for brewing. Reeds: Phragmites australis, Arundo donax and Saccharum spontaneum were used for making baskets, mats, nets, pens and arrows, and as building material. The rhizomes of Phragmites were used in popular medicine and the panicle as a Hieroglyphic sign that appears on old monuments. Reeds were also used in ancient architecture as a motif for columns. Halfa grasses (Desmostachya bipinnata and Imperata cylindrica) were used for making sandals, brooms, ropes, bags, brushes, necklaces and other objects. Among the weeds identified from plant remains excavated from ancient sites are: Echinochloa colona, Brachiaria sp., Digitaria sp., Setaria sp., Urochloa sp. and other Paniceae species. The desert grass Panicum turgidum has also been identified among the plant remains. A list of grasses known from ancient Egypt is provided.
10.2307/4109968|Revised, descriptive accounts for thirteen species belonging to the orders Agaricales, Aphyllophorales, Boletales, Cantharellales and Russulales are provided. Arcangeliella dolichocaulis, Lactarius chromospermus, Marasmius parviconicus and Paxillus fasciculatus are described as new.
23044997|Zeuxine strateumatica (L.) Schltr. is recorded for the first time in South America, in So Paulo State (Brazil), the southernmost record for the species. It also occurs in Asia, northern Oceania, North America and the Caribbean. A historical record of the geographical expansion of Z. strateumatica is outlined with emphasis on the New World.
10.2307/4115854|Myosotis cameroonensis Cheek & R. Becker (Boraginaceae) is described from Cameroon. Its conservation status and taxonomic affinities are assessed and an updated key to the Tropical African species of the genus is presented.
10.2307/4109551|A synopsis is given of the genus Chazaliella Petit & Verdc. (Rubiaceae-Psychotrieae) with a key for identification of the species and a brief enumeration of their synonymy and geographical distribution. Four new species and 8 infraspecific taxa are described.
10.2307/4110828|Material of the genus Coprosma from the Mt Jaya area of New Guinea has been investigated. Characters important for species delimitation are discussed. The identity of C. wollastonii, a species restricted to montane forests on MtJaya, is also examined. Recent collections made from MtJaya match the type of C. wollastonii, but not the illustration and description of C. wollastonii given by van Royen. The collection illustrated in van Royen is referred to a subalpine species C. barbata, described here as new. In addition, C. elegans, a new species, is described from the montane forests of Mt Jaya. All three species discussed are endemic to Mt Jaya.
10.2307/4115818|37 species of myxomycetes are reported as new to the Azores; most are cosmopolitan, others are primarily temperate species which may be found on mountains in the tropics and subtropics, and a few, such as Dianema harveyi, Dictydiaethalium cinnabarinum and Physarum syncarpon are rare, with disjunct distributions.
10.2307/4118876|Two new species of Xyris are described from East Africa. They are Xyris ednae from Uganda and Xyris erosa from Tanzania. Xyris humpatensis var. rhodolepis is raised to specific rank as X. rhodolepis. The typification and status of X. anceps is discussed and two varieties distinguished. The typification and identification of X. welwitschii Rendle is examined. This name has been widely misinterpreted. It is here lectotypified, and a third new species, X. subtilis, described to accommodate Ugandan and Tanzanian material to which the name has been applied.
10.2307/4110265|Two new species of Eriocaulon are described from Ceylon, E. psammophilum and E. catopsioides, and a third is raised to specific from varietal level as E. fergusonii (Moldenke) Phillips. The relationships of these with some other Eriocaulon species are discussed, with especial reference to the morphology of the seed coat.
10.2307/4114364|The Blaeria spicata complex in Africa is reviewed and a new infra-specific classification proposed.
10.2307/4109702|Priority over Jasminum amplexicaule has been given to J. elongatum, a name long-misapplied to a species from China, Burma and India.
10.2307/4114627|Two new species of Lonchocarpus are described from Brazil. L. grandiflorus and L. bahianus occur in Rio de Janeiro and Bahia respectively.
10.2307/4111099|The spelling of Pithecellobium campylacanthus M. Sousa 8c L. Rico, now placed in the genus Havardia, is emended as Havardia campylacantha (L. Rico & M. Sousa) Barneby & Grimes.
20649651|Two new species of Microlicia (Melastomataceae), M. flavovirens and M. contasensis, from the Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brazil are described and illustrated and their diagnostic characters discussed. Conservation assessments based on IUCN criteria are given for both species. /// Duas novas espcies de Microlicia (Melastomataceae), M. flavovirens e M. contasensis, da Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brasil, so descritas e ilustradas e os seus caracteres diagnsticos so discutidos. Foi estimado o estado de conservao das mesmas conforme os critrios da IUCN.
10.2307/4114721|Two new species of Laboulbenia occurring on Asian ground-beetles are described: L. sinica, parasitic on Stevensius gregoryi Jeann. from China, and Laboulbenia taurica, parasitic on Anillidius tauricus (Jeann.) from Asia Minor.
10.2307/4117847|A synopsis with a key of the seven species in Indigofera section Psiloceratiae (J. B. Gillett) Schrire from the Flora Zambesiaca region is presented, prior to a treatment of the genus for the Flora. A diagnosis of Section Psiloceratiae, as delimited in Africa, is given, and one new species, I. rumphiensis Schrire, is described.
20649688|Eight names in five genera Delphinium (Ranunculaceae), Lindernia and Mimulicalyx (Scrophulariaceae), Sorbus and Spiraea (Rosaceae) from China were not validly published because two gatherings were simultaneously designated as types in the protologues, or were simultaneously cited, without indicating the type in the protologues. These eight names are validated here, with one specimen designated as the holotype.
10.2307/4110856|Phloeospora lentis and Septona lentis from living leaves of I.ens culinaris are described, illustrated and compared with species described from members of Leguminosae.
10.2307/4119315| Three new combinations in the genus Bulbostylis are required which are made here: Bulbostylis edwalliana (Boeck.) Prata & M. G. Lpez, Bulbostylis lagoensis (Boeck.) Prata & M. G. Lpez, and Bulbostylis loefgrenii (Boeck.) Prata & M. G. Lpez. These have arisen during preparation of the account of Bulbostylis for the Flora Fanerogmica do Estado de So Paulo. /// Trs novas combinaes no gnero Bulbostylis foram propostas durante a elaborao da monografia do gnero Bulbostylis para a Flora Fanerogmica do Estado de So Paulo: Bulbostylis edwalliana (Boeck.) Prata & M. G. Lpez, Bulbostylis lagoensis (Boeck.) Prata & M. G. Lpez, e Bulbostylis loefgrenii (Boeck.) Prata & M. G. Lpez. 
10.2307/4119782|Skepperiella cochlearis (Tricholomataceae, tribe Collybieae) from Uganda is described as new, and the new combination, Skepperiella merulioides (Heim) Pegler is proposed. The genus Skepperiella is redefined, and the relationships with Rimbachia and Rhodoarrhenia are discussed.
10.2307/4109605|Problems with classifications that attempt to serve multiple purposes and which are formed by methodologies which conflict with evolutionary thought are discussed. Multiple- or general-purpose classifications are inherently unsuitable for dealing with particular problems since such classifications are optimal for no one problem and the goals of the user will conflict with the constraints of the classification. The value of having a classification that attempts to be congruent with our best estimate of phylogeny is stressed.
10.2307/4117016|Impatiens appendiculata Arn. and its allies from Ceylon are discussed. Two new species are described, I. ciliifolia Grey-Wilson and I. thwaitesii Hook. f. ex Grey-Wilson.
10.2307/4119729|Chionanthus amblirrhinus sp. nov. is described from Thailand and C. decipiens sp. nov. from Burma and Thailand. The following new combinations are made: C. eriorachis (from Thailand), C. malaelengi subsp. linocieroides (from S India) and subsp. terniflorus (from NE India, Burma, Thailand and Indo-China), C. microbotrys (from Thailand), C. microstigma (from Thailand and Indo-China), C. sutepensis (from Thailand), C. thorelii (from Thailand and Indo-China) and C. velutina (from Thailand).
10.2307/4110063| Two species of frankincense trees are recognized in N Somalia and S Arabia: Boswellia sacra Flckiger in South Yemen (Hadhramaut), Oman (Dhofar) and northern Somalia, and B. frereana Birdwood in northern Somalia. Descriptions, synonymy and distribution maps are provided for both species, and several names are lectotypified. The seedlings of the two species are briefly described and the hypocotyledonary nature of the characteristic swelling at the base of the trunk (particularly of B. frereana) is pointed out. The somatic chromosome number 2n=22 is reported for both B. sacra and B. frereana. 
20649608|Geissois sensu stricto (i.e. excluding the Australian species of this genus) has 19 species restricted to islands in the south-west Pacific and is the sole group in Cunoniaceae in which the stipules are intrapetiolar (axillary) in the adult foliage. In apical buds, paired opposite stipules are coherent round their margins and are either clearly intrapetiolar in relation to the most distal pair of developed leaves (Type I, most species), or they appear interpetiolar due to the abortion of the pair of leaves associated with them and the failure of the internode proximal to them to elongate (Type II, a few species). Stipules are often accrescent and the largest in the family occur in this group, reaching 10 cm long in some species. The ornithophilous racemose inflorescences of members of this group normally consist of either axillary triads (G. hirsuta only) or apparently simple, unbranched racemes which are ramiflorous or occasionally axillary. However, bract scars on the axes proximal to the flowers show that both types of inflorescence module usually consist of two metamers. The structure of the inflorescences and stipules in Geissois sensu stricto supports the distinction between this group and the Australian species traditionally included in Geissois sensu lato.
10.2307/4102905|The author has compiled a list of fungi known from the Outer Hebrides, based on his own collections, supplemented by published lists of species from South Uist and St. Kilda.
23216746|Examination of herbarium specimens and field studies showed that an unnamed taxon collected from Malmesbury, Western Cape for phylogenetic studies in the Campanulaceae, is a distinct species within the monotypic genus Treichelia. This species previously described as Wahlenbergia depressa Wolley-Dod is resurrected as Treichelia dodii to replace a later homonym. The differences between Treichelia longibracteata (H. Buek) Vatke and W. depressa are explained. A key to the species and a distribution map are provided.
10.2307/4110015|Ptycholobium and Requienia are maintained as distinct genera while Caulocarpus and Lupinophyllum are sunk into Tephrosia. Tephrosia is divided into two subgenera (one, Barbistyla, new) based on style pubescence. A new species name in Tephrosia is published, a new subspecies of Ptycholobium is described from Arabia, and one species of Tephrosia is sunk into synonymy of another.
10.2307/4110181|The genus Kirkia Oliv. (Simaroubaceae) is revised, 5 species being recognized, including a new species K. burgeri Stannard.
20443240|Pavonia blepharicarpa N. A. Brummitt & Vollesen (Malvaceae) is described as a new species from southwest Ethiopia, northeast Uganda and northern and eastern Kenya. The species is illustrated and compared with P. ellenbeckii Grke, P. serrata Franch., P. kotschyi Hochst. ex Webb and P. schweinfurthii Ulbr. A distribution map for the new species is given.
10.2307/4110577| A new species of giant Lobelia (L. morogoroensis Knox & Pcs) is described that grows at relatively low altitudes on cliffs and in dry semi-deciduous woodlands on mountains near Morogoro, Tanzania. The morphology and phenology reflect the plant's relatively xerophytic ecology. 
20649591|A new species of Eriocaulon, E. epedunculatum (Eriocaulaceae) is described and illustrated from the Western Ghats, India.
10.2307/4107992|The grass from the Coromandel coast of India long known incorrectly as Tragus biflorus Schultes (or Lappago bilflora Roxb.) is described as T. roxburghii sp. nov. The earlier names applied to this plant must be typified through Phalaris muricata Forssk. by a plant from the Sea of Marmora in Turkey.
10.2307/4114568|Jatropha dhofarica A. Radcliffe-Smith is described as new from Dhofar in southern Oman.
23044617|The broad aims of most botanic gardens are to promote the knowledge, conservation and use of plant biodiversity. The living collections of all but the most recently founded botanical gardens are the outcome of the work of generations of botanists. However, there has been little historical co-ordination between different gardens in assembling these collections. It is thus fascinating that these mostly artificial ecosystems follow two of the major biogeographical patterns observed in nature (a significant positive species-area and species-age relationship) when pooling data from all over the world. An open question is whether such patterns are confirmed when analysing the available data for the various landmasses. We found that the positive species-area and species-age relationships of the living collections of botanic gardens are confirmed when analysing data for (1) the Americas, (2) Africa and Europe, and (3) Asia and Australia. When controlling for spatial autocorrelation these groups of botanic gardens differ from the worldwide analysis in showing no significant positive latitudinal gradient in species richness. This result is still a discrepancy from the negative latitudinal gradient commonly observed in nature and confirms the necessity to better sustain botanic gardens in the tropics. Also when subdividing the analysis within continents, it is possible to describe a substantial amount of variation in the living collections of the world's botanic gardens with a relatively small number of broad-scale patterns. This study supports the view that there is a need for an increased co-ordination in the conservation activities of the various botanical gardens.
10.2307/4129962|The recently described saprophytic Bornean genus Muluorchis J. J. Wood has been found to be congeneric with Tropidia Lindl. Muluorchis ramosa J. J. Wood is reduced to a synonym of Tropidia saprophytica J. J. Sm. A key to Bornean Tropidia is provided. Saprophytism in the Orchidaceae is briefly discussed.
23044993|A new species of Baccharis L. sect. Caulopterae DC. (Compositae) of the high altitude grasslands of Southern Brazil is presented: Baccharis sphagnophila A. A. Schneid. & G. Heiden. The new species is described, illustrated and compared with similar species. Uma nova espcie de Baccharis L. sect. Caulopterae DC. (Compositae) dos campos de altitude do sul do Brasil  apresentada: Baccharis sphagnophila A. A. Schneid. & G. Heiden. A nova espcie  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com as espcies similares.
10.2307/4118723|Fourteen new taxa in Cleistocalyx and Syzygium are described: C. khaoyaiensis, C. phengklaii, S. boisianum subsp. longifolium, S. cacuminis subsp. inthanonense, S. campanulatum var. longistylum, S. craibii, S. grande var. parviflorum, S. gratum var. confertum, S. hemsleyanum subsp. paucinervium, S. ixoroides, S. kerrii, S. lakshnakarae, S. nitrasirirakii and S. praineanum subsp. minor. Four new names are proposed: S. aksornii, S. enervosum, S. maingayi and S. putii, and 35 new combinations established: C. operculatus var. paniala, S. anacardiifolium, S. angkae subsp. angkae and subsp. spissum, S. attenuatum subsp. attenuatum var. montanum and subsp. circumscissum, S. cacuminis, S. cinereum, S. claviflorum var. glandulosum and var. maingayi, S. dyerianum, S. filiforme, S. fuscescens, S. glaucum, S. globiflorum, S. helferi, S. hulletianum, S. jasminifolium, S. laetum subsp. jugorum and subsp. sublaetum, S. myrtillus var. borneense, S. oblatum var. laevicaule, S. pergamentaceum, S. pseudotetrapterum, S. refertum, S. ridleyi, S. rigens, S. samarangense var. parviflorum, S. scortechinii, S. siamense, S. subhorizontale, S. subrufum subsp. smalianum, S. tetrapterum, S. thumra subsp. punctifolium and S. variolosum.
20649612|A new species of Carapichea was discovered in the Atlantic Forest of Bahia, Brazil. Carapichea lucida J. G. Jardim & Zappi is described, illustrated, and its phenology, habitat and conservation status are discussed. /// Uma nova espcie de Carapichea foi descoberta na Floresta Atlntica da Bahia, Brasil. Carapichea lucida J. G. Jardim & Zappi  descrita e ilustrada, juntamente com comentrios a respeito de suas caractersticas morflogicas, fenologia, hbitat e estado de conservao.
10.2307/4114733|Generic limits within the tribe Eragrostideae are investigated with the aid of numerical analysis. A brief description and discussion are given for each genus. Brachychloa is described as a new genus. The following new names and combinations are proposed: Acrachne henrardiana, A. perrieri, Brachychloa fragilis, B. schiemanniana, Coelachyrum yemenicum, Cladoraphis cyperoides, C. spinosa, Eragrostis advena, E. conrathii, E. tincta and E. vatovae.
10.2307/4117692|Daemonorops mollispina J. Dransf. and D. poilanei J. Dransf., previously misidentified in Indochinese floras as D. longispatha var. mollispina and D. geniculata, are described as new.
10.2307/4111092|The genus Ajuga was previously known in Malesia from only a single species which is widespread at low elevations. A new subalpine species, Ajuga novoguineensis A. J. Paton & R.J.Johns (Lamiaceae), is described and illustrated here. This is the first record of the genus from high altitudes in Malesia. The new species is most closely related to A. ovalifolia Bureau & Franch. and its allies from China. A key to the Malesian species is provided.
10.2307/4110575|A cladistic analysis of the predominantly Brazilian genus Camarea is presented, using the computer program HENNIG86. An historical and geographical scenario of the genus is given.
10.2307/4117772|Two new species of Philodendron (P. flumineum and P. mayoi) are described from Central Brazil. Both taxa are illustrated and compared to their nearest relatives. Philodendron flumineum seems to be the only rheophytic species in the genus.
10.2307/4113884|Turraea leroyana, a new species from western Madagascar is described. Its seeds, unlike the smooth and glossy condition normal in Turraea, are verrucate and micro-papillate, like those of Naregamia, a segregate genus recognized largely on the basis of this character. The status of Naregamia is discussed. Turraea leroyana is also unusual in that it has bud scales-characteristic of the Swietenioideae-not previously recorded in the tribe Turraeeae (Melioideae).
20649637|Leandra altomacaensis (sect. Oxymeris), a new endemic species of Melastomataceae from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Diagnostic characteristics of the species are the leaves sparsely stellulate-lepidote, triplinerved, and calyx lobes small, with apex acute-apiculate. Leandra gracilis var. glazioviana is proposed as a synonym of this new species. ///  descrita e ilustrada Leandra altomacaensis (seo Oxymeris), uma nova espcie de Melastomataceae, endmica do estado do Rio de Janeiro e classificada como Criticamente em Perigo. As principais caractersticas diagnsticas so as folhas esparsamente estrelado-lepidotas, com trs nervuras acrdromas suprabasais, e os lobos do clice pequenos, com pice agudo-apiculado. Leandra gracilis var. glazioviana  proposta como um sinnimo dessa nova espcie.
10.2307/4110374|Iris 'Katharine Hodgkin' is an artificial hybrid within the subgenus Hermodactyloides Spach. The parentage was originally purported to be I. histrioides x I. danfordiae, but cytological and morphological studies of the hybrid and three allied species suggest that this is unlikely, and that the parentage is unquestionably I. histrioides and I. winogradowii. Evidence is presented to support this view and the features of another, more recently raised hybrid, I. 'Frank Elder', are compared.
10.2307/4119420|A brief outline is given of Persoon's life and role in the evolution of mycological taxonomy.
10.2307/4109805|An account is given of the Gynura species occurring in East Asia and the Himalayas, excluding the Flora Malesiana region. Nine species are recognized with synonymy for the area under study; 2 new combinations are made: G. divaricata subsp. barbareifolia andsubsp. formosana; and a new variety, G. calciphila var. dissecta is described. An index to epithets is provided.
23045006|Collections of three fungal species described from Germany by Alexander von Humboldt have been rediscovered in the mycological herbarium at Kew. These collections are considered lectotypes of Boletus patella, B. venosus, and Clavaria aurea and are assigned to Postia stiptica, Physisporinus vitreus, and Calocera viscosa respectively. Humboldt's Central & South American collections are also at Kew and a list of specimens is appended. Based on the rediscovered type collection, Favolus humboldtii is considered a synonym of Polyporus tenuiculus.
10.2307/4109664|The morphology and anatomy of plants of the genus Angiopteris are discussed, with reference to descriptions and illustrations of two species in cultivation at Kew, and to the problem of finding characters by which species in this genus may be distinguished from each other. A new species from New Guinea, A. canaliculata, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4114461|A key to and synopsis of all continental African species of Fernandoa is presented. Fernandoa abbreviata, a species from rocky hills and dry medium altitude forest in Tanzania and Malawi is described, and F. magnifica var. lutea is elevated to species rank.
10.2307/4118788|Variation in the disjunct Indochinese rattan palm, Calamus bousignii Becc. is discussed. Two subspecies are recognised, subsp. bousigonii from extreme south-east Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam and subsp. smitinandii J. Dransf., described as new, from Peninsular Thailand.
10.2307/4110993|We describe and illustrate a new species of Nicotiana from southern Brazil. This species, Nicotiana mutabilis, is distinguished by a floral colour change from white to pink or magenta. It is morphologically similar to N. forgetiana but the flowers of the latter do not undergo a major colour change and the floral limb is more deeply lobed. This colour change pattern is unique in the section Alatae (subgen. Petunioides).
10.2307/4109836|The differences between Bursera and Commiphora are reappraised. Although previous distinctions are invalid or insufficient, new criteria justify the continued recognition of these genera if the Brazilian B. leptophloeos is transferred to Commiphora. The circumscription of Bursera is emended and its division into two subgenera by Triana & Planchon vindicated. A law of the monstrous durability of error in botanical publications is stated.
10.2307/4114508|A synopsis of the Madagascan genus Amyrea Leandri is presented, and the following new taxa are described: A. celastroides, A. eudeoides, A. gracillima, A. grandifolia, A. lancifolia, A. maprouneifolia, A. myrtifolia, A. remotiflora and A. stenocarpa.
10.2307/4109616|Two species of Cardiocrinum were found to contain 2n = 24 chromosomes. A Robertsonian fusion heterozygote of C. giganteum was also monosomic for a chromosome not associated with the fusion, giving 2n = 22. The relationship between Cardiocrinum and Lilium and their possible level of ploidy are discussed.
10.2307/4119393|Some anomalies in the classification of European Octospora are discussed and a new variety, O. axillaris var. dennisii, proposed.
10.2307/4110593|Siphonochilus parvus Lock (Siphonochilus sp. D of Flora of Tropical East Africa -Zingiberaceae) is described.
23489042|Calophyllum pascalianum, a medium sized tree occuring along the riverbanks in the southern Western Ghats of India, is described and illustrated. The species is different from the other allied species by its linear-oblong to linear-lanceolate leaves that are c. 7 times longer than broad. The population of the species in the type locality is threatened by the presence of a dam in the upstream.
20443368|Phylogenetic analysis of variation in 18 morphological characters and structural and nucleotide sequence variation in three plastid-encoded genes provides a well-supported hypothesis of relationships within Poaceae supertribe Poodae. This supertribe includes tribes Poeae, Aveneae and Hainardieae, and other small tribes. Of the circa 135 genera that are assigned to this group, 57 were sampled, representing all major groups and most of the minor groups that have been recognised as tribes or subtribes. Historical and modern classifications of Poodae are reviewed and examined with respect to relationships detected by the phylogenetic analyses. Two major plastid DNA lineages are detected, corresponding in general to groups traditionally recognised as Aveneae and Poeae, but about one fifth of the genera are placed in positions that conflict with traditional classifications. When comparing trees obtained from the morphological character set with those obtained from simultaneous analysis of the morphological and molecular character sets, the character distributions on the trees reveal substantial differences between homoplasy levels for several morphological characters. These results suggest the possibility of wide hybrid origins for some groups, especially the subtribe Airinae. A revised classification is provided for Povdae, with all previously recognised tribes subsumed within a broadly circumscribed Poeae sensu lato, in which accepted genera are accommodated in 21 subtribes. Aveneae and smaller groups that have been recognised previously as tribes, including Hainardieae, Phalarideae, Phleeae and Seslerieae, are reduced to subtribes. Monophyly of many of the subtribes has at least some molecular support, but other subtribes need further study, particularly involving nuclear genes, to better determine their relationships and to investigate possible hybrid origins.
10.2307/4118044|Withania sphaerocarpa Hepper & Boulos is described from specimens collected in dry country of eastern Ethopia and Somalia with var. grisea in northern Somalia.
10.2307/4117827|Two new monocotyledon families Anemarrhenaceae and Behniaceae are described for the monotypic but somewhat isolated genera Anemarrhena and Behnia. The differences from previous morphology-based associations near Anthericaceae and Luzuriagaceae respectively are considered, and their current relationships based in part on molecular sequence data are discussed. Both families are considered to be part of a 'higher' asparagoid clade leading to Asparagaceae and Convalliariaceae, but with no obvious close morphological affinities to other families in the clade.
10.2307/4119409|The genera Melioliphila (with 5 comb. nov.), Paranectriella gen. nov. (5 comb. nov.), Puttemansia (7 comb. nov.), Podonectria (1 comb. nov.), Schweinitziella (1 comb. nov.), Rizalia (1 comb. nov.) and others, are discussed and their taxonomic positions critically reviewed.
10.2307/4108605|Four new species and two new subspecies are described, a new combination made and a new name proposed, in subgenera Eremophyton & Chamaesyce of Euphorbia from E & NE Africa. Several previously described taxa are reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/4120637|Cyphostemma uwanda Verdc, is described as a new species from the plains west of Ngorongoro, Tanzania.
10.2307/4110237|A new and interesting species of Genipa L., G. infundibuliformis Zappi & Semir is described from southeastern Brazil, and differs from the widespread neotropical G. americana L. by its infundibular flowers, toothed calyx-lobes and chromosome number.
10.2307/4119367|During a recent revision of the genus Ctenium Panz., a new species from Zambia, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo was found. It is described and illustrated here as Ctenium longiglume.
10.2307/4118997|Several characters, among others the structure of the seeds, show that Ochthocharis Blume in Asia and Phaeoneuron Gilg in Africa are so closely related that they are here regarded as congeneric. The odd distribution of the genus is briefly discussed. Five species are recognized in Asia, two in Africa: O. dicellandroides (Gilg) C. Hansen & Wickens comb. nov. and O. setosa (J. D. Hook.) C. Hansen & Wickens comb. nov. The illustrations include flower dissections, SEM pictures of seeds and distribution maps for all the species.
10.2307/4110433|Two new species, Endostemon tomentosus Harley & Sebsebe and E. glandulosus Harley & Sebsebe, are described and illustrated from Somalia and southern Ethiopia.
10.2307/4107858|G. trinervosa and G. chrestoides are described from Brazil (Bahia).
20443272|Goniodiscus elaeospermus Kuhlm. is lectotypified. New synonyms are given for Maytenus brasiliensis Mart. and M. comunis Reiss.
10.2307/4107748|Cephalocroton is reported as new to West Africa. In Croton, a reduction to synonymy is made and new records are reported for Kenya and Somalia. In Cyathogyne, a new record is also reported for Somalia. In Drypetes a new variety is described from Kenya. In Erythrococca, a new record is reported for Mozambique, and a new species is described from Somalia. In Jatropha a new varietal combination is made, a new record is reported for, and a new species described from, Somalia. In Mallotus, a forma is upgraded to the varietal level, and is recorded as new for Mozambique. In Margaritaria a new forma is described. In Neoholstia a new varietal combination is made. In Neopalissya, two new subspecies are described, one for Zimbabwe and one for Tanzania, the latter constituting a new record of the genus for Tanzania. In Phyllanthus, two new records are reported for Mozambique, and one for Kenya. In Ricinus, further information is reported concerning the alleged quellgebiet of this taxonomically rather isolated monotype. In Sapium a new variety is described from Angola and a remarkable brace of colligenda from Tanzania are tentatively attributed to it. In Sibangea, a description is amplified. In Tragia, a lectotype is chosen for a Linnean species. These have all come to light during routine naming of African Euphorbiaceae and the consequent updating of the account of the family for the Flora of Tropical East Africa.
10.2307/4110000|The name Laurentia Adanson is rejected and replaced by Solenopsis C. Presl; the aggregate Solenopsis minuta (L.) Presl is typified, and subdivided into four subspecies.
10.2307/4107758|Notes on members of the family Zingiberaceae in the area of the Flora of Tropical East Africa are given. Three new species of Aframomum are described, A. orientale from coastal Tanzania, A. verrucosum from lakeside forests in Uganda and Tanzania, and A. albiflorum from Malawi. Two new combinations are made in Siphonochilus, and notes are given on four species of Costus.
10.2307/4117581|A taxonomic account is presented covering all known African species of the genus Cyathea sensu Holttum 1963, with a key to species and varieties. Four groups of species are recognized, and are discussed with reference to those species of the West Indies, Madagascar and Ceylon which are considered to be related to each group. Within the species C. camerooniana Hook. seven varieties are tentatively recognized, four based on the types of existing names, three on new types. A new variety of C. humilis Hieron. is described. The new name C. fadenii is proposed for Alsophila schliebenii Reimers (not Cyathea schliebenii Reimers).
10.2307/4109584|Since Fenzlia Endl. (1834) is a later homonym of Fenzlia Benth. (1833), the four species described in the former genus are transferred to Myrtella section Fenzlia. Myrtella cordata is described from Australia (Northern Territory).
10.2307/4117966|In this revision of Ceratolobus (Palmae: Lepidocaryeae) 6 species are recognized, one of which, C. pseudoconcolor, is described for the first time. Synonyms are indicated and areas of confusion with other genera clarified. An account of general morphology and natural history notes are provided.
10.2307/4102870|An account is given of spore form and structure in the genera Clitopilus, Rhodocybe and Rhodotus (Agaricales) together with an atlas of transmission and scanning electron micrographs. A revised classification of the British species is presented.
10.2307/4108594|An account of the species of Elaeocarpus from Australia (with Lord Howe Island) and New Zealand is offered, integrated as far as possible with previous findings from Papuasia. Four new species are proposed: E. linsmithii Guymer, and E. carolinae, E. elliffii & E. thelmae Hyland & Coode. One further new species known only in fruit is indicated, and some new informal groups. E. drymophilus Domin & E. grandis F. Muell. are reduced to synonymy under E. angustifolius Bl.; E. michaelii C. T. White reduced to E. culminicola Warb. Seeds are discussed, as is the occurrence of seed-types not so far noted elsewhere in the genus.
10.2307/4119423|Recognition of a new species of Hyaloscypha makes it necessary to emend the genus and divide it into two sections: Hyaloscypha, with the classic definition of the genus, and Phialina, for the species having 'textura oblita'.
27822020|A new species, Gagea calcicola (Liliaceae) is described and illustrated. It differs from G. reticulata (Pall.) Schult. & Schult. f. through having a compound umbelliform inflorescence and bulbils in the axil of the lower cauline leaves. The new species is endemic to southwestern Iran. Its ecology, distribution and conservation status are discussed.
10.2307/4113889|Pleuropterantha thulinii sp. nov. is described from Southern Somalia.
10.2307/4110467|The type collection of Eriocaulon stenophyllum R. E. Fr. is found to consist of three different species. One is selected here as the lectotype. E. alaeum Kimpouni is reduced to synonymy. The main characteristics of the species are briefly outlined.
10.2307/4110965|Two new species of Elaeocarpus, E. crassus Coode & E. timikensis Coode, both probably of the Debruynii subgroup of the Monocera group, and a new subspecies of E. miegei Weibel are described, and the description of E. neobritannicus Coode amplified.
23489194|A new species, Polygala judithea (Polygalaceae) subgenus Polygala series Ericoideae, is described from Chapada dos Veadeiros, Gois, Brazil. The infrageneric placement and its conservation status are assessed and its habitat and phenology are discussed. The new species is compared with its morphologically allied species, P. obovata and P. multiceps. Illustrations, photographs and a distribution map are also provided.
10.2307/4117876|Brief accounts are given of the life of G. A. Schweinfurth and his three journeys in the Sudan together with detailed itineraries of the second and third journeys.
10.2307/4117846|Aloe ankoberensis, A. gilbertii subsp. megalacanthoides, A. kefaensis, A. megalacantha subsp. alticola, A. pulcherrima, A. tewoldei and A. trichosantha subsp. longiflora are described as new. A. percrassa is redefined and A. debrana resurrected as a distinct species. A. elegans and A. trichosantha are lectotypified.
23216201|A new species Plantago pyrophila Villarroel & J. R. I. Wood is described from the Serranias de Santiago de Chiquitos in the cerrados of eastern Bolivia. It is clearly adapted to survival in the cerrado environment where grassland fires are a frequent event. The new species is remarkable for being geographically isolated from other species of the genus, being the only species of Plantago known from the cerrado biome.
10.2307/4109933|Two little-known and one new species of Rhynchospora Vahl sect. Pseudocapitatae C.B. Cl. from northeastern Brazil are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115685|A species of Tricliceras, T. xylorhizum is described as new from Kenya.
10.2307/4114660|A new species of Vigna belonging to subgenus Haydonia is described.
10.2307/4119357|The occurrence of the two-lipped calyx, used by Nees and Bremekamp as a defining character for the seven segregate genera, Adenacanthus, Buteraea, Larsenia, Parachampionella, Perilepta, Triaenacanthus and Tetragompha, is traced through the genus Strobilanthes. It is shown to occur almost randomly, with little correlation with inflorescence or pollen characters and to intergrade with the common subequally five-lobed calyx. No justification can be found in this character for the creation of separate genera. Individual species with this character are reassessed. Broad concepts are proposed for Strobilanthes rufescens with the recognition of three subspecies, and for S. auriculata with the commonly cultivated Persian Shield accepted as var. dyeriana. The widely used but misapplied name for the Assam Indigo plant, Strobilanthes flaccidifolia, is shown to be based on a specimen that correctly belongs to S, denticulata. Pollen is shown to be of crucial importance in species delimitation, allowing separation of Strobilanthes tashiroi and S. mogokensis from morphologically similar species. Seven new species, Strobilanthes adpressa, S. bipartita, S. decipiens, S. heliophila, S. maxwellii, S. perplexa and S. tripartita are described and new combinations for S. decumbens and S. korthalsii are made.
20443266|A new species of Rafflesia, R. baletei, from Mt Isarog in the Bicol Region, Southern Luzon, Philippines, is described. Rafflesia baletei is the fifth endemic species and the second of the small-sized species of the genus in the Philippines to have been described so far. It differs from the presumably closely related R. tengku-adlinii from Borneo in flower colour and size, perigone ornamentations, and number of anthers. Furthermore, it differs from the similarly-sized R. manillana from the Philippines in diaphragm and ramenta morphology and ornamentations, and flower habit.
10.2307/4115867|Four species of Ctenium are recorded for Bolivia. A key for identification of the species in Bolivia as well as descriptions and illustrations are provided.
10.2307/4120638|A new name, Drimia wightii, is proposed for Drimia congesta (Wight) Stearn which is shown to be a later homonym.
10.2307/4111135|Four new combinations in Pulicaria are proposed for infraspecific taxa of P. undulata. The history of this problematic species is discussed and a full synonymy is provided.
10.2307/4108543|The genus Metaporana, only shown to be a native of Madagascar as late as 1969, is actually represented on the island by three species, two of which are described as new; one is quite common and has four varieties.
20649661|Linaria khalkhalensis Hamdi & Assadi is described as a new species from Azerbaijan and Guilan provinces (northern Iran), belonging to Linaria sect. Linaria. It is close to Linaria lineolata Boiss. and L. elymaitica (Boiss.) Kuprian., which it resembles in habit and vegetative features. However, floral and seed characters together with a distinctive geographical distribution, warrant recognition at the species rank. An illustration of the new species, a distribution map, scanning electron micrographs of seed and capsule surfaces, and an identification key are also included.
10.2307/4109738|A new species, Pimpinella alismatifolia, is described; with its simple rather Alisma-like leaves it is distinct in the genus.
10.2307/4115871|Liparis alavensis, a new and very distinctive endemic species of Liparis, is described from Tutuila in the Samoan Archipelago.
23044633|Humans derive most of their well-being from plants, a self renewing natural resource. Yet human activities aimed at increasing well-being are threatening self renewal of some of these species. Some are directly threatened by over exploitation. Most become threatened as an unforeseen consequence of other activities principally agriculture, commerce, industrialisation and the manufacture and use of artificial fertilisers. The evidence suggests that the evolutionary need for reproductive success in humans has led our use of natural sources to be unsustainable throughout our species history. The need to acquire resource to achieve mate selection remains the same today as for our earliest relatives. Only the extent and rate of acquisition has changed in recent times and with it the environment and the diversity of plants that survive. Throughout our history, human ingenuity has often been required to rebalance the demand for plant derived benefits for well-being with their supply. Both technical and social ingenuity have been used to achieve the necessary outcome. The targets set within the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation reflect the need for both social and technical ingenuity if the loss of plant diversity is to be halted, with 10 of the 16 targets focussing on social change and only 4 requiring technical innovation. Yet, inspection of the literature shows little use is made of the evolutionary analysis of human behaviour (evolutionary psychology, human behavioural ecology and dual inheritance theory) in the design of projects seeking plant conservation. This paper attempts to begin to close this gap.
10.2307/4119316|Scirpus fluitans L. and S. setaceus L. are lectotypified.
10.2307/4111185|The combination Grewia cerasifera is considered and it is concluded that it has not been validly published. It is validated here.
10.2307/4109004|The following new combinations are needed in connexion with the account of the family Rubiaceae for the 'Flora of Tropical East Africa,' vol. 2. This will undoubtedly take many years to complete but since herbarium material has been annotated it seems advisable that any nomenclatural changes should be made known as soon as possible so that the names can be used.
10.2307/4110915|Ilex emmae D. M. Hicks (Aquifoliaceae) from Kebar Valley, in the northwest of the Indonesian province of Papua (formerly IrianJaya), New Guinea, is described as new and illustrated.
23489058|The genus Chlorophytum Ker-Gawl. exhibits a gamut of variation in its morphology and somatic chromosome counts which has made species delimitation in this taxon complex. The present investigation aims to confirm the previous reports on the somatic counts (2n) in this genus. The chromosome count and karyotype of C. breviscapum Dalzell is reported here for the first time. In addition, the paper attempts to present some diagnostic morphological characters which can be used to delimit taxa and to find correlation, if any, between these diagnostic characters and ploidy levels in this genus.
10.2307/4103037|Gibasis Rafin. (Commelinaceae-Tradescantieae) is a predominantly Mexican genus whose segregation from Tradescantia L. is justified by inflorescence characters. In this revision, 11 species (3 divided into subspecies) are recognized and one is regarded as insufficiently known. A new combination G. triflora (Martens & Galeotti) D. R. Hunt is proposed and this name used for specimens hitherto referred to G. aguensis (Standl. & Steyerm.) Rohw.; a new subspecies is proposed in G. karwinskyana (Schult.f.) Rohw., namely subsp. palmeri D. R. Hunt; G. heterophylla (Brandegee) Reveal & Hess is reduced to subspecific rank as G. venustula subsp. peninsulae D. R. Hunt, and G. rhodantha (Torrey) Reveal & Hess is reduced to subspecific rank as G. linearis subsp. rhodantha (Torrey) D. R. Hunt.
10.2307/4119723|The results of a study on the systematic position of Menabea venenata Baill. and Secamonopsis madagascariensis Jum. (Asclepiadaceae) are presented. Both represent monotypic genera commonly assigned to Asclepiadaceae subfam. Secamonoideae. Because of their atypical floral characters they had been presumed to represent phylogenetic links between Apocynaceae (or Periplocaceae) and Asclepiadaceae subfam. Secamonoideae and between Secamonoideae and the tribe Marsdenieae in subfam. Asclepiadoideae respectively. Floral morphology and anatomy of Menabea venenata and Secamonopsis madagascariensis are described with special reference to translator structure and development. The structure and ontogeny of the translator in Camptocarpus linearis Decne. (Periplocaceae) is described and compared with the primitive translator of Menabea. It is concluded that the translators of Periplocaceae and Secamonoideae are not homologous. The translator of Menabea merely shows a structural similarity to early developmental stages of the adhesive disc of the translator in Camptocarpus. Structurally comparable secretions, however, occur in the primitive adhesive plates of Apocynum cannabinum L., and therefore are regarded as plesiomorphic. The view of independent origin of the different types of translators is put forward. Secamonopsis madagascariensis Jum. appears to be closely allied to Secamone, the genus Menabea, however, is isolated within Secamonoideae as it combines a variety of plesiomorphic characters. The present study provides evidence that Menabea represents a sister group to the rest of the subfamily.
10.2307/4110113|Solanum aldabrense C. H. Wright is discussed and reduced to varietal rank under Solanum indicum L.
10.2307/4117950|A new combination is made in the genus Dilochia.
10.2307/4110636|Two species are described: Acacia johnwoodii Boulos and A. yemenensis Boulos, and 2 infraspecific taxa: A. yemenensis subsp. obtusifoliolata Boulos and A. oerfota var. brevifolia Boulos. A neotype is designated for A. pachyceras O. Schwartz. The combinations A. pachyceras var. najdensis (Chaudhary) Boulos and A. tortilis subsp. campoptila (Schweinf.) Boulos are made.
10.2307/4119411|A new ascomycetous genus, Leptokalpion, related to Thelebolus, is proposed with L. albicans sp. nov. as type species.
10.2307/4111126|This paper demonstrates that the number of asclepiad species is far higher than commonly thought. A summary count of Periplocoideae, Secamonoideae and Asclepiadoideae gives a total of 3,400 species in 231 genera. Of these, 480 species have been described within the last decade, and the inventory process is far from finished. The establishment of an Asclepiad World Flora is still a challenge for systematists and taxonomists.
10.2307/4103113|The six species of Microgonium occurring in south-east Asia and Malesia are described, illustrated and distinguished and their distributions reviewed. M. tahitense is reported for the first time from Malaya and Thailand and M. mindorense from Java and Borneo. In west Malaysia the latter is much commoner than M. bimarginatum, with which it has been confused hitherto and which is now known from Borneo only by one recent collection. Specimens of M. henzaianum (previously known by a single Burmese collection) from south Vietnam and southern Thailand suggest that it might occur in northern Malaya.
10.2307/4113642|Two species of Plectranthus, previously recognized informally by Agnew & Agnew (1994) are formally described here. P. agnewii Lukhoba & A. J. Paton from Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania, and P. xylopodus Lukhoba & A.J. Paton from S. Ethiopia, Uganda and Kenya are described and their relationships discussed. In addition, the identity of P. kivuensis (Lebrun &: Touss.) R. H. Willemse is clarified.
10.2307/4103127|A lowland rain forest plot in Sulawesi is compared with similarly documented plots in other parts of the tropics.
10.2307/4102953|A concept of the cyperoid spikelet as consisting of rhachilla, prophyll and flower-bearing glumes is illustrated by application to descriptions of two new species of Lipocarpha R.Br., one allied to L. nana (A. Rich.) J. Raynal and the other to L. microcephala (R.Br.) Kunth.
10.2307/4108263|The genus Baphia Lodd, of the tribe Sophoreae of Leguminosae subfamily Papilionoideae is revised throughout its range in Africa and Madagascar. The 45 species recognised are keyed out, described and mapped, with appropriate bibliography, notes on ecology and distribution, and a list of collection numbers. The generic and infrageneric classification is discussed, together with an analysis of the ecology and phytogeography.
10.2307/4118871|Forty four collections representing twenty six species of myxomycetes, obtained mainly from the Batu Apoi Forest Reserve in the Temburong District of Brunei Darussalam during March 1992, are reported. All but one of the species are new to Brunei. An introduction to the region and notes on the species are given.
23489136|Microlicia wurdackiana from the Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brazil is described, illustrated, and compared with presumed relatives, most of which are also restricted to the state of Bahia. It is distinguished by its short internodes, orbicular-elliptic leaf blades, indumentum of simple spreading trichomes and resinous-punctate glands, subsessile flowers, and polysporangiate anthers. A conservation assessment based on IUCN criteria is also provided. Microlicia wurdackiana da Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brasil  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com espcies supostamente aparentadas, a maioria das quais tambm restritas ao estado da Bahia. Pode ser distinguida por seus entrens curtos, laminas foliares orbicular-elpticas, indumento constitudo por tricomas simples espalhados e glndulas resinoso-pontuadas, flores subssseis e anteras polisporangiadas.
20649560|Due to an oversight, the name Philodendron millerianum, was not validly published in a recent paper by Coelho & Sakuragui (2007). This error is corrected here and the location of the holotype and isotype confirmed.
10.2307/4119331|A new monospecific genus, Lackeya, from the southern United States of America, is described and illustrated. Its differences from other closely related genera are discussed.
10.2307/4117074|Tephrosia paucijuga Harms, previously known from Tanzania is recorded from Sierra Leone, Mali and Ivory Coast.
10.2307/4120627|Newtonia duncanthomasii Mackinder & Cheek is newly described, and its relationships, biogeography and conservation status discussed.
10.2307/4110909|Phaius tankervilleae (Banks ex Aiton) Blume, a terrestrial orchid widespread from India and China to the SW Pacific Islands, is shown to include two distinct taxa, P. tankervilleae sensu stricto and P. wallichii Lindl. The recently described Chinese species P. magniflorus Z. H. Tsi & S. C. Chen is conspecific with the latter.
20649677|Allophylus conraui Gilg ex Radlk. as treated in the Flora of West Tropical Africa is reassessed and shown to comprise two distinct taxa, one of which, a spiny shrub or small tree of upper submontane forest in Cameroon and Nigeria, is described as Allophylus ujori Cheek. The second taxon, a lowland to lower submontane spineless small shrub, of Cameroon is redescribed as Allophylus conraui and neotypified. The affinities and conservation status of both these threatened species are discussed. Both taxa are illustrated.
10.2307/4110418| The pollen of 32 taxa in the genera Sempervivum andJouibarba (Crassulaceae) are surveyed using the SEM and TEM. Both genera possess small pollen (max. diameter < 30m) but with very different exine stratification and ornamentation. The pollen of Jovibarba has a completely smooth tectum some 65% thicker than that of Sempervivum, with long branched columellae that are more than twice as long as broad. Sempervivum pollen is striate-rugulate with short unbranched columellae less than twice as long as broad. 
10.2307/4109621|An account with keys of Hyptis sect. Polydesmia Benth. subsects. Oocephalus (Benth.) Epl. and Tubulosae (Briq.) R. Harley, both restricted to Brazil, is given. Three new species and a number of new infra-specific taxa are described.
10.2307/4110706| In Aerisilvaea, a new species is described from Malai; in Drypetes, a new variety is described for Mozambique; in Erythrococca, a new variety is described from Malai & Zambia; in Petalodiscus, a new combination is made; in Phyllanthus 2 new species are described from Tanzania, a new variety is described from Kenya, a new hybrid is described and an aberrant specimen reported from Malai; in Tragia, a new species is described and illustrated from N. Zambia. These constitute matters arising from ongoing work on the Euphorbiaceae for "Flora Zambesiaca", from the need to update the account of the family for "Flora of Tropical East Africa", and from naming collections received at Kew from these and other parts of Africa. 
23489240|The new species, Rhynchospora marliniana Naczi, W. M. Knapp & W. W. Thomas, is described, illustrated, and compared with morphologically similar species. Images are provided of its habitats, which are sunny, wet, and nutrient-poor savannas, pinelands, and streamsides in Belize, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, and the southeastern USA. It is unique in Rhynchospora sect. Plumosae by having perianth bristles that are plumose only at their bases and have a smooth zone between the plumose and minutely denticulate zones. Additional diagnostic characters are dark brown proximal leaf sheaths and perianth bristles that exceed the tubercle. Rhynchospora marliniana survives burning, and quickly initiates both vegetative and reproductive growth after fire.
10.2307/4113645|Stemona hutanguriana W. Chuakul, a new species from the Ubon Ratchathani Province, Thailand, is described and illustrated.
20649542|Psychotria kupensis Cheek is described as a new species in Psychotria sect. Confertiflorae Hiern. Attention is drawn to its monopodial, dwarf, litter-gathering and adventitious root-forming habit and to its anomalous stipules. The species appears to be endemic to the submontane evergeen forest of Mt Kupe in Cameroon. Its conservation status is assessed.
23489028|A new species, Orthosiphon americanus Harley & A. J. Paton (Lamiaceae), is described. This represents the first known occurrence of the genus in the New World. The species' relationships and phytogeography are discussed.
10.2307/4113631|A new family of Asparagales, Xeronemataceae, is described. This small family of two species is native to New Zealand and was formerly included by several authors in Phormiaceae, to which they are grossly similar. However, they differ in a number of significant ways, and the results of DNA sequence analysis strongly support them as occupying an isolated position as sister to a clade composed of most of the higher Asparagales, thus making their description as a new family appropriate.
10.2307/4107753|The discovery of what appears to be the female plant ofSphyranthera lutescens (Kurz) Pax & Hoffm. is discussed.
23489334|Although the polyphyletic genus Scirpus L. s.l. (formerly > 200 species) has been divided into more than 50 separate genera and now consists of only 64 species, its circumscription remains problematical. Three new genera have been segregated from Scirpus s.s. in the past decade, and the delimitation of Scirpus from its possible sister genus Eriophorum L. (c. 18 species) is still unresolved. The primary character used to delimit Eriophorum from Scirpus is  10 smooth, elongate perianth bristles vs  6 short, serrulate bristles or a lack of bristles, but some species display character combinations that make it difficult to place them in either genus. Eriophorum crinigerum (A. Gray) Beetle (= Scirpus criniger A. Gray), endemic to the California Floristic Province, USA, is one such species, possessing a unique combination of bristle and inflorescence features that suggest affinities with both Scirpus and Eriophorum. In this study we use molecular (matK, ndhF), morphological, and embryological data to demonstrate that E. crinigerum is not closely related to either Scirpus or Eriophorum, but represents a new generic lineage, here named Calliscirpus C. N. Gilmour, J. R. Starr & Naczi (tribe Scirpeae). Within the genus, molecular (matK, ETS 1f) and morphological data strongly support the recognition of two species, each of which is restricted to a distinct region of high endemism. Calliscirpus criniger (A. Gray) C. N. Gilmour, J. R. Starr & Naczi comb. nov. is common to the Klamath-Siskiyou and North Coast mountain ranges of Oregon and California, whereas a new species, Calliscirpus brachythrix C. N. Gilmour, J. R. Starr & Naczi, is unique to the Sierra Nevada mountain range of California. Scirpus maximowiczii C. B. Clarke, another transitional species that has blurred the limits of Scirpus and Eriophorum, and has been cited as morphologically similar to Calliscirpus species in the past, is strongly placed within a Scirpus s.s. + Eriophorum s.s. clade (100% bootstrap) on the basis of molecular and embryological data. Tree support and taxonomic sampling are not sufficient to resolve the delimitation of Eriophorum s.s. from Scirpus s.s.
10.2307/4110860| Astreptonema gammari (L. Lger & Duboscq) Manier (Trichomycetes, Eccrinaceae) grows obligately attached to the cuticle lining the hindgut of Gammarus pulex L. (Crustacea, Gammaridae) found in freshwater. The primary infestation sporangiospores possess polar mucilage-like appendages that are extensions of the outer layer of the sporangiospore wall. Appendage formation from dictyosome-derived vesicles is described for the first time and compared with spore appendage formation in other species of the Trichomycetes, particularly the Harpellales. 
10.2307/4110543|Eight genera from as many families are considered. One new subspecies is described, two new ranks (one variety, one subspecies) and one new combination are proposed. Two locally described names are sunk under more widespread species. The treatment of Nothopegia Blume in Hook. f., Fl. Brit. India (1876) is still the most satisfactory. Under Randia L., the observed characters for three species are tabulated as an aid to a definitive revision.
10.2307/4113646|A new species, Maesa reflexa (Maesaceae/Myrsinaceae), is described from Mindanao, Philippines.
10.2307/4115815|The genus Amydrium (Araceae) is recorded for the first time from Vietnam, with two species, A. hainanense and A. sinense, hitherto known onlv from China (including Hainan). Neither species was treated in the last revision of Amydrium (Nicolson 1968) and their recognition requires alterations to his account. A key to the Asian genera of Monstereae and Anadendreae, an expanded generic description, keys to fertile, sterile and juvenile plants and a review of the genus is presented. Both newly recorded Vietnamese species are illustrated.
10.2307/4110167|Descriptions and synonymy are given for 17 species native to SE Asia, 7 of which are described for the first time: G. abbreuiata, G. batorensis, G. brassii, G. fulva, G. grandifolia, G. steenisii and G. sundaica, 2 new combinations are made: G. drymophilus (Muell.) F. G. Davies and G. vidaliana Elmer var. apoense (Elm.) F. G. Davies; 2 new varieties are published: G. procumbens var. annua and G. aurantiaca var. parviflora. A short account of morphology, uses and distribution for the whole genus is included.
10.2307/4114582|Fungi new to the Highlands and Islands are listed; critical species discussed. Two new varieties are described: Dasyscyphus imbecillis var. cladii & D. palearum var. niger and the new combination (by S. M. Francis) Anthostomella alchemillae made. All collections listed are the author's unless otherwise indicated.
10.2307/4117968|A chromosome number of 2n = 18 is reported for Akania lucens (F. Muell.) Airy Shaw. The number of 2n = 20 previously reported by Kondo for Cephalotus follicularis Labill. is confirmed.
10.2307/4110798|Voanioala gerardii, a newly described monotypic genus from Madagascar, is a very high polyploid with several hundred chromosomes.
23489040|A new species of Spodiopogon (Poaceae), S. aristatus R. J. Desai & Raole is described and illustrated from Gujarat, West India.
10.2307/4117252|Disperis breviloba, a new species from Zambia, is described.
10.2307/4117041|Bridelia erapensis is described from the Markham River valley near Erap (Papua New Guinea). A key and distribution maps for the New Guinea species are given together with some remarks on systematics and biogeography.
10.2307/4110043| The sectional epithet Friedrichsthalia is applied to the section called Trichocaryum by Brand, which is confined to tropical Africa. Five species are recognised, two of which are divided into two subspecies. Full synonymy and distribution maps are given. Four of the taxa recognised are confined to Angola, while one species is endemic to Shaba Province of Zare. Of the two taxa widespread in eastern tropical Africa formerly known as T. physaloides and T. hockii, the latter is sunk to subspecific rank within an Angolan taxon for which the name T. ambacense is resuscitated, giving the new combination T. ambacense subsp. hockii. 
10.2307/4119325| 18 new species are described in Phyllanthus, one from Uganda (P. goniostemon), the others (P. gillettianus, P. mafingensis, P. manica nsis, P. martinii, P. mendesii, P. mendonae, P. nyikae, P. pseudocarunculatus, P. serpentinicola, P. taylorianus, P. tener, P. tenuis, P. tsetserrae, P. udoricola, P. xiphephorus, P. zambicus and P. zorniodes ) from the "Flora Zambesiaca" area and environs. Five new varieties are described (P. bernerianus var. glaber, P. microdendron var. asper, P. micromeris vars. mughessensis and sesbanioides and P. reticulatus var. orae-solis - all from the "Flora Zambesiaca" area). Two new hybrids (P x fluminis-sabi, P. x fluminis-zambesi ) are described, and two new combinations are made. New statuses are established for P. capillaris, P. garipensis and P. gilletii, and P. delpyanus, P. klainei and P. cedrelifolius are reduced to synonymy, and new records are reported for Malawi and Namibia. In Antidesma, a new record is reported for Zimbabwe. In Bridelia, the variation in B. cathartica G. Bertol. ssp. melanthesoides (Baill.) J. Lonard is considered to be best expressed by regarding it as comprising two varieties (one of which is a new combination), each with two forms, and B. angolensis Welw. ex Mll. Arg. is accorded subspecific status under B. scleroneura Mll. Arg. Cleistanthus milleri Dunkley is accorded subspecific status under C. polystachyus Planch., and C. apetalus S. Moore is brought into synonymy with it. In Croton a new variety is diagnosed under the typical subspecies of C. longipedicellatus J. Lonard. Jatropha cervicornis Suess. is considered synonymous with J. monroi S. Moore. In Oldfieldia, a new record is reported for Mozambique, and a new combination is made in Thecacoris. 
10.2307/4103122|Variations in growth habits of Malayan bamboos are examined with reference to the influence of rhizome construction, culm characteristics and the mode of development of the branch complement. The relationship of growth habit to the invasive ecology of bamboos and several probable adaptations to survival in particular habitats are discussed. Of particular interest is the bamboo Dinochloa scandens, which primarily develops from a sympodial rhizome system that produces culms able to twine up the boles of trees. Culms of D. scandens that become recumbent on or near to the forest floor can develop, from their buds, new culms and new rhizomes. The form and behaviour of such recumbent culms are considered homologous to those of a monopodial rhizome, and comparisons between the two illustrate how the monopodial condition could have been derived from the sympodial condition in bamboo rhizomes. However, taxa with monopodial rhizomes may not always be considered as being more advanced than those with sympodial rhizomes.
10.2307/4119387|The typification of Placonema (Sacc.) Petrak is clarified and Shanoria Subram. & Ramakr. reduced to synonymy. Placonema bambusacearum (Sacc. & Syd.) Petrak var. bambusae (Bat.) comb. nov. is proposed for Stigmateopsis bambusae Bat. The new generic name Neoplaconema is introduced to accommodate Placonema napelli (Maire & Sacc.) Petrak.
10.2307/4111133|Davilla papyracea Aymard, a new species with vaginate and winged petioles, from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil is described and illustrated, and a key to this group of species is provided.
10.2307/4111036| Biophytum uzungwaensis Frimodt-Mller, a new and distinct species of Biophylum DC. characterised by its long leaves with 20 - 90 pairs of leaflets, is described from the Udzungwa Mts in southern Tanzania. The new species is confined to a shaded, high-altitude moist forest habitat and is apparently endemic to the type locality. 
20443364|This paper presents an overview of progress in grass systematics with a focus on the past century and assesses its current status and future outlook. In concert with systematic biology, progress in grass systematics has gone through some leaps caused by the introduction of new approaches or emphasis on existing ones. Chromosome cytology, anatomy and chemistry provided useful information, but major recent contributions have come from advances in bioinformatics and molecular biology. Consequently, grass systematics has moved from an initial intuitive classification and phylogenetics to one incorporating analytical phenetic approaches, and culminating in the current stage of analytic phylogeny. As a result, a refined picture of grass phylogeny is emerging with good resolution at the base, but the tree lacks robustness in some places such as the monophyly of the "BEP" subfamilies and the relationships within the PACCAD clade. Systematic structure of a number of subfamilies is better understood now, but further studies are needed. With the rapid advancement in molecular systematic and bioinformatic tools, and in conjunction with a wealth of literature available on structural characters, a more refined picture of grass taxonomy and evolution is expected. However, caution needs to be exercised in our interpretations to avoid hasty decisions that can translate into regress rather than progress. This is an exciting time in the history of grass systematics and, undoubtedly, is a period of collaborative rather than individual effort.
10.2307/4119435|A synopsis is given of Vitex L. (Labiatae subfamily Viticoideae) in Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia and Zimbabwe, prior to the publication of the account in Flora Zambesiaca. A checklist of taxa with types and synonyms, a multi-access key and discussions on nomenclature, distribution, ecology and diagnostic features are provided. No new species are described; numerous names currently recognised are put into synonymy; various species are typified.
10.2307/4109579|It is concluded that the shoot apex of eusporangiate ferns is composed of three zones-a zone of surface initials, a zone of subsurface initials, and a cup-shaped zone. The distinctness of the zonating pattern is related to the overall size of the shoot axis. A primary thickening meristem which gives rise to a broad cortex as in leptosporangiate ferns is present in adult axes of Marattia.
10.2307/4102930|Two endemic species of Kleinia from Morocco and the Canary Islands respectively are discussed and descriptions provided.
23489144|Ione kipgenii, a new species from Manipur, India is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4113886|Dichapetalum lindicum, a new species from southeast Tanzania, is described and illustrated. D. deflexum is recorded for the first time from this area and is also new for the area of the Flora of Tropical East Africa.
10.2307/4107953|The Proceedings of the first meeting of the Willi Hennig Society are reviewed and the opportunity taken to expand upon the relatively new resurgence of 'Cladistics' in taxonomic botany.
10.2307/4119414|Disciseda calva is reported for the first time from arctic regions. Lycoperdon frigidum is considered the correct name for a species of frequent occurrence in the arctic. These and three further gasteromycetes are described from overwintered specimens found at Mestersvig in Kong Oscars Fjord.
10.2307/4109934|Cyperus subcastaneus D. A. Simpson and Eleocharis rugosa D. A. Simpson, both new species from Bahia, are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110919|Psydrax bridsoniana (Rubiaceae), a new, myrmecophilous species of tree from western Cameroon is described. Its conservation status and taxonomic placement are discussed.
20649682|During floristic work on Espinhao Range-Brazil, we recognised five Habranthus species, plus two new species, described and illustrated here: Habranthus botumirimensis R. S. Oliveira is similar to H. datensis Ravenna as both have a paraperigone of fimbrae, but is distinguished by possessing narrower leaves (c. 3 mm wide), erect stigma lobes, tepals with narrower bases, and by the arrangement of papillae in a longitudinal strip on the outer tepals; Habranthus lucidus R. S. Oliveira closely resembles H. itaobinus Ravenna, having staminal filaments in two lengths with the style not exceeding the longest filaments, but is distinguished by possessing funnelform and more distinctly zygomorphic flowers, oblanceolate tepals, darker nerves, and outer tepals with obtuse apices. An identification key to Habranthus species from the Espinhao Range is provided. /// Durante levantamento florstico na Cadeia do Espinhao reconhecemos cinco espcies de Habranthus, alm de duas novas espcies que so aqui descritas e ilustradas: Habranthus botumirimensis R. S. Oliveira  similar a H. datensis Ravenna, por apresentarem paraperigonio fimbriado, mas difere por folhas mais estreitas (c. 3 mm larg.), estigma com lobos eretos, base das tpalas mais estreito, e papilas distribudas em faixa longitudinal no pice das tpalas externas; Habranthus lucidus R. S. Oliveira  similar a H. itaobinus Ravenna, por possuirem filamentos em dois comprimentos com estilete no excedendo o comprimento destes, mas se diferencia por flores infundibuliformes e mais zigomorfas, tpalas oblanceoladas e pice obtuso nas tpalas externas. Chave de identificao para as espcies de Habranthus da Cadeia do Espinhao  apresentada.
10.2307/4109766|Albizia carrii is described as a new species from the monsoonal area near Port Moresby, southeastern New Guinea.
10.2307/4117784|New combinations are made: Micropera draco (based on Sarcanthus draco), and Cystorchis ogurae (based on Hetaeria ogurae). The identities and distributions of Cleisostoma longipaniculatum and C. pacificum are clarified. A second collection of Cleisostoma porrigens (Fukuy.) Garay is reported from the Caroline Islands. Pelexia obliqua (J. J. Sm.) Garay is reported for Samoa; the relevant specimen had been named as Stereosandra javanca Blume which should be deleted from that flora of Samoa. Vanilla hirsuta M. A. Clem. & D. L. Jones is reduced to synonymy in V. tahitiensis J. W. Moore.
23489244|Nomenclatural notes and new combinations are offered for species of the New World genus Asemeia Raf. emend. Small. We present 30 new combinations: Asemeia subgenus Apopetala (S. F. Blake) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. apopetala (Brandegee) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. echinosperma (Grts) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. floribunda (Benth.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. hondurana (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. securidaca (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. sphaerospora (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. tonsa (S. F. Blake) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott; and in Asemeia subgenus Asemeia, A. acuminata (Willd.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. extraaxillaris (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. r. Abbott, A. galmeri (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. glabra (A. W. Benn.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. hebeclada (DC.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. hebeclada var. impensa (Wurdack) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. hirsuta (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. ignatii (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. ilheotica (Wawra) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. lindmaniana (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. marquesiana (J. F. B. Pastore & T. B. Cavalc.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. martiana (A. W. Benn.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. mollis (Kunth) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. monninoides (Kunth) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. monticola (Kunth.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. ovata (Poir.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. parietaria (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. pohliana (A. St.-Hil. & Moq.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. pseudohebeclada (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. rhodoptera (Mart. ex A. W. Benn.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, A. tobatiensis (Chodat) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott, and A. violacea (Aubl.) J. F. B. Pastore & J. R. Abbott. Also presented are an updated list of synonyms, new lectotypes, and nomenclatural notes for some names.
23489026|Two new species of Oxalis L. sect. Polymorphae (Oxalidaceae) are here described and illustrated. Oxalis colatinensis Fiaschi is similar to O. blackii Lourteig, from which it can be distinguished by the unbranched (vs branched) habit, leaves grouped in a single terminal whorl (vs multiple whorls), leaflet lamina with an evident (vs indistinct) reticulation, and the terminal lamina 2  6.6  1.7  3.8 cm (vs 1  2 (3)  0.5  1.3 cm), with a rounded to slightly cordate (vs cuneate or obtuse) base. O. kollmannii Fiaschi is similar to O. neuwiedii Zucc., from which it can be distinguished by having leaves with petioles longer than the lamina (vs shorter), leaflet lamina with the apex acute and a somewhat rounded tip (vs apex usually acuminate), and symmetrical to very slightly asymmetrical (vs markedly asymmetrical) lateral leaflets. Comments on the geographic distribution, habitat preference, etymology and conservation status of these two new species are also provided.
10.2307/4118846|James Niven, botanical collector of Penicuik, was born on 28 September 1776 and died on 9 January 1827. He was trained in Scotland and spent most of the period between c. 1798 and 1812 at the Cape of Good Hope collecting herbarium specimens, seeds and bulbs. An hortus siccus now in the National Botanic Gardens, Glasnevin, Dublin (DBN), which he prepared while in Cape Colony is described and its relationship to the so-called Erica manuscript now in the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew (K), is discussed. Niven's African collecting localities are listed.
10.2307/4119380|A new genus and species, Psathyrodon fuliginosus, is described from Zambia.
10.2307/4117822|Paeonia decomposita, regarded as endangered in the China Plant Red Data Book, has been found to be rather common in a restricted area of NW Sichuan. Two subspecies with distinct geographical distributions can be distinguished. One of these, P. decomposita subsp. rotundiloba, is described as new and illustrated here.
20443391|A new species of Acacia (Leguminosae. Mimosoideae), A. riograndensis Atahuachi & L. Rico, endemic to the valley of the Rio Grande in Bolivia is described and illustrated. Affinities to closely related species are discussed.
10.2307/4115757|Three new species, Fuerstia ternata Paton from Tanzania, F. dendrothrix Paton from Somalia and F. adpressa Paton from Angola are described. The generic delimitation of Fuerstia from Orthosiphon is also discussed.
10.2307/4108573| An account of the fungi of Arran, Gigha and Kintyre is presented. In addition to records derived from recent field work, all published, unpublished and herbarium records are included in an annotated list enumerating 946 taxa. A brief account of the history of mycology in the area is presented. This area, on the west coast of Scotland, is in many ways comparable to Mull, for which a comprehensive account of the fungi was published in 1978. A preliminary comparison of the species complement of these areas is, therefore, presented. Following the list are taxonomic accounts ofAscomycetes and Deuteromycetes which include new taxa and new or interesting British records. Belemnospora verruculosa P. M. Kirk, Bryoscyphus Spooner, Cistella lagenipilus Spooner, Dictyosporium foliicola P. M. Kirk, Endophragmiella arranensis P. M. Kirk, Fusichalara clavatispora P. M. Kirk, Helicoma irregulare P. M. Kirk, Phaeoscypha Spooner, Pterygosporopsis rhododendri P. M. Kirk, Sydowiella juncina Spooner are described as new. The new combinations Bisporella scolochloae (de Not.) Spooner, Bryoscyphus conocephali (Boyd) Spooner,B. dicrani (Ade & Hhnel) Spooner, B. marchantiae (Berk.) Spooner, B. turbinatus (Fuckel) Spooner, Calycellina juniperina (K. & L. Holm) Spooner, Cephalotrichum microsporum (Sacc.) P. M. Kirk, Chalara africana (B. Sutton & Piroz.) P. M. Kirk, C. aspera (Piroz. & Hodges) P. M. Kirk, C. bulbosa (B. Sutton & Piroz.) P. M. Kirk, C. laevis (B. Sutton & Hodges) P. M. Kirk, C. ramosa (Nag Raj & Kendrick) P. M. Kirk, Laetinaevia marina (Boyd) Spooner, Lanzia vacini (Velen.) Spooner, and Phaeoscypha cladii (Nag Raj & Kendrick) Spooner are proposed. 
23489137|The diversity of the lycoperdaceous genera Calvatia, Gastropila and Langermannia in the mycobiota of the state of Rio Grande do Sul (southern Brazil) was investigated. These genera are considered distinct, based on the structure of the gleba and subgleba, and basidiospore characters. The following taxa were identified in the area: Calvatia cyathiformis, C. cyathiformis var. chilensis, C. fragilis, C. rugosa, Gastropila fragilis, Langermannia bicolor and L. bicolor var. cirrifera comb. et stat. nov. The generic and specific taxonomic limits are discussed, as well as their distribution and ecological data. Macroscopic photographs, line drawings of microstructures and SEM micrographs of the basidiospores are presented.
10.2307/4118066|All species of the genus Termitomyces Heim (Agaricales, Pluteaceae) which occur throughout southeast Asia are collectively considered for the first time. Illustrated accounts for all the accepted species are provided, together with a key to species.
20443249|This paper, results from studies on Lamiaceae for a forthcoming volume of the Flora Fanerogmica do Estado de So Paulo. Firstly there is a summary of the early history of collecting in So Paulo State and some floristic changes are mentioned, including the apparent disappearance of a number of species of Hyptis. Finally, several taxonomic and nomenclatural notes are presented. Hyptis umbrosa is placed in synonymy of H. sidifolia; H. multibracteata is re-lectotypified; H. riparia sp. nov is described from So Paulo State; finally Hyptis tenuifolia is found to be apparently endemic to the State, and populations from the Distrito Federal, previously identified as such are described as a new species: H. tacianae. Este trabalho  parte dos resultados decorrente dos estudos das Lamiaceae, para um prximo volume da Flora Fanerogmica do Estado de So Paulo. Inclui inicialmente, um histrico das primeiras coleoes de Hyptis no Estado, e as mudanas que ocorreram desde ento, incluindo o desaparecimento de algumas espcies. Em seguida so apresentadas diversas observaes taxonmicas e nomenclaturais. Hyptis umbrosa  colocada na sinonmia de H. sidifolia; H. multibracteata  relectotipificada; H. riparia  uma nova espcie descrita para o estado de So Paulo; H. tenuifolia  considerada como aparentemente endmica do Estado e as populaes do Distrito Federal, previamente identificadas como sendo desta espcie, so descritas como uma nova espcie: H. tacianae.
10.2307/4113647|The combination Nesogordonia holtzii, invalidly published by Capuron, is here validated.
10.2307/4117948|Oldenlandia umbellata L. [ = Hedyotis umbellata (L.) Lam. ] and O. wightii Hook. f. (Rubiaceae) are demonstrated to be two different species. O. umbellata L. is lectotypified. However, in the genus Hedyotis, the epithet 'umbellata' is illegitimate for this taxon, because it has already been used earlier for another species by Walter. A new name, H. brevicalyx is given for the species. A new combination, Hedyotis wightii, is also provided for Oldenlandia wightii Hook. f.
10.2307/4114356|In Aeschynomene two new species and two new subspecies are described and one new varietal combination is made. In Humularia two new species and a new variety are described and one subspecific and three varietal combinations are made. A varietal combination is made in Droogmansia and a new variety is described in Alysicarpus.
10.2307/4118847|The status of four taxa belonging to Gypsophila series Deserticolae Barkoudah is carefully re-assessed. Morphological characters used by Barkoudah to separate the taxa have been critically evaluated and most are found to be unreliable. The series as here defined comprises the single species G. capillaris (Forssk.) C. Chr. Within this species, two subspecies can be recognized on the basis of seed-coat and capsule characters. Gypsophila antari Post & Beauverd is placed in the synonymy of G. capillaris (Forssk.) C. Chr. G. arabica Barkoudah, with G. obconica Barkoudah sunk into it, is reduced to the rank of subspecies under G. capillaris subsp. confusa Zmarzty.
10.2307/4114587|The discovery of Cocculus balfourii Schweinf. ex Balf. f. in Arabia is discussed.
10.2307/4102961|A new, distinct species of Cicer from the Canary Islands is described and illustrated.
20443247|Gluema korupensis Burgt (Sapotaceae), a new species from the southern part of Korup National Park in Cameroon, is described and illustrated. In total 176 trees  25 cm in stem diam. were found. The tree from which the holotype was collected was 42 m high and 125 cm in diam.; the largest tree was 238 cm in diam. The seeds are dispersed ballistically, and sometimes by water.
10.2307/4109587|Three new monotypic genera Gibasoides, Elasis and Matudanthus, are proposed for discordant species hitherto included in Tradescantia L.
10.2307/4118972|Eleven Phyllostachys names of early provenance are reduced to synonymy, one forma is described and the nomenclature of two species of Phyllostachys is discussed.
10.2307/4119065|A new species, Dicliptera suffruticosa, is described from the Yemen Arab Republic, Somalia and eastern Ethiopia.
10.2307/4110112|Hedyotis corallicola and H. prolifera are decribed as new; Oldenlandia lancifolia var. brevipes Bremek. is transferred to Hedyotis. The combination Hedyotis sieberi is also published for the first time.
10.2307/4111012|The variable tropical African Aeollanthus myrianthus Baker is here divided into two subspecies mainly on the basis of differences in the length of the corolla-tube. Subsp. myrianthus represents the plants with a short corolla tube. The new combination, subsp. gamwelliae (G. Taylor) Ryding, represents the plants with a long corolla tube. The identity of A. myrianthus is discussed, and a neotype of this name is designated. A. medusa Baker is placed in synonymy under subsp. gamwelliae.
10.2307/4111093|A new species of Peliosanthes, P. divaricatanthera N. Tanaka, is described and illustrated, based on two specimens from Vietnam and China. It is unusual in its horizontally divaricate anthers. Other features distinguishing the new species from P. teta, P. minor, P. tonkinensis and P. torulosa are also noted.
10.2307/4117694|Two new species of Maesa are described from New Guinea: M. amplexicaulis from Papua/Irian Jaya, and M. gracilis from Papua New Guinea. The new species are illustrated and their taxonomic affinities are discussed. Maesa amplexicaulis is the first member of the genus to be described with amplexicaul leaves, and shares several characters with M. ruficaulis. The status and affinities of M. ruficaulis are discussed in the light of recent collections from Papua/Irian Jaya.
4110896|Aeranthes virginalis, a new species of orchid from the Comoro Islands is described and discussed.
10.2307/4109728|Two new species are described, Arundinaria shiuyingiana and Bambusa chunii, both from Hong Kong. A new combination, Arundinaria cantorii is made from Bambusa cantori, and Bambusa longiflora W.T. Lin is placed as a new synonymn of Bambusa tuldoides Munro.
10.2307/4110371|The difficulties of naming and recording two parasites recently found in British grasses are discussed.
10.2307/4110288|Decaryochloa A. Camus is a monotypic genus with the only species, D. diadelpha, endemic to Madagascar. The morphology of habit, inflorescence and spikelet is described. It is remarkable in having the longest floret (4.5 - 5 cm) in the tribe Bambuseae. In its determinate inflorescence with the presence of prophylls (sometimes absent), 3 - 4 transitional glumes, and six stamens in the spikelet, Decaryochloa appears to be related to Hickelia A. Camus, a genus of four species found in Madagascar and Tanzania. The population of D. diadelpha at Analamazaotra (Perinet) was recently observed in flower in 1989 and 1992, and was found to be dead in 1994, presumably after gregarious flowering.
10.2307/4115681|A synopsis of the Philippine species of Heterospathe is presented; in all 11 species are recorded for the Philippine Islands, including four new species, and one species formally transferred from Rhopaloblaste (Ptychoraphis).
10.2307/4110930|Pergularia tacazzeana Chiov. is synonymous with Telosma africana (N. E. Br.) N. E. Br., a species not previously recorded for the Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea. Pergularia africana N. E. Br. is lectotypifled.
10.2307/4110376|Senecio shirleyanus Domin is reduced to Gynura drymophila (F. Muell.) F. G. Davies. The typification, distribution, and description of G. drymophila are reviewed and revised. G. malasica (Ridley) Ridley and G. aspera Ridley were based on specimens of Erechtites hieraciifolia var. cacalioides; therefore G. malasica sensu F. G. Davies, a true Gynura, is described as a new species, G. malaccensis Belcher. Crassocephalum crepidioides (Benth.) S. Moore var. luteum Steen. becomes C. crepidioides forma luteum (Steen.) Belcher, stat. nov. G. crepidioides Benth., G. rosea Ridley, and G. papuana Lauterb. are excluded from Gynura in this region; all belong to other genera, as indicated.
10.2307/4113872|Reseda sessilifolia sp. nov., a remarkable species from northern Somalia with subamplexicaul opposite leaves, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110308| Two new species of epiphytic orchid, Cribbia thomensis and C. pendula, both apparently endemic to the island of So Tom, are described here for the first time. A synopsis of Cribbia Senghas is provided. Four species are now recognised, and a key to them is provided. 
10.2307/4119329|Four new species, Corymborkis minima, Liparis ascendens, Cribbia confusa and Angraecopsis cryptantha, and one new record, Habenaria thomana, of Orchidaceae from West Africa are reported here.
23216194|A revision of Octoknema Pierre is provided, based on morphological data gathered from a study of herbarium specimens and observations in the field. Fourteen species of Octoknema are recognised including six new species: O. bakossiensis Gosline & Malcot, O. belingensis Gosline & Malcot, O. chailluensis Malcot & Gosline, O. kivuensis Gosline & Malcot, O. mokoko Gosline & Malcot and O. ogoouensis Malcot & Gosline. Data are given for four additional poorly known taxa (Octoknema species A, B, C and D).
10.2307/4110866|Three new species of agarics are described: Hypholoma fulvidulum, Russula xenochlora and Tricholoma sciodellum, and descriptions are given of British material of Leptonia atrocaerulea (Noordel.) P. D. Orton and Nolanea inutilis (Britzelm.) Sacc. & Trotter all from Abernethy Forest. Scotland. A revised key to the sciodes group of Tricholoma is provided.
10.2307/4110766|A large number of published transmission electron micrographs have been surveyed in an attempt to draw together the widely scattered information on exine stratification in extant gymnosperms. Based on these electron micrographs, three main exine structural types are defined and illustrated. Analysis of the publications clearly points to a need for additional studies of exine stratification in almost all gymnospermous families.
23216100|A new combination is provided in Vernonia (Compositae: Vernoniae), V. longicuspis (Dematt.) D. J. N. Hind, based on Lessingianthus longicuspis Dematt., recently described from Bolivia (Santa Cruz) and Brazil (Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul).
10.2307/4119342|A revision of the genus Cladostigma is presented. Three species are known, one of which, C. nigistiae Sebsebe, is described as new.
10.2307/4110103|The genus Stolzia is considered to include twelve species in tropical Africa, three of which are described as new. Two new subspecies are described under S. compacta. A key and illustrations are provided.
10.2307/4118719|Four new genera of bamboos, Holttumochloa (three species: one new combination, two new species), Kinabaluchloa (two species: a new combination and a new species), Maclurochloa (one species, a new combination), and Soejatmia (one species, a new combination) are described.
10.2307/4110294|Three new species of Philodendron, P. biribiriense, P. cipoense and P. rhizomatosum, are described from the campo rupestre region of the state of Minas Gerais in south eastern Brazil.
23489022|The description and illustration of a new species of Eremanthus (Asteraceae: Vernonieae), E. brevifolius, endemic to Minas Gerais State, is presented and its affinities assessed. E. graciellae and E. pohlii are newly synonymised under E. capitatus, and E. seidelii under E. elaeagnus.
27822025|A new species of Euphorbiaceae, Trigonostemon tuberculatus, from Yuanjiang Xian, Yunnan Province, China is described and illustrated. The morphological differences between T. tuberculatus and other species of Trigonostemon are the axillary cymes, three fused stamens, ovary and fruit covered with dense warts and seeds with a green aril containing chloroplasts. The green coloration of the aril is unusual. T. tuberculatus grows between 350 and 460 m altitude, with hot, dry conditions prevailing between November and April.
10.2307/4109803|A revision of Fritillaria ehrhartii, F. alfredae and their related species is presented together with a key. Two new combinations are made at subspecific rank, F. alfredae subsp. platyptera and subsp. glaucoviridis.
23489231|The taxonomic baseline for Dracaena in Thailand is reviewed, concentrating on a group of species for which morphology suggests a relationship with D. draco L., D. tamaranae Marrero Rodr., R. S. Almeida & Gonz.-Mart., D. ombet Heuglin ex Kotschy & Peyr., D. schizantha Baker, D. serrulata Baker, D. cinnabari Balf. f. and D. ellenbeckiana Engl. One morphologically distinct element of that group in Thailand known as Chan daeng in Thai is shown to be a distinct species, Dracaena jayniana Wilkin & Suksathan. It is described, illustrated and ecological information and a conservation assessment are provided.
27822027|New combinations are proposed for Oreogrammitis bongoensis, O. meijer-dreesii, O. nana, O. reinwardtioides, Prosaptia fusca, P. micropora, P. pendens, P. rhodocarpa, P. subulatipinna, P. vomaensis, P. whartoniana, Radiogrammitis neocaledonica, Themelium decrescens, T. pullei and Tomophyllum hornei.
23044628|The dry forest of the Peruvian south coast has undergone an almost total process of deforestation. Populations here have increased exponentially through immigration supplying labour to urban coastal development, and demonstrably unsustainable agro-industrial expansion for export markets. Society has become dislocated from local traditions of environmental and resource management whilst still retaining a wealth of Andean agricultural expertise. Indigenous communities still hold on to vestiges of traditional knowledge. Relicts of natural vegetation, traditional agriculture and agrobiodiversity continue to sustain ecosystem services. Moreover, offer livelihood options and resources for restoration. These aspects reflect a long cultural trajectory, including famous extinct cultures such as Nasca, that evolved within an ever-changing riparian and agricultural landscape influenced by external forces and which incorporated important processes of plant domestication and adaptation to climatic oscillation. Here, we present an ecosystem approach to vegetation restoration and sustainable resource management in Ica, Peru, based on wide interdisciplinary biodiversity inventory and study, where school, community and agro-industry engagement is seen as a prerequisite for success. The approach demonstrated significant plant establishment in this hyperarid region using appropriate low-technology techniques of planting and irrigation with minimum watering. Restoration of a highly degraded environment built upon vegetation relicts followed a strategy of cultural capacity building and environmental engagement, including the development of sustainable forest products, festivals, schools programmes, didactic publications for local use, and collaboration with local communities, landowners, agribusiness and governmental authorities. Plant conservation must re-engage people with their natural heritage by dissemination of information for vegetation restoration and management integrated to dynamics of ecosystem function within its wide local cultural and historical context.
10.2307/4110605|Vellozia prolifera, a new species from northern Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated and the circumscription of section Xerophytoides is discussed. A description and illustration of the leaf anatomy of the new species is provided.
10.2307/4119727|Galanthus bortkewitschianus Koss, and G. caucasicus (Baker) Grossh. are considered to represent taxonomic synonyms of G. alpinus Sosn. A new combination is made for G. bortkewitschianus, as a variety of G. alpinus. A new lectotype is selected for G. caucasicus.
23044994|Two endangered new species of Marsdenia R. Br. (Asclepiadoideae, Apocynaceae) from the semi-arid region of Brazil are described and illustrated: M. breviramosa (south-western Bahia) and M. nana (northern Minas Gerais). They are shrubs closely related to M. zehntneri and, like that species, are also associated with calcareous outcrops. The former can be recognised by linear leaves arranged in small, compact shoots and the latter is a subshrub less than 50 cm high whose flowers are unique because of the adaxially villous corolla and long-rostrate gynostegium.
24717378|Two new species of Afrothismia are described within the framework of an intended revision of the genus in Cameroon, A. fungiformis from the submontane forest of Mt Kupe and A. pusilla from Mt Kala. The new species are illustrated and the conservation status for both is assessed as Critically Endangered.
10.2307/4111005|The taxonomy of two rattan species with unusual inflorescence morphology is discussed. Calamus setiger (Calamoideae: Arecaceae) is reduced to synonymy with C. anomalus and a new species, C. essigii, is described.
10.2307/4110117|Four new taxa of Convolvulaceae are described from East Africa and five species recoreded from the area for the first time. Many new district and territory records are given of species already known from the area.
10.2307/4110830|A new species from Zambia, Ceropegia zambesiaca Masinde & Meve (Asclepiadiodeae-Ceropegieae), related to C. distincta N. E. Br., is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4108999|The principles of long distance dispersal of plant propagules by man, air, birds and mammals are discussed. The manner by which the boreal, Afro-montane and Saharo-montane elements of the upland flora together with the flora of the gallery forests could have arrived on Jebel Marra are examined. The propagules of the upland floristic elements are noticeably small and dry; berries and drupes are conspicuous by their absence, with the exception of Olea laperrinei. By contrast, the flora of the gallery forests contain a high proportion of species bearing berries or drupes; the gallery forest represents a relic of a more extensive riverine forest during a period when the climate was wetter than it is today. Long distance dispersal is suggested to account for the presence of the boreal and Afro-montane elements, while short-distance dispersal during a more humid period could have been responsible for the Saharomontane element.
10.2307/4110329|Trans-3-hydroxy-L-proline was found to accumulate in seeds and mature leaves of Lemuropisum edule H. Perrier to levels (% dry weight) of 1-5% and 1-2% respectively. Seeds were also found to contain 1-2% L-azetidine-2-carboxylic acid. Trans-3-hydroxy-L-proline showed potent antifeedant activity against larvae of Spodoptera littoralis (Boisduval) and S. litura (Fabr.) at dosages above
10.2307/4117971|A key and descriptions for the species of Decaspermum recognized in Australia and the Pacific are given. D. salomonense is here newly described from the Solomon Islands and three new combinations are made and one new name provided in Decaspermum.
20443394|Isoglossa asystasioides I. Darbysh. & Ensermu (Acanthaceae) is newly described from the lowland forests of east-central Tanzania. Its taxonomic affinities and conservation status are discussed. The infrageneric classification and generic affinities of Isoglossa are considered.
10.2307/4113868|A naturally-occurring non-hybrid tetraploid, intermediate between diploid Aloe tidmarshii (Schonl.) Muller and hexaploid Aloe ciliaris Haw., is described as a new variety of A. ciliaris. Aloe tidmarshii is relegated to its former status as A. ciliaris var. tidmarshii Schonland. The distribution of the complex is given and the origin of the polyploids is discussed.
10.2307/4113866| The new genus Calliandropsis (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae) is described, and its relationships to closely allied genera in the tribe Mimoseae are discussed on the basis of vegetative, floral, fruit, and pollen characters. /// Se describe el nuevo gnero Calliandropsis (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae), y se discuten sus relaciones con gneros afines de la tribu Mimoseae con base en caracteres vegetativos, florales, del fruto y polnicos. 
10.2307/4110874| Previously known from only three collections made in Sweden and Siberia, the apparently rare Athelia sibirica (Jlich)J. Erikss. & Ryvarden (Basidiomycota: Atheliales), is described and illustrated from an Alaskan collection. The bisterigmate basidia, clamp-connections at nearly all septa, and relatively large basidiospores distinguish this species from all others in the genus. The fungus fruits on the wood of Alnus Mill., Betula L. and Populus L., and is considered to have a circumboreal distribution. To facilitate the identification of unnamed collections of Athelia Pers. a kev is provided to the eight species known to occur in Alaska and the Yukon. 
10.2307/4110359|A revision of the names and infrageneric, but supraspecific, taxa in Arum L. is presented; keys to the subgenera, sections, subsections and species are provided. Earlier systems of classification are discussed.
10.2307/4119070|This account contains information on long established names in Pinanga and indicates synonymy; it also validates names transferred from the genus Pseudopinanga, which is now no longer recognized as a distinct genus, and it also contains descriptions of new species and varieties.
10.2307/4115821|A new genus, Semiria (Compositae: Eupatorieae: Gyptidinae), is described from the State of Bahia, Brazil. It is represented by a single species, a distinctive small tree from compos rupestres. The genus shows some affinities with Lasiolaena and Stylotrichium but its vegetative appearance, indumentum, involucre, achene and pappus demonstrate its unique position. A key to the genera in the subtribe Gyptidinae in Brazil is provided.
10.2307/4117981|Thyrsanthemum, Gibasoides and Matudanthus, three genera segregated from Tradescantia, have been examined cytologically. In Thyrsanthemum, somatic chromosome numbers of 2n = 28, 30 and 32, corresponding to three different species, were found, and the karyotypes showed a broad similarity to those of Gibasoides and Matudanthus (both 2n = 32). These results may be useful in considering the evolutionary relationships of the three genera.
10.2307/4119313|Endostemon viscosus which was earlier known only from South India, has been found in Sri Lanka. Differences in morphology and ecology between Indian and Sri Lankan populations as well as their affinity to African taxa are discussed.
10.2307/4107963|The number of species of this genus in Africa is raised from one to three with the description of C. polygama and C. calycina spp. nov. from eastern Tanzania, with a distinct variety of the latter species.
10.2307/4102877|A key is given to the African species allied to Paspalum scrobiculatum, including P. deightonii, stat. nov., and P. glumaceum, sp. nov.
10.2307/4110207|A new stem-succulent species of Cynanchum, C. lenewtonii Liede from East Africa, is described. Its affinities within the genus Cynanchum are discussed.
23216730|A new species of Lauraceae, Mezilaurus revolutifolia F. M. Alves & P. L. R. Moraes from eastern Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This is the second species of the genus known to be endemic to the Brazilian Atlantic forest as previously only M. navalium (Allemo) Taub, ex Mez was known from this region. M. revolutifolia is distinguished from all other species of the genus by its revolute and glabrous leaves and glabrous racemose inflorescences with glabrous flowers clustered at the tips of the lateral branches.
10.2307/4110273| Two new species of Chrysobalanaceae are described and illustrated: Hirtella papillata from the forests of Costa Rica and Licania conferruminata from Rondnia, Brazil. 
10.2307/4102995|This brief paper presents further information needing to be published before the appearance of the account of part of the family for the Flora of Tropical East Africa, now with the editor. In Erythrococca, a new species is described from Tanzania. In Jatropha, a variety is subsumed, and in Sibangea a description is further amplified.
10.2307/4118035|Based on the author's field work in Colombia, four genera in Acanthaceae are examined. For Dicliptera a key and annotated check list are provided, three new species, D. felix, D. cleistogama and D. saxicola, are described, and a critical examination of the species described by E. C. Leonard questions some of the characters on which his species were based resulting in a considerable reduction in the number of accepted species. An examination of the characters on which the genera Habracanthus, Hansteinia and Kalbreyeracanthus are based shows that they have not been applied consistently and that no real distinction exists between the three genera so they are united under the oldest name, Habracanthus. A key is provided, together with a discussion of the characters found useful in delimiting species. Three new species, H. racemosus, H. leonardianus and H. maximus are described while seven previously described species are reduced to synonymy. Habracanthus smithii is shown to be conspecific with Stenostephanus puberulus Lindau, which is therefore transferred to Habracanthus as H. puberulus, the genus Stenostephanus therefore no longer being represented in Colombia. Two new species of Justicia are described (J. disparifolia and J. pedropalensis) and the differences between J. filibracteolata Lindau and its relatives are investigated. Two species of Pseuderanthemum described by E. C. Leonard are shown to be later names of accepted species.
10.2307/4110574|The genus Pentarrhinum is revised. Of the six species described, only two (P. abyssinicum and P. insipidum) are maintained in the genus. Relationships and distributional patterns are discussed.
10.2307/4114658|Poecilanthe itapuana a new species apparently endemic to the dunes north of Salvador, Bahia, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110292|This paper describes four new species from China: Epimedium brachyrrhizum from Guizhou (Kweichow), E. chlorandrum from Sichuan (Szechwan), E. epsteinii from Hunan and E. lishihchenii from Jiangxi (Kiangsi), this commemorating the great Chinese scholar, naturalist and pharmacologist Li Shih-Chen (1518 - 1593). The recorded 38 Chinese species are listed alphabetically and by provinces.
10.2307/4110701|Seven new species of Chrysobalanaceae are described and illustrated: Couepia rankinae from Amazonas, Brazil, Hirtella trichotoma and Licania stevensii from Costa Rica, Licania imbaimadaiensis from Guyana, Licania cardiophylla from Colombia and Venezuela, Licania espinae from Colombia and Licania velutina from Ecuador. Notes are given about recent collections of a few other species that are either significant range extensions or that add additional information about poorly collected species.
10.2307/4111030|Two distinctive new species of Plagiostachys (Zingiberaceae) are described; P. parva from Brunei Darussalam and Sabah and P. breviramosa from Brunei, Kalimantan, Sabah and Sarawak.
10.2307/4109909|Mitriostigma usambarense is described as new and its affinities discussed. It serves to reaffirm not only the well-known endemism of the area but also its links with West Africa.
10.2307/4108546|Hymenochaete gigaspora Reid, sp. nov. is described, based on a recent collection from Zambia received from M. H. Ivory.
10.2307/4118889|Aristogeitonia uapacifolia is described from Madagascar. This brings the number of species known from the island to 3, the same as on Mainland Africa. A key to the Madagascan species is given.
10.2307/4110597|The name Stachytarpheta sericea Loes. from Brazil is validated and a supposed hybrid form between S. sericea and S. chamissonis is investigated. The pollen morphology of the putative parents and hybrid is described.
10.2307/4110389|A palynological study was carried out on the genus Delonix and two closely related monospecific genera, Lemuropisum and Colvillea, using light, scanning electron and transmission electron microscopy. Three pollen morphological groups can be distinguished within Delonix. The pollen morphology of Lemuropisum cannot be distinguished from the largest of these Delonix pollen groups, but Colvillea has a completely different pollen type. Pollen morphology is reviewed in relation to generic and infrageneric groupings. Microperforations or foramina are seen in thin sections of the sexine, and a remarkable two-layered structure of the tectum is seen in two of the pollen groups. Pollination syndromes are discussed in relation to morphology, and the presence of various types of pollen-connecting threads.
10.2307/4117257|Ninety collections of C. cancellatus from natural populations have been examined cytologically with particular reference to their karyotype morphology and distribution. Chromosome numbers of 2n = 8, 10, 12, 14 and 16 are reported with B-chromosomes present in the 10 and 16 cytotypes. Karyotypic variation occurred in the 8, 10 and 12 cytotypes.
10.2307/4109463|A new species, Chloris woodii Renvoize, is described from Kenya.
10.2307/4119299|The species of Elaeocarpus in the Lesser Sunda Islands are reviewed; seven species belonging to the Coilopetalum group are keyed out and discussed, and distinguished from the eight other species known from these islands. E. batudulangii subsp. sumbensis Coode is described as new.
10.2307/4110285|An outline is given of William Roxburgh's botanical work in India leading to the publication of 'Hortus Bengalensis', 'Plants of the Coast of Coromandel' and 'Flora Indica'. The locations of the main sets of Roxburgh's specimens and drawings are discussed. Problems in typifying the names of Roxburgh's species are discussed as well as the relevance of the Flora Indica drawings. A partial list of Roxburgh specimens of his species is given: this is largely based on a manuscript list at Brussels of specimens there from the Martius herbarium, and on entries in Wallich's 'Catalogue'. Other specimens at Edinburgh, Liverpool, Oxford etc. are included. The corresponding drawings at Kew or Calcutta are listed where these are present.
23044677|The three sections of this paper report on i) new species, ii) new records for the Flora Zambesiaca region and for Mozambique and iii) expansion of distributions of species previously thought to be endemic to particular mountains. Specimens have been collected from three mountains in north-central Mozambique visited during a collecting programme from 2006 to 2008 investigating the conservation value of the biodiversity of currently unprotected areas. Three new species: Crotalaria namuliensis, Isoglossa namuliensis and Helixanthera schizocalyx are described. Five taxa not previously recorded from the Flora Zambesiaca region are here recorded as new records for the region and 31 taxa are listed from Mozambique for the first time, including five taxa previously thought to be Malawi mountain endemics. The number of range extensions recorded from these Mozambican mountains is evidence of the paucity of specimens collected from this part of Mozambique and shows the need for continued collection in order to clarify the distributions of this region's rarest species.
10.2307/4115742|A new species, Poikilacanthus harleyi is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relative. Two new combinations are also proposed, one in the genus Ruellia and another necessitated in the comparison of the new species.
10.2307/4110171|Listera oblata and L. nanchuanica are described from Szechuan, and L. yunnanensis from southeastern Yunnan, the only Listera recorded from that area. Their affinities with other related species are briefly discussed.
23489124|Initiating a revision of the Malaysian Myrsinaceae for the Flora of Peninsular Malaysia project, this paper revises Ardisia subgenus Bladhia from the region. Five taxa are recognised including a new species  Ardisia subverticillata Julius & Utteridge; a key, species descriptions, conservation assessments and distribution maps are provided. In addition, Ardisia tumida Furtado, previously treated within this subgenus, is excluded and transferred to subgenus Pimelandra.
10.2307/4117938|Miscellaneous floristic and taxonomic notes. The following new species are described from Lord Howe Is.: Coprosma inopinata I, Hutton & P. S. Green (Rubiaceae), Euphorbia psammogeton P. S. Green (Euphorbiaceae)-also from Queensland and New South Wales, and Macropiper hooglandii I. Hutton & P. S. Green (Piperaceae). Olearia elliptica subsp. praetermissa P. S. Green is described, and Trophis scandens (Lour.) Hook. & Arn. subsp. megacarpa (P. S. Green) P. S. Green, comb. nov. established, from Lord Howe I. Marsdenia tubulosa F. Muell. (Asclepiadaceae) from Lord Howe Is., as well as Euphorbia norfolkensis Boiss. and E. obliqua Endl. (Euphorbiaceae) from Norfolk Is., are re-established. Nicotiana forsteri Roem. & Schult. is shown to be the correct name for N. debneyi Domin (Solanaceae) and Pseuderanthemum pelagicum (Seem.) P. S. Green, comb. nov. that for P. grandiflorum Domin (Acanthaceae), of Vanuatu, formerly thought to be from Lord Howe Is. Alyxia gynopogon Roem. & Schult. (Gynopogon alyxia Forst. f., A. squamulosa C. Moore & F. Muell. Apocynaceae) and Scaevola taccada (Gaertn.) Roxb. (Goodeniaceae) are lectotypified. The identity of Euphorbia sparrmanii Boiss. is investigated and the record of Acronychia laevis J. R. & G. Forst. from Lord Howe Is. rejected.
10.2307/4110573|The genus Secamone is revised for Africa, including the islands of Zanzibar, Pemba and Socotra. The 16 species recognised include two new taxa, S. attenuifolia Goyder and S. dewevrei de Wild subsp. elliptica Goyder. S. leonensis (Scott Elliot) N. E. Br. is reinstated and S. micrandra K. Schum. is reduced to synonymy within the polymorphic S. punctulata Decne. Two names are lectotypified.
10.2307/4110147|A list of fungi is given supplementing the author's previous list of Outer Hebridean fungi (Dennis, 1975).
23044996|A new red-flowered species of Passiflora, P. cristalina Vanderpl. & Zappi, is described from the tropical rainforest of Mato Grosso, Brazil. The species is illustrated and its affinities with related species are discussed, and a key to the species of supersect. Distephana to which it belongs is provided. Uma nova espcie de Passiflora com flores vistosas e vermelhas, P. cristalina Vanderpl. & Zappi, foi descoberta na floresta amaznica ao norte do Mato Grosso. A espcie  ilustrada e suas afinidades com espcies relacionadas da supersect. Distephana so discutidas e uma chave de identificao  apresentada.
10.2307/4109853|The genus Psydrax Gaertn. is reinstated and the genera Mesoptera and Mitrastigma placed in synonymy; two subgenera are recognised, the palaeotropical subgen. Psydrax and the African subgen. Phallaria. In all, 36 African species are recognised; 10 new species and 3 new subspecies are described; 26 new combinations are made, 22 at specific level, 3 at subspecific level and one at varietal level; new synonomies are indicated. Distributions are given and specimens cited for new taxa. In addition one new combination from Malaya and one from Australia are made for nomenclatural reasons.
10.2307/4108898|Eragrostis abrumpens, sp. nov., is described from Kenya.
10.2307/4118872|An outline is given of J. M. Hildebrandt's life, and his collecting itineraries are described and traced, particularly in Eritrea, Somalia, Kenya, Tanzania, and Madagascar. A gazetteer of his collecting localities is given.
10.2307/4110697|The Asian and Australian taxa of the palaeotropical genus Secamone s. str. (Asclepiadaceae) are revised. S. emetica is recognized in India and Sri Lanka. In southeastern Asia and Australia only one species, S. elliptica, and two subspecies are accepted from more than 40 named taxa. Two new combinations are made, S. elliptica R. Brown subsp. siamica (Kerr) Klack. comb. & stat. nov. and S. elliptica R. Brown subsp. minutiflora (Tsiang) Klack. comb. & stat. nov. Keys, typifications, descriptions and discussions, as well as maps and line-drawings, are given for all taxa. A list of excluded names is provided for the region.
10.2307/4111124|Blepharis spinescens and B. thulinii from N Somalia and B. petraea from W Tanzania are described and placed in the context of the author's recent revision of the genus. The ecology of B. petraea is discussed in detail.
10.2307/4110290|The floral biology of 3 species of Clusia sect. Chlamydoclusia and 3 species of Clusia sect. Cordylandra from Central Amazonia was investigated. The flowers of both sexes offer resin as the reward for pollinating bees. The male flowers of the species of sect. Chlamydoclusia may additionally offer pollen. Principal pollinators observed were bees, mainly of the tribes Euglossini and Trigonini. In the male flowers of sect. Chlamydoclusia the pollen is kept separately from the floral resin, but in sect. Cordylandra it is mixed with the resin. The elongated connectives of the fertile stamens in sect. Chlamydoclusia secrete droplets of an oily fluid which probably serves as accessory pollenkitt. The stigmas of the pistils and pistillodes of flowers of sect. Cordylandra secrete an oily fluid; possible functions of this are discussed. C. renggerioides has male plants with two different floral morphs; pollen of both produced fertile seeds when used to pollinate female plants. The taxonomic significance of the different pollination strategies in Clusia and their evolution is discussed.
10.2307/4117697| Richterago is a genus of ten species endemic to Brazil with its centre of diversity in Serra do Espinhao, Minas Gerais State. Some species, including two new ones, Richterago campestris and Richterago petiolata, described and illustrated here, have distributions extending to western Serra do Espinhao and to Planalto Central. 
10.2307/4117695| A new species of Hyptis sect. Leucocephala Benth. in DC.: Hyptis sancti-gabrielii Harley, is described. The species is endemic to a small area of Bambui limestones in Central Bahia. The relationships of the new species are discussed and a full description, together with a key to species of sect. Leucocephala, is provided. The urgent need for conservation of natural habitats within the area is discussed. /// (Nova espcie de Hyptis sect. Leucocephala (Labiatae) endmica de rea de calcrio em Irec, Bahia, Brazil).  decrita uma nova espcie de Hyptis sect. Leucocephala Benth. in DC.: Hyptis sancti-gabrielii Harley.  uma espcie endmica a uma pequena rea de calcrio Bambui na regio central da Bahia, Brasil.  apresentada uma descrio completa de uma nova espcie e discutido o seu relacionamento com os outros txons de Hyptis sect. Leucocephala.  apresentada uma chave para identificao dos txons de Hyptis sect. Leucocephala. A necessidade urgente de preservao dos habitats naturais nessa rea  discutida. 
10.2307/4110365|Trichilia lovettii is described and its relationships with species in Africa, America and Madagascar discussed.
20649659|Stemonurus corrugatus Utteridge & Schori is described and illustrated as a new species from Sarawak, Malaysia. The new species is similar to S. grandifolius, S. scorpioides, and S. umbellatus, and morphological differences among the taxa are discussed. A distribution map and notes on the new species' conservation status are provided.
10.2307/4119788|From Pakistan three new species of Astragalus, and one new variety are described, together with one new varietal combination. Seven species and three varieties are recorded from Pakistan for the first time.
10.2307/4117065|Examination of the type of Galium aparinoides Forssk. has shown that it represents the species up to now known as G. hamatum Hochst. ex A. Rich. which name, by priority, it must now replace.
10.2307/4114469|The genus Cyclamen L. (Primulaceae) has been subject to a cladistic parsimony analysis based on morphological and cytological data, using Soldanella L. and Dodecatheon L. as outgroups. The analysis yielded two equally parsimonious cladograms from which a hypothesis of phylogenetic interrelationships has been formulated. Subgenus Psilanthum Schwartz was found to be the sister-group of the two subgenera Cyclamen and Gyrophoebe Schwarz, whereas the former subgenus Eucosme Schwarz was found to be a derived group within subgenus Cyclamen. Based on the cladistic analysis, character evolution in Cyclamen is discussed, a subgeneric reclassification of the genus is proposed, and Cyclamen graecum Link is hypothesized to be a taxon of hybrid origin.
23489025|We report the rediscovery of Paepalanthus macrocephalus var. pachyphyllus, an obscure taxon known exclusively from the type specimen. We formally re-establish the species Paepalanthus pachyphyllus and propose its combination within Actinocephalus. The species is redefined and illustrated. Actinocephalus pachyphyllus F. N. Costa, Trov & Echtern. (Eriocaulaceae, Paepalanthoideae) is distinguished from closely related species by possessing cylindrical to canaliculate linear leaves, covered by long trichomes at the base, with a round to obtuse apex, and short paraclades bearing a single scape. The species is endemic to the Espinhao Range in Minas Gerais. We compare it with Paepalanthus glareosus (Bong.) Krn. and P. trichopeplus Silveira, the most morphologically similar species. Comments on morphological variation, habitat, geographic distribution, conservation status as well as line drawings, photos, and a distribution map are provided.
10.2307/4110718|The names Luffa operculata (L.) Cogn. and Luffa sepium (G. F. W. Mey.) C. Jeffrey comb. nov. are shown to apply respectively to the Central American and the widespread South American indigenous species of Luffa.
10.2307/4110880|A new species of Cuphophyllus in sect. Virginei is described and illustrated from the Lesser Antilles, and comparisons made with Camarophyllus niveicolor.
10.2307/4114579|Five new subspecies from California, three new subspecies of C. sepium from central and eastern North America, two new subspecies of C. pellita from eastern Asia, a new subspecies of C. silvatica from China, and two new putative interspecific hybrids from Europe, are described, and C. fraterniflora of North America is reduced to a subspecies of C. silvatica.
23044626|For a long time in situ conservation has been the main approach used to protect Chilean plant diversity. However, due to the high level of endemism of its flora (50%) and an increasing human impact on wild areas, ex situ conservation has become an urgent requirement to avoid the extinction of plant populations and species. Since 2001, the Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias (INIA), Chile, has been working in partnership with the Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, (Kew) through the Millennium Seed Bank Project (MSB) with the objective of conserving 20% of the Chilean flora as seeds in long-term storage. This seed conservation effort has focussed mainly on the endangered and endemic plants of the Chilean drylands. Towards the end of the first phase of the MSB some 1482 seed collections representing 850 species and subspecies have been collected and safely preserved in the INIA Seed Base Bank and duplicated at Kew. Almost 70% of the total species collected are endemic to Chile and several of them are endangered. Additionally, seed germination research has been conducted for nearly 400 species and seed collections have been used to propagate several threatened species. Germination protocols have been published and disseminated online. Over 4,500 herbarium vouchers have been collected, largely duplicated at Kew and at the national herbarium in Chile. As a result of the inputs of INIA and the MSB, collaboration has been extended to other national stakeholders, mainly for plant taxonomy and seed collecting. In this context two training courses have been run for 70 staff/students. This training has contributed to the raising of general awareness of the need for the long-term protection of Chilean plant diversity and to demonstrate the key role that ex situ seed conservation can play in meeting this need.
27822019|Five species of achlorophyllous heteromycotrophs, better known as saprophytes, are here reported from Guinea for the first time, raising the national total to six. They include a new species, Gymnosiphon samoritoureanus Cheek, which is described and illustrated, and assessed as Vulnerable using IUCN (2001).
10.2307/4108267|One new genus and nine new species of African Orchidaceae are described here. A new combination for a South African orchid is made, adding another genus (Margelliantha) to that orchid flora. Three other new combinations and a new name for Angraecum linearifolium Cribb non Garay are also proposed; three new records are also given of East African orchids.
23489200|Vanda perplexa, a new species of orchid from the Lesser Sunda Islands is described and discussed.
10.2307/4108266|The Somalian species of Sapotaceae described or dealt with in the publications of E. Chiovenda have been revised. Manilkara sulcata (Engl.) Dubard has been correctly applied to Somalian material. Mimusops angel Chiov. is an isolated endemic species. M. degan Chiov. is a synonym of M. fruticosa A. DC. M. densiflora Engl. var. paolii Chiov. is a synonym of Manilkara mochisia (Bak.) Dubard. Mimusops somalensis Chiov. is the correct name for the species generally known as M. schliebenii Mildbr. & Schulze. Sideroxylon diospyroides Bak., now treated as a subspecies, S. inerme L. subsp. diospyroides (Baker) J. H. Hemsley, is correctly applied both to N and S Somalian material.
10.2307/4109965|Romnalda grallata sp. nov. from North Queensland is described. Romnalda P. F. Stevens till now has been considered a monotypic Papuasian endemic. R. grallata has chromosome number 2n = 16. Its phaseolate meridionally sulculate pollen with a corrugulate-perforate exine provides additional evidence for including this species in Romnalda. The significance of pollen morphology and chromosome number in considering generic limits of Lomandra Labill. is discussed.
20443322|The Benishangul Gumuz Region in western Ethiopia is one of the least botanically explored regions and several new records have been published as additions in the Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea. A new species is described, Chlorophytum pseudocaule Tesfaye & Nordal, and phytogeographic aspects of the endemicity of Chlorophytum in western Ethiopia are discussed.
10.2307/4107736|The New World taxa of Crassula are revised; 13 native species are recognized plus one adventive. The following taxonomic changes are made: C. saginoides (Maxim.) Bywater & Wickens, C. venezuelensis (Steyermark) Bywater & Wickens, C. minutissima (Skottsberg) Bywater & Wickens, C. longipes (Rose) Bywater & Wickens and C. viridis (S. Watson) Bywater & Wickens are all transferred from Tillaea. C. connata (Ruiz & Pav.) Berger is divided into 5 varieties, var. connata, var. erectoides Bywater & Wickens, var. eremica (Jepson) Bywater & Wickens, var. subsimplex (S. Watson) Bywater & Wickens and var. muscoides Bywater & Wickens.
10.2307/4114484|This paper supplements the Gatersleben approach to the infrageneric classification of the genus Allium of 1992. It describes a new section Cyathophora (subgen. Bromatorrhiza), transfers other groups to the rank of section (sect. Tenuissima) and emends sect. Sacculiferum, proposes the new subgenus Caloscordum and discusses taxonomic problems related to these taxa.
10.2307/4117831|The systematic status of the Nepalese Riocreuxia nepalensis is re-evaluated. Its generic position is discussed and it is concluded that it represents a member of the African, Asian and Australasian genus Brachystelma. The new combination, Brachystelma nepalense, is proposed.
10.2307/4115695|Echinops lanatus C. Jeffrey & Mesfin is described from East Africa.
10.2307/4115759|Chromosome numbers were determined in seven species of Junellia from South America. The basic numbers x = 9 and x = 10 occur, with diploids and tetraploids of each, although one tetraploid lacked one chromosome. The findings support the separation of Junellia from Verbena and the affinity between Junellia and Glandularia.
20443354|Floral morphology and anatomy and pollen morphology are described in both male and female floral units of Kupea martinetugei, representing one (of two) species of a rare genus of Triuridaceae from Cameroon and Tanzania. Kupea resembles other Triuridaceae in several respects; female floral units possess multiple free carpels on an axis that resembles a reduced inflorescence, male flowers possess few stamens with often transverse anther dehiscence, and highly characteristic inaperturate pollen with microspinulate surface patterning. However, it possesses two ovules per locule, in contrast to the single ovule per locule in other Triuridaceae, and also differs in ovule orientation. There is considerable variation in organ number; for example, in male flowers the number of perianth parts and shape and size of the labellum is variable.
10.2307/4110102|New species, new varieties, new combinations and range extensions in the genera listed below, from Malesia, the Solomon Islands and New Caledonia.
10.2307/4117693|On the basis of DNA sequence data, the affinities of the recently described genus Granitites (Rhamnaceae) from south-western Australia are confirmed to be with Alphitonia, as suggested by Rye (1996), rather than members of Pomaderreae, as thought by earlier authors. The findings of this study provide molecular confirmation that some components of the south-west Australian flora may be relicts of old rainforest lineages.
10.2307/4108104|On the basis of floral and vegetative characters Ridley's inclusion of the Malayan species Livistona kingiana Becc. in Pholidocarpus is shown to be correct.
10.2307/4115740|Piriqueta constellate and P. sarae are described, prior to the treatment of Turneraceae for the Florula of Pico das Almas and that of Piriqueta for Flora Neotropica.
20649676|The new species Solanum pronum Thulin, from Acacia-Commiphora bushland in eastern Ethiopia and central Somalia, is described and illustrated. It is a member of Solanum sect. Somalanum and is compared with S. benadirense, S. jubae and S. pampaninii.
10.2307/4109630|Monodia S. W. L. Jacobs is described with a single species, M. stipoides S. W. L. Jacobs from the Kimberley region of Australia.
27821983|Revision of the Asian genus Leptopus (Phyllanthaceae tribe Poranthereae) is presented recognising nine species. A key to species, full synonymy, typification, distribution maps and conservation assessments are provided. Eight new synonyms are made and ten lectotypes are chosen.
10.2307/4110300| Two new species, Solanum litoraneum A. E. Gon., from specimens collected from coastal southeastern and southern Mozambique, and Solanum torreanum A. E. Gon., from southern Mozambique, are described. 
10.2307/4109832|Eleven new species of the genus Panicum are described.
10.2307/4114571|The pollen morphology of the two species of Ceratonia differs. C. siliqua is tetracolporate while C. oreothauma is tricolporate. The two species are very similar in other pollen characters, for example endoaperture structure and exine stratification. A significant number of abnormal pollen grains occur in the predominant dolichostemonous male forms of C. siliqua but these do not appear to be correlated with a reduction in pollen fertility.
10.2307/4119014|The genus Girardinia has been found to comprise two species, both restricted to the montane areas in the tropics and in the warmer temperate parts of the Old World: G. bullosa is a well defined species restricted to Ethiopia and East Africa; G. diversifolia is a polymorphic species distributed from West Africa to China, Korea, Taiwan and Indonesia. G. cuspidata is found to be a Laportea, and the necessary new combination is made.
10.2307/4110134|Three new species of Thesium, T. jeanae, T. vahrmeijeri and T. litoreum are described from South Africa.
27822017|During a revision of Venezuelan species of Stylosanthes Sw., two quite distinct specimens were found. After a detailed survey of the literature and herbarium material, it was concluded that they belong to an undescribed species. The new species Stylosanthes falconensis Calles & Schultze-Kr. (belonging to section Styposanthes Vogel), endemic to the Sierra San Luis in the State of Falcn, is here described. An illustration is provided and the differences between the new taxon and Stylosanthes hamata (L.) Taub., a closely related species, are presented.
10.2307/4113651|Memecylon manickamii (Melastomataceae) a new species from the Kalakad - Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve on the Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu, is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110516|The leaf anatomy of Crocus L. (Iridaceae-Ixioideae) is described in the context of the systematics of the subfamily. Leaves of most species have a distinctive cross-sectional outline, with a central square or rectangular 'keel', and two lateral 'arms'. C. carpetanus differs markedly in that it lacks a single central keel, and has several surface ridges. Other minor variations include the presence of sclerenchyma 'girders' in some species, absent in others, which may be taxonomically significant.
10.2307/4102902| On the basis of recent evidence Lomatophyllum purpureum (Lam.) Dur. & Schinz (with full synonymy) is attributed to Mauritius and L. macrum (Haw.) Salm-Dyck to Runion. The two species are distinguished. 
10.2307/4110497|Blackburnia monodelpha Roxb. is synonymous with Nothopegia colebrookiana (Wight) Blume (Anacardiaceae). Since Roxburgh's epithet is earlier, the new combination Nothopegia monadelpha (Roxb.) Forman is made. Roxburgh drawing no. 171 of B. monadelpha is selected as lectotype of that name.
20649594|New combinations are provided for nine taxa in the Bolivian Compositae  four in Dendrophorbium (Senecioneae), four in Vernonia (Vernonieae) and one in Viguiera (Heliantheae)  in advance of an on-line publication of a 'Preliminary checklist of the Compositae of Bolivia'.
10.2307/4115823|A new species of Justicia L., J. bizuneshiae Ensermu, endemic to southern and south-western Ethiopia, is described and illustrated. Information on its pollen morphology is provided. It is compared with J. flava (Vahl) Vahl, and J. palustris (Hochst. ex Nees) T. Anders. which are similar in certain aspects.
10.2307/4117060|During work on the Liliaceae for the 'Flora of Iraq' vol. 8 it has been found necessary to make two new combinations at subspecific rank in Allium, describe a new species of Allium, Bellavalia and Hyacinthella and recognize a new section of Hyacinthella.
10.2307/4119790|Since 1941 only the tropical species of Acidanthera have remained in that genus. These are now transferred to Gladiolus and the necessary combinations are made or new names given, with full synonymy; two new species and two new varieties are described. In addition a key to this group of species is presented.
10.2307/4110720|Cyperus androhibensis, a new species in Cyperus sect. Leucocephali is described and illustrated. C. rufostriatus is emended in the light of recent collections to include C. hylophilus.
10.2307/4111073|A taxonomic revision of the palm genus Rhopaloblaste (Arecaceae: Arecoideae: Areceae) is presented. Six species are recognised: R. augusta from the Nicobar Islands, R. singaporensis in the Malay Peninsula and Singapore, R. ceramica which occurs from the Moluccas through to New Guinea, R. ledermanniana in New Guinea, R. elegans in the Solomon Islands and a new species described herein, Rhopaloblaste gideonii Banka, from New Ireland in Papua New Guinea. The taxonomic history, morphology, distribution, ecology, uses and conservation status of the genus and species are discussed.
10.2307/4111023|The genus Convolvulus (Convolvulaceae) is revised in Ethiopia and Eritrea. A total of 16 species are recognized, three of which C. bidrensis Sebsebe, C. gilbertii Sebsebe and C. vollesenii Sebsebe, and a variety, C. ruspolii Dammer ex Hallier f. var. pilosa Sebsebe are here described as new.
4110895|The new combination Anathallis microphyta (Barb. Rodr.) C. O. Azevedo & Van den Berg is proposed herein. This taxon is also lectotypified and recorded for the first time in Bahia State, Brazil.
10.2307/4110676|A new species of Caesalpinia from Guerrero, Mexico is described and illustrated.
10.2307/4110264|The genus Chionanthus (Oleaceae) in S. America is revised and Priogymnanthus gen. nov. described. 14 species of the former are recognized and 2 of the latter. An identification key is provided. Chionanthus tenuis sp. nov. is described from Brazil and the following new combinations made: C. avilensis, C. crassifolius, C. crassifolius var. elegans, C. ferrugineus, C. filiformis, C. fluminensis, C. implicatus, C. subsessilis, C. trichotomus, P. apertus and P. hasslerianus.
10.2307/4114514|A new species of trifoliolate Dalechampia sect. Dioscoreifoliae Pax & K. Hoffm. is described and illustrated.
23489151|Pandanus mangalorensis, a new species from the Mangalore district, Karnataka state, India is described and illustrated. The new species differs from other Pandanus species in having prominent multiple branching, triangular infructescence, drupes arranged on a bony triangular ring, drupe apex pyramidal with acute and bifid style and stigma and central projection extended up to style base. The species appears to be endemic to the collection site and is assigned as Critically Endangered (CR) based on IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria.
10.2307/4119427|Six species of Phallales from West Africa are revised in the light of recent observations. In addition, Gelopellis rufus Dring is described as new.
10.2307/4109732| An unpublished Ms varietal name of M. Jacques tienne Gay's, made for a variant of the Demerged Hornwort (Ceratophyllum) in which the fruit lacks the two basal spines, is deemed to have been partially zoogenic. 
23489342|A new species of Sphinctanthus from the Rio Doce Valley, Atlantic forest in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is here described and illustrated. The species is peculiar within the genus by having placentation entirely parietal, while in the other species of Sphinctanthus the placentation is basally axial and distally parietal. In addition, despite its bright orange flowers (being a plant with high potential as an ornamental), it is only known from two collections from nearby localities, indicating that it is a rare and critically endangered species. Uma nova espcie de Sphinctanthus proveniente do Vale do Rio Doce, na Floresta Atlantica do Estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil,  aqui descrita e ilustrada. A espcie  peculiar dentro do gnero por ter placentao completamente parietal, em quanto que nas outras espcies a placentao  basalmente axial e distalmente parietal. Tambm, apesar das flores de cor laranja vivo (sendo uma planta com alto potencial de ser cultivada como ornamental), ela  conhecida somente por duas coletas em localidades muito proximas, indicando que  uma espcie rara e criticamente em perigo.
10.2307/4108600|Epidermal characters and leaf exudate components of the eight Aloe species in Reynolds' Group 4 are discussed and the results are given of an investigation into the chromosomal behaviour of hybrids between some of them. These studies are taken into account in a review of the taxonomic position of A. somaliensis and related species, in which A. hemmingii and A. somaliensis var. marmorata are reduced to synonymy under A. somaliensis.
10.2307/4114446|Tetragastris Gaertn., a genus of nine species, is represented by three well-defined species in eastern Brazil. All of them are restricted in distribution, and two are in danger of extinction. T. catuaba, lost since it was based on an apparently misplaced collection, is rediscovered and a neotype is designated; it figures in a particularly confusing debate in Brazilian ethnobotany. T. occhionii, the most archaic species in the genus, is endemic to the coastal dune vegetation of Bahia. T. breviacuminata is restricted to the steep forested mountains in and around the city of Rio de Janeiro.
10.2307/4108574|Several name changes are made in the genera Stemodiopsis, Striga and Verbascum from East and NE tropical Africa.
10.2307/4119733|A pendulous variant of the "grass aloe", Aloe inyangensis, is described as var. kimberleyana; a single collection of a most distinctive plant with a bulb-like base is described as A. fimbrialis; a species hitherto accepted as a variant of A. saponaria is considered distinct and described as A. collina; a neglected species, A. menyharthii, is identified, an amplified description given, and a variant with narrowly lanceolate leaves described as subsp. ensifolia; and a capitate variant of A. greatheadii is considered distinct and described as A. carnea.
10.2307/4110154|Delosperma bosseranum Marais is described from Madagascar. It is the first record for the genus from this island.
10.2307/4110330|A re-assessment of Stachytarpheta caracana Glaz. nom. nud. shows that it is a member of the genus Hyptis Jacq. A new combination and description are supplied.
10.2307/4109863|The two South African genera Lasiochloa and Plagiochloa are united and placed under the earlier name Tribolium. The need to unite these genera is demonstrated, 11 species are distinguished and the characters used to identify the genus and the species are discussed. A full generic description and key to species are provided, new combinations are published and one new species is described.
10.2307/4102934|Coffea sp. A. of Kew Bull. 36: 836 (1982) is formally named and described as C. sessiliflora and a new subspecies of it described. C. pawekiana is reduced to a subspecies of C. mufindiensis.
10.2307/4108893|An account is given of the East African alpine species of Galium allied to G. glaciale Krause, including the description of a new species.
10.2307/4120618|The pericarp and perianth in fruits of 27 of the 35 currently accepted species of the genus Pouzolzia (Urticaceae) were studied. The pericarp is crustaceous and always entirely sclerified. Cell walls are impregnated with silica, lignin and/or tannins, colouring the pericarpium. Cells of the innermost mesocarp layer have amorphous solid contents. Pericarp structure is of a consistent basic pattern throughout the genus. The fruiting perianth is crustaceous and generally easy to detach from the pericarpium. Fruiting perianth structure is much more variable than pericarp structure, differing not only between species but sometimes also within a species or an individual plant, giving rise to fruit polymorphism in certain taxa. Outgrowths of the perianth give rise to surface sculpture, ribs, or wings. Fruits were classified into seven groups on the basis of the number and structure of pericarp cell layers, the presence and distribution of tannins and the structure of the innermost mesocarp layer. These seven groups of species differ from one another also in fruiting perianth anatomy: the groups correlate well with classification based on gross morphology. Characters of both perianth and pericarp clearly support the distinction between the genera Pouzolzia, Boehmeria and Pipturus. Within Pouzolzia they also support the distinction between sections Pouzolzia and Memorialis. Certain adaptive features are discussed and evolutionary trends suggested.
10.2307/4110855|A new coelomycete genus Setolibertella with type species Setolibertella solani sp. nov. is described from a single but abundant collection from the Azores. In addition, the new species Phomopsis tropaeoli, also from the Azores, is described and illustrated.
24717383|Analysis of the type collections of seven binomials and four trinomials of Microlicia has enabled the selection of lectotypes for M. amplexicaulis, M. cipoana, M. confertiflora var. acutifolia, M. confertiflora var. laxifolia, M. doryphylla var. ovata, M. ericoides, M. oligantha and M. tetrasticha. All varieties proposed by earlier authors are relegated to synonymy. A anlise da coleo tipo de sete binmios e quatro trinmios de Microlicia possibilitou a seleo de lecttipos para M. amplexicaulis, M. cipoana, M. confertiflora var. acutifolia, M. confertiflora var. laxifolia, M. doryphylla var. ovata, M. ericoides, M. oligantha e M. tetrasticha. Todas as variedades propostas por autores anteriores so consideradas sinnimos.
20443348|Two new species of Acanthus, A. kulalensis and A. austromontanus are described. A key to and synopsis of the nine species recorded from East and Northeast Africa as well as tropical Arabia is provided. A number of species are lectotypified. The conservation status of all species is discussed.
10.2307/4108374|A new species, Commicarpus sinuatus Meikle, is described, and the description of the imperfectly known C. stenocarpus (Chiov.) Cufod. is amended. The distribution of the latter species, previously known only from Africa, is now seen to extend from Somalia to the borders of Pakistan.
10.2307/4110743|Jasminum mackeeorum sp. nov. is described from New Caledonia, with J. elatum var. brevistylis in synonymy; a lectotype is selected for this variety.
10.2307/4109653| An attempt to define precisely the subdivisions of the genus and determine their degree of relationship has been made principally on the basis of the following criteria, which are listed in order of increasing specialization of pollen characters, cytology, seed characters, inflorescence, pod, and vegetative system. Although the characters do not always vary together, the main directions of specialization, which are related to the geographic distribution of the groups, can be demonstrated when their combinations are taken into consideration. Sect. Filicinum Vassal (ser. Filicinae Benth.) stands out as the most archaic by the number of undifferentiated characters it contains. The analysis of these characters, their relationship and geographic distribution supports the hypothesis that the diversification of the genus first took place in the tropical regions now represented by the remains of western Gondwana. /// En utilisant principalement les critres suivants: caractres du pollen, cytologie, caractres de la graine, de l'inflorescence, de la gousse, de l'appareil vgtatif et en classant leurs tats selon un ordre de spcialisation croissante, on a tent de prciser les subdivisions du genre, d'en indiquer le degr de parent. Les caractres utiliss ne varient pas toujours ensemble, cependant la prise en considration de leurs combinaisons permet de mettre en vidence les principales directions de spcialisations, qui sont en relation avec la rpartition geographique des groupes. La sect. Filicinum Vassal (ser. Filicinae Benth.) apparat la plus archaque par le nombre de caractres non specialiss qu'elle contient. En se basant sur ces caractres, leur relation de parent et leur rpartition gographique, on peut soutenir l'hypothse que le genre s'est d'abord diversifi dans les rgions tropicales qui reprsentent actuellement les restes du Gondwana occidental. 
10.2307/4118074|Schismatoglottis gillianae, S. cyria and Homalomena vagans are described as new from Brunei.
10.2307/4111175|One new species, Platymiscium jejunum from Mexico, is described, nine new infraspecific combinations are proposed; and new synonyms are added to P. floribundum var. floribundum, P. floribundum var. latifolium, and P. pinnatum subsp. pinnatum van pinnatum.
24717388|Fimbristylis clarkei, a new species, from the Buxa Wildlife Sanctuary is described and illustrated. Its affinity with F. griffithii is discussed.
10.2307/4109743|In Acalypha, a new record for Burundi is reported. In Jatropha, 2 new combinations are made. In Phyllanthus, a new record for NE Tropical Africa is reported. In Tragia, 4 new species are described, a new name is proposed, two reductions into synonymy are made, and new records are reported from the Sudan, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique. In Tragiella, a new species is described. This information has come to light during the concluding study of Euphorbiaceae for the Flora of Tropical East Africa.
10.2307/4110631|Ten new species of Elaeocarpus (Elaeocarpaceae), from mid- to high altitudes on Sulawesi are described: E. linnaei Coode, E. gambutanus Coode and E. lancistipulatus Coode from the Minahasa Peninsula; E. burkii Coode, E. eymae Coode, E. inopportunus Coode, E. luteolignum Coode, E. musseri Coode, E. purus Coode and E. steupii Coode from other areas of Sulawesi. An enlarged description for E. kraengensis R. Knuth is given and affinities discussed. All eleven are apparently endemic to Sulawesi.
10.2307/4110403|The genus Aldrigea Massee is typified and shown to be a synonym of Coniophora DC.
23216096|A new species, endemic to the Flora Iranica area, Gagea robusta (Liliaceae) is described and illustrated. It differs from G. reticulata (Pall.) Schult. & Schult. f. in having a puberulent indumentum on the basal leaf and from G. setifolia Baker ex Aitch. in having a long neck (up to 12 cm long). Its ecology, distribution and conservation status are discussed.
10.2307/4117973|The new combination Olea europaea subsp. africana (Mill.) P. S. Green is made. O. woodiana is shown to occur in Kenya and Tanzania as well as in Southern Africa. The new species O. chimanimani Kupicha is described.
10.2307/4119059|A list of fungi from the Hebridean islands Colonsay and Oronsay is provided, which includes 76 spp not recorded by Henderson & Watling (1978) for the neighbouring island of Mull.
10.2307/4115860|An account is presented of the poroid fungi hitherto known from the Azores. These number 32 species, 17 of which are newly recorded from the archipelago, and include representatives of the families Coriolaceae, Ganodermataceae, Gloeophyllaceae, Hymenochaetaceae, Hyphodermataceae, and Sistotremataceae.
27822014|A new species of Hyptis sect. Eriosphaeria (Lamiaceae) from Gois (Brazil) is described, illustrated and compared with related species in sect. Eriosphaeria subsect. Passerinae. An evaluation of the species of the group and a key to identification is provided. Uma nova espcie de Hyptis sect. Eriosphaeria (Lamiaceae) de Gois (Brasil)  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com as outras espcies de sect. Eriosphaeria subsect. Passerinae.  apresentada uma avaliao das espcies do grupo e uma chave de identificao das mesmas.
10.2307/4103088|A key is given for all the African genera of the tribe Danthonieae. The genus Alloeochaete C. E. Hubbard is reviewed, its taxonomic position discussed and three new species are described: A. uluguruensis Kabuye; A. geniculata Kabuye; A. gracillima Kabuye.
10.2307/4118971|Two new species of Sinarundinaria are described, S. burmaensis and S. longispiculata, from Burma and Assam.
10.2307/4118776|The classification of Acanthaceae is discussed relative to recent molecular studies, pollen morphology, corolla aestivation and other potentially informative morphological homologues. The major pollen types of Acanthaceae are illustrated in the form of scanning electron micrographs. A three-item analysis of 11 morphological homologues is provided. A new classification of Acanthaceae is presented in addition to a list of generic synonymy.
10.2307/4114609| Pyranthus, a new genus of the tribe Millettieae (Leguminosae - Papilionoideae) is described. Endemic to Madagascar, it includes six species, two of them (P. pauciflora (Baker) Du Puy & Labat and P. monantha (Baker) Du Puy & Labat) formerly included in Tephrosia, three (P. ambatoana (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat, P. lucens (R. Viguier) Du Puy & Labat and P. tullearensis (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat) in Mundulea and one new species (P. alasoa Du Puy & Labat). /// Pyranthus, un nouveau genre de la tribu des Millettieae (Leguminosae - Papilionoideae) est dcrit. Endmique de Madagascar, il est constitu de six espces, deux places pr cdemment dans Tephrosia (P. pauciflora (Baker) Du Puy & Labat et P. monantha (Baker) Du Puy & Labat), trois dans Mundulea (P. ambatoana (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat, P. lucens (R. Viguier) Du Puy & Labat et P. tullearensis (Baillon) Du Puy & Labat) et une espce nouvelle (P. alasoa Du Puy & Labat). 
20649635|Utricularia rostrata A. Fleischm. & Rivadavia (Lentibulariaceae) is described from the Chapada Diamantina highlands in Bahia state, north-eastern Brazil. The morphological characteristics which distinguish this new species are discussed, together with its distribution and ecology.
25070247|A new species, Blechnum puniceum, is described from Mt Jaya, Papua.
10.2307/4109741|Morphology of branching and the spikelet in Racemobambos Holttum is discussed. The genus is considered to be related to Arundinaria Michaux and its allies. Sterile material of Racemobambos species and Nastus species occurring in New Guinea are differentiated. Fifteen species are recognized and keyed, of which four are new: R. kutaiensis & R. hepburnii from Borneo, R. holttumii from Solomon Is., and R. novohibernica from New Ireland. R. tessellata Holttum is transferred to Yushania Keng, and a new combination is made, Y. tessellata (Holttum) S. Dransfield, the second species of Yushania to be recorded from Malesia.
10.2307/4110370|A new species of Panicum (P. longiloreum) is described and distinguished from allied species in a key.
10.2307/4110204|A new species, Caesalpinia coccinea, from Oaxaca, Mexico is described and illustrated.
20443264|A new combination in Gloeomucro is provided for the North American species Tremella dependens, based on a re-examination of the type specimen. Gloeomucro chlorinus is considered a later synonym.
10.2307/4110872|Three new taxa from Brazil are described: Hyphodontiastra Hjortstam, the generic type Hyphodontiastra virgaecola Hjortstam & Melo, and Steccherinum diversum Hjortstam & Melo. In addition Hydnum setulosum Berk. & M. A. Curtis, originally described from Alabama, USA, is briefly discussed. Odontia lusitanica Bres., described from Portugal, is reduced to synonymy under Steccherinum setulosum.
10.2307/4109800|The monotypic genus Batania Hatusima is a synonym of Pycnarrhena Miers ex Hook. f. & Thoms. The combination P. insignis (Hatusima) Forman is published together with an amended description of the species.
20649595|The name Pavetta modesta (Hiern) S. E. Dawson is a later homonym of P. modesta Bremek. Pavetta crystalensis is proposed as a new name.
20649647|Sixteen species of Anisochilus are reviewed. Full synonymy, information about types, distributions, and a key to species are given. The type of the little known A. adenanthus Dalzell has been found and the widely used A. verticillatus is a synonym. A. sericeus and A. dysophylloides var. purpureus are synonyms of A. dysophylloides. A. henryi, a recently published name is a synonym of A. robustus. Nine names are lectotypified. The genus occurs in South Asia, from the East Himalaya, North Thailand, and South China in the North to Sri Lanka and Peninsular Thailand in the South.
10.2307/4117112|The complex is divided into two species, Justicia schimperi and J. striata. The former is distinguished by its long slender corolla tube which exceeds the length of the lip and by its rich pink flowers; the latter by its short corolla tube which is equalled or exceeded by the lip and by its usually cream-coloured flowers. J. insularis is reduced to a subspecies of J. striata, intergrading with J. schimperi in south-eastern Nigeria. J. schimperi is divided into two subspecies, one of which comprises two varieties, while J. striata is divided into four subspecies, one of which comprises two varieties. Variation of J. schimperi is discussed in the light of cultivation and hybridization experiments, and chromosome numbers are given for two subspecies of this species.
10.2307/4111008|Dryopteris tricellularis (Dryopteridaceae) a new species from East Africa, is described and illustrated.
20649650|Three new species of Abarema Pittier (Leguminosae) are described and illustrated: A. villosa Iganci & Morim, A. limae Iganci & Morim and A. barnebyana Iganci & Morim from the Brazilian states of Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo. A. villosa is similar to A. brachystachya (DC.) Barneby & J. W. Grimes, but has villous leaflets, a pilose and truncate ovary and a corolla three times longer than the calyx. Both A. limae and A. barnebyana resemble A. jupunba (Willd.) Britton & Killip in having rhombic leaflets and heteromorphic inflorescences, but are differentiated by leaflet size and indumentum, and pod size and shape.
10.2307/4114471|The genus Angkalanthus is redefined to its original circumscription. The excluded A. transvaalensis is placed with Ecbolium striatum and E. striatum var. minor (raised here to species rank) in the new genus Chorisochora. The necessary new combinations are made.
20443307|New records which have come to light as a result of ongoing work on Flora of Tropical East Africa and Flora Zambesiaca are reported, extending the geographic range of species in the following genera of Euphorbiaceae sensu stricto and Phyllanthaceae. Acalypha, Caperonia, Croton, Cyttaranthus, Erythrococca, Phyllanthus, Pseudagrostistachys, Thecacoris and Tragia. The new species Phyllanthus leucochlamys Radcl.-Sm. is described, and the new combination Microstachys acetosella (Milne-Redh.) Esser var. linearis (J. Lonard) Radcl.-Sm. is made.
10.2307/4109671|A reappraisal is made of the generic characters used in separating Anthericum, Chlorophytum, Dasystachys, Debesia (Acrospira), Diuranthera, Echeandia, Trachyandra, Trichopetalum (Bottionea) and Verdickia. Debesia is placed under Anthericum. Dasystachys, Diuranthera and Verdickia are all sunk into Chlorophytum. A key to the recognised genera is given and the necessary new combinations and new names are made.
23044991|Subsequent to the treatment of the Aloaceae, with 38 species of Aloe, in the Flora of Ethiopia (Sebsebe Demissew & Gilbert 1997), four more species, Aloe bertemariae Sebsebe & Dioli (2000), A. friisii Sebsebe & M. G. Gilbert (2000), A. clarkei L. E. Newton (2002) and A. elkerriana Dioli & T. A. McCoy (2007) have been described from that country. Here four additional new species are described: Aloe benishangulana Sebsebe & Tesfaye from near Assosa, Benishangul-Gumuz in Welega floristic region; A. ghibensis Sebsebe & Friis from the Ghibe Gorge, Kefa floristic region; A. weloensis Sebsebe from near Dessie in Welo floristic region and A. welmelensis Sebsebe & Nordal along the Welmel River in Bale floristic region. The phytogeographical positions of the new species are assessed by comparison with the previously known species. Complications with the deposition of type material of A. clarkei and A. elkerriana is used to raise various issues regarding the ethics of describing new taxa from foreign countries.
10.2307/4108597|Hydrocotyle mannii Hook.f. var. acutiloba C. C. Townsend is described from Uganda, and Anthriscus sylvestris (L.) Hoffm. var. nemorosa (M. Bieb.) Trautv. recorded for the first time from Africa.
10.2307/4115697| Two new African species of Dorstenia are described: D. bergiana Hijman and D. zambesiaca Hijman. Four new combinations are made in the genus: D. conuexa De Wild. var. oblonga (Compre) Hijman, D. cuspidata A. Rich. var. preussi (Engl.) Hijman, D. dinklagei Engl. var. binzansis (De Wild.) Hijman and D. dinklagei Engl. var. bequaertii (De Wild.) Hijman. 
10.2307/4115813|The phylogeny, biogeography, and conservation prioritization of African violet taxa (Saintpaulia: Gesneriaceae) in East Africa was investigated using parsimony analysis ofnucleotide sequences from the 5S nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) non-transcribed spacer (5S-NTS). Although in substantial agreement with a previous phylogenetic analysis of nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences, the present study of the faster evolving 5S-NTS locus identified two new, major lineages, the Nguru Mountains and Usambara Mountains/lowland clades. The genetic diversity within the basal-most Saintpaulia clade, present in the Nguru, Uluguru, and Ukaguru Mountains, was underscored by addition of an Uluguru Mountains collection of Saintpaulia pusilla. Previous studies based on ITS included only a single individual of Saintpaulia goetzeana, here represented by two disjunct populations. These accessions were genetically divergent and separated from Saintpaulia pusilla by long branches. However, no support could be found for an earlier suggestion that the Uluguru Mountains represent the ancestral area for the genus. Indeed, the Nguru Mountains hold two to three of the four major Saintpaulia clades identified, and our conclusion is that this region should be given the highest priority for conservation of African violet genetic and morphological diversity. An additional prioritization suggestion derives from the finding that Saintpaulia taxa from Kenyan lowlands form a discrete subclade within the poorly-resolved Usambaras/lowland clade, providing at least one clearly recognizable, geographically distinct, and reproductively isolated lineage of what may have recently constituted only metapopulational variation.
10.2307/4117032|Various changes in rank are made in Acanthaceae in connection with the forthcoming account for Flora of Ceylon. Two Sri Lankan varieties of Crossandra infundibuliformis (L.) Nees - var. axillaris Trimen and var. crocea Trimen - are raised to subspecific rank, the latter as subsp. arida, nom. nov. The genus Indoneesiella Sreem. is reduced to subgeneric rank within Andrographis Wall. ex Nees. Rungia latior Nees is reduced to subspecific rank within Rungia longifolia Nees.
10.2307/4117589|Eleven electrophoretically distinct forms of acid phosphatase have been distinguished in extracts from plants of Gibasis schiedeana (Kunth) D. R. Hunt collected in different parts of Mexico. All the forms are anodic in the conditions used and could be grouped into three zones on the gel. The six fastest bands appeared to be controlled by at least three loci each with several alleles although in general it was not possible to distinguish parent and hybrid enzymes because of the failure to obtain satisfactory crosses. Band 7 appeared invariant but variation could be concealed by the very heavy staining in this region. The four slow bands are difficult to distinguish but may be controlled by at least two loci. Some of the bands, notably 1, 2 and 4 are restricted geographically. Acid phosphatase banding suggests two diploid strains, one from Tamaulipas and one from Hidalgo both having given rise to tetraploid lines by Robertsonian translocation, these tetraploids then becoming widely scattered and perhaps intercrossing to a small extent.
10.2307/4119373|The occurrence of Geopora arenosa in the British Isles is confirmed by examination of two British collections from Scotland and comparison with type material of the species. The British record of this name is discussed and a revised key to the known British species of Geopora provided. Peziza arenosa Fuckel (the basionym of G. arenosa) is lectotypified to stabilise the concept of the species. Ascospore drawings from relevant collections are provided to facilitate recognition of British species of Geopora.
23489242|The monospecific genus Steinbachiella Harms is reinstated as a distinct genus in Leguminosae, tribe Dalbergieae, based on recent collections from Bolivia. The fruits are samaras similar in appearance to those of the related genus Machaerium Pers. A combined morphological and molecular phylogenetic analysis suggests that the distally winged fruit of Steinbachiella and most Machaerium species is homologous. Nevertheless, Steinbachiella is distinct in having a unique suite of morphological characters that includes flowers in 14-flowered racemes, the corollas yellow and totally glabrous, the standard petal with a deeply emarginate apex, long-stipitate ovaries and a samaroid fruit. In addition, in molecular analyses the genus is placed as sister to Machaerium and not nested within it.
10.2307/4114585|Hibiscus platycalyx as interpreted by modern authors is shown to include two distinct species, H. platycalyx Mast. and H. seineri Engl. H. faulknerae, related to H. seineri is described as new.
10.2307/4110483|Eighteen species within the Auriculariales, Ceratobasidiales, Dacrymycetales, and Tremellales are recorded for the first time from the Temburong and Tutong Districts of Brunei Darussalam. Exidia pusilla and Heteromycophaga tremellicola are described as new. Sirobasidium intermediate is considered a synonym of S. brefeldianum; Tremella brasiliensis a synonym of T. philippinensis; Hydnum cesatii a synonym of Protohydnum sclerodontium; and Exidia hispidula a probable synonym of E. japonica. Other heterobasidiomycetes reported from Brunei are listed, and the literature on heterobasidiomycetes from Malaysia and Indonesia is briefly reviewed.
10.2307/4103165|A taxonomic revision is presented for Cyrtandra in the Bismarck Archipelago and the Solomon Islands. A total of 24 species are recognized, including 17 new species, and their distributions are portrayed on four maps. Field and herbarium studies show that 8 evolutionary lines are represented in the region, 7 of these with strong affinities to New Guinea. The 7 lineages in the Bismarck Archipelago are all New Guinean, and five of these extend to the Solomon Islands. Four Solomon Islands lineages are common to Fiji.
10.2307/4109686|The existing hypotheses on the phylogeny of the families of the Poales are reviewed, and the data on which they are based are critically assessed. The results of this assessment are presented as a cladogram. The fossil pollen record of the order is also reviewed, and many of the results are reinterpreted. In the light of the cladogram of the families, and of the generic groups in the Restionaceae, as well as the biology of the extant taxa and the fossil pollen, an evolutionary scenario of the order is presented.
10.2307/4118784|A new species of Aloe, A. bertemariae Sebsebe & Dioli, is described from the Harerge region, Ogaden, southeast Ethiopia.
10.2307/4110460|Duckeodendron cestroides is the sole species in Duckeodendraceae and has also been included in Solanaceae, Boraginaceae and Apocynaceae. Analysis of rbcL sequence data indicates a placement within Solanaceae, within which Duckeodendron appears to be an isolated taxon, falling in a paraphyletic grade that also includes Goetzea, Metternichia, Schizanthus, Schwenckia and Salpiglossis. The molecular results are discussed in the light of the morphological and anatomical characters of Duckeodendron and other Solanaceae.
10.2307/4103070| Stomatanthes, originally described as a monotypic African genus, later including 12 S. American species, is enlarged by the description of S. meyeri from Ethiopia and S. zambiensis from N. Zambia and Malai, the latter in the new subgenus Verticifolium. 
23044687|Two new microfungi, a fungicolous Scolecobasidium, S. rostricola sp. nov., colonising the ostiolar necks of a new coelomycete, Caducirostrum foliicola gen. & sp. nov., on leaf litter of Viburnum tinus, Arbutus unedo, Prunus laurocerasus and P. lusitanica from the U.K. and Italy, are described, illustrated and compared with other relevant taxa. Rhabdostromina, with new combinations for Dendroseptoria arrhenatheri and D. oryzopsidis, is resurrected.
10.2307/4109987|The pollen morphology of the 9 species of the genus Psophocarpus has been examined and is found to support the existing taxonomy of the genus. All species have tricolporate grains. Four main types of mesocolpial ornamentation have been recognized; fine reticulum, coarse reticulum, very coarse reticulum often interrupted and striate-rugulate reticulum.
10.2307/4108608|Pseudoprosopis bampsiana Lisowski is recorded from Sierra Leone and P. euryphylla subsp. puguensis is described as new from Tanzania.
10.2307/4114580|Zygophyllum section Bipartita includes at present 11 species. Of these, 6 species (Z. dregeanum, Z. prismatocarpum, Z. retrofractum, Z. cylindrifolium, Z. clavatum and Z. tenue) are endemic to South Africa, Z. depauperatum and Z. madecassum are endemic to Madagascar and Z. smithii, described here, is known at present only from the Gulf of Aden. Z. simplex and Z. decumbens are widespread taxa; their polymorphic nature and synonomy are discussed. Z. depauperatum and Z. smithii are characterized by indehiscent fruits and outstandingly long funicles for the ovules. These peculiar characters and their isolated distribution deserve future study, which may be useful for a better understanding of the developmental history of the genus.
10.2307/4110338|Two new species of Conyza, C. flabellata from southern Ethiopia, and C. agnewi from Kenya and Uganda are described and illustrated.
10.2307/4115721|This paper reviews the 10 species of Tripogon occurring in China. A key to the species, descriptions and synonymy are provided. Three new species are described: T. sichuanicus, T. rupestris and T. liouae. The name T. yunnanensis is validated.
