23502019|The chromium bearing soils of Rhodesia when extracted with $2\frac{1}{2}\%$ (by volume) acetic acid reveal less than 2 ppm Cr by atomic absorption spectrophotometer analysis and one would therefore expect that it would be scarcely available to plants. However, on chrome rich soils Rhodesian serpentine species including some serpentine endemics have up to 48 000 ppm in the ashed leaves (e.g. Sutera fodina) as well as large amounts of nickel. Legume species, both endemic and non-endemic to serpentine soils are reported to have active rhizobium nodules on serpentine soils with high chromium and nickel values. Some species accumulate more chrome in their roots than in their stems and leaves, a smaller number accumulated more in stems and/or leaves than in their roots. The same variation occurs with nickel but the situation with this metal does not exactly parallel the behaviour of chrome. Some species with more nickel in their roots than stems or leaves behave in the opposite manner with chrome, some in a similar manner and some species have amounts in stem, leaves and roots which do not greatly differ from each other.
23502377|An account of the vegetation and a checklist of plants recorded from the Mazowe Botanic Reserve in Christon Bank near Harare, Zimbabwe are presented. Findings are based on vegetation surveys carried out in 1999. The checklist comprises 305 species in 211 genera, representing 68 families of ferns and flowering plants.
23502311|A new natural orchid hybrid between Bulbophyllum scaberulum and B. maximum is described and discussed. The background to pollination and hybridisation in the orchid family is outlined.
23502388|Zimbabwean populations of the Ornithogalum tenuifolium complex were studied cytologically and morphologically to settle whether different cytotypes can be delimited morphologically and, thus, taxonomically. Three different cytotypes have been found, 2n=4, 2n=12 (cytotype not described earlier in the complex) and 2n=24 (chromosome number not described earlier in the complex). The 2n=4 and 2n=12 cytotypes cannot be distinguished morphologically. The 2n=24 cytotype is tetraploid and more robust than the others but taxonomic recognition is not recommended. Hypotheses on the evolutionary connection between the new and previously known cytotypes are presented.
23502315|This study examined the extent, types and patterns of elephant (Loxodonta africana) damage on mopane (Colophospermum mopane), a common caesalpinioid tree, on six islands in Lake Kariba, Zimbabwe. Within 10 plots, 1 376 mopane trees above 0.5 m were assessed and 77.6% were found to be damaged, the most common form of damage being broken stems. The heavily affected size class were plants less than 20 cm girth, of which 50% were coppicing but most of the coppice shoots were continuously browsed back. The incidence of forking individuals below 2 m was high, being over 60% on five islands, an indication of damage to the terminal shoots when the plants were young. Constant browsing and breaking of plants is probably trapping trees into size classes exploitable by elephants and is preventing recruitment to the taller size classes. This study illustrates that elephants occurring in large numbers can modify vegetation structure, a situation which is common in major elephant range areas of Zimbabwe.
23502364|On the basis of a survey of the nodulation of 362 genera of the Leguminosae, comprising some 94 per cent. of all species, it is concluded that the nodule-forming habit is general in the subfamilies Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae, and that it is likely that only a small minority of genera and species form nodules in the subfamily Caesalpinioideae. In a parallel survey of 210 genera, comprising some 83 per cent. of all species, five types of rhizobial nodule have been found. The commonest of these, characteristic of most of the typically woody tribes, occurs in all three subfamilies, while the other four are confined to certain tribes of the subfamily Papilionoideae,including most of those that are typically herbaceous. The evolution of the five types of nodule among the Papilionoideae is considered, and then related to current views of the tribal pedigree of that subfamily.
23502397|This article analyses the carpic structures of Mesembryanthemum s.l. which it attempts to interpret according to evolution, morphology, morphogeny and phylogeny. It shows that the peculiar dehiscence of Mesembryanthemum s.l. rests on structures that, though morphologically peculiar to this "genus", are still an essential part of the whole of the angiospermous flower's morphogeny. Notes are contributed on "sterile carpels" and "septal glands", also on orthogeny and the historical and actual significance of Saunders' work.
23502395|An account of the 8 species of Erythrina L. found in the Flora Zambesiaca area is given, with a key and full descriptions.
23502327|An account of the family Agapanthaceae for the Flora Zambesiaca area is presented, together with descriptions, notes and synonyms. Only one species (A. dyeri) occurs, and represents an offshoot of the South African-centred group.
23502320|An annotated checklist is provided for the flowering plant and fern species of the South Luangwa National Park in north eastern Zambia. The Park occupies part of a rift valley and has a flora thought to be typical of the entire middle Luangwa. Ecological information is given for each species. A history of plant collection in the region is provided. The checklist is needed since the regional flora for South-Central Africa, Flora Zambesiaca, cites species by rather coarse geographical divisions that make it difficult to compare species composition of natural regions such as the rift valleys. Furthermore, of the 485 genera represented in the checklist, only 239 have so far been included in the Flora. This list of 1094 species is intended to provide as complete an inventory as is possible of the mid-Luangwa valley topographical region, with special emphasis on the South Luangwa National Park.
23502381|A preliminary checklist of the vascular plant species recorded from an area of 3450 km2 between the Shashe, Limpopo and Umzingwane rivers in southwestern Zimbabwe is presented. The area forms part of the proposed Shashe-Limpopo Trans-Frontier Conservation Area, or Peace Park. The list comprises 582 species from 87 families, including four new records for Zimbabwe and three Zimbabwe endemics. Sandstone substrates are particularly species-rich and support a number of taxa of restricted distribution. Woody plants are believed to be well covered, but the list is significantly incomplete for grasses, forbs and weeds of disturbed land. Total flora for the area could be around 800 taxa. The area can be considered an outlier of the arid Kalaharian flora of Botswana and is of major national significance for its biodiversity. Further collecting is needed, particularly in sandstone areas, riparian woodland and on disturbed land.
23502174|Plant and soil analyses from a range of Zimbabwean serpentine soils and plants are presented. The soil analyses are discussed in relation to those elsewhere in the world and shown to have relatively high levels of nickel, particularly that fraction of nickel extractable with ammonium acetate solutions. Correlation coefficients are calculated for a large number of element pairs and used to indicate the effectiveness of the methods of soil analyses used and to throw light on the interspecific differences in mineral composition of plants in the serpentine soils.
23502317|A list of 199 vernacular names so far recorded for fungi, mainly edible mushrooms, occurring in Zimbabwe is presented. Commonly used names of the eight main groups of edible fungi are also listed.
23502022|The vegetation of a gypsum deposit some 80 km S. of Francistown in Botswana is described. The deposit has no species entirely confined to the gypsum soils, nevertheless the flora is ecologically very distinctive and the dwarfing of woody species, particularly of the tree Colophospermum mopane, very characteristic. The most obvious gypsum indicator species are Acacia nebrownii, dwarf Dichrostachys cinerea subsp. argillicola, Indigofera schimperi and the grasses Sporobolus iocladus, Dichanthium papillosum and Panicum coloratum. It seems likely that the effect on the vegetation of the gypsum soils is, at least in part, physical, partly due to compaction and partly due to the creation of very sticky black soils in the wet season. The percentage of clay in these soils is very high. The vegetation of a smaller gypsum deposit caused by a gypsiferous spring at Sigobomo in the Wankie District of Rhodesia is compared with that in Botswana.
23502164|An anatomical investigation was made of the different events that lead to the production of mature pollen by the Valencia. It was found that normal microsporogenesis occurred in the Valencia in the same way as is usually found in Angiospermae. The pollen grain developed to the binuclear stage in the anther before it was discharged. The haploid number of chromosomes was nine and the mature pollen grain was approximately 26 m in diameter.
23502390|Many vegetation surveys have been carried out in Zimbabwe over the last 35 years, but usually of relatively small areas and with varied objectives and methodologies. The last attempt to compile these into a single map was in 1968, and since then many additional surveys have become available. This paper presents an annotated bibliography of all vegetation surveys of Zimbabwe to date. The survey locations are presented in three maps: (a) national and small-scale surveys, (b) larger-scale surveys covering more limited areas, and (c) surveys utilizing phytosociological analysis. The surveys are discussed under four major headings: (a) national surveys, (b) agricultural resource surveys and tsetse distribution, (c) forestry surveys, and (d) national parks surveys. It was found that 143,942 km2 (37% of the country) has been mapped to date, but only 31,682 km2 (8%) has been mapped using a phytosociological approach. The methodology presently being utilized in Zimbabwe for vegetation mapping is outlined, and a brief account is given on the Communal Lands Vegetation Survey.
23502434|Legumes dominant in the Flora Zambesiaca area of Africa are shown to be almost all non-nodulating species in the wetter regions, and mainly nodulating species in the drier regions. Possible reasons for this distribution are discussed.
23502431|A check-list of all bryophytes known to have been recorded from Zimbabwe is presented. The distribution of each taxon within Zimbabwe is outlined and for all those represented in the National Herbarium a specimen is cited. New records are indicated and full details are given of collections on which these are based.
23502329|The curative use of Hypoxis hemerocallidea in southern Africa is reviewed. Hypoxis is an overexploited genus in Zimbabwe, and species misidentification is common. Notes on conservation status are provided.
23502404|A mycological survey of the agaricoid and poroid fungi of miombo and riverine woodland in the North Luangwa National Park, Zambia, was carried out during the rainy season of 1994-95. A total of 126 known species from 33 families were collected. Two new species of Amanita, A. afrospinosa Pegler & Shah-Smith and A. miomboensis Pegler & Shah-Smith, are listed, and are described elsewhere.
23502204|Several factors contribute to the problem of distinguishing between some South African Commiphora species. However, the anatomical structure of the petioles varies to such an extent that certain salient features can be used diagnostically for differentiating between species.
23502325|An account of the 10 genera and 35 species of the family Amaryllidaceae is provided for the Flora Zambesiaca area. Crinum is the largest genus with 16 species, followed by Ammocharis and Cyrtanthus each with four species, and Scadoxus with three species. Pancratium and Nerine each have two species, and Brunsvigia, Cryptostephanus, Boophone and Gethyllis contain one each. Several names are reduced to synonymy. Keys to genera and species are provided along with notes on distribution.
23500536|Forests of the Rhodesian Teak Baikiaea plurijuga have been shown to have become established in a savanna climate not very different from that obtaining today. Baikiaea is very fire susceptible but became dominant in the forests in spite of the ever present danger of fire. Since the forests have come under the influence of man, three major problems have arisen. The forests have been devastated by fire, germination of seed in the forest is unsatisfactory and many seedlings fail to penetrate the thicket understorey. It is postulated that considerable quantities of heavy game animals concentrating in the vicinity of permanent water during the dry season remove all flammable material from these areas resulting in bush encroachment and the formation of conditions in which a fire susceptible forest tree could establish. Passing animals plant seeds by hoof action and manure them by their droppings. By burying much manure, dung beetles prepare a valuable seed bed. The passage of heavy animals through the forest keps the understotrey open thus allowing tree seedlings to establish. In the absence of game animals grass around the forests is not consumed and remains as a highly dangerous man-made fire hazard. Seeds are not planted by hoof action but remain exposed to the depredations of rodents and other seed-eating animals. There is no dung to fertilize the forest and no beetles to prepare a seed bed. Also the thicket understorey becomes impenetrable. A modern game eradication area has been studied by Thane Riney. Hunting with firearms calls for an annual burn to increase visibility. This has resulted in an increase of woody vegetation, a decrease of perennial grasses and an increase in bare ground to over 90 per cent. In both these examples, a reduction of the large mammal population has coincided with a serious degradation of the habitat, in one instance of a valuable forest.
23502392|Descriptions are provided of the major communities of woody plants occurring within the Chewore-Angwa-Kanyemba area of the Zambezi valley, Zimbabwe, and a map is presented to indicate the distribution of these communities. Relations between the woody vegetation and underlying geology, soil types and topography are discussed, and attention is drawn to the need for a comprehensive bio-physical classification and mapping system to guide land-use planning within this and adjacent parts of the Zambezi valley.
23502394|The taxonomy of the wild and cultivated taxa of the cowpea, Vigna unguiculata, occurring in south-central Africa is revised. Two subspecies are recognized, representing the wild and cultivated variants. The former is divided into seven varieties. Notes on the ecology and distribution of the wild taxa are provided.
23502313|A floristic study was undertaken to classify the vegetation that has colonized the shoreline of Lake Kariba since its creation in 1958-1963. Ten vegetation types were distinguished and described floristically and physiognomically. The dominant shoreline vegetation type is grassland, consisting of six types: Panicum repens grassland on gentle sloping lower shoreline on sandy soil nearer the water edge, Melinis repens grassland, Eragrostis viscosa grassland, Heteropogon contortus grassland and Aristida adscensionis grassland on steep rocky parts of the shoreline, while the middle shoreline vegetation consists of Urochloa trichopus grassland. The influence of water level fluctuations on vegetation composition was apparent. Vegetation of the lower shoreline has not changed in over 30 years and is still dominated by Panicum repens, Polygonum senegalense and Ludwigia stolonifera, probably because the zone shifts downwards as the lake level recedes such that it is always within the inundation zone. Changes in lake level have led to the establishment of a large drawdown zone where shrublands of Dichrostachys cinerea, Calotropis procera, Acacia nilotica, Indigofera tinctoria and other terrestrial woody species have established as the area has not been flooded for over 20 years. The recent inundation of this zone following the good 1997-1998 rainy season may kill this vegetation by submergence. The magnitude of lake level changes will influence future vegetation dynamics along the shoreline. A species list of 170 species recorded along the shoreline, representing 38 families is given, indicating zonal distribution of plants.
23502382|The growth cycle of Habenaria sochensis, a common terrestrial orchid, was recorded during the 2000/01 and 2001/02 rainy seasons on a smallholding on the outskirts of Lusaka, Zambia. Conditions for seed germination, survival of the young plants and flowering were noted. Such information may be useful for designing a programme on the sustainable harvesting of edible orchid tubers.
23502433|A preliminary list of the macrofungi of Malawi is offered, together with brief descriptive, ecological and ethnobotanical notes.
23502376|Information is presented about 177 plants formerly used in healing by the Ila people of southern Zambia. The material is largely drawn from manuscripts held in Kasenga, together with information from various more recent authorities. Two lists are presented: (a) plants that have so far been identified together with those of which only the Ila name is known, and (b) the diseases and species used for treatment. Suggestions for further research are included.
23502430|A check-list of the Ficus species of the African floristic region is presented, giving the accepted names of the taxa, their synonyms and data about distribution. For the species occurring in southern Africa, more detailed information and a key is given. A brief account of the phytogeography of the genus is presented.
23502326|The known distribution of Crinum buphanoides is extended into Zimbabwe by the discovery of populations of the species in some southwestern districts of the country. A species description is provided, together with notes on distribution in the Flora Zambesiaca area.
23502402|An account of the family Eriocaulaceae for the Flora Zambesiaca area is presented, together with taxonomic keys, descriptions, notes and synonyms. The family comprises four genera in the area: Eriocaulon (37 species), Mesanthemum (5 species), Syngonanthus (9 species) and Paepalanthus (1 species).
23502018|Serpentine soils are well known to have characteristic vegetation types growing in them. However, the relative importance of high magnesium/calcium ratios to high heavy metal (particularly nickel) concentrations is obscure. The vegetation, particularly its proportion of woody species, was therefore recorded from a number of serpentiniferous or serpentine related sites in Rhodesia in which, on the one hand the dominant minerals lacked calcium and so had very high Mg/Ca ratios (e.g. serpentine, chrysotile asbestos, tremolite, chlorite as chlorite schists, talc schist) and, on the other, from those in which calcium was present (e.g. pyroxenite, norite, actinolite and carbonate minerals with varying proportions of calcite and magnesite). Total and extractable (by 2,5% acetic acid by vol.) nickel, chrome and copper values were found for the soils of all the sites concerned as were the Mg/Ca ratios using an ammonium acetate extraction. At the same time the presence or absence of a powerful toxic effect was assessed by observing the presence or absence of trees in the vegetation as well as recording the actual species occurring on the sites to assess whether they were typically of a serpentine or heavy metal (especially nickel) tolerant type. The main objective was to see if nickel alone, in the absence of a high Mg/Ca ratio could create distinct vegetation anomalies. In the majority of cases high nickel was accompanied by high Mg/Ca ratios and it was not possible to distinguish the effect of these two factors. However, in a few cases where nickel was present and the mother rock was not typical serpentine but with low Mg/Ca ratios strongly developed anomalies were clearly created by nickel values alone. Furthermore, in soils derived from serpentine related rocks such as actinolite schists, carbonate schists, pyroxenites and norites which contain calcium and have low Mg/Ca ratios in the absence of high nickel a well developed non-anomalous woody vegetation occurs whereas serpentines with high Mg/Ca values have an anomalous open grassy vegetation even when nickel and other heavy metal values are low.
23502403|An account of the genus Macrotyloma (Wight & Arn.) Verdc., represented by 15 species in the Flora Zambesiaca area, is presented together with taxonomic keys, descriptions and synonym lists.
23502330|A checklist comprising 1449 plant species occurring in Zimbabwe was compiled from plant specimens held in the National Herbarium in Harare, Zimbabwean literature and plant catalogues. Species names, their distribution in Zimbabwe and some uses are given. Families with the highest number of introduced species are Fabaceae (199 species: subfamily Mimosoideae 40 species, Caesalpinioideae 44 species and Papilionoideae 115 species), Poaceae (114 species), Asteraceae (103 species), Myrtaceae (77 species), Lamiaceae (56 species) and Rosaceae (45 species). A total of 328 species are considered to be naturalized, including 4 ferns, 2 gymnosperms and 54 monocotyledons. Most naturalized species have been recorded as weeds of cultivation, roadsides and disturbed habitats.
23502309|The grass subtribe Sorghinae is reviewed for the Flora Zambesiaca area. Nine of the 14 genera of the subtribe and 20 of the about 150 species are represented in the area. The tribe is characterised by paired spikelets, with one sessile and bisexual and the other pedicellate and male or neuter. The grasses occur mainly in savanna areas.
23502375|'Chipya' is the term applied to a fire-induced wooded grassland vegetation type specific to northern Zambia. However, there is much confusion surrounding the definition of 'chipya', and indiscriminate use of the term has complicated investigations into the processes associated with chipya ecology and dynamics. The review attempts to identify (a) the discrepancies associated with the terminology, and (b) the research questions that remained unanswered in chipya ecology. The paper concludes that some authors have applied the term to vegetation types that include the miombo taxa Brachystegia, Julbernardia and Isoberlinia and which are not covered by the original definition of Lake Basin chipya. There is also some controversy over the origin and nature of the dark horizon characteristic of Lake Basin chipya soils. It is suggested that only through further investigation of Lake Basin chipya and the influence of soil, climate and fire on its dynamics can we begin to understand the edaphic, floristic and physiognomic variations evident in these other 'chipya' types.
23502080|The biogeography of the Pacific Basin is reviewed and discussed on the basis of various animal and plant taxonomic groups. Co-evolution of life forms and geology (pangeography) is suggested as the main factor determining present day biogeography the world over.
23502365|This survey of the aquatic macrophytes of the Shire River, carried out in 197980, is the first comprehensive study of the river for over a hundred years. Seventy-one species of macrophytes were recorded and classified according to life-form and position with respect to the water surface. Species not collected during this survey, but known to occur, are also listed. Details of habitat and several environmental factors were noted for each species and are given in an annotated check-list containing 93 species. The major habitats and plant communities are described and discussed. At present the river is free from major weed infestations although a number of plants, notorious as weeds elsewhere, occur. Eichhornia crassipes has become well established, since 1976, in the Lower Shire, above the confluence with the Zambezi River and represents the most serious threat at present.
23502173|Nickel when provided as the only cation available to germinating Brachystegia spiciformis seedlings is a powerful anti-mitotic agent. It totally prevents mitosis at concentrations at and above 0,03 ppm Ni ion in deionized water. At low concentrations of nickel expansion maintains growth for a period. At higher levels growth is arrested in a matter of hours. Other effects include vacuolization of the meristem, collapse of nuclei and an apparent partial plasmolysis of expanding cells.
23501037|A study of the flora developing on the shore of Lake Kariba was made during the 1965-66 summer (November-March). The original vegetation type which was present before inundation is briefly described. A rectangular quadrat, one quarter of a square metre in area, was employed for sampling the vegetation. Six types of shoreline were distinguished, these are (i) steep shore, (ii) gently sloping shore, (iii) rocky shore, (iv) non rocky shore, (v) open shore and (vi) protected shore. On these types sampling sites were selected at random. The results were interpreted in terms of (i) index of similarity, I, (ii) the index of diversity, and (iii) frequency abundance (F.S.) values. On the basis of these the shoreline flora may be divided into three zones, definable in terms of changes in Lake level. These zones are termed (A) the Ludwigia zone, (B) the Laggera zone and (C) the Gramineae zone. Belt transects were laid out to study the long term interaction between the shore and the adjacent flora and fauna. The origin of the littoral flora, the mode of propagation of its constituent species, and the possible course of development of the vegetation, is briefly discussed. Brief observations made on re-inspection of the shore about eighteen months after the initial investigation are reported in Appendix I. Definitions of the terms used in this paper are also appended (Appendix II).
23502373|The taxonomy of the family Colchicaceae is reviewed for Zimbabwe. Six genera and seven species are recognized, with five genera being represented by only a single species. The extremely variable Gloriosa populations are interpreted as representing a single species, G. superba. Taxonomic keys and descriptions, together with notes on distribution, are provided.
23502366|Mallomonas stellata sp. nov. (Chrysophyceae, Mallomonadaceae, sectio Mallomonopsis) is described from a small pond near the town of Kariba, Zimbabwe. It is compared with the related species, Mallomonas peroneides var. peroneides (Harris) Momeu & Pterfi and M. peroneides Harris var. bangladeshica Takahashi & Hayakawa, which were also found in Zimbabwe.
23502363|The genus Sesbania is revised for the Flora Zambesiaca region. A key to and full descriptions of the 21 taxa in 18 species (including two cultivated introductions) are provided together with illustrations of diagnostic morphological features and distribution maps of the more complex species groups. Two new combinations and new synonymy are presented.
23502379|The Family Alliaceae is revised for the Flora Zambesiaca area. One genus, Tulbaghia with six species occurs in the area. Taxonomic descriptions and an identification key are presented, together with notes on distribution.
23502312|The genus Drimiopsis is reviewed for the Flora Zambesiaca area. Taxonomic descriptions and an identification key, together with notes on distribution, are provided. The genus is represented in the area by three species: D. barteri Bak., D. burkei Bak. and D. maculata Lindl.
23502321|A vernacular-scientific plant name dictionary to accompany the Checklist of the flowering plants and ferns of the South Luangwa National Park, Zambia is provided for the mid-Luangwa Valley in the vicinity of the South Luangwa National Park. Names are given in the Bisa, Kunda and Nsenga languages.
23502079|The biogeography of the beetle genus Goliathus in Africa is detailed. The pattern of its distribution is in line with the general biogeography of other animals and plants on the continent and may be explained through geological and organic co-evolution.
23502391|The chronology of the nodulation processes of the legumes was studied for a representative variety of species, from the appearance of root hairs to the decay of the nodules, to provide a guide for planning studies of the nodulation of unfamiliar species. Almost a fifth of all species either lacked root hairs, or were unusual in respect of them.
23501191|The Palaeobotany of South Central Africa, particularly Rhodesia, is reviewed from the stromatolithic or algal limestones of the Precambrian through the Gangamopteris-Glossopteris floras of the Upper Carboniferous and Permian to the Rhexoxylon-Dadoxylon-Dicroidium gymnospermatous floras of the Upper Triassic and Jurassic. It is pointed out that, although many palaeobotanists still appear to remain in doubt regarding the validity of the theory of continental drift, recent evidence in palaeomagnetism especially from Africa, geomorphology, the computer investigations of continental outlines, the age of ocean floors, transform faults, the timing of the origin of the angiosperms in relation to the fragmentation of Gondwanaland, and the recording of fossil angiosperms from the Antarctic are bringing to a close the years of disputation and unproductive argument over this hypothesis. A number of family and generic patterns with a southern intercontinental distribution are superimposed on a Gondwanaland reconstruction. These may suggest that present day distributions may be merely fragmentations of pre-Gondwanaland distributions and it may not be necessary to postulate many of the tremendously elongated "paths of migration" suggested by earlier phytogeographers. Palynological, geological and archaeological evidence for climatic changes in the Quaternary of South Central Africa and their effect on the production of modern vegetation patterns is discussed. It appears that the origins of the Rhodesian eastern border Cape element must be pushed back beyond the Quaternary at least to the beginnings of the Tertiary. The high proportion of endemic species on the Chimanimani Mountains supports this view. Modern phytogeographic barriers, endemism, the evolution of endemic species and vicarious species on mountain masses and highly metalliferous soils, as they relate to the Rhodesian flora, are discussed. Finally, the principle phytogeographic elements of the Rhodesian flora are reviewed.
23502024|The occurrence of nodules among 539 Rhodesian species of legumes is reported. Twenty-three of the genera and some 340 of the species are new to the world-index of nodulative status maintained by Allen and Allen. Numbers of species forming, and apparently not forming, nodules in the three sub-families were found to be: Caesalpinioideae 17/41, Mimosoideae 62/7, and Papilionoideae 410/2. All but two of the fifty species apparently not forming nodules are normally or potentially woody. Nodulative evidence supports (a) the separation from Cassia of its section Chamaecrista as a distinct genus, and (b) the placement of Swatzia in the Papilionoideae. It also suggests (c) that Erythrophleum be transferred from the Caesalpinioideae to the Mimosoideae, (d) that further study be made of Acacia pennata and its African relatives with a view to separating them from Acacia, and (e) that three species apparently lacking nodules in the genera Baphia, Calpurnia, and Dialium nevertheless probably have nodulative ability.
23502020|Naturally occurring arsenic anomalies occur in Rhodesia often in association with gold deposits or reefs and often accompanied by antimony. The values usually vary between 300 and 5000 ppm of arsenic, rarely reaching 20000 ppm. They produce a characteristic arsenic tolerant flora similar in aspect to that produced by high levels of nickel or copper. No species confined to arsenic soils have been recorded but the assemblage of species as a whole is characteristic. One hundred and fifty arsenic tolerant indigenous species are recorded of which the majority (69,3%) are also characteristic of Rhodesian nickel anomalies. 58,7% also occur on copper anomalies and 26,7% on serpentine soils. An analysis of the ash of these species shows values up to 242 ppm of arsenic sometimes with higher levels being found in the roots, sometimes more in the upper parts. The woody species Diplorhynchus condylocarpon, Euclea divinorum and Peltophorum africanum with the grasses Heteropogon contortus and Rhynchelytrum repens are particularly common on arsenical soils and may have value as indicators or pathfinders of the presence of gold but caution must be observed since all these species occur on nickel anomalies or other toxic anomalies.
23502396|Some aspects of the ecology of 73 species of fungi of the order Aphyllophorales (Basidiomycetes) in 38 genera and 11 families are presented and discussed. On pines 53 species were saprotrophic, one was mycorrhizal and saprotrophic, but none was pathogenic. Sixteen of these were brown-rot fungi. On eucalypts 32 species were recorded and only four were brown-rot fungi. There was distinct substrate specialization by the species. Locality and seasonal variation in the occurrence of species was evident. The fungi could be grouped into five overlapping mycogeographical groups at the species level but the divisions became blurred and indistinguishable at genus and family levels respectively. Aspects of the practical exploitation of Aphyllophorales are covered. The need to monitor parasite status in plantations and undertake culture and wood degradation studies is highlighted. Decay of timber in service is briefly discussed. Finally, conclusions and interim recommendations for Zimbabwe are made.
23501310|Crop plants and weeds were grown in pots of low- and high-nickel soils unamended or fertilized with a complete nutrient solution containing nitrogen either as ammonium or nitrate. Yields, and the uptake and distribution of nickel between roots and shoots were measured in relation to changes in availability of nickel from the soils resulting from acidification consequent on nitrification. 1. More nickel was taken up from sand or low-nickel soils when fertilized, especially with nitrate nutrient. Fertilization with ammonium nutrient increased uptake more than did fertilization with nitrate from high-nickel soils. 2. Fertilization increased yields. Fertilization with nitrate decreased nickel concentration in shoots more than did fertilization with ammonium. 3. The concentration of nickel in roots exceeded that in shoots in all treatments on all species. The fraction of nickel translocated to shoots was larger in plants supplied ammonium than in plants supplied nitrate. 4. There was little difference in the amounts of nickel extracted by hydrochloric acid from a high-nickel soil at the acidities established by treatment with ammonium and nitrate nutrients. 5. The extent of soil acidification was less than that calculated for nitrification of the ammonium applied, and less than the expected amount of nitrate was recovered from unplanted soil. Soils treated with nitrate nutrient or water, and unplanted, became less acid.
23502374|An account is given of the contribution made to Zambian botany by Edward Robinson, with particular reference to the Cyperaceae. Lists of his publications, species named by him or after him, and type specimens collected by him are given.
23502380|Observations are presented on the sporocarps of symbiotic fungi of the genus Termitomyces in Zambia, and on the their host termites. It is concluded that T. titanicus and T. letestui are good species, but that T. microcarpus, T. medius and T. clypeatus are con-specific, the morphological differences in the sporocarps resulting solely from the conditions of the mycelium substrate from which they arise. Production of sporocarps occurs regularly only in association with the nests of Pseudacanthotermes and Odontotermes, and is exceptional in other genera of fungus-growing termites.
23502176|During the course of a survey of the vegetation of the Lengwe National Park a collection of over 500 species of plants was made. The collection included a number of species which had not previously been collected in Malawi or which were known from only one or two early gatherings. This paper provides a summary of the major vegetation types in the park and a list of the species collected or recorded in the park.
23502369|This paper describes some of the broad soil-vegetation relationships commonly encountered in Zimbabwe which are considered to have important indicator value for soil survey. The examples chosen are those in which the indicator value applies widely in Zimbabwe, in contrast to some which have been described by previous workers and were associated with very specific and even anomalous geopedological conditions.
23502026|The genus Tavaresia Welw. is reviewed and the name Tavaresia is supported against Decabelone Decne. The epithet "grandiflora" is attributed to Dinter and that of Schumann considered to be invalid, and T. grandiflora to be synonymous with T. barklyi. A key to the species is provided and the possibility of a hybrid origin for T. meintjesii is discussed.
23501052|A short historical introduction on the distinctive floras of heavy metal bearing soils is followed by a description of a classification of copper plants devised by Duvigneaud for the Katanga copper soils. Copper outcrops are smaller in Rhodesia and their flora is not so diverse as in Katanga. A simplified classification is therefore adopted and applied to 28 Rhodesian copper outcrops scattered throughout the country. All the species recorded are classified as polycuprophytes on high values, cuprophiles on lower values, cuproresistant adventives or ruderals, and cuprophiles on zones with low values forming an ecotone with adjacent vegetation which is also described. An alphabetical list of polycuprophytes, cuproresistant adventives or ruderals and cuprophiles follows. The list includes 436 angiosperm species and 24 Cryptogams (blue-green algae, lichens and pteridophytes). This is a depauperated flora but larger than that recorded for the extensive serpentines of Rhodesia. The Rhodesian copper flora is compared with that of Katanga. No species are entirely endemic on copper in Rhodesia but a number of subspecific taxa are endemic on copper. These include forms of Justicia elegantula, Tephrosia lurida and Pogonarthria squarrosa; others are probably physiologically distinct ecotypes not distinguishable morphologically. The basic vegetation of Rhodesia from which its copper flora is derived is different from that of Katanga mainly because of lower rainfalls and less tropical conditions. The copper vegetation in the Brachystegia-Julbernardia savanna woodlands of the higher altitude parts of Rhodesia differs from that in the Colophospermum-Terminalia-Combretum-Commiphora tree savannas of the Zambesi and Limpopo rivers due also to climatic differences. There exist, therefore, three biogeochemical provinces, of the type defined by Malyuga for Russia, in south central Africa, one for Katanga and the Zambian copper-belt, one for the Rhodesian highveld, and one for the Rhodesian lowveld which passes over into the Transvaal. Although indicator species are rare on copper soils in Rhodesia, their ecological pattern with regard to their general flora is characteristic and can be used for the identification of copper soils. In the short graminoid zone at the highest values, the sedges Kyllinga alba, Fimbristylis exilis and Bulbostylis spp. are noteworthy, followed by grasses such as Loudetia simplex, Andropogon spp., Danthoniopsis spp., Microchloa spp., Schizachyrium spp., Schmidtia pappophoroides, etc. The widespread weed Celosia trigyna is one of the best copper indicators. Characteristic rhizomatous or small shrub cuprophiles include the Labiatae, Becium homblei, Hemizygia petrensis, H. elliottii and Endostemon tenuiflorus, and Vellozia equisetoides and Tephrosia spp. The best represented woody cuprophile family is the Combretaceae with Combretum zeyheri, C. molle, C. apiculatum, etc. very common. Other important woody cuprophiles are Olax obtusifolia, Burkea africana, Diplorhynchus condylocarpon, Gardenia resiniflua, Commiphora spp., Securidaca longepedunculata, etc. The absence of cuprifuge species on copper soils can act as a negative indicator. At higher altitudes the more important cuprifuge species in Rhodesia appear to be Hyparrhenia spp., Monotes spp. and Protaceae, at lower altitudes Dactyloctenium spp., Chloris spp., Croton spp. and Mundulea sericea. This qualitative ecological survey of Rhodesian copper vegetation is designed to lay a foundation for future research in the experimental taxonomic, quantitative, ecological, biogeochemical and physiological fields.
23502393|An updated list of the pteridophytes of Malawi is given, representing a 24% increase in the number of taxa since Schelpe's treatment of Pteridophyta in Flora Zambesiaca (1970). Voucher specimens are quoted for each of the 3 geographical divisions in Malawi. Two new combinations are made: Grammitis villosissima (Hook.) J.E.Burrows and Grammitis cultrata (Bory ex Willd.) J.E.Burrows.
23502383|An annotated list of endemic and near-endemic plant taxa in Zimbabwe is given. They are also categorised by broad geographical locality and by habitat type. Out of a total of 22 species and infraspecific taxa, 174 are full endemics. These figures are more than double the previously accepted number of endemic/near-endemic taxa in the country. The main areas for these taxa are the quartzite grasslands of the Chimanimani Mountains (55 species) and the serpentine grasslands of the Great Dyke (27 species). Other important areas are the other mountains of the Eastern Highlands, the woodlands and grasslands of the Central Plateau and the hills of the Limpopo escarpment. Grasslands are by far the most important habitat type, followed by woodlands.
23501722|The dry deciduous forest and thicket associations of the Lengwe National Park were classified physiognomically into seven types. This classification was supported by floristic and quantitative data. Stands were sampled using the quarter method. Importance values were derived for each species in each stand from relative frequency, relative dominance and relative density. Stands were tested for homogeneity. Index iteration was carried out to establish species position indices (SPI) and stand synthetic indices (SSI). The species typical of dry deciduous forest, Pterocarpus antunesii and Phyllanthus kirkianus, in the tree and shrub strata respectively, had the lowest SPI values, indicating a low ecological status of the species within the mesic formations of the Park. The highest SPI values were associated with species characteristic of mesic evergreen forest or mesic thickets; in Malawi examples are Erythrococca zambesiaca and Coffea racemosa. The SSI's indicated that most of the conclusions drawn on the basis of SPI's were applicable to the stands as a whole. A principal components analysis of the data showed some correlations between stand positions and certain environmental factors.
23502429|A new species and subspecies of Holothrix (H. rorida and H. villosa subsp. chimanimaniensis) and a new species of Angraecum (A. geniculatum) and of Aeranthes (A. parkesii) are described and illustrated.
23502314|A checklist of the flowering plant species recorded from islands in Lake Kariba is presented together with locality/distribution of each taxon. Forty seven islands were surveyed and 433 taxa recorded, representing 61 families.
23502400|The Densu River in Ghana was dammed near Accra in 1974 to create Weija Lake. Within 18 months from closure of the dam and subsequent lake-filling there was an explosive growth of aquatic macrophytes and sudd development on the lake. This vegetation is described. On Weija Lake the pioneer sudd-forming plant was Pistia stratiotes; the first colonisers of Pistia mats were the sedge Oxycaryum cubense and the grass Echinochloa pyramidalis, while later other plants became established. The sudds which formed soon after closure of the dam, although they were fairly large and could support human weight, did not persist for a long time. Sudd vegetation remained, however, as seasonal sudds which formed following the major rainy season (May-June) each year. These seasonal sudds, although they did not cover large portions of the lake, reduced water quality, created public health problems, reduced fish catches and choked feeder streams to the lake.
23502201|The typification, identity and synonymy of Euphorbia tirucalli L. are reviewed and a lectotype selected. Some aspects of its Old World distribution, relationships and variability are discussed and it is inferred that the ancestral "Tirucalli" was of Gondwana origin and that the species arose in Africa after the separation of Madagascar with independent speciation from descendants of the original ancestor taking place on that island. Attention is also given to the application of the names "Almeidina" and "Cassoneira".
23502310|A new variety of the orchid Platycoryne affinis is described from Zimbabwe
23502316|Three coniferous species are indigenous in Zimbabwe, Juniperus procera, Widdringtonia nodiflora and Podocarpus latifolius, but all occur too sparsely to be of any commercial value. This led to introductions of exotic conifers for timber production as well as for ornamental purpose, from around 1895/96 or possibly earlier. To date 181 species, subspecies, and varieties are known to have been introduced into Zimbabwe, and these are listed together with the locations where they have been planted. The introductions are from the families Araucariaceae, Cupressaceae, Ginkgoaceae, Phyllocladaceae, Pinaceae, Podocarpaceae, Taxaceae and Taxodiaceae, but the great majority of taxa have been drawn from Cupressaceae (primarily for ornamental purposes) and Pinaceae (primarily for timber). Because of its immense economic importance, the genus Pinus has received priority for trials for large-scale planting, and has contributed 79 of the 181 exotic taxa. This paper is the first comprehensive list of all coniferous taxa in the country.
23501721|The numbers of families, genera, and species of nine African floras are compared, and the floras are ranked by their numbers of taxa and by area covered. The Flora of West Tropical Africa is the largest both in numbers of taxa and area, while the Flora of Lesotho is the smallest in numbers of taxa and the Flora of the Cape Peninsula covers the smallest area. The 10 largest families in each of the floras are given, and the families ranked in each flora by the number of species. Four families, the Leguminosae, Gramineae, Compositae and Cyperaceae, are among the 10 largest in all the floras. The 22 families that appear among the 10 largest in at least one of the floras are ranked by their importance in each of the floras.
23502378|After severe wind damage by Cyclone Eline in February 2000, a survey of nearly 200 fallen tree specimens was conducted in the Bunga Forest in eastern Zimbabwe. The fallen trees created 46 patches ranging in size from 20 to 1570 m2 across the survey area. The gaps in canopy area totalled 1.57 ha, equivalent to a loss of 13% of forest cover. This study records the initial consequences of a high-intensity cyclone on an inland forest that seldom experiences such storm damage. The passage of Cyclone Eline provided a rare opportunity to collect data on canopy structure, gap creation, tree species composition and measurements of tree height and girth within the forest.
23502432|A distinctive new, succulent, spiny euphorbia from Zimbabwe, which belongs in the E. griseola-E. richardsiae relationship, is described. Known since 1950 and recognized as being undescribed, it was uncertain even to which group it belonged until good flowering and fruiting material became available in June 1988, so enabling the description to be completed. Remarkable both for the dark red colour of the inflorescence and its heavily rugose involucral glands, E.rugosiflora is probably endemic to the Chimanimani Mountains.
23502021|Seventy-two plant species established on 15 Rhodesian arsenical mine dumps with arsenic values from 20030 000 ppm are listed. Lists are given of those species which are weeds, divided into those which are American in origin and those which are African in origin, and those which are successfully established either by planting or are self sown. Then follows an alphabetical list of all the species recorded. The majority of indigenous species recorded have already been recorded on natural arsenic anomalies (Wild 1974). However, some have not, although they have mostly been recorded from nickel, copper or serpentine anomalies.
23502078|Arguments on the morphology and phylogeny of floral structures, especially the carpel, are reviewed on the basis of the Humiriaceae flower. The position of certain orders in Hutchinson's classification are re-examined, and the Order Scyphostegiales is formally described. General comments are made on the evolution of angiosperms.
23502155|A new name is provided for Aloe venusta Reyn. and its known distribution extended to Zambia. A Lectotype is selected for Aloe excelsa Berger and a new variety from Malawi and Mozambique is described.
23502246|The occurrence of woodland and riverine forest in two situations on the serpentine of the Great Dyke is discussed. Both are on soils in which Ni and Mg/Ca ratio are high compared with normal soils. For riverine forest the high level of available water seems to be important perhaps in conjunction with Ni and Mg tolerance of the trees. For woodland dominated by Brachystegia spiciformis on the crest of a ridge a lower Ni level compared with soils on the slopes below seems the most likely factor allowing the growth of the trees.
23502389|A new species of Sphenostylis, endemic to the Eastern Highlands of Zimbabwe and adjacent areas, is described.
23502322|A preliminary checklist of the vascular flora of the North Luangwa National Park (NLNP), Zambia, is presented, based upon specimens collected by the author. Species information presented comprises: scientific name, typical plant habit, fertile period, habitat and elevation in which the species was recorded. Habitat descriptions and a vegetation map of the park are also given. A total of 924 plant species were recorded, from 464 genera and 123 families. Seven previously undescribed species were provisionally designated "sp. nov.", and a further six specimens could not be satisfactorily matched at Kew. A new species record for Zambia was Pavetta eylesii S.Moore, a shrub of valley riverine and thicket habitats. The most biologically diverse vegetation class in the NLNP was Riparian forest, woodland and thicket (412 plant species), while the least diverse was Mopane woodland (73 species). The results of this survey suggest that owing to its great physical diversity the North Luangwa National Park is an area of exceptional plant species richness.
23502205|The stems of two liane species Mikania cordata (Burm.f.) Robins. and Paullinia pinnata Linn. which exhibit anomalous thickening were investigated. The investigation revealed the following:
23502387|An account of the 7 species of Mucuna Adans. found in the Flora Zambesiaca area is offered, with a key and full descriptions.
