20697002|We review the historical sequence of discoveries of Majungasaurus crenatissimus, an abelisaurid theropod from the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Maevarano Formation, Mahajanga Basin, northwestern Madagascar. For almost a century, beginning in 1895, periodic expeditions conducted by French, Japanese, and Malagasy teams yielded fragmentary and isolated remains of a medium-sized theropod dinosaur from the Maevarano Formation. These materials were first assigned to Megalosaurus crenatissimus but later to Dryptosaurus crenatissimus, then Majungasaurus crenatissimus, and, most recently, Majungatholus atopus. The taxon was variously considered to pertain to Tyrannosauridae, "Megalosauridae," and Abelisauridae. Recent excavations undertaken by the Mahajanga Basin Project (1993 to present) have resulted in abundant and spectacular remains of this theropod. The new material allows us to establish Majungasaurus crenatissimus as the valid name for this theropod and to conclusively place it within Abelisauridae. M. crenatissimus is currently known from multiple specimens of various size (and presumably age) classes, which cumulatively represent the great majority of the skull and skeleton. Together, these finds establish Majungasaurus as among the best known of Gondwanan theropods. M. crenatissimus is one of several vertebrate taxa recovered from the Maevarano Formation that indicate close biogeographic ties linking Madagascar with the Indian subcontinent and South America. These data support the hypothesis of a high degree of cosmopolitanism among these landmasses, the result of a persistent subaerial connection between Indo-Madagascar to the east and South America to the west (possibly through Antarctica) until sometime late in the Late Cretaceous. Nanao jery todika ireo tantara nitranga sy nifanesy tamin'ny fahitana ny Majungasaurus crenatissimus, izay abelisaurid theropod hita tao Cretaceous Ambony (Maastrichtian) tao amin'ny Forona (Formation) Maevarano, ao amin'ny Basin an'i Mahajanga, amin'iny faritra avaratr'andrefan'i Madagasikara iny izahay. Efa ho zato taona teo ho eo izao, izay nanomboka ny taona 1895, tamin'ny fidinana an-tsaha isaky ny fotoana voatondro izay notarihin'ny mpikaroka nitambaran'ny Frantsay, sy Japone, ary Malagasy no nahitana silaka sy ampahantaolana an'ireo dinozaoro theropod manana vatana salan-tsalany hita tao amin'ny Forona Maevarano. Tamin'ny alalan'ireo taolana ireo no namaritana an'i Megalosaurus crenatissimus tamin'ny voalohany ary taorian'izay koa i Dryptosaurus crenatissimus, ary nanaraka i Majungasaurus crenatissimus, ary vao haingana dia Majungatholus atopus. Ny taxon dia nojerena tamin'ny fomba maro samihafa mba hampisehoana ireo izay mitovy sy mifanakaiky amin'ny Tyrannosauridae, "Megalosauridae," ary Abelisauridae. Tamin'ny alalan'ny fandavahana an-tsaha nataon'ny "Mahajanga Basin Project" nanomboka tamin'ny taona 1993 ka hatramin'izao dia nahita taolana maro sy nahaliana an'io karazana theropod io. Ireo karan-taolana vao hita ireo no nahafahanay nanome ny tena anarana raikitra an'i Majungasaurus crenatissimus ho an'io theropod io sy nametrahana azy ho anisan'ny Abelisauridae. Amin'izao fotoana izao M. crenatissimus dia fantatatra tamin'ny alalan'ireo fahitana maro karazana izay manana habe samihafa (izay azo heverina mamaritra koa ny taona), ka raha atambatra dia mampiseho ny ankamaroan'ny taolan'ny loha sy ny vatana. Ny fitambaran'ireo taolana ireo dia nahafahana nilaza ihany koa fa Majungasaurus dia anisan'ireo theropod-n'i Gondwana tena tsara fantatra indrindra. Majungasaurus koa dia iray amin'ireo karazam-biby manana hazon-damosina (vertebrate taxa) hita tao amin'ny Forona Maevarano izay mampiseho ny tsy fahalaviran'i Madagasikara ara-jeografian'ny zava-manan'aina ka nifandraisany subcontinent-n'i Inde sy Amerika Atsimo. Ireo angonam-pikarohana (data) ireo dia manohana ny fiheverana (hypothesis) ny fisiana karazam-pihavian'aina maro dia maro sy samihafa hita tao amin'ireo vongan-tany ireo, izay vokatry ny fitohizana nitohy teo amin'ny Inde sy Madagasikara tany atsinanana ary Amerika Atsimo tany andrefana (izay mety ho tamin'ny alalan'i Antarctica) hatramin'ny faraparan'ny "Late Cretaceous."
20697005|Despite the known diversity of abelisaurid theropod dinosaurs, their dental anatomy remains poorly understood. Discoveries of elements preserving in situ dentition of the Late Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Malagasy taxon Majungasaurus crenatissimus, coupled with recent progress in morphometric analysis of theropod teeth, provide an opportunity to document dental morphology and quantitatively evaluate positional variation in an abelisaurid dentition. Majungasaurus possesses an unusually static dental formula of 4/17/17 and a relatively even pattern of tooth replacement. The teeth are brachydont, moderately heterodont, and exhibit fairly well-developed interdenticular sulci/caudae. The premaxillary teeth are significantly wider, more elongate, and less curved than those in the maxilla and dentary, whereas the dentary crowns are shorter and more 'squat' than those in the upper dentition. Knowledge gained from teeth preserved within jaws demonstrates that isolated crowns recovered from the same deposits in the Maevarano Formation of the Mahajanga Basin, and assigned to Majungasaurus by earlier workers, can be confidently referred to that species. Qualitative and quantitative differences are demonstrated between the teeth of Majungasaurus and those of the only other known non-avian theropod in the Maevarano assemblage, the noasaurid Masiakasaurus knopfleri. Documentation of the intra-individual and intraspecific variation in Majungasaurus tooth anatomy provides a standard against which other abelisaurids can be compared and provides a suite of dental features that potentially can be used to assist in evaluation of the phylogenetic position of Majungasaurus among abelisaurids and Abelisauridae among theropods. Na dia efa fantatra aza ny fisian'ny dinozaoro theropod maro karazana, dia mbola azo lazaina fa kely ihany no fantatra momba ny fiasa sy firafitry ny nifin'izy ireo. Ireo karazana vokatra azo tamin'ny asa fikarohana voatahiry ka nahita nify tao amin'ny Cretaceous Farany (Maastrichtian) Malagasy sokajy Majungasaurus crenatissimus, izay niaraka tamin'ny fivoaran'ny fikarohana momba ny refy isan-karazany izay vao tsy ela akory no natao tamin'ny nifin'ny theropod dia nanome fahafahana nahazoana nanangona tahirin-kevitra momba ny endriky ny nify sy nanao fanombana tamin'ny alalan'ny marika ny fahasamihafana hita teo amin'ny fomba fipetraky ny nify teo amin'ny abelisaurid. Majungasaurus dia manana tarehi-marika raikitra momba io nify io izay tsy fahita loatra dia 4/17/17 and toa misy endrika manokana koa aza tamin'izany ho an'ireo nify mpisolo. Ny nifiny dia " brachyodont ", sy maka endrika kely " heterodont " koa, ary ahitana mazava " sulic/caudae " manelanelana ny nify. Ireo nify anoloana amin'ny vazana ambony dia hita mazava ho mivelatra sy lavalava kokoa, ary tsy dia mifaingoka loatra raha ampitahaina amin'ireo aty aoriana amin'iny vazana ambony iny ihany, fa ny tendron-nify kosa dia fohy sy iva ary mitombona kokoa raha oharina amin 'ireo tapany ambony amin'ny ankapobeny. Ny fahaizana azo tamin'ny alalan'ireo nify tsara tahiry hita tamin'ny valandrano (jaw) dia nampiseho tamin'ny alalan'ny satro-nify hita nitokana izay tafaraka tamin 'ny tatitra (deposits) tao amin'ny Fiforonana Maevarano tao anatin'ny Basin an'i Mahajanga, izay efa nambaran'ireo mpikaroka teo aloha ho Majungasaurus, dia ahafahana milaza marina fa io karazany io ihany izany. Ny tenako koa dia afaka mampiseho ny tsy fitoviana, na amin'ny toetra ivelany na amin'ny fomba azo refesina, misy eo amin'ny nifin'ny Majungasaurus sy ireo izay fantatra avy tamin'ny theropod tsy avian tao anaty tambatra Maevarano, dia ny Masiakasaurus knopfleri. Ireo karon-kevitra natao ka nijerena ny fahasamihafana tamin'ny isam-batana teo amin'ireo sokajy mitovy sy mifanakaiky tamin'ny endrika sy fiasan'ny nifin'ny Majungasaurus dia nanome ireo fomba azo nampiasaina azo refesina satria mampiavaka ka nahazoana nampitahy ny abelisaurids hafa sy koa nanome toetra hafa koa hita teo amin'ny nify izay tena nanampy be mihintsy ka nampiasana tamin'ny fijerena sy fanombanana ny toerana phylogenetic misy ny Majungasaurus tao anatin'ny abelisaurids ary Abelisauridae tao anatin'ny theropods.
10.2307/3889331| The comparative osteology, phylogenetic relationships, and historical biogeography of all known taxa of fossil and living amiid fishes (Halecomorphi: Amiidae) are investigated in detail. Previously, the detailed osteology of nearly all fossil amiids was unknown. We present the first well-supported comprehensive phylogeny for fossil and living amiid fishes. We synthesize clearly documented phylogenetic data on amiids and other halecomorph fishes with other historical phenomena such as ontogeny, historical biogeography, stratigraphic paleontology, and paleoecology (both "stationary" and "historical"). We also use our study of halecomorph fishes as a platform to explore several fundamental methodological and theoretical concepts important to phylogenetic/evolutionary investigations. These concepts pertain mainly to (1) the use of comparative empirical data to interpret various historical patterns and (2) the practice of integrating fossil and living species together in original (i.e., non-literature-based) phylogenetic studies. As proposed by Patterson (1973), Amia calva is the sole surviving member of a formerly diverse clade, Halecomorphi. Even Amiidae (the halecomorph subgroup that is the focus of this study) was taxonomically diverse and widespread during Mesozoic and Paleogene times. Amiidae here includes only those amiiform fishes that have solid perichordally ossified diplospondylous centra of both the "normal" (a term used here for non-alternating) and the alternating type in the caudal region. Consequently, Sinamiidae and Caturoidea (Caturidae plus Liodesmidae) are excluded from the family Amiidae. To set the style and terminology for description of the fossil taxa, and to present a fresh look at the osteology and development of the only living amiiform, we redescribe Amia calva in detail using modern methods of preparation and illustration. Detailed study of Amia calva is critical for interpreting probable intraspecific variation and ontogeny in fossil skeletons. We examined individual variation of both bone morphology and developmental timing in Amia calva. We classify the family Amiidae into four subfamilies here: Amiinae (including Amia, Cyclurus, Pseudamiatus, and "Amia" hesperia), Vidalamiinae subfam. nov. (including Vidalamia, Pachyamia, Melvius, Calamopleurus, and Maliamia), Solnhofenamiinae subfam. nov. (including Solnhofenamia gen. nov.), and Amiopsinae subfam. nov. (including Amiopsis). The genus Nipponamia remains Amiidae subfamily indeterminate until additional material can be found and studied, although it does not appear to belong to Amiinae or Amiopsinae subfam. nov. as defined here. Other nominal genera of Amiidae are discussed as nomina nuda or nomina dubia. We found Amiinae to be a clearly monophyletic group diagnosed by numerous synapomorphic characters. This is the only amiid (and halecomorph) subfamily known to have survived beyond the early Eocene. It was a diverse group with a known stratigraphic range of Late Cretaceous through the present. The earliest diagnosable species in the subfamily is Cyclurus fragosus from the upper Maastrichtian of Alberta, Canada, and the earliest Amiinae indeterminate is a collection of fragments from the upper Cenomanian of Uzbekhistan ("?Amia semimarina" Nessov 1985, a nomen dubium). Earlier forms reported by Boreske (1974) could not be verified as Amiinae. Amiinae was widespread and particularly speciose during the Eocene, and appears to have been confined almost exclusively to fresh water. The extremely rare amiine fossil fragments from brackish water deposits probably represent accidental or, at most, occasional migration into brackish environments or possibly entrapment in a drying water system. Amiinae includes three valid species of Amia (including A. pattersoni sp. nov.), eight valid species of Cyclurus (all of which are described here), and "Amia" hesperia (a valid species of uncertain generic affinity). It also includes the genus Pseudamiatus which remains Amiinae indeterminate, until the type and only known specimen can be further prepared or until additional material can be found. It probably belongs in Amia or Cyclurus as those genera are defined here. We also review more than 30 other nominal species of amiines, all of which we believe are invalid names (either nomina dubia, nomina nuda, or subjective junior synonyms) but some of which nevertheless extend the stratigraphic and geographic range of the subfamily Amiinae. Although we clarify the known diversity and monophyly of Amiinae, and add new morphological information about numerous amiine species, further materials and work are needed to resolve phylogenetic interrelationships within this subfamily. Vidalamiinae subfam. nov. is a previously unrecognized, diverse group of amiid taxa, several of which reach very large sizes (to about two meters total length). This well-supported monophyletic subfamily is known only from the Early Cretaceous to the early Eocene, and contains two well-supported monophyletic subgroups: Vidalamiini tribe nov. and Calamopleurini tribe nov. These tribes have interesting biogeographic distributions that seem incongruent with today's geography, but these distributions make intuitive sense given current interpretations of the paleogeography of the Early Cretaceous (illustrated here). Vidalamiini tribe nov. includes Vidalamia (one species from coastal estuarine/lagoonal deposits of Spain), Pachyamia (two species: one from marine deposits of the Middle East and a new species from marine deposits in Mexico) and Melvius (two species from deposits along the margin of the Upper Cretaceous North American Seaway). During the Early Cretaceous, this seemingly far-flung distribution was connected by a continuous shallow marine continental margin and seaway. All five species of Vidalamiini tribe nov. are described in detail here. Calamopleurini tribe nov. includes Calamopleurus (three species: one from an inconclusively determined paleoenvironment of eastern Brazil, one species from a probable freshwater paleoenvironment of eastern Brazil, and a new species from a yet unknown paleoenvironment of Morocco) and Maliamia (one species from west-central Africa in deposits of unknown water chemistry). Most of these species (particularly C. cylindricus) are described in detail here. Vidalamiinae subfam. nov. is the sister group to Amiinae, and the two subfamilies together form the supersubfamily Amiista nuper interposita. The term "nuper interposita" is introduced here to indicate the first published use of new names inserted between existing family group names. Solnhofenamiinae subfam. nov. is a Late Jurassic marine group from Europe (Germany and France) currently containing a single species, Solnhofenamia elongata gen. nov. This species was formerly placed in the genus Urocles as "Urocles" elongatus. However, the genus Urocles is invalid in our scheme because the type species of Urocles is congeneric with Amiopsis, and the name Amiopsis has priority. We find that "Urocles" elongatus is more closely related to a group containing Amiinae plus Vidalamiinae subfam. nov., than it is to the type species of the genus Urocles (= Amiopsis lepidota here). Therefore, we place "Urocles" elongatus in the new genus Solnhofenamia. Because S. elongata gen. nov. is the sister group to a group containing Amiinae plus Vidalamiinae subfam. nov., we put it into Solnhofenamiinae subfam. nov. We describe this species in detail for the first time. Amiopsinae subfam. nov. is a poorly supported stem group of amiids from Late Jurassic to late Cretaceous (Turonian) marine and freshwater deposits of Europe (Yugoslavia, Germany, Spain, England, Belgium, and possibly France). This group, with five valid species, may be non-monophyletic. Amiopsinae subfam. nov. contains most of the amiids excluded from the hypersubfamily Amiida nuper interposita, a monophyletic group containing ((Amiinae + Vidalamiinae subfam. nov.) + Solnhofenamiinae subfam. nov.). All five species of Amiopsis are described here with much new detail. The phylogenetic position and biogeographic significance of the single known, poorly preserved specimen of Nipponamia, from Early Cretaceous freshwater deposits of Japan, is largely unknown. Additional material is needed to better understand its morphology. In addition to our cladogram of Amiidae, we produced a cladogram of Halecomorphi. Our sample of non-amiid halecomorph taxa was far less complete than our sample of amiid taxa; nevertheless we found several well-supported nodes within non-amiid halecomorphs which can serve as general guides for future research. We discuss numerous general methodological, philosophical, and theoretical concepts in this paper, including the construction of taxonomic diagnoses, the treatment of undiagnosable taxa, and the treatment of ontogenetically variable characters. We review the effects on phylogenetic analysis of problematic (e.g., "missing") data entries resulting from either problematic taxa (e.g., highly incomplete fossil taxa) or problematic characters (characters whose states are unknown for most taxa). Various types of problematic data are also reviewed. We discuss the exclusion of certain problematic taxa (here termed "inserted" taxa) and problematic characters (here termed "mapped" characters) from phylogenetic analyses. We also examine the effects of phylogenetically "redundant" taxa and consider the comparative value of well-resolved nodes versus completely resolved trees in cladistic studies. These concepts and terms can all be located in this volume by using the table of contents or the subject index. Our study exemplifies the large amount of natural historical information that can be interpreted from multidisciplinary pattern studies of fossil and living actinopterygian fishes. We term our general approach to the study of natural history as "an empirical synthetic pattern approach", an exploratory method whose fundamentals go back to the 1941441766|Simosuchus clarki Buckley, Brochu, Krause, and Pol, 2000, a small, pug-nosed notosuchian crocodyliform from the Late Cretaceous of Madagascar, was described a decade ago in a preliminary report based on a single specimen that included the skull, lower jaw, and anterior portions of the posteranial skeleton; details of the preserved cervical and anterior dorsal vertebrae and ribs were not described. With the subsequent collection of several additional specimens, which collectively also preserve the posterior dorsal, sacral, and caudal regions of the vertebral column, the postcranial axial skeleton of S. clarki is now one of the most completely known of any basal mesoeucrocodylian. This report includes a detailed description of the vertebral and costal morphology of this bizarre notosuchian and an assessment of its functional and phylogenetic significance. Simosuchus had eight cervical, at least 15 dorsal, two sacral, and probably fewer than 20 caudal vertebrae. Most aspects of the vertebral morphology of Simosuchus are consistent with those generally observed within Crocodylomorpha, or more specifically within Crocodyliformes. However, the low number of caudal vertebrae indicates that the tail of Simosuchus was remarkably short, shorter than in any other known crocodylomorph. This short tail is interpreted to have had little to no functional utility in aquatic propulsion. Assessment of the hypothesis that Simosuchus and some other basal mesoeucrocodylians were fossorial on the basis of cervical morphology requires a more extensive comparative and functional analysis. The postcranial axial skeleton currently contributes little to the assessment of the phylogenetic position of Simosuchus.
24413071|Basal sauropodomorphs from the Ischigualasto Formation include Eoraptor lunensis, Panphagia protos, and Chromogisaurus novasi. Few comparisons have been made between these taxa, because Eoraptor was only recently reassessed as a basal sauropodomorph and because Panphagia and Chromogisaurus were described nearly simultaneously. We describe in detail the fully prepared bones of the holotype of Chromogisaurus novasi, examine the evidence for its taxonomic distinction, and analyze the phylogenetic relationships among basal sauropodomorphs. Our results support Chromogisaurus novasi as a valid genus and species and provide weak phylogenetic evidence favoring a series of stem taxa at the base of Sauropodomorpha. The analysis positions Panphagia as the basal-most sauropodomorph, followed by Eoraptor, Pampadromaeus, and a clade that includes Chromogisaurus and Saturnalia. Los sauropodomorfos basales de la Formacin Ischigualasto incluyen Eoraptor lunensis, Panphagia protos y Chromogisaurus novasi. Pocas comparaciones se han hecho entre estos taxones, porque Eoraptor fue reevaluado recientemente como sauropodomorfo basal y porque Panphagia y Chromogisaurus se describieron de forma casi simultnea. Describimos en detalle los huesos totalmente preparados del holotipo de Chromogisaurus novasi, examinamos la evidencia de su distincin taxonmica, y analizamos la relacin filogentica entre sauropodomorfos basales. Nuestros resultados apoyan a Chromogisaurus novasi como un gnero y especie vlido y proporcionan dbil soporte filogentico favoreciendo un arreglo parafiltico en la base de Sauropodomorpha. El anlisis posiciona a Panphagia como el sauropodomorfo ms basal, seguido de Eoraptor, Pampadromaeus y un clado que incluye a Chromogisaurus y Saturnalia.
20697007|The appendicular skeleton of the abelisaurid theropod Majungasaurus crenatissimus (Depret, 1896) Lavocat, 1955 is described for the first time. The available materials include an incomplete pectoral girdle and forelimb, along with the ilium and a nearly complete hind limb. These materials display a number of ceratosaur, abelisauroid, and abelisaurid synapomorphies, supporting the phylogenetic placement of Majungasaurus based previously on cranial anatomy. As in Ceratosaurus and Carnotaurus, the scapular blade is relatively wide and has a pronounced dorsal lip over the glenoid. The humerus is short and bears a globular head, but is more slender than in Carnotaurus. The ilium has a preacetabular hook, a strong supraacetabular crest, a notched posterior margin, and peg-and-socket articulations with both the pubis and ischium. Hind limb elements are proportionally stocky, as in some other abelisaurids. The femur lacks a trochanteric shelf, the tibia has a greatly enlarged cnemial crest, and the fibula bears a deep, posteriorly facing medial fossa. The abelisaurid astragalocalcaneum is described here in detail for the first time, and is more similar to that of tetanurans than to those of coelophysoids. Taken together, these materials illustrate that the appendicular skeleton of abelisaurids was specialized over the typical condition in basal theropods, particularly through the development of enlarged muscle attachment processes. Sambany izao no namelabelabelarin'i Lavocat tamin'ny 1955 ny momban'ny taolan-drambon'ny abelisaurid theropod Majungasaurus crenatissimus (Depret, 1896). Ireo karazan-taolana nisy tamin'ireo dia maro ny ceratosaur sy abelisauroid ary abelisaurid synapomorphies, izay nanamarina ny toerana phylogenetic n'ny Majungasaurus izay tamin'ny bikan'ny karan-doha ny nametrahana azy. Toy ny an'ny Ceratosaurus sy Carnotaurus dia azo ambara fa mivelatra ny taolan-tsoroka ary iny faritra ambonin'ny glenoid iny dia misy molony aoriana mivoitra mazava tsara. Fohy ny taolan-tsandry ary borobory ny lohany, saingy marotsadrotsaka raha ampitahaina ny an'i Carnotaurus. Ny ilium dia ahitana faingoka alohan'ny acetabular, ny tampony supraacetabular matanjaka, misy faingoka aoriana amin'ny sisiny, ary lavaka fitocrana miaro vohitra mahatazona ny fifanohizan'ny taolana izay miaraka amin'ny pubis sy ischium. Ny taolan-tongotra dia mitovitovy ny fahafohezany, toy ireo sasany amin'ny abelisaurids. Tsy ahitana trochanteric self ny taolam-pe, ny tibia (taolan-dranjo iray) dia misy vohitra cnemial mivelatra be, ary ny fibula (taolan-dranjo iray hafa) dia mitondra lavaka lalina manatrika aoriana. Ny abesilaurid astragalocalcaneum dia novelabelarina volalohany tamin'ny antsipirihiny eto, izay toy ny natao tamin'ny tetanurans ka mihoatra ny natao tamin'ny coelophysoids. Rehefa nojerena miaraka dia tsapa fa ireo taolana ireo dia manazava fa ny taolan-damosin'ny abelisaurids dia voatokana manokana tamina fisehoan-javatra izay tsy mahazatra teo amin'ny faritra ambany amin'ny vatan'ny theropods, indrindra indrindra ny fisian'ny fivelaran'ny toerana fipetrahan'ny hozatra.
41441765|Simosuchus clarki is a small, pug-nosed notosuchian crocodyliform from the Late Cretaceous of Madagascar. Originally described on the basis of a single specimen including a remarkably complete and well-preserved skull and lower jaw, S. clarki is now known from five additional specimens that preserve portions of the craniofacial skeleton. Collectively, these six specimens represent all elements of the head skeleton except the stapedes, thus making the craniofacial skeleton of S. clarki one of the best and most completely preserved among all known basal mesoeucrocodylians. In this report, we provide a detailed description of the entire head skeleton of S. clarki, including a portion of the hyobranchial apparatus. The two most complete and well-preserved specimens differ substantially in several size and shape variables (e.g., projections, angulations, and areas of ornamentation), suggestive of sexual dimorphism. Assessment of both external and internal morphological features indicates a habitual head posture in which the preorbital portion of the dermal skull roof was tilted downward at an angle of ~45. Functional and comparative assessment of the feeding apparatus strongly indicates a predominantly if not exclusively herbivorous diet. Other features of the craniofacial skeleton of S. clarki are consistent with the interpretation developed from analysis of the postcranial skeleton of a terrestrial habitus, but the current working hypothesis of a burrowing lifestyle is not supported. The atypical appearance of the skull and lower jaw of S. clarki is underscored by the identification of at least 45 autapomorphic features, many of them related to the greatly foreshortened snout.
24413072|We describe a partial braincase of the basal sauropodomorph Panphagia protos from the Upper Triassic (mid-Carnian) horizons of the Ischigualasto Formation. The disarticulated braincase from a subadult individual includes one frontal, both parietals, one prootic, and the supraoccipital. The frontal is longer anteroposteriorly than it is wide transversely, has a small anterolateral process, and an elongate oval depression for the olfactory bulb. The supraoccipital is broader transversely than it is deep dorsoventrally and lacks a pronounced median nuchal eminence. Some braincase features that characterize more derived basal sauropodomorphs are not present in Panphagia, including a broader frontal and reduced anterior tympanic and floccular recesses. Panphagia appears to represent an early stage in the evolution of sauropodomorph dinosaurs. Describimos la caja craneana parcial del sauropodomorfo basal Panphagia protos proveniente de horizontes del Trisico superior (Carniano medio) de la Formacin Ischigualasto. La caja craneana desarticulada es de un individuo sub-adulto e incluye un frontal, dos parietales, un protico y el supraoccipital. El frontal es ms largo anteroposteriormente que ancho transversalmente, tiene un pequeo proceso anterolateral y una depresin alargada oval para el bulbo olfatorio. El supraoccipital es transversalmente ms ancho que dorsoventralmente alto y carece de una eminencia nucal media pronunciada. Algunas de las caractersticas que caracterizan los neurocrneos de sauropodomorfos basales ms derivados no estn presentes en Panphagia, incluyendo el frontal ancho y la reduccin de las cavidades timpnica anterior y flocular. Panphagia parece representar una etapa temprana en la evolucin de los dinosaurios sauropodomorfos.
20697006|Recent fieldwork in Upper Cretaceous terrestrial deposits in northwestern Madagascar has yielded a remarkable diversity of vertebrates, including several specimens of the abelisaurid theropod Majungasaurus crenatissimus (Depret, 1896) Lavocat, 1955. Featured among the discoveries is an exquisite specimen (UA 8678) that preserves a virtually complete precaudal vertebral column, numerous costal elements, and portions of the skull and appendicular skeleton. This contribution represents the first description highlighting the postcranial axial skeleton of Majungasaurus. Owing to the completeness and quality of preservation, this specimen allows an examination of the serial transformation of features along the lenght of the axial skeleton, including a detailed analysis of postcranial pneumaticity in a nontetanuran theropod. Notable features of Majungasaurus include pneumatic cervical ribs with caudally bifurcate shafts and extensive pneumaticity of all postatlantal, precaudal vertebrae. Several postcranial features exhibited by Majungasaurusincluding a well-developed cervical epipophysis, laterally expanded dorsal parapophysis, and sub-divided infradiapophyseal fossa in middle dorsal seriessupport previous phylogenetic studies placing it within Abelisauroidea and Abelisauridae. Majungasaurus (and abelisaurids generally) exhibit a robust cervical skeleton that features tightly interlocking cervical ribs, hyperossification of cervical rib shafts, and hypertrophied muscle attachment sites relative to other basal theropods. These features together highlight an axial core constructed to withstand high stresses, likely reflecting feeding adaptations for predation on large-bodied prey. Ireo fikarohana natao tamina faritra misy tany iangonan'ireo taolam-balon-javamananaina tamin'ny vanim-potoanan'ny Cretaces Ambony tany amin'ny faritra avaratra andrefan'i Madagasikara iny dia nahafahana nanampongatra karazana sisan-dinaozora misy karazany marobe, ahitana sisana abelisaurid theropod Majungasaurus crenatissimus misimisy (Depret, 1896) Lavocat, 1955. Isan'ireo voka-pikarohana misongadina amin'izany ny sisan-javamananaina (UA 8678) iray izay mbola feno ny taolan-katoka mitondra mitohy amin'ny hazon-damosiny rehetra, ny taolan-tratrany maromaro, ny ampahany amin'ny karan-dohany ary ny taolan-drambony. Maneho ny fanoritsoritana voalohany ny taolan-damosina ao am-para-hatoky ny Majungasaurus io vokam-pikarohana io. Satria mbola voatahiry tsara sy mbola eo daholo ny singan-javatra rehetra momba azy, dia ahafahana mandinika ireo dingampivoaran'ny endriky ny taolan-damosiny ity sisan-javamananaina ity, ka tafiditra ao anatin'izany ny fandinihana lalina kokoa ny fiangonan'ny rivotra ao am-para-hatoka-na 'nontetanuran' theropod. Isan'ny ireo zavatra mampiavaka ny Majungasaurus ny fananany taolan-katoka madinika iangonan-drivotra izay manana tandrony mizara roa ary mahafoka rivotra be tokoa amin'ny taolan-damosiny rehetra. Maro amin'ireo toetoetran'ny farabatokin'ny Majungasaurus, ohatra ny fivontosana be eo amin'ny vohitra 'pipophyse'-ny hatoka, ny fivelaran'ny vohitra 'parapophyses'aoriana amin'ny lafiny havia sy havanana, ny fizarazaran'ny lavaka eo ambanin'ny 'diapophyse' dia manamafy ireo fandinihina 'phylogenetic' nametraka azy ao amin'ny fianakavian'ny Abelisauroidea sy Abelisauridae. Majungasaurus (sy abelisaurids amin'ny ankapobeny) dia mampiseho taolan-katoka matanjaka narafitra mafy manodidina sy mifehy ny fihetsehin'ny taolan-katoka, sy ny fivontosan'ny vantan-taolana ary ny fihenana be dia be ny hozatra mifandray aminy raha ampitahaina amin'ireo faritra amin'ny vatana ambany eo amin'ny theropods. Ny fananany ireo toetra ireo mitambatra dia mampisongadina ny fisihan'ny andry voarafitra ahazakany fisehoan-javatra sarotra sy manahirana, toy ny fahazarana amin'ny fihinanana haza vaventy vatana.
41441767|The notosuchian crocodyliform Simosuchus clarki from the Late Cretaceous of Madagascar, originally known from a single specimen preserving primarily the skull, lower jaw, and anterior postcranial skeleton, is now known from three additional partial skeletons that collectively preserve nearly the entire appendicular skeleton. Although typically crocodyliform in overall morphology, the appendicular skeleton of Simosuchus preserves a number of derived features of phylogenetic and functional significance. Notable features of the pectoral girdle and forelimb include an anteroposteriorly broad, tripartite scapular blade; a laterally directed scapular prominence; a proximally expanded humerus with a shallow deltopectoral crest; a distinct, semi-ellipsoidal glenohumeral condyle; a tightly articulating radius and ulna; and a relatively foreshortened manus with robust distal unguals. Notable features of the pelvic girdle and hind limb include a distinct, spur-like projection of the anterior process of the ischium; a femur with a distinctive anterior flange; and a relatively foreshortened pes. Generally, characteristics of the appendicular skeleton are consistent with a terrestrial lifestyle and provide insight into the behavior and locomotion of Simosuchus. The robust limb morphology observed in Simosuchus, together with expanded areas for insertion of pectoral and pelvic musculature in the proximal humrus and femur, is consistent with non-cursorial terrestrial locomotion in a relatively stout-bodied crocodyliform. Characteristics of the hind limb indicate a primarily semi-erect posture, in contrast to the erect posture inferred for other notosuchians.
10.2307/3889340|Alligatoroidea, a stem-based group including living alligators and caimans and all taxa closer to them than to Crocodylus or Gavialis, includes seven living species and a large diversity of extinct taxa extending back to the Campanian (Late Cretaceous). Parsimony analysis of 164 discrete morphological characters supports several previous hypotheses based on morphology and molecules: Diplocynodon, from the European Tertiary, is a monophyletic alligatoroid lineage; Brachychampsa and Stangerochampsa are derived alligatoroid taxa but not demonstrably within the crown-group Alligatoridae; and, within the crown-group, caimans form a robust clade. However, this study indicates the paraphyly of "Allognathosuchus;" the alligatoroid affinities of Leidyosuchus canadensis but not of most other "Leidyosuchus;" the very distant relationship between Hylaeochampsa and any extant crocodylian lineage, including Alligatoroidea; and the fact that Diplocynodon must extend at least as far as the Campanian, even though the oldest well-known Diplocynodon are from the Eocene. This work supports a close relationship between Diplocynodon and Baryphracta deponiae from the Eocene of Germany; monophyly of Alligator and the caiman assemblage as currently applied in the literature; the caiman affinities of the bizarre nettosuchids and Purussaurus; and a closer relationship between Caiman latirostris and Melanosuchus niger than between C. latirostris and other Caiman. Phylogenetic taxonomic principles have been applied to Crocodylia by several workers, and this study expands upon this with a discussion of phylogeny-based name definitions for Crocodylia and nested subgroups. Leidyosuchus is the basalmost alligatoroid, but within its sister taxon we can recognize a pair of stem-based groups-Diplocynodontinae (Diplocynodon ratelii and all taxa closer to it than to Alligator mississippiensis) and Globidonta (Alligator mississippiensis and all taxa closer to it than to Diplocynodon ratelii). The crown-group Alligatoridae (last common ancestor of Alligator, Caiman, Melanosuchus, and Paleosuchus and all of its descendents) can likewise be split into a pair of stem-based daughter lineages: Alligatorinae (Alligator and taxa closer to it than to Caiman) and Caimaninae (Caiman and taxa closer to it than to Alligator). Salt intolerance has been used by previous authors to force alligatorid dispersal along land bridges. Despite the problem of inappropriate climate, a land crossing across Beringia during the Late Tertiary best explains the current existence of an Asiatic alligatorid (Alligator sinensis), but based on known fossil occurrences, caimans and alligators diverged from each other in North America sometime during the Late Cretaceous and spread to South America by the Paleocene, when North and South America were separated. A single dispersal event at or near the Cretaceous-Tertiary Boundary is sufficient to explain the presence of caimans in South America, with a reinvasion from South America explaining the presence of a nettosuchid in the North American Eocene (Orthogenysuchus).
24413070|Trends of preservation are established on the basis of 385 fossil occurrences in the Ischigualasto Formation. The distribution and preservational quality of vertebrate fossils are related to sedimentary facies and stratigraphic position and follow trends in basin evolution and paleoclimate. Fossils in the Ischigualasto Formation are mainly concentrated along the margins of the basin. Floodplain deposits preserve ca. 88% of fossils, which range from unidentifiable fragments to articulated skeletons. The remaining fossil occurrences (ca. 12%) come from coarser-grained fluvial channel deposits and exhibit variable preservational quality, including some well-preserved cynodont skulls. Fossils in the basal La Pea Member (ca. 4% of occurrences) are generally highly weathered and disarticulated with hematitic permineralization. The majority of collected specimens (ca. 65% of occurrences) come from the overlying Cancha de Bochas Member and range from isolated bones to articulated skeletons. Calcite, rather than hematite, is the predominant agent of permineralization. The succeeding Valle de la Luna Member (ca. 30% of occurrences) preserves an association between vertebrate fossils and plant remains. Fossil preservation suggests prolonged exposure prior to burial under wetter conditions with superficial and penetrating precipitation of hematite. The uppermost Quebrada de la Sal Member of the Ischigualasto Formation is nearly barren of fossil remains. Se establecieron las tendencias en la preservacin de restos de paleovertebrados a lo largo de la Formacin Ischigualasto en base a 385 fsiles. La distribucin y la calidad de preservacin de los fsiles de vertebrados en esta unidad est relacionada con las facies sedimentarias y la posicin estratigrfica de los mismos, variando segn la evolucin de la cuenca y del paleoclima. Los fsiles en la Formacin Ischigualasto estn principalmente concentrados en los mrgenes de la cuenca. Paleoambientalmente, los depsitos de llanura de inundacin preservan alrededor del 88% de los fsiles de la unidad, los cuales van desde fragmentos inidentificables hasta esqueletos articulados. Las restantes ocurrencias de fsiles (alrededor del 12%) provienen de depsitos de canal de grano grueso y tambin exhiben variables calidades de preservacin, incluyendo algunos pequeos crneos de cinodontes en excelente estado de preservacin. Estratigrficamente, los fsiles en el miembro basal La Pea (alrededor del 4% de los hallazgos) estn generalmente muy meteorizados, desarticulados y permineralizados con hematita. La mayora de los especmenes colectados (alrededor del 65% de los hallazgos) provienen del suprayacente Miembro Cancha de Bochas, los cuales van desde huesos aislados hasta esqueletos articulados completos. Estos restos estn permineralizados principalmente con calcita en lugar de hematita. En el siguiente, Miembro Valle de la Luna (alrededor del 30% de los hallazgos), se preserva una peculiar asociacin de restos fsiles de vertebrados y plantas. La preservacin de los fsiles en esta unidad sugiere una prolongada exposicin bajo un clima ms hmedo, con la consecuente precipitacin de abundante hematita en la superficie y en el interior. Por ltimo, en el techo de la Formacin Ischigualasto, el Miembro Quebrada de la Sal carece casi completamente de restos fsiles.
10.2307/3889328| The comparative osteology and phylogenetic relationships of fossil and living paddlefishes (Polyodontidae) are investigated in detail for the first time. This peculiar, poorly known group is of great significance to phylogenetic studies of primitive actinopterygians, because it is one of only two chondrostean families that have survived to the present. Consequently the group is frequently used as an outgroup for studies of the many fossil chondrostean groups and for higher-level studies of actinopterygian (and even osteichthyan) interrelationships. The family has a long but spotty fossil record dating back to the Upper Cretaceous, including species represented by relatively complete skeletons or at least skulls. These relatively complete fossils are extremely rare and belong to the species Paleopsephurus wilsoni MacAlpin, 1947 from the Upper Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation of Montana (redescribed here); Polyodon sp. nov. from the lower Paleocene Tullock Formation of Montana (described here); and Crossopholis magnicaudatus Cope, 1883 from lower Eocene deposits of the Green River Formation in Wyoming (described in detail here for the first time based on much new material). Among the fossils, Crossopholis is of particular interest, because it is now known by several nearly complete skeletons (reported and described here for the first time). Paleopsephurus and Polyodon sp. nov. are known from a single partial skull each, and some fragmentary postcranial material, but are well enough represented to include in our phylogenetic analysis. Other, more fragmentary, Upper Cretaceous and Paleocene material (some newly reported here) is placed in Polyodontidae incertae sedis. There are two extant species in the family, frequently referred to in the literature as "living fossils." These two species are Polyodon spathula from the Mississippi River drainage of North America, and Psephurus gladius primarily from the upper Yangtze River drainage in China. The osteology of Psephurus gladius is described here in detail for the first time. Previous studies of Polyodontidae have been almost exclusively based on Polyodon spathula, because specimens of the other species are extremely rare and very poorly known. After accumulating and preparing material for several years, we were able to describe more fully all polyodontid species and examine the family phylogenetically. Our study reveals that Polyodon spathula is a highly derived member of the family, and generally not a good representative of the family when the family is used as an outgroup for higher-level phylogenetic studies of actinopterygians. The use of Polyodon spathula as the primitive polyodontid has previously led to several serious errors in the literature. We therefore also summarize certain primitive characters of Polyodontidae in this paper. Contrary to previous studies, we show that Paleopsephurus has the stellate rostral bones unique to polyodontids (in addition to the long median rostral bones and extremely elongate snout also unique to the group). Also contrary to previous studies, Polyodontidae (at least primitively) does have ossifications of the quadratojugal, interclavicle and postcleithrum. We also report several other osteological features previously unknown from the family. Our study results in a phylogenetic hypothesis for paddlefishes that is radically different from the only other published cladogram (Gardiner, 1984b). We demonstrate that Paleopsephurus clearly belongs in Polyodontidae, rather than Acipenseridae as proposed by Gardiner (1984b). Paleopsephurus is the sistergroup to Polyodontinae, new subfamily (a group containing Psephurus, Crossopholis, and two species of Polyodon). Psephurus is the sistergroup to Polyodontini, new tribe (a group containing Crossopholis and Polyodon). Polyodon contains the extant Polyodon spathula as well as a new fossil species from early Paleocene freshwater deposits of Montana. A better understanding of polyodontid osteology also enables us to provide a phylogenetic hypothesis for Acipenseriformes (assuming monophyly of Acipenseridae) that differs from that of previous authors. In particular we find that Chondrosteidae is the sistergroup to a group containing Acipenseridae plus Polyodontidae. Polyodontidae also provide evidence that the supraneurals in actinopterygians are the serial homologues of epurals, and not of fin radials. As has previously been apparent, Polyodontidae is one of several groups that indicate a transpacific biogeographic relationship for western North America (west of the continental divide) during the Early Tertiary. We also describe ontogenetic and intraspecific variation in paddlefish osteology. Based on the large amount of variation, we conclude that, in at least some fishes, it is important to examine large numbers of specimens, including extremely old individuals (i.e., "upper end ontogeny") in the developmental series to more completely document the morphology. Normal-sized, reproductively active adult paddlefishes lack particular ossifications of the scapulocoracoid, vertebral column and neurocranium present in other osteichthyans; but as we show here, these elements eventually ossify in very large, older individuals. In this sense, paddlefishes appear to be the axolotls of the fish world, offering one of the best documented cases of paedomorphosis (or neoteny) known to date. 
20697004|Recent fieldwork in the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Maevarano Formation, northwest Madagascar, has yielded important new skull material of the abelisaurid theropod, Majungasaurus crenatissimus. One of these specimens in particulara virtually complete, disarticulated, and well preserved skullgreatly elucidates the craniofacial osteology of abelisaurids. Herein we describe the skull and lower jaws of this mid-sized theropod dinosaur. A number of features of the facial skeleton and cranium (as well as the postcranium) appear to result from increased levels of mineralization and ossification, which, at least in some instances, can be related directly to specific soft-tissue structures; examples include lacrimal-postorbital contact dorsal to the orbit, suborbital processes of the lacrimal and postorbital, presence of a mineralized interorbital septum, fused interdental plates, and mineralization of the overlying integument. Autapomorphic features include a highly derived nasalgreatly thickened and fused to its counterpart, with a large interior pneumatic chamberand a median, 'dome'-like thickening of the frontals, which appear to have been variably pneumatized by a paranasal air sac. Majungasaurus also possesses a derived suite of skull morphologies, including: a rostrocaudally abbreviated, dorsoventrally deep, and transversely broad skull; an expanded occiput, likely associated with expanded cervical musculature; short-crowned dentition; and an enlarged external mandibular fenestra consistent with a moderate degree of intramandibular movement or accommodation. A number of characters, present on both the skull and postcranial skeleton, suggest a divergent mode of predation relative to other, non-abelisaurid theropods. Ireo asa fikarohana natao tao amin'ny Fiforonanana Maevarano tamin'ny vanim-potoana Cretaceous Ambony (Maastrichtian) tany amin'ny faritra avaratr'andrefan'i Madagasikara dia nahitana taolan-karan-doha vaovao tena sarobidy tokoa izay an'ny abelisaurid theropod, Majungasaurus crenatissimus. Iray tamin'ireo taolana ireo dia nisongadina satria saika feno tanteraka na tsy nitambatra tsara intsony aza dia tena voatahiry tsara io taolan-doha io, ka nahahana nampiseho mazava tsara ny fiforonan'ny taolan'ny loha sy ny tavan'ny abelisaurids. Koa eto izahay dia manazava ny taolan-doha sy ny valan-dranon'ny theropod dia ireo theropod dinozaoro izay manana vatana tsy lehibe nefa tsy kely koa. Maro amin'ireo toetran'ny taolan'ny endrika sy ny loha (sy ny aorinan'ny loha) dia ohatry ny vokatry ny fitombon'ny fivontoan'ny mineraly sy ny taolana, izay, farafahakeliny ho an'reo karazany sasany, dia azo heverina ho misy fifandraisany amin'ny firafitr'ireo rakotra malefaka miavaka; ohatra ny fifandraisan'ny lacrimal-postorbital aoriana amin'ny lavaky ny maso, ny vohitry ny suborbital-n'ny lacrimal sy ny postorbital, ny fisian'ny fvontosan'ny mineraly interorbital septum, fitambaran'ny taolam-pisaka manelana ny nify, ary fivontosan'ny mineraly tegument anatiny mipetraka ambony. Ireo toetra autapomorphic dia ahitana ireo taolan'orona nisy fivoarana be, izay manome endrika matevina sy mitambatra amin'ny lafiny mifanila aminy, ka ny endrika anatiny dia malalaka afaka hitoeran'ny rivotra, sy mitondra vohitra afovoany toa mampitombo ny fahatevenan'ny taolan'andrina, izay toa milaza fa toa afaka nitoeran'ny rivotra noho ny paranasal izay kitapon-drivotra. Majungasaurus koa dia manana endriky ny fivoaran'ny karan-doha, ka anisan'izany ny fihenan'ny rostro aoriana, lalina ny faritra afovoany-aoriana, sy mivelatra ny sisin'ny karan-doha, mivelatra ny occiput, izay mampiseho ny toetra mafonja ny hozatry ny loha; boribory-fohy ny nify; ary mivelatra ny mandibular fenestra ivelany mifanaraka amin'ny fahafahan'ny fihetsehana na fandraisana ihany koa ny intramandibular. Maro amin'ireo toetra hita amin'ny karan-doha sy ny taolan'ny vatana dia afahana mamantatra ireo karazana fomba fihazana raha ampitahaina amin'ieo hafa dia ireo tsy abelisaurid theropods.
24413077|This study presents the first comprehensive revision of 'pholidophoriform' fishes, which are a key taxon for understanding the early diversification of teleost fish. Systematic revisions of Triassic pholidophorids, which are based on numerous well-preserved specimens, include Annaichthys, gen. et sp. nov., Knerichthys, gen. nov., Parapholidophorus, Pholidoctenus, Pholidophoretes, Pholidophorus, Pholidorhynchodon, and Zambellichthys, gen. et sp. nov. The morphological descriptions presented support a phylogenetic analysis that proposes a new hypothesis for character evolution within basal Teleostei, with implications for holosteans and teleosteans. The phylogenetic analysis resolves traditional 'pholidophoriform' species as a paraphyletic assemblage, with some grouped in a monophyletic Pholidophoridae and others more closely related to crown-group teleosts. The monophyletic Family Pholidophoridae is restricted to European Triassic taxa and is the sister group of the Jurassic genus Eurycormus plus all other teleosts. The latter clade is supported by several synapomorphies, such as an elongate posteroventral process of the quadrate, long epineural processes, and seven or more ural neural arches modified as uroneurals. Pholidophorus bechei is removed from Pholidophoridae and recognized as the new genus Dorsetichthys. Current evidence indicates that the Upper Triassic Pholidophoretes salvus and Knerichthys bronni represent the oldest known pholidophorids, and Prohalecites from the Middle/Upper Triassic boundary represents the oldest stem teleost. Aspidorhynchiforms, pachycormiforms, and Prohalecites are resolved as stem teleosts. The monophyly of Teleostei, which now includes Triassic pholidophorids, is supported by numerous synapomorphies, such as one suborbital, two supramaxillae, and the articular fused to the angular and retroarticular boneswith further transformations within more advanced teleosts. Synapomorphies of Teleosteomorpha, the clade including crown-group teleosts and all fish more closely related to them than to their closest extant relatives, include the autosphenotic lacking a dermal component, an unpaired vomer, and one long, toothed, serrated appendage on the cleithrum.
20697012|The embryonic skeleton of the most massive bird ever discovered, the extinct elephant bird Aepyornis, has remained until this time essentially unknown. This state is due, in large part, to the reluctance to open complete, unbroken eggs. However, the advent of high-resolution X-ray computed tomography (HRCT) provides a non-destructive means of looking inside such eggs to observe the contents that they conceal. This study uses HRCT technology to digitally extract an embryonic skeleton from a complete Aepyornis egg and subsequently to aid in the systematic description of this specimen. Skeletal elements digitally retrieved from the egg include portions of the braincase, palate, rostrum, vertebral column, and both the fore- and hindlimbs. Because this specimen is at a relatively early stage of ontogenetic development, the bones that were recovered reveal morphology that typically is obliterated in the adult due to the highly fused state of the skeleton, especially seen in the skull. The usefulness of this information, however, is limited unless a level of ontogenetic maturity can be assigned to the specimen. Therefore, we use an extant phylogenetic bracket in a novel analysis comparing the morphological developmental of living ratites and chickens with this specimen of Aepyornis to assess its level of ontogenetic maturity.
24413073|We describe the basal sauropodomorph Eoraptor lunensis, based on the nearly complete holotypic skeleton and referred specimens, all of which were discovered in the Cancha de Bochas Member of the Ischigualasto Formation in north-western Argentina. The lightly built skull has a slightly enlarged external naris and a spacious antorbital fossa with a prominent, everted dorsal margin and internal wall lacking any pneumatic extensions into surrounding bones. The tall quadrate is lapped along its anterior margin by the long, slender ventral process of the squamosal, and the lower jaw has a mid-mandibular joint between a tongue-shaped splenial process and a trough in the angular. All but the posterior-most maxillary and dentary crowns have a basal constriction, and the marginal denticles are larger and oriented more vertically than in typical theropod serrations. Rows of rudimentary palatal teeth are present on the pterygoid. Vertebral centra are hollow, although not demonstrably pneumatized, and all long bones have hollow shafts. The radius and ulna are more robust, the manus proportionately shorter, and the manual unguals less recurved than in the contemporaneous basal theropod Eodromaeus murphi. An outstanding feature of the manus of Eoraptor is the twisted shaft of the first phalanx of the pollex, which deflects medially the tip of the ungual as in basal sauropodomorphs. The long bones of the hind limb have more robust shafts than those of Eodromaeus, although in both genera the tibia remains slightly longer than the femur. Describimos el sauropodomorfo basal Eoraptor lunensis basados en el esqueleto prcticamente completo del holotipo y especmenes referidos, todos ellos descubiertos en el Miembro Cancha de Bochas de la Formacin Ischigualasto, en el noroeste de Argentina. El grcil crneo tiene las narinas externas ligeramente agrandadas, una amplia fosa antorbital con un margen dorsal prominente y evertido, y ausencia de extensiones neumticas en los huesos circundantes. El alto cuadrado presenta todo su margen anterior solapado por el delgado proceso ventral del escamoso y la mandbula tiene una junta medial entre un proceso linguoide del esplenial y un canal en el angular. Todas las coronas dentarias y maxilares, menos las ms posteriores, tienen una constriccin basal y los dentculos marginales son largos y orientados ms verticalmente que en el aserrado tpico de los terpodos. El pterigoideo tiene filas de dientes palatales rudimentarios. Los centros de las vrtebras son huecos, aunque no demostrablemente neumatizados, y todos los huesos largos tienen las difisis huecas. El radio y la ulna son ms robustos, la mano proporcionalmente corta y los ungueales manuales menos recurvados que en el contemporneo terpodo basal Eodromaeus murphi. Una caracterstica sobresaliente de la mano de Eoraptor es la rotacin de la primera falange del pulgar, que desva medialmente la punta del ungueal como en los sauropodomorfos basales. Los huesos largos de las piernas tienen difisis ms robustas que aquellas de Eodromaeus, aunque en ambos gneros la tibia es ligeramente ms larga que el fmur.
20697003|The abelisaurid theropod Majungasaurus crenatissimus inhabited the plains of northwestern Madagascar during the Late Cretaceous. It lived alongside other nonavian dinosaurs, including a small-bodied noasaurid theropod (Masiakasaurus knopfleri) and a titanosaurian sauropod (Rapetosaurus krausei). Although an inhabitant of the expansive floodplains of the Mahajanga Basin, M. crenatissimus also frequented the broad and sandy channel belts that drained Madagascar's central highlands. These shallow rivers were populated by a variety of aquatic and semi-aquatic animals, including fish, frogs, turtles, and several species of both large and small crocodyliforms. These animals were likely adapted for seasonal fluctuations in water availability because the sediments that entomb their remains (fine-grained debris flow deposits intercalated with stream flow deposits) indicate a strongly variable discharge regime. Associated oxidized calcareous paleosols with localized accumulations of carbonate nodules suggest that the ambient climate was semiarid. The numerous bonebeds preserved in these same sediments are indicative of localized and recurrent pulses of mortality. M. crenatissimus fed on carcasses preserved in these bonebeds, and there is good indication from a wealth of tooth-marked bone derived from two conspecific individuals that it focused on the well-muscled axial skeleton in a fashion similar to that of many modern vertebrate carnivores. This evidence for intraspecific feeding renders M. crenatissimus the only theropod dinosaur with demonstrated cannibalistic tendencies. Ny theropod abelisaurid Majungasaurus crenatissimus dia nonina tao amin'ny lemaky ny faritra avaratr'andrefan'i Madagasikara nandritry ny Cretaceous Farany. Tamin 'izany dia niaranitoetra hatrany niaraka tamin'ny dinozaoro tsy avian izy, ka anisan'izany ny theropod noasaurid kely vatana (Masiakasaurus knopfleri) sy sauropod titanosaurian (Rapetosaurus krausei). Na dia nipetraka maharitra tao amin 'ny lemaka midadasika saforan'ny rano tao amin'ny Basin an'i Mahajanga aza M. crenatissimus dia hita matetika koa izy namonjy ny sisina lehibe sy mamasiky ny lakan-drano, izay manondraka ny anivon-tanin'i Madagasikara (central highlands). Ireo renirano marivo ireo dia nahitana karazam-biby maro izay monina manontolo na am-pahany anaty rano, toy ny trondro, sahona, sokatra, ary karazam-boay maro koa ka hita tamin'izany ireo voay kely sy vaventy vatana. Ireo biby ireo dia toy ny lasa zatra niaina tamin'ny fiovaovan'ny fisian'ny rano satria ireo karazam-batokely madinika notanterin'ny rano izay nandrakotra sy nitahiry ny vatana mbola tavela tamin'izy ireo (tosak'ireo tatitra [sediment] potipotika tena madinika toa miendrika voa izay hifanelanelanan'ny tatitra nentin'ny rano) dia nampiseho mazava ny fisian'ny fiovaovana tamin'ny fametrahana ireo tatitra nentin'ny rano. Ny fisian'ny tany tranainy misy harafesina sy sokay ka niangonan'ny vonganana madinika misy carbonate tamin'ny faritra mazava dia nafahana nilaza fa ny toetr'andro sy toe-tany manodidina teo amin'io toerana io dia maina amin'ny ampahany. Ireo taolana maro hita tany amin'ny faritra ambany tamin'io tatitra io ihany koa dia karazana marika nilaza ny fisian'ny fahafatesana maro niaraka sy tampoka ary niverimberina matetita tamin'ny faritra mazava. M. crenatissimus dia nihinana ny vatan'ireo biby voatahiry izay hita tao amin'io toerana niangon'ny taolana io, ary nisy aza filazana mazava tamin'ny taolana nisy dia-nify mazava izay an'ny biby roa avy amin'ny karazana mitovy (conspecific) fa io nify io dia mifandray tamin'ny hozatra matanjaky ny tsangana afovoany ny karana izay miendrika toy ny hita amin'ny hazon-damosin'ireo carnivores mbola amin'izao fotoana izao. Io seho mazava teo fomba fihininana teo amin'ireo biby iray sokajy dia nahatonga ny filazana fa M. crenatissimus no hany dinozaoro theropod tokana nampiseho ny mety fisian'ny fifampihinana teo amin'ny biby iray karazana.
41441772|The dicynodont wastebasket genus Dicynodon is revised following a comprehensive review of nominal species. Most nominal species of Dicynodon pertain to other well-known dicynodont genera, especially Oudenodon and Diictodon. Of the Karoo Permian species that are referable to "Dicynodon" sensu lato, we recognize four common, valid morphospecies: Dicynodon lacerticeps, D. leoniceps, D. woodwardi, and Dinanomodon gilli, comb. nov. Eleven additional species of "Dicynodon" are recognized worldwide: D. alticeps, D. amalitzkii, D. bathyrhynchus, D. benjamini, D. bogdaensis, D. huenei, D. limbus, D. sinkianensis, D. traquairi, D. trautscholdi, and D. vanhoepeni. Morphometric analysis of D. lacerticeps and D. leoniceps specimens recovers statistically significant separation between these species in snout profile and squamosal shape, supporting their distinction. A new phylogenetic analysis of Anomodontia reveals that "Dicynodon" is polyphyletic, necessitating taxonomic revision at the generic level. D. benjamini and D. limbus are basal cryptodonts, whereas the other valid "Dicynodon" species are basal dicynodontoids. The genus Dicynodon is restricted to D. lacerticeps and D. huenei. We reinstate use of Daptocephalus, Sintocephalus, Turfanodon, Daqingshanodon, Jimusaria, and Gordonia for other species. We synonymize Vivaxosaurus permirus and Dicynodon trautscholdi (as V. trautscholdi, comb, nov.) We establish new generic names for several species formerly included in Dicynodon: Peramodon amalitzkii, comb, nov., Keyseria benjamini, comb, nov., Euptychognathus bathyrhynchus, comb, nov., Syops vanhoepeni, comb, nov., and Basilodon woodwardi, comb. nov. Of the main Karoo Permian taxa, Dicynodon, Basilodon, and Dinanomodon range throughout the Cistecephalus and Dicynodon assemblage zones, but Daptocephalus is restricted to the Dicynodon Assemblage Zone.
10.2307/3889336|Archosaurs first appeared in the Middle Triassic and within a short interval of time came to dominate all faunas of large vertebrates for the remainder of the Mesozoic. It is widely held that shortly after archosaurs first appeared the group split into two clades, now termed "Pseudosuchia" and "Ornithosuchia." Each clade independently evolved a rotary-style ankle design ("crocodile-normal" and "crocodile-reversed," respectively) and each independently evolved from semi-erect to erect limb posture. Erect posture, in turn, has been identified as the key adaptation (possibly associated with locomotor stamina) that resulted in the archosaurian radiation. These hypotheses are examined in light of a numerical cladistic analysis of basal archosaurs. Contrary to previous schemes, Archosauria is divided into Crurotarsi and Ornithodira. Crurotarsi (Suchia + Ornithosuchidae + Parasuchia) is characterized by the rotary crurotarsal ankle joint and other postcranial synapomorphies; this style of ankle joint thus appears to have evolved once rather than twice. Ornithodira is divided into Pterosauria and Dinosauromorpha. Pterosaurs, therefore, occupy a basal position within Ornithodira and do not constitute the sister-group to Dinosauria as has been suggested. The supposed pterosaur precursor, Scleromochlus, is reexamined and its proximity to Pterosauria is questioned. The analysis underscores the perils of employing functional constructs, such as ankle "types," rather than character data in phylogeny reconstruction. Current scenarios for the evolution of upright posture in archosaurs-either as an "improvement" in design or as a correlate of locomotor stamina-are not supported by the cladistic pattern. Erect archosaurs coexisted for millions of years alongside more abundant sprawling or semi-erect rhynchosaurs and synapsids and radiated only after their demise. Osteological features associated with locomotor stamina in living tetrapods do not appear to be strongly correlated with erect posture among archosaurs. Once erect posture had been achieved in archosaurs, however, it may have promoted the evolution of bipedal locomotion, which appears at about the same time. Bipedal locomotion, in turn, may have permitted more extensive modification of the forelimbs, which in a short interval of time were fashioned as wing supports for powered flight in pterosaurs.
10.2307/3889342|The most commonly cited apomorphy of Archosauriformes is an opening in the snout known as the antorbital cavity. Despite the ubiquity and prominence of the antorbital cavity, its function and importance in craniofacial evolution have been problematic. Discovering the significance of the antorbital cavity is a two step process: first, establishing the function of the bony cavity (that is, its soft-tissue relations), and second, determining the biological role of the enclosed structure. The first step is the most fundamental, and hence is examined at length. Three hypotheses for the function of the antorbital cavity have been advanced, suggesting that it housed (1) a gland, (2) a muscle, or (3) a paranasal air sinus. Thus, resolution is correctly viewed as a "soft-tissue problem," and is addressed within the context of the extant phylogenetic bracket (EPB) approach for reconstructing the unpreserved features of fossil organisms. The soft-anatomical relations of the antorbital cavity (or any bony structure) are important because (1) soft tissues generally have morphogenetic primacy over bony tissues and (2) inferences about soft tissues are the foundation for a cascading suite of paleobiological inferences. The EPB approach uses the shared causal associations between soft tissues and their osteological correlates (i.e., the signatures imparted to the bones by the soft tissues) that are observed in the extant outgroups of the fossil taxon of interest to infer the soft-anatomical attributes of the fossil; based on the assessment at the outgroup node, a hierarchy characterizing the strength of the inference can be constructed. This general approach is applied to the problem of the function of the antorbital cavity, taking each hypothesized soft-tissue candidate-gland, muscle, and air sac-in turn, (1) establishing the osteological correlates of each soft-tissue system in the EPB of any fossil archosaur (i.e., extant birds and crocodilians), (2) formulating a hypothesis of homology based on similarities in these causal associations between birds and crocodilians, (3) testing this hypothesis by surveying fossil archosaurs for the specified osteological correlates, and (4) accepting or rejecting the hypothesis based on its phylogenetic congruence. Using this approach, fossil archosaurs can be reliably reconstructed with a Glandula nasalis, M. pterygoideus, pars dorsalis, and Sinus antorbitalis that are homologous with those of extant archosaurs; however, the osteological correlates of only the antorbital paranasal air sinus involve the several structures associated with the antorbital cavity. Additional evidence for the pneumatic nature of the antorbital cavity comes from the presence of numerous accessory cavities (especially in theropod dinosaurs) surrounding the main antorbital cavity. To address the origin of the antorbital cavity, the EPB approach was applied to basal archosauriforms; the data are not as robust, but nevertheless suggest that the cavity appeared as a housing for a paranasal air sinus. The second step in discovering the evolutionary significance of the antorbital cavity is to assess the function of the enclosed paranasal air sac. In fact, the function of all pneumaticity is investigated here. Rather than the enclosed volume of air (i.e., the empty space) being functionally important, better explanations result by focusing on the pneumatic epithelial diverticulum itself. It is proposed here that the function of the epithelial air sac is simply to pneumatize bone in an opportunistic manner within the constraints of a particular biomechanical loading regime. Trends in facial evolution in three clades of archosaurs (crocodylomorphs, ornithopod dinosaurs, and theropod dinosaurs) were examined in light of this new perspective. Crocodylomorphs and ornithopods both show trends for reduction and enclosure of the antorbital cavity (but for different reasons), whereas theropods show a trend for relatively poorly constrained expansion. These findings are consistent with the view of air sacs as opportunistic pneumatizing machines, with weight reduction and design optimality as secondary effects.
10.2307/3889325| Although sauropods played a major role in terrestrial ecosystems during much of the Mesozoic Era, little effort has been directed toward diagnosing Sauropoda and establishing higher-level interrelationships among sauropods. As a consequence, the origin and evolution of major skeletal adaptations in sauropods has remained largely speculative. The cladistic analysis presented here focuses on higher-level relationships among sauropods. Based on 109 characters (32 cranial, 24 axial, 53 appendicular) for 10 sauropod taxa, the most parsimonious arrangement places four genera (Vulcanodon, Shunosaurus, Barapasaurus, and Omeisaurus) as a sequence of sister-taxa to a group of advanced sauropods, defined here as Neosauropoda. Neosauropoda, in turn, is composed of the sister-clades Diplodocoidea and Macronaria; the latter is a new taxon that includes Haplocanthosaurus, Camarasaurus, and Titanosauriformes. Titanosauriformes includes Brachiosauridae and Somphospondyli, a new taxon uniting Euhelopus and Titanosauria. Among macronarians, the position of Haplocanthosaurus is the least stable as a result of the absence of cranial remains. The basic structure of the phylogeny is resilient to various tests and establishes the evolutionary sequence of many functionally significant sauropod adaptations, such as the digitigrade posture of the manus in neosauropods. Other characteristic sauropod adaptations, such as narrow tooth crowns, increases in length and number of cervical vertebrae, and bifid neural spines, are shown to have evolved more than once. As these results underscore, the higher-level phylogeny of sauropods must be based on a broad sampling of character data. The fossil record of sauropods, although relatively limited during the early phase of the radiation (Late Triassic through Early Jurassic), nonetheless indicates that all major clades were established prior to the Late Jurassic, when substantial faunal interchange among major continental regions was still possible. The functional, temporal, and biogeographic implications of the higher-level phylogeny of sauropods are explored. /// Los saurpodos habrin sido un componente importante de las comunidades terrestes durante gran parte del Mesosoico; se ha dirigido poco esfuerzo al estudio de la diagnosis de Sauropoda o a establecer las relaciones entre los distintos subgrupos. Por esto, el origen y la evolucin de sus adaptaciones esqueletales han sido especulativos. El anlisis cladstico aqu presentado enfoca en las relaciones de alto-nivel de los saurpodos, sobre la base de 109 caracteres (32 crneanos, 24 axiales y 53 apendiculares) de diz grupos terminales. Se establece a los cuatro generos (Vulcanodon, Shunosaurus, Barapasaurus y Omeisaurus) como una sucesin de grupos-hermanos a un grupo de saurpodos avanzados, aqu definido como Neosauropoda. Neosauropoda es compuesto por los clados-hermanos Diplodocoidea y Macronaria; el ltimo es un nuevo grupo que incluye Haplocanthosaurus, Camarasaurus y Titanosauriformes. Titanosauriformes incluye Brachiosauridae y Somphospondyli, un nuevo grupo unificando Euhelopus y Titanosauria. La ausencia de restos crneanos hace menos segura la posicin de Haplocanthosaurus entre macronarios. La estructura de la filogena es confirmada por varios anlisis, y pone de manifesto la evolucin de adaptaciones importantes, como por ejemplo la mano digitigrada en los neosauropodos. Otras adaptaciones tradicionalemente mencionadas-tales como las coronas angostas, aumentos del largo y numero de vrtebras cervicales y las espinas neurales dobles en los vrtebras presacras-fueron adquiridas mas de una vez. Esto subraya la importancia de una prueba con amplio muestreo de caracteres para anlisis filogenticos de saurpodos. El registro fsil de los saurpodos, aunque relativamente limitado en los primeros tiempos de su radiacin (Trisico tardo hasta Jursico medio), indica que todos los clados mayores habrin estado establecidos antes del Jursico tardo, cuando an era posible el intercambio faunistico entre las mayores regiones continentales. Las implicaciones funcionales, temporales y biogeogrficos de la filogena de alto-nivel de los saurpodos son analizadas. 
10.2307/3889334|A detailed osteological description of Tyrannosaurus rex Osborn, 1905 is presented, based primarily on the most complete specimen yet collected of this taxon (FMNH PR2081, popularly known as "Sue") but also including observations from other specimens. Skull morphology of FMNH PR2081 is largely congruent with that described for previous specimens, but new details are added. Palatal morphology of FMNH PR2081 differs slightly from that of previously-described specimens-the internal choanae are slightly larger relative to skull size, and the anterior expansion of the fused vomers is elongate. Posteriorly, the vomers pass medially for nearly the entire length of the pterygoids. High-resolution x-ray computed tomographic (CT) analysis of the skull reveals internal details not previously observed. Complex recess systems can be traced in the jugal, lacrymal, ectopterygoid, quadrate, exoccipital, supraoccipital, prootic, and basioccipital. The exoccipital recess was perforated by a small foramen on the posterodorsal surface of the paroccipital process, and may have communicated with pneumatic chambers in the atlas-axis complex. The maxillary antra were bound medially by a thin bony wall; traces of these walls in earlier CT studies of tyrannosaurid skulls may have led to the impression that these animals had bony maxillonasal turbinates. A digital endocast was constructed from these images, confirming many previous observations based on natural endocasts, but also yielding new details, such as the presence of a large and presumably pneumatic sinus in the prootic adjacent to the pathway for the maxillary-mandibular branches of the trigeminal nerve. The olfactory bulbs were very large. The postcranium is also largely congruent with previously published descriptions. The precaudal vertebral column was heavily pneumatized, with pneumatopores penetrating the centra and neural arches of all presacral vertebrae, the cervical ribs, and the anteriormost four sacral centra. Unusual structures are tentatively identified as a proatlas arch and a rib on the last presacral vertebrae, structures previously thought absent from tyrannosaurids. The "missing chevron" partially responsible for claims that FMNH PR2081 is female was actually present. The gastralia are extensively fused anteriorly, and the morphology of the anteriormost gastral segments closely resembles the only published account of a tyrannosaurid sternum. This raises several possibilities, including the complete absence of a bony sternum in tyrannosaurids. The appendicular skeleton is congruent with those of other tyrannosaurids. A slender rodlike bone may represent a partial furcula, but this is not certain. The scapulocoracoids would probably not have met at the midline, but would nonetheless have closely approached each other in articulation. Several abnormalities in the skeleton have attracted popular attention. There is no defensible evidence for bite trauma on the skull, but the rib cage does show evidence for healed fractures. Lesions on the right scapulocoracoid and humerus coincide with fractured ribs on the right cervical-dorsal transition and may indicate a single trauma to the right side of the body. The left fibula is pathological, but may not have been fractured. Two fused tail vertebrae may preserve natural molds of the tail muscles.
41441764|Simosuchus clarki is a bizarre, pug-nosed notosuchian crocodyliform known only from the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Maevarano Formation in the Mahajanga Basin of northwestern Madagascar. When originally named and described in 2000, S. clarki was based entirely on a single specimen that included a nearly complete skull and lower jaw preserved in articulation with the anterior and mid-trunk portions of the postcranial skeleton, as well as several associated elements from the posterior region. The species is now represented by three additional partial and nearly complete articulated skeletons, as well as numerous isolated elements (mostly teeth), that permit detailed description of its entire bony anatomy, the primary subject of other chapters in this volume. These specimens were discovered as part of the 'Mahajanga Basin Project,' initiated in 1993 and conducted jointly by Stony Brook University and the Universit d'Antananarivo, in the Berivotra and Masiakakoho study areas. The best-preserved specimens of S.clarki were entombed in massive, poorly sorted, clay-rich debris flow deposits (facies 2 of the Anembalemba Member) that accumulated in channel belts in response to exceptional rainfall events. Simosuchus, along with its contemporaries in the Maevarano assemblage, lived in a strongly seasonal, semi-arid climate some 20 million years after Madagascar separated from the India/Seychelles block and became an island isolated in the Indian Ocean.
24413069|The Upper Triassic (CarnianNorian) Ischigualasto Formation has yielded a diverse vertebrate fauna that records the initial phase of dinosaur evolution. Radioisotopic dates from ash layers within the formation provide a chronostratigraphic framework, and stratigraphic and sedimetological studies have subdivided the formation into four members and three abundance-based biozones. We describe two new basal dinosauromorphs, an unnamed lagerpetid and a new silesaurid, Ignotosaurus fragilis, gen. et sp. nov., which increase to 29 the number of vertebrates in the Ischigualasto fauna. We provide a census of 848 fossil specimens representing 26 vertebrate taxa logged to stratigraphic intervals of 50 m. This temporally calibrated census shows that abundance and taxonomic diversity within the Ischigualasto Formation does not change suddenly but rather appears to gradually decline in response to climatic deterioration. The only abrupt shift in faunal composition occurs at the end of the second of three biozones, when the abundant cynodont Exaeretodon is replaced by the rare dicynodont Jachaleria. La Formacin Ischigualasto del Trisico Superior (Carniano-Noriano) ha producido una diversa fauna de vertebrados que registra la fase inicial de la evolucin de los dinosaurios. Edades radioisotpicas obtenidas de capas de ceniza constituyen un marco cronoestratigrfico y estudios estratigrficos y sedimentolgicos permitieron subdividir la formacin en cuatro miembros y tres biozonas de abundancia. Describimos dos nuevos dinosauromorfos basales, un lagerptido indeterminado y un nuevo silesurido, Ignotosaurus fragilis, gen. et sp. nov., que aumentan a 29 el nmero de vertebrados conocidos en la fauna de Ischigualasto. Ofrecemos un censo de 848 especmenes fsiles que representan 26 taxones de vertebrados relevados a intervalos estratigrficos de 50 m. Este censo calibrado temporalmente muestra que la abundancia y la diversidad taxonmica dentro de la Formacin Ischigualasto no cambian de repente, sino que parecen disminuir gradualmente en respuesta al deterioro climtico. El nico cambio abrupto en la composicin de la fauna se produce al final de la segunda de las tres biozonas, cuando el abundante cinodonte Exaeretodon es sustituido por el escaso dicinodonte Jachaleria.
41441769|The bizarre crocodyliform Simosuchus clarki shares several derived cranial characteristics with basal notosuchian taxa. In the original phylogenetic analysis assessing placement of Simosuchus among other crocodyliforms, it was recovered as a basal notosuchian. Additional preparation of the holotype skull and postcranium, and discovery of additional specimens, provides new information on the suite of morphologies in this notosuchian. Morphological analysis of all available material of S. clarki yields 60 autapomorphies distributed across the skeleton. To provide an updated test of the phylogeny of Notosuchia and placement o Simosuchus within the clade, we added seven new characters and expanded taxon sampling to include recently described notosuchians. A phylogenetic analysis of 301 characters and 84 crocodyliforms supports the position of Simosuchus as sister to Libycosuchus, more derived than Araripesuchus and Uruguaysuchus, and basal to other ziphosuchian notosuchians. We did not recover an Anatosuchus + Simosuchus clade, nor a monophyletic Araripesuchus, but did recover a peirosaurid clade including Peirosaurus, Lomasuchus, Uberabasuchus, and Hamadasuchus (but not Stolokrosaurus). We also found weak support for inclusion o Anatosuchus, Araripesuchus, Peirosauridae, and Mahajangasuchidae within Notosuchia and therefore for the conclusion that all basal mesoeucrocodylians from Gondwana, with the exception of Stolokrosuchus, are notosuchians. The results of this analysis demonstrate that basal mesoeucrocodylian relationships are currently in a state of flux and the need for caution in naming higher-level taxa until a more stable consensus topology is achieved. Similarly, large gaps in the notosuchian record render inconclusive the biogeographic origins of Simosuchus and the clade it represents on Madagascar.
20697008|Recent collecting efforts (1993 to present) in the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Maevarano Formation of northwestern Madagascar have yielded numerous specimens of the medium-sized abelisauroid theropod Majungasaurus crenatissimus (Depret, 1896) Lavocat, 1955. Exquisite preservation, coupled with near-complete articulated or associated skeletons, has allowed an assessment of individual skeletal variation in this taxon, including a preliminary analysis of osteopathology in a non-tetanuran theropod. Importantly, Majungasaurus is the first abelisauroid theropod for which comprehensive pathology data are available. In a survey of 181 postcranial skeletal elements from a minimum of 21 individuals, abnormalities were identified in eight elements from a minimum of four individuals. These include a pedal phalanx with a mediolateral diaphyseal expansion of unknown etiology, a dorsal vertebra with a small exostosis, a caudal vertebra with probable idiopathic ossification of vertebral ligaments, and a pathologically truncated series of distal caudal vertebrae. The latter occurrence represents the first identified caudal truncation in a predatory dinosaur and only the second documented occurrence among non-avian dinosaurs. Ireo ezaka fikarohana natao vao tsy ela (1993hatramin'izao) tao amin'ny Cretaceous Ambony (Maastrichtian) Fiforonana Maevarano amin'ny faritr'avaratr'andrefan'i Madagasikara dia nahitana karazan-taolana maron'ny abelisauroid theropod manana vatana salasantsalany dia ny Majungasaurus crenatissimus (Depret, 1896) Lavocat, 1955. Ireo vokam-pikarohana hita avy amin'ny tahiry tsara sy kanto, niaraka tamin'ny taolana mbola mifanohy na taolam-batana mbola mifangaro, dia nahafahana namantatra ny fahasamihafana teo amin'ny taolam-batan'ny tsirairay tao anatin'ity sokajy ity, ary anisan'izany ny fanadihadiana mbola santatra momba ny foforonan'ireo aretina mahazo ny taolana teo amin'ny theropod tsy "tetanuran". Tena zava-dehibe ihany koa ny nahalalana fa ny Majungasaurus no theropod abelisauroid voalohany nahazoana namantatra ny rakim-pikarohana momba ny fisian'ny aretin-taolana. Tamin'ny fandinihina natao tamin'ireo karazan-taolam-batana tsy niaraka tamin'ny karan-doha ka nijerena izany tamin'ireo isam-batana 21 farafahakely, dia nahitana toetra hafa nohon'ny an'ny maro tamin'ireo singan-taolana valo tamin'ny isam-batana efatra farahakeliny. Tao anatin'izany fiavahana hafahafa izany dia nahitana fitambaran'ny taolan'ny fela-tongotra iray izay hisian'ny fivelarana eo afovoany mahazo ny sisiny, izay tsy mbola fantatra ny mahatonga ilay aretina, sy taolan-damosina iray misy fivontosana kely, ary taolan'ny rambo iray izay inoana fa nisy aretina nahatonga fahamafisan'ny hozatry ny hazon-damosina, ary karazana fiforonan'aretina nahatonga fahafohezan'ny taolan-drambo maromaro. Ity farany ity no nahitana sy nahafantarana voalohany ny aretina niseho tamin'ny taolandrambon'ny dinaozoro mpihaza iray ary koa hany rakim-pikarohana fanindroany momba io tranga iray io tamin'ireo dinozaoro tsy "avian".
41441768|The pug-nosed crocodyliform Simosuchus clarki is known from several specimens that collectively preserve, in addition to the skull and postcranial endoskeletal elements, a complete complement of osteoderms covering every major body region. This comprehensive sample of osteoderms facilitates the reconstruction, from multiple sources, of the entire postcranial dermal skeleton of this crocodyliform. In this contribution, I describe the anatomy, arrangement, and histology of the osteoderms of S. clarki, and provide comments on the phylogenetic and functional importance of these structures. As in other crocodyliforms, the osteoderms of Simosuchus were organized into discrete 'shields' covering the dorsal and ventral regions of the trunk and tail. Simosuchus also exhibited extensive osteodermal coverage of the limbs, a feature that characterizes very few crocodyliforms. The osteoderms from different shields possess distinctive morphological features, allowing isolated osteoderms to be assigned accurately to their respective shields. Paleohistological investigations reveal porous, lightly built osteoderms overlying dorsal and appendicular regions, and gastral osteoderms with a flat, diploe-like structure. Details about growth and longevity in Simosuchus are equivocal when assessed using data from osteoderms alone. Simosuchus possessed a tetraserial paravertebral shield, with at least four accessory parasagittal rows of osteoderms on either side. Sagittal segmentation probably enhanced flexibility with respect to ancestral crocodyliforms, but the presence of numerous, tightly sutured accessory rows suggests that lateral undulation, and therefore swimming, was likely restricted. Several new morphological characters are described here, and it is proposed that these will be informative in future studies of crocodyliform phylogeny.
