40605760|Carbon from plant rhizospheres is a source of energy for soil microbial communities in native habitats. Soil amendments have been used as a means for deliberately altering soil community composition in agricultural soils to enhance plant health. However, little information is available in agricultural or natural soils on how specific carbon compounds or quantities influence soil microbial communities. Streptomyces are important soil saprophytes noted for their ability to produce antibiotics and influence plant health. To explore how specific types and amounts of carbon compounds influence Streptomyces in soil, glucose, cellulose, and lignin were added alone and in combination with six other carbon substrates of varying complexity to mesocosms of native prairie soil for 9 months at amounts equivalent to natural inputs from plants. Estimated culturable population densities, antibiotic inhibitory phenotypes, and resource utilization profiles were examined for Streptomyces communities from each treatment. The type and quantity of carbon compounds influenced densities, proportions, antibiotic phenotypes, and substrate utilization profiles of Streptomyces. Cellulose and lignin inputs produced the largest Streptomyces densities. Also, Streptomyces communities receiving high-resource inputs were more inhibitory whereas those receiving low-resource inputs used substrates more efficiently. Knowledge of how the availability and quantity of particular carbon compounds influences Streptomyces communities and their function, specifically resource use and inhibitory phenotypes, may be helpful in understanding the roles of resource availability in Streptomyces community dynamics and the potential of Streptomyces to suppress pathogens and enhance plant fitness in native and agricultural soils.
25256213|It is assumed in current literature that the fungus garden cultivated by leaf-cutting ants consists of a single fungus species, the putative mutualistic fungus. However, most studies report a very high rate of fungi contamination (fungi isolated from fungus gardens that are considered not to be the mutualistic fungus). In this article, we report a genetic similarity analysis of all fungi (regardless of their mutualistic condition) isolated from 16 fungus gardens of three Acromyrmex species in Crdoba, Argentina, using intersimple sequence repeat (ISSR) as genetic markers. We isolated 60 clones, of which the three primers employed yielded 53 loci. The patterns revealed a high interclone polymorphism, with a few bands shared by the clones. Of all possible pairwise comparisons, 99% showed a genetic similarity (S) lower than 0.5, the threshold level assumed for fungus Operational Taxonomy Unit (OTU). We found more than one fungus OTU in all studied nests (range 2-11). Cumulative number of OTUs increased linearly with the number of nests sampled. The number of fungus OTUs common to both ant species and sites was very small. We did not find a core group composed of few very common OTUs, as expected if a set of truly mutualistic OTU was present. A simple explanation for the high number of OTUs found is that they are regular components of the fungus garden, which may be used as food source by the ants.
23469586|Aquatic macroaggregates (flocs 0.5 mm) provide an important mechanism for vertical flux of nutrients and organic matter in aquatic ecosystems, yet their role in the transport and fate of zoonotic pathogens is largely unknown. Terrestrial pathogens that enter coastal waters through contaminated freshwater runoff may be especially prone to flocculation due to fluid dynamics and electrochemical changes that occur where fresh and marine waters mix. In this study, laboratory experiments were conducted to evaluate whether zoonotic pathogens (Cryptosporidium, Giardia, Salmonella) and a virus surrogate (PP7) are associated with aquatic macroaggregates and whether pathogen aggregation is enhanced in saline waters. Targeted microorganisms showed increased association with macroaggregates in estuarine and marine waters, as compared with an ultrapure water control and natural freshwater. Enrichment factor estimations demonstrated that pathogens are 24 orders of magnitude more concentrated in aggregates than in the estuarine and marine water surrounding the aggregates. Pathogen incorporation into aquatic macroaggregates may influence their transmission to susceptible hosts through settling and subsequent accumulation in zones where aggregation is greatest, as well as via enhanced uptake by invertebrates that serve as prey for marine animals or as seafood for humans.
4251705|The presence of endophytic Acetobacter diazotrophicus was tested for pineapple plants (Ananas comosus [L.] Merr.) grown in the field. Diazotrophic bacteria were isolated from the inner tissues of surface sterilized roots, stems, and leaves of pineapple plants. Phenotypic tests permitted the selection of presumptive nitrogen-fixing A. diazotrophicus isolates. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) of small subunit (SSU) rDNA using total DNA digested with endonuclease SphI and with endonuclease NcoI, hybridizations of RNA with an A. diazotrophicus large subunit (LSU) rRNA specific probe, as well as patterns in denaturing protein electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and multilocus enzyme tests allowed the identification of A. diazotrophicus isolates. High frequencies of isolation were obtained from propagative buds that had not been nitrogen-fertilized, and lower frequencies from 3-month-old plants that had been nitrogen-fertilized. No isolates were recovered from 5- to 7-month-old nitrogen-fertilized plants. All the A. diazotrophicus isolates recovered from pineapple plants belonged to the multilocus genotype which shows the most extensive distribution among all host species previously analyzed.
4250654|Nitrogen-fixing Enterobacter agglomerans and Enterobacter spp. were consistently isolated from the bark beetle Dendroctonus terebrans. Large populations of nitrogen-fixing bacteria were found with the beetle, although no in situ acetylene reduction was demonstrated. The constant occurrence of nitrogen-fixing bacteria with D. terebrans suggests a symbiotic relationship. Nitrogen-fixing bacteria were also isolated from the bark beetles Dendroctonus frontalis and Ips avulsus.
4251197|The present study was performed as a dose-response field experiment using a trade marked formulation of the ergosterol biosynthesis inhibiting fungicide, propiconazole, applied at the recommended and ten times the recommended application rates. The soil dilution plate method was used to isolate fungi from 0-1 and 1-2 cm soil depth. Soil samples were taken 10 times during the period from May 22 to August 11, 1986. The numbers of yeasts and filamentous fungi were enumerated, the latter including Cladosporium and Penicillium, which were also enumerated separately. The fluctuations in fungal occurrence due to the propiconazole treatment were smaller than seasonal fluctuations, these most likely being caused by variations in the soil matric potential and by soil invasion of phyllosphere fungi. Fungicide treatment had significant inhibitory effects on the filamentous fungi, especially on the Cladosporium, whereas no significant effects were found on the yeasts and on Penicillium spp. From an ecotoxicological point of view, it is important that the effects were considerably delayed, with respect to the time of fungicide application.
25153385| We studied the bacterial communities in biological soil crusts (BSCs) from the Colorado Plateau by enrichment and cultivation, and by statistically analyzed denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) fingerprinting of environmental 16S rRNA genes, and phylogenetic analyses. Three 500-m-long transects, tens of km apart, consisting of 10 equally spaced samples each, were analyzed. BSC communities consistently displayed less richness (10-32 detectable DGGE bands per sample) and Shannon diversity (2.1-3.3) than typical soil communities, with apparent dominance by few members. In spite of some degree of small-scale patchiness, significant differences in diversity and community structure among transects was detectable, probably related to the degree of crust successional maturity. Phylogenetic surveys indicated that the cyanobacterium Microcoleus vaginatus was dominant, with M. steenstrupii second among phototrophs. Among the 48 genera of nonphototrophs detected, Actinobacteria (particularly Streptomyces spp.) were very common and diverse, with 18 genera and an average contribution to the total 16S rDNA amplificate of 11.8%. -Proteobacteria and Bacteriodetes contributed around 10% each; Low-GC Gram-positives, -Proteobacteria, Thermomicrobiales, and Acidobacteria were common (2-5%). However, the second largest contribution was made by deep-branching unaffiliated alleles (12.6%), with some of them representing candidate bacterial divisions. Many of the novel strains isolated are likely new taxa, and some were representatives of the phylotypes detected in the field. The mucoid or filamentous nature of many of these isolates speaks for their role in crust formation. 
41489108|Non-trophic interactions are increasingly recognised as a key parameter of predator-prey interactions. In soil, predation by bacterivorous nematodes is a major selective pressure shaping soil bacterial communities, and many bacteria have evolved defence mechanisms such as toxicity. In this study, we show that extracellular secondary metabolites produced by the model soil bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens CHA0 function as a complex defence strategy against bacterivorous nematodes. Using a collection of functional mutants lacking genes for the biosynthesis of one or several extracellular metabolites, we evaluated the impact of bacterial secondary metabolites on the survival and chemotactic behaviour of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Additionally, we followed up the stress status of the nematodes by measuring the activation of the abnormal DAuer Formation (DAF) stress cascade. All studied secondary metabolites contributed to the toxicity of the bacteria, with hydrogen cyanide efficiently repelling the nematodes, and both hydrogen cyanide and 2,4-DAPG functioning as nematicides. Moreover, these metabolites elicited the DAF stress response cascade of elegans, showing that they affect nematode physiology already at sublethal concentrations. The results suggest that bacterial secondary metabolites responsible for the suppression of plant pathogens strongly inhibit bacterivorous nematodes and thus likely contribute to the resistance of bacteria against predators in soil.
4287729| Dilute soda lakes are among the world's most productive environments and are usually dominated by dense blooms of cyanobacteria. Up to now, there has been little information available on heterotrophic bacterial abundance, production, and their controlling factors in these ecosystems. In the present study the main environmental factors responsible for the control of the heterotrophic bacterial community in five shallow soda pools in Eastern Austria were investigated during an annual cycle. Extremely high cyanobacterial numbers and heterotrophic bacterial numbers up to 307 
4251192| Billabongs, lentic waterbodies common to the floodplain of Australian rivers, differ considerably from the lotic riverine environment in terms of hydrology, physiochemical characteristics, and biological assemblages present. As little is known regarding the bacterial ecology of billabong habitats, a comparison was made of the bacterial assemblages in the water column of seven paired river/billabong sites in the Murray-Darling Basin of southeastern Australia. Billabongs supported larger populations of bacteria (1-157  10
40605707|A total of 36 Cryptococcus neoformans strains originating from South Africa were screened for wood degrading enzymes. All strains tested positive for cellulase activity while none where capable of xylan degradation. Three C neoformans var. grubii strains, originating from clinical and environmental samples, representing the same genotype (VNI/AFLP1C neoformans var. grubii) and MAT a, were evaluated for growth on debris of two common tree species in South Africa: Acacia mearnsii and Eucalyptus camaldulensis. The mating capability of all the C neoformans strains was evaluated on similar debris. Strains grown on A. mearnsii yielded substantially greater yeast populations. A total of 26%, 6%, 46%, and 80% of the 36 C. neoformans strains tested were either able to mate or develop filaments when crossed on A. mearnsii and E. camaldulensis debris, V8 juice, and yeast carbon base (YCB) agar, respectively. Filamentation and monokaryotic fruiting was observed in 3% of strains when C. neoformans was cultured on either A mearnsii, E. camaldulensis debris, or YCB. The results indicate that this fungus is capable of completing its life cycle and can produce basidiospores on woody debris. In the future, these findings should be considered when studying the epidemiology, microbial ecology, and proposed infection process of this global pathogen.
40343454|Microbially produced extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) have been linked with many important ecological functions in natural sediments; yet, most information has been derived from marine systems. The present paper is the first comprehensive study on EPS (i.e., carbohydrates and proteins) dynamics in riverine sediments addressing spatial (six reservoirs and four groyne fields across three European rivers), temporal (all seasons in 2003-2005), and vertical (over a 50-cm sediment depth transect) pattern. The variation in hydrodynamic regime found in the reservoirs and groyne fields was reflected in the biomass and composition of the benthic microorganisms that produce EPS. The microphytobenthic communities consisted mainly of diatoms and a higher algal biomass (up to 248 g g dry weight, DW) seemed to be indicative for higher amounts of secreted colloidal carbohydrates. Consequently, the model proposed by Underwood and Smith (1998) for the relation chlorophyll-colloidal carbohydrates was also applicable for upper riverine sediment layers. The close relation between algal biomass and bacterial cell counts (10-10 cells g DW) supports the idea of bacterial use of the secreted EPS. However, the data also suggest a contribution to the EPS pool through bacterial secretion of proteins/extracellular enzymes and possibly carbohydrates. Over depth, the relationships between microorganisms and EPS became increasingly decoupled along with increasing ratios of bound (refractory) to colloidal (labile) EPS. These data suggest fresh production of polymeric substances in upper sediment layers and mainly accumulation of refractory, biodegraded material in deeper layers. The high contents of EPS colloidal and bound carbohydrates (0.1-1.8 and 1.3-6.7 mg g DW, respectively) and EPS proteins (0.4-12.9 mg g DW) at the freshwater study sites might indicate an important role in sediment ecology.
25256087|Epichlo species are systemic fungal endophytes that usually specialize in a certain group of related grass species. We examined the infection frequency of Epichlo festucae in populations of two fine fescue species (Festuca rubra and F. ovina) in natural and seminatural habitats at 86 study sites (total = 2514 plants) across Finland and northern Norway. Infection incidence varied significantly among grass species and populations. A substantial number of the F. rubra and F. ovina populations (53 out of 77 and 25 out of 30, respectively) were either endophyte-free or had very low (&lt;20%) infection frequencies. The highest infection frequencies were found in subarctic areas. Moreover, infection incidence differed between habitats. In the area with the highest infection frequencies, we used microsatellite markers to study genetic diversity and the rates of gene flow of E. festucae among 12 F. rubra populations. Twenty out of the 25 fungal genotypes detected with four microsatellite markers were carrying multiple alleles in at least one locus, indicating multiple infections or vegetative hybridization of the fungus. One dominant genotype occurred in all 12 populations, representing 63.5% of all isolates. We found a moderate level of average genotypic variation and a low level of genetic differentiation
4250551| Coliforms and enterococci were isolated from the intestinal tract of infant (12-day-old) and adult (6- to 8-week-old) conventional mice. Eighty coliform isolates and eighty enterococcal strains were grouped according to their ability to ferment or hydrolyze various substrates. Sixty-one of the coliform isolates were identified as Escherichia coli. The remaining 19 strains were similar to E. coli, but did not produce -galactosidase. The enterococci belonged to two species: Streptococcus faecium and S. faecalis. Four biotypes of S. faecium and two biotypes of S. faecalis were detected. Xylosefermenting enterococci were isolated with a higher frequency from infant mice than from adults. 
4250779|An allochthonous population of spiral-shaped bacteria was found colonizing the surfaces of the colonic mucosa of rats after they had been given magnesium sulphate ( MgSO
23469577|Bacteria in the environment must survive predation from bacteriophage, heterotrophic protists, and predatory bacteria. This selective pressure has resulted in the evolution of a variety of defense mechanisms, which can also function as virulence factors. Here we discuss the potential dual function of some of the mechanisms, which protect against heterotrophic protists, and how predation pressure leads to the evolution of pathogenicity. This is in accordance with the coincidental evolution hypothesis, which suggests that virulence factors arose as a response to other selective pressures, for example, predation rather than for virulence per se. In this review we discuss some of those environmental factors that may be associated with the rise of pathogens in the marine environment. In particular, we will discuss the role of heterotrophic protists in the evolution of virulence factors in marine bacteria. Finally, we will discuss the implications for expansion of current pathogens and emergence of new pathogens.
41489174|Methanotrophs are known to produce poly-3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB), but there is conflicting evidence in the literature as to which genera produce the polymer. We screened type I and II proteobacterial methanotrophs that use the ribulose monophosphate and serine pathways for carbon assimilation, respectively, for both phaC, which encodes for PHB synthase, and the ability to produce PHB under nitrogen-limited conditions. Twelve strains from six different genera were evaluated. All type I strains tested negative for phaC and PHB production; all Type II strains tested positive for phaC and PHB production. In order to identify conditions that favor PHB production, we also evaluated a range of selection conditions using a diverse activated sludge inoculum. Use of medium typically recommended for methanotroph enrichment led to enrichments dominated by type I methanotrophs. Conditions that were selected for enrichments dominated by PHBproducing Type II methanotrophs were: (1) use of nitrogen gas as the sole nitrogen source in the absence of copper, (2) use of a dilute mineral salts media in the absence of copper, and (3) use of media prepared at pH values of 4-5.
25256141|The exponential increase of genomic and metagenomic data, fueled in part by recent advancements in sequencing technology, are greatly expanding our understanding of the phylogenetic diversity and metabolic capacity present in the environment. Two of the central challenges that bioinformaticians and ecologists alike must face are the design of bioinformatic resources that facilitate the analysis of genomic and metagenomic data in a comparative context and the efficient capture and organization of the plethora of descriptive information required to usefully describe these data sets. In this commentary, we review three initiatives presented in the "new frontiers" session of the second SCOPE meeting on Microbial Environmental Genomics (MicroEnGen-II, Shanghai, June 12-15, 2006). These are (1) the Integrated Microbial Genomes Resources (IMG), (2) the Genomic Standards Consortium (GSC), and (3) the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) Environmental Bioinformatics Centre (NEBC). These integrative bioinformatics and data management initiatives underscore the increasingly important role ecologists have to play in the genomic (metagenomic) revolution.
4287516|Pseudomonas fluorescens F113lacZY and modified strains carrying different function modifications were assessed for their impact in the rhizosphere of pea. Strain F113lacZY naturally produces the anti-fungal metabolite 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (Phl) useful in plant disease control. The first modified strain of F113 was repressed in production of Phl, creating the Phl negative strain F113G22. The second was a plasmid based overproducer of Phl (F113Rif (pCUGP)). Both the F113lacZY and the F113Rif (pCUGP) strains increased the rhizoplane fungal populations, whereas the same strains reduced the rhizosphere soil fungal populations with respect to the control. Similar results were found with the rhizoplane and rhizosphere soil bacterial populations. The F113G22 treatment resulted in a significantly greater indigenous fluorescent Pseudomonas population than the F113lacZY and F113Rif (pCUGP) treatments and a greater total Pseudomonas population than the control, F113lacZY, and F113Rif (pCUGP) treatments. Overproduction of Phl did not affect the establishment of the introduced Pseudomonas population. None of the inocula displaced the indigenous populations, but the F113G22 inocula had an additive effect on the total Pseudomonas population. P (phosphatase), S (sulphatase), and N (urease) cycle enzyme activities were increased while C (glucosidase, NAGase) cycle activities were decreased by the F113lacZY and F113Rif (pCUGP) treatments, suggesting C leakage from the roots. Overall, most effects of inoculation compared to the wild type were found with the non-Phl-producing strain. Overproduction of Phl had little environmental effect in relation to wild-type inocula.
4250758| A total of 103 strains of estuarine, chitinoclastic bacteria isolated from water, and sediment samples collected from the upper Chesapeake Bay, including 17 freshwater and 11 seawater isolates, were subjected to numerical taxonomy analysis. The isolates included 44 yellow-orange pigmented strains classified as Cytophaga-like bacteria (CLB) of the Cytophagaceae. Salt requirement of the strains ranged from tolerance to 1% NaCl to an absolute requirement for NaCl, with 1% NaCl satisfying this requirement. The largest phenon consisted of facultatively anaerobic, oligo-nitrophilic, and flexirubin pigment-producing freshwater and estuarine isolates, and included reference strains of both Cytophaga johnsonae Stanier and Cytophaga aquatilis Strohl and Tait. Other phena, containing a smaller number of strains, comprised marine and estuarine isolates which did not produce flexirubin pigments, and required organic nitrogen for growth and for production of chitinolytic enzymes. Salt-requiring, flexirubin pigment-producing, chitin-degrading strains were, on occasion, isolated from estuarine samples and represented phena found in estuaries. Most of the Cytophaga isolates, as well as chitin-degrading species not of the genus Cytophaga that were isolated from Chesapeake Bay, clustered in phena representing previously described species of aerobic, zymogenic, chitinoclastic bacteria. When the frequency of occurrence of features related to environmental parameters, viz., pH, salinity, temperature range of growth, and growth on media lacking organic nitrogen, was calculated, ecological groupings of strains in the 2 major phena of CLB could be distinguished among the estuarine, chitin-degrading bacteria. 
4251816| During investigations into the effects of water availability on the ecology of leaf litter actinomycetes, a motile-spored strain (SR11) was isolated and identified as a Kineosporia sp. Observations of spore motility revealed they could achieve speeds up to 160 m s
25153389| Biological soil crusts are very sensitive to human-induced disturbances and are in a degraded state in many areas throughout their range. Given their importance in the functioning of arid and semiarid ecosystems, restoring these crusts may contribute to the recovery of ecosystem functionality in degraded areas. We conducted a factorial microcosm experiment to evaluate the effects of inoculation type (discrete fragments vs slurry), fertilization (control vs addition of composted sewage sludge), and watering frequency (two vs five times per week) on the cyanobacterial composition, nitrogen fixation, chlorophyll content, and net CO exchange rate of biological soil crusts inoculated on a semiarid degraded soil from SE Spain. Six months after the inoculation, the highest rates of nitrogen fixation and chlorophyll a content were found when the biological crusts were inoculated as slurry, composted sewage sludge was added, and the microcosms were watered five times per week. Net CO exchange rate increased when biological crusts were inoculated as slurry and the microcosms were watered five times per week. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis fingerprints and phylogenetic analyses indicated that most of the cyanobacterial species already present in the inoculated crust had the capability to spread and colonize the surface of the surrounding soil. These analyses showed that cyanobacterial communities were less diverse when the microcosms were watered five times per week, and that watering frequency (followed in importance by the addition of composted sewage sludge and inoculation type) was the treatment that most strongly influenced their composition. Our results suggest that the inoculation of biological soil crusts in the form of slurry combined with the addition of composted sewage sludge could be a suitable technique to accelerate the recovery of the composition and functioning of biological soil crusts in drylands. 
23468254|An ectomycorrhiza is a multitrophic association between a tree root, an ectomycorrhizal fungus, free-living fungi and the associated bacterial communities. Enzymatic activities of ectomycorrhizal root tips are therefore result of the contribution from different partners of the symbiotic organ. However, the functional potential of the fungus-associated bacterial communities remains unknown. In this study, a collection of 80 bacterial strains randomly selected and isolated from a soilectomycorrhiza continuum (oakScleroderma citrinum ectomycorrhizas, the ectomycorrhizosphere and the surrounding bulk soil) were characterized. All the bacterial isolates were identified by partial 16S rRNA gene sequences as members of the genera Burkholderia, Collimonas, Dyella, Mesorhizobium, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium and Sphingomonas. The bacterial strains were then assayed for -xylosidase, -glucosidase, N-acetyl-hexosaminidase, -glucuronidase, cellobiohydrolase, phosphomonoesterase, leucine-aminopeptidase and laccase activities, chitin solubilization and auxin production. Using these bioassays, we demonstrated significant differences in the functional distribution of the bacterial communities living in the different compartments of the soilectomycorrhiza continuum. The surrounding bulk soil was significantly enriched in bacterial isolates capable of hydrolysing cellobiose and N-acetylglucosamine. In contrast, the ectomycorrhizosphere appeared significantly enriched in bacterial isolates capable of hydrolysing glucopyranoside and chitin. Notably, chitinase and laccase activities were found only in bacterial isolates belonging to the Collimonas and Pseudomonas genera. Overall, the results suggest that the ectomycorrhizal fungi favour specific bacterial communities with contrasting functional characteristics from the surrounding soil.
41489074|Few studies have addressed the occurrence of fungi in deep-sea sediments, characterized by elevated hydrostatic pressure, low temperature, and fluctuating nutrient conditions. We evaluated the diversity of fungi at three locations of the Central Indian Basin (CIB) at a depth of ~5,000 m using culture-independent approach. Community DNA isolated from these sediments was amplified using universal and fungal-specific internal transcribed spacers and universal 18S rDNA primer pairs. A total of 39 fungal operational taxonomie units, with 32 distinct fungal taxa were recovered from 768 clones generated from 16 environmental clone libraries. The application of multiple primers enabled the recovery of eight sequences that appeared to be new. The majority of the recovered sequences belonged to diverse phylotypes of Ascomycota and Basidiomycota. Our results suggested the existence of cosmopolitan marine fungi in the sediments of This study further demonstrated that diversity of fungi varied spatially in the Individual primer set appeared to amplify different fungal taxa occasionally. This is the first report on culture-independent diversity of fungi from the Indian Ocean.
41489081|Acidification is one of the most common and serious problems inducing process failure in anaerobic digesters. The production of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) mainly triggers acidic shock. However, little is known about the bacteria involved in the processes of acidogenic metabolism, such as fermentation and reductive acetogenesis. Here, the metabolic responses of a methanogenic community to the acidification and resulting process deterioration were investigated using transcriptional profiling of both the 16S rRNA and formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase (FTHFS) genes. The 16S rRNA-based analyses demonstrated that the dynamic shift of bacterial populations was closely correlated with reactor performance, especially with VFA accumulation levels. The pH drop accompanied by an increase in VFAs stimulated the metabolic activation of an uncultured Chloroflexi subphylum I bacterium. The subphylum has been characterized as a fermentative carbohydrate degrader using culture- and molecular-based ecophysiological assays. At the beginning of VFA accumulation, FTHFS genes were expressed; the transcripts were derived from phylogenetically predicted homoacetogens, suggesting that reductive acetogenesis was operated by hitherto unidentified bacteria. When acetate concentrations were high, the FTHFS expression ceased and Thermoanaerobacterium aciditolerans proliferated selectively. This thermoacidophilic bacterium would play a decisive role in acetate production via fermentative metabolism. The results of this study reveal for the first time that an uncultured Chloroflexi, T. aciditolerans, and novel homoacetogens were metabolically associated with acidic shock and subsequent VFA accumulation in an anaerobic digester.
40926481|Archaeal communities from mercury and uranium-contaminated freshwater stream sediments were characterized and compared to archaeal communities present in an uncontaminated stream located in the vicinity of Oak Ridge, TN, USA. The distribution of the Archaea was determined by pyrosequencing analysis of the V4 region of 16S rRNA amplified from 12 streambed surface sediments. Crenarchaeota comprised 76% of the 1,670 archaeal sequences and the remaining 24% were from Euryarchaeota. Phylogenetic analysis further classified the Crenarchaeota as a Freshwater Group, Miscellaneous Crenarchaeota group, Group 13, Rice Cluster VI and IV, Marine Group I and Marine Benthic Group B; and the Euryarchaeota into Methanomicrobiales, Methanosarcinales, Methanobacteriales, Rice Cluster III, Marine Benthic Group D, Deep Sea Hydrothermal Vent Euryarchaeota 1 and Eury 5. All groups were previously described. Both hydrogen-and acetate-dependent methanogens were found in all samples. Most of the groups (with 60% of the sequences) described in this study were not similar to any cultivated isolates, making it difficult to discern their function in the freshwater microbial community. A significant decrease in the number of sequences, as well as in the diversity of archaeal communities was found in the contaminated sites. The Marine Group I, including the ammonia oxidizer Nitrosopumilus maritimus, was the dominant group in both mercury and uranium/ nitrate-contaminated sites. The uranium-contaminated site also contained a high concentration of nitrate, thus Marine Group I may play a role in nitrogen cycle.
4250807| Eight biocides were chosen to determine whether they had any effects on nontarget organisms in soil and to what extent they would reduce their target populations under laboratory experimental conditions. A simplified microcosm system was utilized in which reduced species arrays that included field populations of either only bacteria and fungi, or bacteria, fungi, and protozoa (no nematodes, arthropods, or plants) were inoculated into sterilized soil. In a second set of experiments, plants were grown in sterilized soil. A bactericide-streptomycin-four fungicides-cycloheximide, Fungizone (amphotericin B), captan, and PCNB (quintozene)-an acaricide-cygon-an insecticide-nematicide-carbofuran-and an insecticide-diazinon-were used. Each biocide had effects on nontarget organisms although the increases or decreases, with respect to the control, were of only limited duration. Reductions in target groups were typically of longer duration. Streptomycin, applied at 1 mg g
4251288| Thymidine incorporation into DNA is widely used to estimate rates of bacterial growth and secondary production in aquatic systems. The procedure requires the use of several conversion factors and assumptions to convert rates of thymidine uptake to rates of carbon production. Perhaps the most controversial of the conversion factors is that which converts rates of incorporation to the rate of cell production. During a year-long study in Lake Arlington, Texas, we empirically determined conversion factors from bacterial growth in filtered (1.0 m porosity) and diluted (1:9) lake water. Bacterial growth rate constants determined from changes in cell abundance were compared to growth rate constants estimated from empirically derived (both instantaneous and annually averaged), theoretical, and modeled conversion factors. Single value conversion factors (i.e., theoretical, or average of 19 empirically determined conversion factors) did not yield estimates of bacterial growth rate constants that compared favorably to growth estimates from changes in bacterial abundance. Conversion factors, determined from a regression model based on empirically determined conversion factors, gave annual growth estimates that were similar to those obtained from changes in cell abundance. 
40343419|Claviceps paspali, a common fungal pathogen of Paspalum grasses, attracts moth vectors by producing sugary exudates in the grass florets it infects. These exudates also support mycoparasitic Fusarium species that may negatively influence C. paspali fitness. We examined the potential for moths on which C. paspali depends to also transmit mycoparasitic Fusarium and fungal endophytes, which inhabit asymptomatic plant tissue and may influence host susceptibility to pathogens. We quantified infections by C. paspali, Fusarium spp., and endophytic fungi associated with Paspalum spp. at focal sites in the southeastern USA and used data from the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS rDNA) to compare communities of plantassociated and moth-borne fungi. ITS sequences of mothborne fungi were identical to reference sequences of mycoparasitic Fusarium heterosporum and to three distinct endophytic fungi isolated from Paspalum species. Our results demonstrate an unexpected overlap of fungal communities between disparate locations and among plant species and plant tissues, and suggest an unexpected role of moths, which vector a plant pathogen, to transmit other guilds of fungi. In turn, the potential for insects to transmit plant pathogens as well as mycoparasites and endophytic fungi suggests complex interactions underlying a commonly observed grass-pathogen system.
23469155|To evaluate how native soil microorganism and nutrients interact in a bioaugmented or biostimulated calcification process, batch experiments were conducted in saturated soil extract either amended with Bacillus pasteurii and/or NB-NH 4 Cl media (nutrient broth, 3.0 g/L; NH 4 Cl, 10.0 g/L; NaHCO 3 , 2.12 g/L). The NB-NH 4 Cl medium was chosen out of three potential candidates, where B. pasteurii precipitated the maximum amount of calcium (>95 %) as calcite in 12 h of incubation. The addition of B. pasteurii into saturated soil extract marginally improved the calcification to 4.26 % compared to the unamended control (3.2 %). Calcification with B. pasteurii in autoclaved soil extract was even better (18.75 %). However, the addition of the NB-NH 4 Cl medium into the soil extract could significantly improve the calcification irrespective of whether B. pasteurii was added (88.46 %) or not (77.04 %). It suggests that soil microbial activity was not limiting even though soil nutrient was inadequate. It also indicates a possible negative interaction between soil microorganisms and B. pasteurii under nutrient-limited conditions.
4251738|An air conditioned wind tunnel system was designed, fabricated, and tested to determine whether tethered bees scavenge microbeads or Bacillus subtilis var. niger spores from aerosols. Tests showed that microbeads and spores were scavenged by bumblebees and honeybees, respectively. Five independent variables and their interactions were used in a stepwise multiple regression. Two of them, the cube root of the electrostatic charge on the honeybee and the dose of the spore aerosol, accounted for most of the statistically significant fit to the model's two dependent variables: the percentage of the dose adsorbed by honeybees and the number of spores adsorbed by the same bees. Both dependent variables increased directly so that an increase in electrostatic charge on the bee (i.e., cube root 32 pC) resulted in an increase (i.e., approximately 1%) in the spore dose adsorbed and the number of spores adsorbed by the bees. It was theorized that the spores were in an adsorption/desorption equilibrium that responded to the concentration "pressure" of the spore aerosol. Further, the charge on the bee affected the adsorption force on the bee's surface, as well as increasing the effective aerosol volume accessible for the bee's scavenging. In short, relating these findings to bees scavenging bacteria from the ambient atmosphere, it appears that the spore exposure (where exposure means the product of the ambient concentration, the time the bee is exposed, and air volume through which the bee flies) controls the number of spores adsorbed by a bee, and the static charge on the bee controls the adsorption/desorption equilibrium and presumably the scavenging volume.
25153277| We measured sediment production of carbon dioxide (CO) and methane (CH) and the net flux of CO across the surfaces of 15 boreal and subarctic lakes of different humic contents. Sediment respiration measurements were made in situ under ambient light conditions. The flux of CO between sediment and water varied between an uptake of 53 and an efflux of 182 mg C m day from the sediments. The mean respiration rate for sediments in contact with the upper mixed layer (SedR) was positively correlated to dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentration in the water (r = 0.61). The net flux of CO across the lake surface [net ecosystem exchange (NEE)] was also closely correlated to DOC concentration in the upper mixed layer (r = 0.73). The respiration in the water column was generally 10-fold higher per unit lake area compared to sediment respiration. Lakes with DOC concentrations &lt;5.6 mg L had net consumption of CO in the sediments, which we ascribe to benthic primary production. Only lakes with very low DOC concentrations were net autotrophic (&lt;2.6 mg L) due to the dominance of dissolved allochthonous organic carbon in the water as an energy source for aquatic organisms. In addition to previous findings of allochthonous organic matter as an important driver of heterotrophic metabolism in the water column of lakes, this study suggests that sediment metabolism is also highly dependent on allochthonous carbon sources. 
23468251|Effect of indole acetic acid (IAA)-overproducing mutants of Burkholderia cepacia (RRE25), a member of -subclass of Proteobacteria and naturally occurring rice endophyte, was observed on the growth of rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants grown under greenhouse conditions. Nine mutants were characterized for altered biosynthesis of IAA after nitrous acid mutagenesis. These mutants were grouped into two classes: class I mutants have reduced production of IAA as compared to the wild type, while class II mutants showed overproduction of IAA. Mutants of both classes and RRE25, the parent (wild type), were inoculated on rice seedlings of two cultivars (Sarjoo-52 and NDR-97). Uptake of nitrogen, phosphorous, and potassium was estimated in these plants. Significant increase in the amount of uptake of all three elements was observed when inoculated with the IAA-overproducing mutants over control as well as in the plants inoculated with the wild type (RRE25). Effect of inoculation of IAA-overproducing mutants was more pronounced on the uptake of phosphorous in cultivar NDR-97 than Sarjoo-52, while it was opposite with respect to potassium uptake. Any significant difference was not observed in nitrogen uptake among the two cultivars. It shows that the host also plays an important role in the beneficial endophytic association. It was concluded from these results that one of the possible mechanisms of growth promotion of rice plants inoculated with bacterial endophytes is their effects on an increase in the capability of nutritional uptake possible through the effect of IAA production which results in proliferation of root system that could mine more nutrients from the soil.
4251386|How much of the organic matter in the oceans is truly bioavailable under in situ conditions? This bioavailability may be altered by perturbation, priming, bottle (surface or confinement) effects, and air contaminants. Measured free organic matter may not be free in situ but may depend on method of analysis. We have yet to determine the threshold energy for growth of microbes and their energy of maintenance under in situ conditions.
4287532|Understanding microbial food web dynamics is complicated by the multitude of competitive or interdependent trophic interactions involved in material and energy flow. Metabolic inhibitors can be used to gain information on the relative importance of trophic pathways by uncoupling selected microbial components and examining the net effect on ecosystem structure and function. A eukaryotic growth inhibitor (cycloheximide), a prokaryotic growth inhibitor (antibiotic mixture), and an inhibitor of photosynthesis (DCMU) were used to examine the trophodynamics of microbial communities from the tidal creek in North Inlet, a salt marsh estuary near Georgetown, South Carolina. Natural microbial communities were collected in the spring, summer, and fall after colonization onto polyurethane foam substrates deployed in the tidal creek. Bacterial abundance and productivity, heterotrophic ciliate and flagellate abundance, and phototrophic productivity, biomass, and biovolume were measured at five time points after inhibitor additions. The trophic responses of the estuarine microbial food web to metabolic inhibitors varied with season. In the summer, a close interdependency among phototrophs, bacteria, and protozoa was indicated, and the important influence of microzooplanktonic nutrient recycling was evident (i.e., a positive feedback loop). In the fall, phototroph and bacteria interactions were competitive rather than interdependent, and grazer nutrient regeneration did not appear to be an important regulatory factor for bacterial or phototrophic activities. The results indicate a seasonal shift in microbial food web structure and function in North Inlet, from a summer community characterized by microbial loop dynamics to a more linear trophic system in the fall. This study stresses the important role of microbial loops in driving primary and secondary production in estuaries such as North Inlet that are tidally dominated by fluctuations in nutrient supply and a summer phytoplankton bloom.
4251591| Grazing behavior of both individual cells and populations of the marine hypotrich Euplotes mutabilis, a largely benthic ciliate that feeds on suspended particles, was studied using fluorescent latex microspheres. Microspheres of sizes 0.57-, 1.90-, 3.06-, 5.66-, and 10.0-m diam were offered at concentrations from 10
4251384|Specific affinity theory is compared with traditional ways of understanding the nutrient concentration dependency of microbial growth. It is demonstrated that the Michaelis constant increases with the ratio of metabolic enzyme to membrane permease content of bacteria so that small values can reflect specialization for nutrient collection. When compared to the specific affinity, K
25153440|Geosmithia spp. (Ascomycota: Hypocreales) are little-studied, dry-spored fungi that occur in galleries built by many phloeophagous bark beetles. This study mapped the distribution and environmental preferences of Geosmithia species occurring in galleries of temperate European bark beetles. One hundred seven host tree samples of 16 tree species infested with 23 subcortical insect species were collected from across Europe during the years 1997-2005. Over 600 Geosmithia isolates from the beetles were sorted into 17 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) based on their phenotype similarity and phylogeny of internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of rDNA (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2). The OTUs represent six known species and eight undescribed taxa. Ninety-two samples infested with subcortical insects were characterized by the presence/absence of OTUs and the similarity among the samples was evaluated. Geographically distant populations of the same beetle species host relatively uniform Geosmithia communities across large geographic areas (ranging from southern Bulgaria to the Czech Republic). This suggests effective dispersal of Geosmithia spp. by bark beetles. Clustering of similar samples in ordination analysis is correlated predominantly with the isolation source (bark beetles and their respective feeding plant), but not with their geographical origin. The composition of the Geosmithia OTU community of each bark beetle species depends on the degree of isolation of the species' niches. Thus, Geosmithia communities associated with regularly co-occurring bark beetle species are highly similar. The similarity decreases with decreasing frequency of beetle species' co-occurrence, a pattern resembling that of entomochoric ophiostomatoid fungi. These findings suggest that: 1) communities of Geosmithia spp. are vector-specific; 2) at least in some cases, the association between Geosmithia OTUs and bark beetles may have been very stable and symbioses are likely to be a fundamental factor in the speciation of Geosmithia fungi; and 3) that even nonsticky spores of Geosmithia are suitable for maintaining an insect-fungus association, contrary to previous hypotheses.
4287704|The aim of this study was to determine the diversity of cultivable bacteria able to degrade feathers and present in soil under temperate climate. We obtained 33 isolates from soil samples, which clustered in 13 ARDRA groups. These isolates were able to grow on solid medium with pigeon feathers as sole carbon and nitrogen source. One representative isolate of each ARDRA group was selected for identification and feather degradation tests. The phylogenetic analysis of 16S rDNA gene fragments revealed that only 4 isolates were gram positives. Two other isolates belonged to the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium group, and the remaining to Proteobacteria. High keratinolysis activity was found for strains related to Bacillus, Cytophagales, Actinomycetales, and Proteobacteria. The 13 selected strains showed variable efficiency in degrading whole feathers and 5 strains were able to degrade maximum 40% to 98% of the whole feathers. After 4 weeks incubation, five strains grown on milled feathers produced more than 0.5 U keratinase per mL. Keratinase activities across the 13 strains were positively correlated with the percentage of feather fragmentation and protein concentration.
25153091|The numerical response, the change in specific growth rate with food concentration, is a fundamental component of many aquatic microbial studies. Accurately and precisely determining the parameters of this response is essential to obtain useful data for both aut- and synecological studies. In this work we emphasize four points that are often ignored in designing numerical response experiments: (1) the inclusion of subthreshold concentrations (i.e., where growth rate is negative) in the experimental design; (2) an appropriate allocation of effort, i.e., the superiority of choosing more individual prey concentrations rather than replicating fewer; (3) the potential superiority of replicating experiments rather than simply replicating treatment in a single experiment; and (4) the placement of most measurements near the lower end of the concentration gradient, well below the asymptote, possibly following a geometric progression. We illustrate the first point by examining a small subset of published data on planktonic oligotrich ciliates and then, using a Monte Carlo simulation, rigorously evaluate the experimental design, supporting the remaining points.
40605766|The composition of the most abundant facultative anaerobic bacteria populations [faecal coliforms (FC) and enterococci (ENT)] in sludge can be modified after different treatments. These involve the disposal or reuse of sludge and include: anaerobic digesters, incineration, composting, pasteurization and lime treatments. In this study, three treatment types (mesophilic anaerobic digestion, composting and pasteurization) were compared in terms of their ability to reduce both bacterial populations. The diversity and any changes in composition of main phenotypic groups for both populations were also analyzed. Mesophilic anaerobic digestion (MAD) was carried out at 35C for 20 days. Digested sludge was then dehydrated by centrifugation at 2,500 rpm. Composting (COM) was performed at 55C with windrow phases. Pasteurization was assayed at 60C for 90 min (P60), at 80C for 60 min (P80). A 1-1.5 log unit reduction was observed for FC, and 1 log unit reduction was noted for ENT by MAD treatment. In composting, this reduction proved higher for FC than for ENT (6 log and 3-4 log units, respectively). Optimal pasteurization was obtained at 80C for 60 min, resulting in a 5 log unit reduction for FC and a 2 log unit reduction for ENT. High diversity indices (Di) for both bacterial populations were detected both before and after implementation of the different treatments. Analyses of the population's similarity provided that FC were diverse both before and after COM, P60 and P80 treatments. However, no differences were observed on the composition of ENT populations after the different treatments assayed.
25153115| In vitro production of cellulase and xylanase was common among diverse freshwater ascomycetes and their hyphomycetous anamorphs. Production of enzymes involved in lignin degradation was rare. Most isolates were capable of causing mass loss in angiosperm wood, although values were low, at 10% during a 24-week period. A few isolates caused higher mass loss of up to 26.5%, and five of these were shown to solubilize significant amounts of lignin. This is the first report of lignin solubilization by freshwater fungi. Torula herbarum (hyphomycete) and Ophioceras dolichostomum (ascomycete) produced indices of lignin solubilization equivalent to those of terrestrial white-rot basidiomycetes. In all cases wood decay was 2.2- to 3-fold higher in exposed rather than submerged conditions. 
27770601|Transport of litter carbon in the detritusphere might determine fungal abundance and diversity at the small scale. Rye residues were applied to the surface of soil cores with two different water contents and incubated at 10C for 2 and 12 weeks. Fungal community structure was analysed by constructing clone libraries of 18S rDNA and subsequent sequencing. Litter addition induced fungal succession in the adjacent soil and decreased detectable fungal diversity mainly due to the huge supply of substrates. Ergosterol content and N-acetyl-glucosaminidase activity indicated fungal growth after 2 weeks. Simultaneously, the structure of the fungal community changed, with Mortierellaceae proliferating during the initial phase of litter decomposition. Ergosterol measurements were unable to detect this early fungal growth because Mortierellaceae do not produce ergosterol. In the late phase during decomposition of polymeric substrates, like cellulose and chitin, the fungal community was dominated by Trichocladium asperum. Water content influenced community composition only during the first 2 weeks due to its influence on transport processes in the detritusphere and on competition between fungal species. Our results underline the importance of species identification in understanding decomposition processes in soil.
4287495| Anaerobic methane oxidation (AMO) has long remained an enigma in microbial ecology. In the process the net reaction appears to be an oxidation of methane with sulfate as electron acceptor. In order to explain experimental data such as effects of inhibitors and isotopic signals in biomarkers it has been suggested that the process is carried out by a consortium of bacteria using an unknown compound to shuttle electrons between the participants. The overall change in free energy during AMO with sulfate is very small (22 kJ mol
25153459|Temporal variations of oxygen consumption, sensitivity to metal spiking, and microbial diversity were investigated during a one-year survey at the sediment-water interface in the tropical lagoon of New Caledonia. Sediment oxygen consumption (SOC) exhibited strong variations with time with maximum rates during February (Austral summer) and minimum values during July (cold period). SOC was strongly positively correlated with temperature, with an apparent activation energy (E) of 41 kJ mol, corresponding to an apparent Q(20-30 C) of 1.75. Strong short-term variations of SOC were also observed with ratios between two consecutive samplings reaching up to twofold of magnitude within one week, whereas the maximum/minimum ratio over the whole year was equal to 2.73. In most cases, metal spiking led to a strong decrease of SOC; however, in a third of sampling dates, spiking did not significantly decrease activity. These periods of apparent metal tolerance were not characterized by a particular bacterial community structure. Bacterial community structure estimated from terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis exhibited strong variations over the one-year survey, and no seasonality was observed for bacterial richness. However, on average, the Whittaker similarity index between two consecutive T-RFLP profiles was above 60% suggesting a relative stability of the bacterial community structure on the short timescale with prominent T-RFs representing on average more than 67% of relative abundance occurring over most of the year, whereas other T-RFs only occurred during some periods.
25256108|New questions about microbial ecology and diversity combined with significant improvement in the resolving power of molecular tools have helped the reemergence of the field of prokaryotic biogeography. Here, we show that biogeography may constitute a cornerstone approach to study diversity patterns at different taxonomic levels in the prokaryotic world. Fundamental processes leading to the formation of biogeographic patterns are examined in an evolutionary and ecological context. Based on different evolutionary scenarios, biogeographic patterns are thus posited to consist of dramatic range expansion or regression events that would be the results of evolutionary and ecological forces at play at the genotype level. The deterministic or random nature of those underlying processes is, however, questioned in light of recent surveys. Such scenarios led us to predict the existence of particular genes whose presence or polymorphism would be associated with cosmopolitan taxa. Furthermore, several conceptual and methodological pitfalls that could hamper future developments of the field are identified, and future approaches and new lines of investigation are suggested.
4250781| During a survey of microfungi on the subantarctic island of South Georgia, large numbers of phylloplane yeasts were isolated in late spring from leaves of a tussock grass. The dominant yeast was identified as Candida sak, this being the first record for the Antarctic region. Isolates in liquid culture had a temperature optimum for growth of 20-25C. It was capable of assimilation of a range of simple carbohydrates, similar to those found in leachates from new leaves of the tussock grass. The seasonal decline of yeasts on the phylloplane is discussed in terms of the availability of leachate and the growth of filamentous microfungi on new leaves. 
25153038|Three samples of humidity condensate that had accumulated behind panels aboard the Russian space station Mir were collected and returned to earth for analysis. As these floating masses of liquid come into contact with the astronauts and the engineering systems, they have the potential to affect both crew health and systems performance. Using a combination of culturing techniques, a wide variety of organisms were isolated included Escherichia coli, Serratia marcescens, and a presumed Legionella species. In addition, microscopic analysis indicated the presence of protozoa, dust mites, and spirochetes. These findings suggest the need for more comprehensive microbial analysis of the environment through the use of new methodologies to allow a more through risk assessment of spacecraft.
4287706|A PCR system for studying the diversity of species of Bacillus and related taxa directly from soil was developed. For this purpose, a specific 24-bp forward primer located around position 110 of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene was designed and combined with a reverse bacterial primer located at the end of the gene. The specificity of this PCR system for bacilli and related taxons was confirmed on the basis of tests with diverse strains as well as with soil DNA. Analysis of a soil DNA derived clone library showed that the amplified fragments affiliated exclusively with sequences of gram-positive bacteria, with up to 95% of the sequences originating from putative Bacillus species. In particular, sequences affiliated to those of B. mycoides, B. pumilus, B. megaterium, B. thuringiensis, and B. firmus, as well as to related taxa such as Paenibacillus, were obtained. A minority, i.e., less than 6%, of the clones affiliated with other gram-positive bacteria, such as Arthrobacter spp., Frankia spp., and uncultured gram-positives. The amplified fragments were used as templates for a second PCR using bacterial 16S rDNA primers, yielding PCR products of about 410 bp, which were separated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Amplicons indicating Bacillus spp. were found in the gel between 45% and roughly 60% denaturant, whereas those representing other, high-G+C% bacteria, were localized in gel regions with denaturant concentrations exceeding about 60%, thus allowing the distinction between these two groups of sequences. We applied this system to compare the group-specific diversity in bacterial communities in an agricultural soil under different regimes, i.e., permanent grassland, grassland recently turned to arable land, and arable land under agricultural rotation. Differences in the Bacillus-related community structures between the treatments were clearly detected. Higher diversities, as judged by Shannon-Weaver indices calculated on the basis of the molecular profiles, were consistently observed in the permanent grassland and the grassland turned into arable land, as compared to the arable land.
4251114|The relative importance of autotrophic flagellates, desmids, cyanobacteria, and ciliates as food for Daphnia magna was examined using cohort life tables. Each cohort was fed a single food type at a given concentration, and comparisons among each type were made. Algal feeding treatments included three levels of young (7 to 14 days old) Chlamydomonas reinhardi (Chlorophyta, Chlamydomonadacae), two levels of senescent (> 14 days old) C. reinhardi, two levels of Cryptomonas sp. (Chlorophyta, Cryptomonadacae), two levels of Staurastrum sp. (Chlorophyta, Desmidacae), four levels of young (7 to 15 days old) or senescent (> 15 days old) Microcystis aeruginosa (Cyanophyta, Chlorococcacae), and a no-food treatment. The ciliates Cyclidium sp. and Paramecium caudatum were also presented at concentrations of 1 or 10
40343426|Rapid physiological profiling of heterotrophic microbial communities enables intensive analysis of the factors affecting activity in aerobic habitats, such as soil. Previous methods for performing such profiling were severely limited due to enrichment bias and inflexibility in incubation conditions. We tested a new physiological profiling approach based on a microtiter plate oxygen sensor system (Becton Dickinson Oxygen Biosensor System (BDOBS)), which allows for testing of lower substrate addition (i. e., lower enrichment potential) and manipulation of physiochemical assay conditions, such as pH and nutrients. Soil microbial communities associated with a scrub-oak forest ecosystem on Merritt Island Wildlife Refuge in central Florida, USA, were studied in order to evaluate microbial activity in a nutrient poor soil and to provide baseline data on the site for subsequent evaluation of the effects of elevated CO on ecosystem function. The spatial variation in physiological activity amongst different habitats (litter, bulk soil, and rhizosphere) was examined as a function of adaptation to local resources (i. e., water soluble extracts of roots and leaf litter) and the degree of N and P limitation. All the communities were primarily Nlimited, with a secondary P limitation, which was greater in the rhizosphere and bulk soil. The litter community showed greater overall oxygen consumption when exposed to litter extracts relative to the rhizosphere or soil, suggesting acclimation toward greater use of the mixed substrates in the extract. Root extracts were readily used by communities from all the habitats with no habitat specific acclimation observed. A priming effect was detected in all habitats; addition of glucose caused a significant increase in the use of soil organic carbon. Response to added glucose was only observed with N and P addition, suggesting that C may be lost to the groundwater from these porous soils because nutrient limitation prevents C immobilization.
4251023| The vertical zonation of the Antarctic cryptoendolithic community appears to form in response to the light regime in the habitat. However, because of the structure of the habitat, the light regime is difficult to study directly. Therefore, a mathematical model of the light regime was constructed, which was used to estimate the total photon flux in different zones of the community. Maximum fluxes range from about 150 m photons m
41412451|Tolerant species of polychaete worms can survive in polluted environments using various resistance mechanisms. One aspect of resistance not often studied in polychaetes is their association with symbiotic bacteria, some of which have resistance to metals and may help the organism to survive. We used "next generation" 454 sequencing of bacterial 16S rRNA sequences associated with polychaetes from a copper-and zinc-polluted harbor and from a reference site to determine bacterial community structure. We found changes in the bacteria at the polluted site, including increases in the abundance of bacteria from the order Alteromonadales. These changes in the bacteria associated with polychaetes may be relatively easy to detect and could be a useful indicator of metal pollution.
25153066|Concentrations of a cyanobacterial toxin, nodularin, were measured in the Baltic Sea in 1998 and 1999. Statistical associations of nodularin concentrations with environmental factors were tested by multiple regression analysis. To reveal the toxin-producing organism, colonies of Aphanizomenon and filaments of Nodularia were picked and analyzed for peptide toxins. It was also investigated whether there was an association with zooplankton and Nodularia. All the measured seston samples contained nodularin, but other toxins were not detected by the HPLC analysis. In both years, the highest nodularin concentrations were found at the surface water layer. The nodularin concentrations were positively correlated with silicate concentrations in water. High concentrations of silica in surface water may indicate recent upwelling, which in turn renders surface water rich in nutrients. This upwelling is likely to intensify cyanobacterial growth and toxin production, which may explain this rather unexpected result. The picked Aphanizomenon colonies did not contain nodularin and the dissolved nodularin concentrations were below detection limit. Thus it was concluded that most of the nodularin was bound to Nodularia cells. The abundances of zooplankton (copepods, rotifers, and cladocerans) were unrelated to Nodularia, but were positively associated with Aphanizomenon.
25153040|Rapid microbial monitoring technologies are invaluable in assessing contamination of spacecraft and associated environments. Universal and widespread elements of microbial structure and chemistry are logical targets for assessing microbial burden. Several biomarkers such as ATP, LPS, and DNA (ribosomal or spore-specific), were targeted to quantify either total bioburden or specific types of microbial contamination. The findings of these assays were compared with conventional, culture-dependent methods. This review evaluates the applicability and efficacy of some of these methods in monitoring the microbial burden of spacecraft and associated environments. Samples were collected from the surfaces of spacecraft, from surfaces of assembly facilities, and from drinking water reservoirs aboard the International Space Station (ISS). Culture-dependent techniques found species of Bacillus to be dominant on these surfaces. In contrast, rapid, culture-independent techniques revealed the presence of many Gram-positive and Gram-negative microorganisms, as well as actinomycetes and fungi. These included both cultivable and noncultivable microbes, findings further confirmed by DNA-based microbial detection techniques. Although the ISS drinking water was devoid of cultivable microbes, molecular-based techniques retrieved DNA sequences of numerous opportunistic pathogens. Each of the methods tested in this study has its advantages, and by coupling two or more of these techniques even more reliable information as to microbial burden is rapidly obtained.
25153334|A bacterial phylogenetic survey of three environmentally distinct Antarctic Dry Valley soil biotopes showed a high proportion of so-called "uncultured" phylotypes, with a relatively low diversity of identifiable phylotypes. Cyanobacterial phylotypic signals were restricted to the high-altitude sample, whereas many of the identifiable phylotypes, such as the members of the Actinobacteria, were found at all sample sites. Although the presence of Cyanobacteria and Actinobacteria is consistent with previous culture-dependent studies of microbial diversity in Antarctic Dry Valley mineral soils, many phylotypes identified by 16S rDNA analysis were of groups that have not hitherto been cultured from Antarctic soils. The general belief that such "extreme" environments harbor a relatively low species diversity was supported by the calculation of diversity indices. The detection of a substantial number of uncultured bacterial phylotypes showing low BLAST identities (&lt;95%) suggests that Antarctic Dry Valley mineral soils harbor a pool of novel psychrotrophic taxa.
4250984| The desorption of Staphylococcus aureus, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, and a coryneform from the surfaces of materials used for manufacturing food containers (glass, tin plate, and polypropylene) or postprocess canning factory conveyor belts (stainless steel and nylon) was investigated. The effect of time, pH, temperature, and adsorbed organic layers on desorption was studied. S. aureus did not detach from the substrata at any pH investigated (between pH 5 and 9). A. calcoaceticus and the coryneform in some cases detached, depending upon pH and substratum composition. The degree of bacterial detachment from the substrata was not related to bacterial respiration at experimental pH values. Bacterial desorption was not affected by temperature (4-30C) nor by an adsorbed layer of peptone and yeast extract on the substrata. The results indicate that bacterial desorption, hence bacterial removal during cleaning or their transfer via liquids flowing over colonized surfaces, is likely to vary with the surface composition and the bacterial species colonizing the surfaces. 
4251242|The efficiency of stabilization pond treatment of domestic wastewater in removing culturable cells of motile Aeromonas and its influence on the incidence of resistance to seven antibiotics were investigated in this study. Removal efficiency was higher (P < 0.001) in the warm months (98.8%) than in the cold months (97%). Among the 264 isolates, 163 were Aeromonas caviae, 24 were A. hydrophila, and 54 were A. sobria. Twenty-three isolates could not be identified to the species level. In the influent, A. caviae dominated in both cold and warm months. In the water samples originating from the influent, A. sobria was present at higher percentages in the warm period. All the isolates were resistant to amoxicillin and most of them (73%) exhibited resistance to cephalothin. Of the three species tested, A. sobria was more susceptible to antibiotics than either A. caviae or A. hydrophila. The most striking difference among the species was seen in resistance to cephalothin. There were 91% of A. caviae strains and 96% of A. hydrophila isolates that were resistant to cephalothin. However, only 9% of A. sobria strains exhibited resistance to this drug. The high incidence of resistance in raw sewage was connected with a high proportion of A. caviae, whereas in the water samples collected from the effluent during the warm months, a high proportion of A. sobria decreased the total amount of multiple-resistant bacteria. Results demonstrated the need for identification to the species level.
4251012|The relationship between bacterial cell volume and temperature was examined for field data collected over a 4-year period and through controlled chemostat incubations of a Pseudomonas sp. Volumes of planktonic bacteria were found to decrease as water temperature increased. Changes in temperature accounted for 38% of the variation in average cell volume (P < 0.001). Average planktobacterial cell volume fell 42% from 0.217  m
4251494|The Eastern Snake River Plain aquifer has hydrologically distinct zones in basalt flow units and interbedded sediments. The zones that differ markedly in physical features (e.g., porosity and permeability) have similar groundwater chemistries. The primary objective of this study was to determine whether intervals within the aquifer that contrast on the basis of permeability have distinct communities of unattached microorganisms based on functional attributes. Aquifer sampling was conducted using a submersible pump to obtain whole-well (w) samples, and a straddle-packer pump (SPP) to obtain samples from specific aquifer intervals that were vertically distributed in the open borehole. The SPP intervals ranged from 4.6 to 6.1 m in length and were located from 142 to 198 m below land surface. A community-level physiological profile (CLPP) was used to determine functional characteristics of the microbial community in the groundwater samples based on the community response to 95 sole organic carbon sources. Surface soil samples at the site were analyzed in a similar manner for comparison. The total bacterial population in the groundwater samples was determined using acridine orange direct counts. Principal components analysis (PCA) of the CLPP dataset distinguished between surface soil and aquifer microbial communities. Soils scored low in the respiration of polymers, esters, and amines and high in bromosuccinate, when compared to aquifer samples. The W samples were distinct from SPP samples. The 180- to 198-m interval, with the lowest hydraulic conductivity of all intervals, yielded samples that grouped together by PCA and cluster analysis. Direct counts varied between 10
41489077|Microorganisms inhabiting stream sediments mediate biogeochemical processes of importance to both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. In deserts, the lateral margins of ephemeral stream channels (parafluvial sediments) are dried and rewetted, creating periodically wet conditions that typically enhance microbial activity. However, the influence of water content on microbial community composition and diversity in desert stream sediments is unclear. We sampled stream margins along gradients of wet to dry sediments, measuring geochemistry and bacterial 16S rRNA gene composition, at streams in both a cold (McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica) and hot (Chihuahuan Desert, New Mexico, USA) desert. Across the gradients, sediment water content spanned a wide range (1.6-37.9% w/w), and conductivity was highly variable (12.3-1,380 S cm). Bacterial diversity (at 97% sequence similarity) was high and variable, but did not differ significantly between the hot and cold desert and was not correlated with sediment water content. Instead, conductivity was most strongly related to diversity. Water content was strongly related to bacterial 16S rRNA gene community composition, though samples were distributed in wet and dry clusters rather than as assemblages shifting along a gradient. Phylogenetic analyses showed that many taxa from wet sediments at the hot and cold desert site were related to, respectively, halotolerant Gammaproteobacteria, and one family within the Sphingobacteriales (Bacteroidetes), while dry sediments at both sites contained a high proportion of taxa related to the Acidobacteria. These results suggest that bacterial diversity and composition in desert stream sediments is more strongly affected by hydrology and conductivity than temperature.
25153023| Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogenic bacterium that has been thoroughly investigated since the 19th century and is generally regarded as a freshwater or terrestrial organism. In 1995, it was reported that the OprP porin, an outer membrane protein corresponding to that of this bacterium, was widely distributed as a dissolved component in seawater. This finding led us to investigate the presence of P. aeruginosa in marine environments. Both culture-independent and -dependent methods were applied to seawater samples obtained in Tokyo Bay during four cruises. The DVC-FA (direct viable count-fluorescent antibody) technique showed that cells reactive to an antibody against P. aeruginosa were widely present in the bay, i.e., 10 to 10 cells/mL in the inner bay, and 10 to 10 cells/mL at the mouth. Bacterial cells isolated by selective medium were identified by three methods: the presence of oprI and oprL, two outer membrane lipoprotein genes specific to P. aeruginosa; the API20 NE kit; and 16S rDNA sequence analysis. The results confirmed that the majority of isolates from the bay were P. aeruginosa. Immuno-chemical analyses of the seawater results indicate that P. aeruginosa is commonly present in coastal marine environments and sheds OprP. 
41412391|In the marine environment, the persistence and abundance of Vibrio are related to a number of environmental parameters. The influence of the different environmental variables in determining the Vibrio occurrence could be different in the specific geographic areas around the world. Moreover, ocanographie parameters are generally interdependent and should not be considered separately when their influence on bacterial presence and concentration is tested. In this study, an integrated approach was used to identify key parameters determining the abundance of Vibrio spp in marine samples from the Venetian Lagoon in Italy, which is an important area for fish farming and tourism. Multivariate techniques have been adopted to analyze the dataset: using PCA, it was shown that a relatively high proportion of the total variance in this area was mainly due to two independent variables, namely salinity and temperature. Using cluster analysis, it was possible to categorize different groups with homogeneous features as regards space (" stations") and time (" seasons") distribution, as well as to quantify the values of environmental variables and the Vibrio abundances in each category. Furthermore, integrating key environmental factors and bacterial concentration values, it was possible to identify levels of salinity and sea surface temperature which were optimal for Vibrio concentration in water, plankton, and sediment samples. The identification of key environmental variables conditioning Vibrio occurrence should facilitate ocean monitoring, making it possible to predict unexpected variations in marine microflora which determine possible public health risks in coastal areas.
25256206|Nitrogen and phosphorus additions from anthropogenic sources can alter the nutrient pool of aquatic systems, both through increased nutrient concentrations and changes in stoichiometry. Because bacteria are important in nutrient cycling and aquatic food webs, information about how nutrients affect bacterial communities enhances our understanding of how changes in nutrient concentrations and stoichiometry potentially affect aquatic ecosystems as a whole. In this study, bacterial communities were examined in biofilms from cobbles collected across seasons at three sites along the Mahoning River (Ohio) with differing levels of inorganic nutrient inputs. Members of the alpha-, beta-, and gamma-proteobacteria, the Cytophaga-Flavobacteria cluster, and the Domain Bacteria were enumerated using fluorescent in situ hybridization. Detrended canonical correspondence analysis (DCCA) revealed that stoichiometric ratios, especially the dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN):soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) molar ratio (NO/NO + NH:soluble reactive phosphorus), were correlated with abundance of the various bacterial taxa. However, the patterns were complicated by correlations with single nutrient concentrations and seasonal changes in temperature. Seasonal cycles appeared to play an important role in structuring the community, as there were distinct winter communities and temperature was negatively correlated with abundance of both alpha-proteobacteria and Cytophaga-Flavobacteria. However, nutrients and stoichiometry also appeared to affect the community. Numbers of cells hybridizing the Domain Bacteria probe were correlated with the DOC:DIN ratio, the beta-proteobacteria had a negative correlation with soluble reactive phosphorus concentrations and a positive correlation with the DIN:SRP ratio, and the Cytophaga-Flavobacteria had a significant negative partial correlation with the DIN:SRP ratio. Abundances of the alpha- or gamma-proteobacteria were not directly correlated to nutrient concentrations or stoichiometry. It appears that nutrient stoichiometry may be an important factor structuring bacterial communities; however, it is one of many factors, such as temperature, that are interlinked and must be considered together when studying environmental bacteria.
41489169|Many species of Pseudomonas have the ability to use a variety of resources and habitats, and as a result Pseudomonas are often characterized as having broad fundamental niches. We questioned whether actual habitat use by Pseudomonas species is equally broad. To do this, we sampled extensively to describe the biogeography of Pseudomonas within the human home, which presents a wide variety of habitats for microbes that live in close proximity to humans but are not part of the human flora, and for microbes that are opportunistic pathogens, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. From 960 samples taken in 20 homes, we obtained 163 Pseudomonas isolates. The most prevalent based on identification using the SepsiTest BLAST analysis of 16S rRNA (http://www. sepsitest-blast. de) were Pseudomonas monteilii (42 isolates), Pseudomonas plecoglossicida, Pseudomonas fulva, and P. aeruginosa (approximately 25 each). Of these, all but P. fulva differed in recovery rates among evaluated habitat types (drains, soils, water, internal vertebrate sites, vertebrate skin, inanimate surfaces, and garbage/compost) and all four species also differed in recovery rates among subcategories of habitat types (e.g., types of soils or drains). We also found that at both levels of habitat resolution, each of these six most common species (the four above plus Pseudomonas putida and Pseudomonas oryzihabitans) were over-or underrepresented in some habitats relative to their contributions to the total Pseudomonas collected across all habitats. This pattern is consistent with niche partitioning. These results suggest that, whereas Pseudomonas are often characterized as generalists with broad fundamental niches, these species in fact have more restricted realized niches. Furthermore, niche partitioning driven by competition among Pseudomonas species may be contributing to the observed variability in habitat use by Pseudomonas in this system.
40343410|To better understand adaptation of plants and their mycorrhizae to extreme environmental conditions, we analyzed the composition of communities of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in roots from geothermal sites in Yellowstone National Park (YNP), USA. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi were identified using molecular methods including seven specific primer pairs for regions of the ribosomal DNA that amplify different subgroups of AMF. Roots of Dichanthelium lanuginosum, a grass only occurring in geothermal areas, were sampled along with thermal and nonthermal Agrostis scabra and control plants growing outside the thermally influenced sites. In addition, root samples of Agrostis stolonifera from geothermal areas of Iceland were analyzed to identify possible common mycosymbionts between these geographically isolated locations. In YNP, 16 ribosomal DNA phylotypes belonging to the genera Archaeospora, Glomus, Paraglomus, Scutellospora, and Acaulospora were detected. Eight of these phylotypes could be assigned to known morphospecies, two others have been reported previously in molecular studies from different environments, and six were new to science. The most diverse and abundant lineage was Glomus group A, with the most frequent phylotype corresponding to Glomus intraradices. Five of the seven phylotypes detected in a preliminary sampling in a geothermal area in Iceland were also found in YNP. Nonthermal vegetation was dominated by a high diversity of Glomus group A phylotypes while nonthermal plants were not. Using multivariate analyses, a subset of three phylotypes were determined to be associated with geothermal conditions in the field sites analyzed. In conclusion, AMF communities in geothermal soils are distinct in their composition, including both unique phylotypes and generalist fungi that occur across a broad range of environmental conditions.
4251459| Yeast were isolated from the intestine of farmed rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri), turbot (Scophtalmus maximus), and free-living flat-fish (Pleuronectes platessa and P. flesus). The average number of viable yeasts recovered from farmed rainbow trout was 3.0  10
41693869|Microbes are ubiquitous on plant surfaces. However, interactions between epiphytic microbes and arthropods are rarely considered as a factor that affects arthropod behaviors. Here, volatile emissions from an epiphytic fungus were investigated as semiochemical attractants for two eusocial wasps. The fungus Aureobasidium pullulans was isolated from apples, and the volatile compounds emitted by fungal colonies were quantified. The attractiveness of fungal colonies and fungal volatiles to social wasps (Vespula spp.) were experimentally tested in the field. Three important findings emerged: (1) traps baited with A. pullulans caught 2750 % more wasps on average than unbaited control traps; (2) the major headspace volatiles emitted by A. pullulans were 2-methyl-1-butanol, 3-methyl-1-butanol, and 2-phenylethyl alcohol; and (3) a synthetic blend of fungal volatiles attracted 4,933 % more wasps on average than unbaited controls. Wasps were most attracted to 2-methyll-butanol. The primary wasp species attracted to fungal volatiles were the western yellowjacket (Vespula pensylvanica) and the German yellowjacket (V. germanica), and both species externally vectored A. pullulans. This is the first study to link microbial volatile emissions with eusocial wasp behaviors, and these experiments indicate that volatile compounds emitted by an epiphytic fungus can be responsible for wasp attraction. This work implicates epiphytic microbes as important components in the community ecology of some eusocial hymenopterans, and fungal emissions may signal suitable nutrient sources to foraging wasps. Our experiments are suggestive of a potential symbiosis, but additional studies are needed to determine if eusocial waspfungal associations are widespread, and whether these associations are incidental, facultative, or obligate.
4287757|Bulbous rush (Juncus bulbosus) is a pioneer species in acidic, iron-rich, coal mining lakes in the eastern part of Germany. Juncus roots are coated with iron plaques, and it has been suggested that microbial processes under the iron plaques might be supportive for Juncus plant growth. The objectives of this work were to enumerate the microbes involved in the turnover of iron and organic root exudates in the rhizoplane, to investigate the effect of oxygen and pH on the utilization of these exudates by the rhizobacteria, and to study the ability of the root-colonizing microbiota to reduce sulfate. Enumeration studies done at pH 3 demonstrated that 10
25153254| By combining molecular biology and biochemical approaches, the dynamics of sulfate-reducing microorganisms (SRM) was investigated in the sediments of the Seine estuary (France). Both intertidal mixing-zone and freshwater mudflats were sampled during a 1-year period; the quantification of SRM was realized by using competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based on dsrAB gene amplification, previously described by Leloup et al. (2004), and sulfate reduction rate (SRR) was determined via the SO radiotracer method. Throughout the year, abundance of dsrAB genes and SRR were predominantly high in the top 15 cm of the sediment. A seasonal dynamic was observed; a predominance of activity was noted during the early summer, and seems to be mainly controlled by physical-chemical parameters (temperature and dissolved organic carbon concentration) and topographic evolution of the mudflat (erosion/deposit erosion). 
4250575|To study the ecology of chemoautotrophic nitrifying bacteria (Nitrobacter), the immunofluorescence technique has been used. Fluorescent antibodies against Nitrobacter winogradskyi and Nitrobacter agilis, the two known serotypes, have not labeled strains isolated from soils of the Lyon region (pH 8.1 and pH 4.7). The pure-culture isolates appeared to belong to the same genus, but to be serologically different from the reference strains. These results led us to question the diversity of strains of Nitrobacter in soils.
25153338|We still have a rudimentary understanding about the mechanism by which plant roots may stimulate soil microbial interactions. A biochemical model involving plant-derived biochemical fractions, such as exudates, has been used to explain this "rhizosphere effect" on bacteria. However, the variable response of other soil microbial groups, such as protozoa, to the rhizosphere suggests that other factors could be involved in shaping their communities. Thus, two experiments were designed to: (1) determine whether stimulatory and/or inhibiting factors associated with particular plant species regulate ciliate diversity and abundance and (2) obtain a better understanding about the mechanism by which these plant factors operate in the rhizosphere. Bacterial and chemical slurries were reciprocally exchanged between two plant species known to differ in terms of ciliate species richness and abundance (i.e., Canella winterana and plantation Tectona grandis). Analysis of variance showed that the bacteria plus nutrients and the nutrients only treatment had no significant effect on overall ciliate species richness and abundance when compared to the control treatment. However, the use of only colpodean species increased the taxonomic resolution of treatment effects revealing that bacterial slurries had a significant effect on colpodean ciliate species richness. Thus, for particular rhizosphere ciliates, biological properties, such as bacterial diversity or abundance, may have a strong influence on their diversity and possibly abundance. These results are consistent with a model of soil bacteria-mediated mutualisms between plants and protozoa.
23597823|This study focuses on the effects of long-term rice rotated with milk vetch being as green manure on the composition of bacteria in rice roots. The endophytic bacterial communities in rice roots of the ricericemilk vetch (R-R-MV) and the ricericewinter fallow (R-R-WF) crop rotations with a 28-year research history were investigated using combined culture-dependent and culture-independent methods. It was found that the endophytic bacterial population in rice roots with the green manure was significantly higher than that of without it. There were 169 and 77 strains of endophytic bacteria that were isolated from rice roots of the R-R-MV and the R-R-WF, respectively. The 16S rRNA gene analysis shows that the 77 R-R-WF bacteria belong to 15 species of 14 genera while the other 169 R-R-MV bacteria belong to 21 species of 19 genera, in which Herbaspirillum and Cedecea were two mutually dominant populations and Burkholderia, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, and Pantoea accounted for large proportions of the endophytic bacteria in rice roots through R-R-MV rotation. The analysis of 16S rDNA clone libraries showed that the ShannonWeaver diversity index of endophytic bacteria in R-R-MV approximates that in R-R-WF rotation, whereas the richness indexes of Chao 1 and ACE in R-R-MV rotation system were significantly higher than those in R-R-WF rotation. The diversity of endophytic bacteria was richer in R-R-MV. Both the culture-dependent and the culture-independent method revealed significant effect of long-term different tillage systems on the microbial community.
25153398| Carbonate crusts in marine environments can act as sinks for carbon dioxide. Therefore, understanding carbonate crust formation could be important for understanding global warming. In the present study, the microbial communities of three carbonate crust samples from deep-sea mud volcanoes in the eastern Mediterranean were characterized by sequencing 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes amplified from DNA directly retrieved from the samples. In combination with the mineralogical composition of the crusts and lipid analyses, sequence data were used to assess the possible role of prokaryotes in crust formation. Collectively, the obtained data showed the presence of highly diverse communities, which were distinct in each of the carbonate crusts studied. Bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences were found in all crusts and the majority was classified as -, -, and -Proteobacteria. Interestingly, sequences of Proteobacteria related to Halomonas and Halovibrio sp., which can play an active role in carbonate mineral formation, were present in all crusts. Archaeal 16S rRNA gene sequences were retrieved from two of the crusts studied. Several of those were closely related to archaeal sequences of organisms that have previously been linked to the anaerobic oxidation of methane (AOM). However, the majority of archaeal sequences were not related to sequences of organisms known to be involved in AOM. In combination with the strongly negative C values of archaeal lipids, these results open the possibility that organisms with a role in AOM may be more diverse within the Archaea than previously suggested. Different communities found in the crusts could carry out similar processes that might play a role in carbonate crust formation. 
41489229|A reductionist ecological approach of using a model genus was adopted in order to understand how microbial community structure is driven by metabolic properties. The distribution along an estuarine gradient of the highly specialised genus Methanosaeta was investigated and compared to the previously determined distribution of the more metabolically flexible Desulfobulbus. Methanosaeta genotypic distribution along the Colne estuary (Essex, UK) was determined by DNA- and RNA-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses. Methanosaeta distribution was monotonie, with a consistently diverse community and no apparent niche partitioning either in DNA or RNA analyses. This distribution pattern contrasts markedly with the previously described niche partitioning and sympatric differentiation of the model generalist, Desulfobulbus. To explain this difference, it is hypothesised that Methanosaeta's strict metabolic needs limit its adaptation potential, thus populations do not partition into spatially distinct groups and so do not appear to be constrained by gross environmental factors such as salinity. Thus, at least for these two model genera, it appears that metabolic flexibility may be an important factor in spatial distribution and this may be applicable to other microbes.
4251097|The environmental and ecological significance of catabolic plasmids and their host strains are discussed in the context of their potential application for environmental biotechnology. Included is a comprehensive list of naturally occurring discrete catabolic plasmids isolated from either natural habitats or selective enrichment studies. General properties, such as plasmid maintenance, stability and transfer, are discussed together with the techniques for plasmid detection and monitoring in the environment. The issues concerning the construction of catabolic strains with new or broader substrate ranges and the uses of monocultures or consortia for in situ treatment are addressed.
40343427|With this study, we present first data on the diversity of aerobic methanotrophic bacteria (MOB) in an Arctic permafrost active layer soil of the Lena Delta, Siberia. Applying denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and cloning of 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) and pmoA gene fragments of active layer samples, we found a general restriction of the methanotrophic diversity to sequences closely related to the genera Methylobacter and Methylosarcina, both type I MOB. In contrast, we revealed a distinct species-level diversity. Based on phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene, two new clusters of MOB specific for the permafrost active layer soil of this study were found. In total, 8 out of 13 operational taxonomic units detected belong to these clusters. Members of these clusters were closely related to Methylobacter psychrophilus and Methylobacter tundripaludum, both isolated from Arctic environments. A dominance of MOB closely related to M psychrophilus and M. tundripaludum was confirmed by an additional pmoA gene analysis. We used diversity indices such as the Shannon diversity index or the Chaol richness estimator in order to compare the MOB community near the surface and near the permafrost table. We determined a similar diversity of the MOB community in both depths and suggest that it is not influenced by the extreme physical and geochemical gradients in the active layer.
4250418|In order to complement data obtained from earlier deep-sea studies on microbial transformations, similar in situ incubation experiments were done in shallow coastal waters. Compared to laboratory controls, in situ activities were reduced about 50%, in contrast to about 99% previously reported for samples incubated in the deep sea.
40343453|The filamentous cyanobacterium Planktothrix rubescens frequently occurs in deep and stratified lakes in the temperate region of the northern hemisphere and is a known producer of the hepatotoxic secondary metabolite microcystin. These cyclic heptapeptides are synthesized nonribosomally via large enzyme complexes encoded by the microcystin (mcy) synthetase gene cluster. The occurrence of cyanobacterial strains lacking microcystin, but containing the mcy gene cluster has been reported repeatedly; it was shown that this inactivation is due to mutations such as gene deletion events and the insertion of transposable elements. In the present study, 12 lakes in Austria, Germany, and Switzerland were sampled from July 2005 to October 2007, and the proportion of inactive mcy genotypes was quantified in relation to the total population of the redpigmented filamentous cyanobacterium Planktothrix by means of quantitative polymerase chain reaction. In total, four different mutations were quantified, namely two insertions affecting mcyD, one insertion affecting mcyA, and a deletion within mcyR and mcyA. The mutations occurred over a wide range of population densities (40-570,000 filaments L), and their abundance was found to be positively correlated with population density. However, on average, all nontoxic mutants were found in a low proportion only (min 0%, mean 6.5%  1.1 (SE), max 52% of the total population). The genotype containing the mcyHA deletion had a significantly higher proportion (min 0%, mean 3.7%  1, max 52%) when compared with all the genotypes containing insertions within the mcy gene cluster (min 0%, mean 2.8%0.7, max 24%). The results demonstrate that the occurrence of inactive mcy genotypes is linearly related to the population density, and selective sweeps of nontoxic mutants did not occur during the transition from prebloom to bloom conditions.
4251634|Hydrocarbons increase abundance of hydrocarbon-degrading microorganisms, but also decrease microbial diversity. This could disrupt ecosystem dynamics by altering soil organic matter mineralization and resultant nutrient remineralization rates. Crude oil, which is known to contain toxins and reduce microbial diversity, was hypothesized to reduce gross metabolic activity of mixed microbial populations in wetland soils. Soil respiration and Eh were compared, for 6 months, among microcosms containing marsh soils that differed in soil organic matter (Panicum hemitomon Shult. or Sagittaria lancifolia L. dominated marshes), crude oil (Arabian crude, Louisiana crude, or no oil), and additives (a cleaner, a dispersant, fertilizer, or no additive). No treatment slowed activity; instead, Louisiana plus fertilizer and all Arabian treatments temporarily accelerated activity. Additional C respired from oiled microcosms exceeded C added as crude oil by 1.4 to 3.5 times. Thus, much additional C originated from soil organic matter rather than crude oil. Crude oils temporarily lowered soil Eh, which is consistent with accelerated metabolism and demand for electron acceptors. The lack of inhibition observed at the community level does not necessarily indicate an absence of toxicity. Instead, tolerant species with metabolic versatility probably maintained activity. Stimulation probably resulted from removal of micronutrient limitation, rather than removal of grazing pressure or macronutrient limitation. Regardless, accelerated soil organic matter mineralization surely accelerated nutrient remineralization. This might explain some reports of crude oil stimulating plant growth. These results are not inconsistent with theoretical and experimental conclusions regarding effects of biodiversity on ecosystem stability and productivity, nor are they inconsistent with conclusions that crude oils contain components that are toxic to microbes, vegetation, and fauna. However, these data do indicate that crude oils also contain components that temporarily stimulate metabolic activity of surviving microbes.
40605876|This study was designed to examine saprophytic fungi diversity under different tree species situated in the same ecological context. Further, the link between the diversity and decomposition rate of two broadleaved, two coniferous and two mixed broadleaved-coniferous litter types was targeted. Litter material was decomposed in litter bags for 4 and 24 months to target both early and late stages of the decomposition. Fungal diversity of L and F layers were also investigated as a parallel to the litter bag method. Temperature gradient gel electrophoresis fingerprinting was used to assess fungal diversity in the samples. Mass loss values and organic and nutrient composition of the litter were also measured. The results showed that the species richness was not strongly affected by the change of the tree species. Nevertheless, the community compositions differed within tree species and decomposition stages. The most important shift was found in the mixed litters from the litter bag treatment for both variables. Both mixed litters displayed the highest species richness (13.3 species both) and the most different community composition as compared to pure litters (6.3-10.7 species) after 24 months. The mass loss after 24 months was similar or greater in the mixed litter (70.5% beech-spruce, 76.2% oak-Douglas-fir litter) than in both original pure litter types. This was probably due to higher niche variability and to the synergistic effect of nutrient transfer between litter types. Concerning pure litter, mass loss values were the highest in oak and beech litter (72.8% and 69.8%) compared to spruce and D. fir (59.4% and 66.5%, respectively). That was probably caused by a more favourable microclimate and litter composition in broadleaved than in coniferous plantations. These variables also seemed to be more important to pure litter decomposition rates than were fungal species richness or community structure.
25153211| In the Amazon floodplain large areas are subject to annual cycles of drying and rewetting. The turnover of nitrogen in the periodically drying sediments is an important regulator of floodplain fertility. In the present study the transition of a lake sediment from flooded to dry conditions was studied with respect to microbial nitrogen turnover. Soil nitrogen pools, as well as the activity and abundance of denitrifying and nitrifying bacteria, were investigated during one dry season. During the first weeks after drying, most of the inorganic nitrogen vanished from the sediment. The process was inhibited by a nitrification inhibitor, showing that coupled nitrification-denitrification was responsible for the nitrogen loss. Assimilation by plants or microbes, as well as leaching, were not important mechanisms of nitrogen loss. During a period of only 10 days, 59% of the total denitrification and 94% of the total NO emission during the dry period occurred. Cell numbers of denitrifiers were not correlated with activities. Denitrification was not correlated with other sediment variables but was regulated by the patchy distribution of reduced and oxidized zones in the uppermost centimeters of the sediment. This heterogeneity was probably introduced by the bioturbation of small insects, which was restricted to a rather short time period shortly after drying. 
25153039|Extension of human habitation into space requires that humans carry with them many of the microorganisms with which they coexist on Earth. The ubiquity of microorganisms in close association with all living things and biogeochemical processes on Earth predicates that they must also play a critical role in maintaining the viability of human life in space. Even though bacterial populations exist as locally adapted ecotypes, the abundance of individuals in microbial species is so large that dispersal is unlikely to be limited by geographical barriers on Earth (i.e., for most environments "everything is everywhere" given enough time). This will not be true for microbial communities in space where local species richness will be relatively low because of sterilization protocols prior to launch and physical barriers between Earth and spacecraft after launch. Although community diversity will be sufficient to sustain ecosystem function at the onset, richness and evenness may decline over time such that biological systems either lose functional potential (e.g., bioreactors may fail to reduce BOD or nitrogen load) or become susceptible to invasion by human-associated microorganisms (pathogens) over time. Research at the John F. Kennedy Space Center has evaluated fundamental properties of microbial diversity and community assembly in prototype bioregenerative systems for NASA Advanced Life Support. Successional trends related to increased niche specialization, including an apparent increase in the proportion of nonculturable types of organisms, have been consistently observed. In addition, the stability of the microbial communities, as defined by their resistance to invasion by human-associated microorganisms, has been correlated to their diversity. Overall, these results reflect the significant challenges ahead for the assembly of stable, functional communities using gnotobiotic approaches, and the need to better define the basic biological principles that define ecosystem processes in the space environment.
23469594|Urban coasts receive watershed drainage from ecosystems that include highly developed lands with sewer and stormwater infrastructure. In these complex ecosystems, coastal waters are often contaminated with fecal pollution, where multiple delivery mechanisms that often contain multiple fecal sources make it difficult to mitigate the pollution. Here, we exploit bacterial community sequencing of the V6 and V6V4 hypervariable regions of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene to identify bacterial distributions that signal the presence of sewer, fecal, and human fecal pollution. The sequences classified to three sewer infrastructure-associated bacterial genera, Acinetobacter, Arcobacter, and Trichococcus, and five fecal-associated bacterial families, Bacteroidaceae, Porphyromonadaceae, Clostridiaceae, Lachnospiraceae, and Ruminococcaceae, served as signatures of sewer and fecal contamination, respectively. The human fecal signature was determined with the Bayesian source estimation program SourceTracker, which we applied to a set of 40 sewage influent samples collected in Milwaukee, WI, USA to identify operational taxonomic units (97 % identity) that were most likely of human fecal origin. During periods of dry weather, the magnitudes of all three signatures were relatively low in Milwaukee's urban rivers and harbor and nearly zero in Lake Michigan. However, the relative contribution of the sewer and fecal signature frequently increased to >2 % of the measured surface water communities following sewer overflows. Also during combined sewer overflows, the ratio of the human fecal pollution signature to the fecal pollution signature in surface waters was generally close to that of sewage, but this ratio decreased dramatically during dry weather and rain events, suggesting that nonhuman fecal pollution was the dominant source during these weather-driven scenarios. The qPCR detection of two human fecal indicators, human Bacteroides and Lachno2, confirmed the urban fecal footprint in this ecosystem extends to at least 8 km offshore.
27770566|Actinomycetes inhabiting granitic rocks at St. Katherine, Egypt were investigated for their bioweathering potential. Actinomycete counts ranged between 174 and 360 colony forming units per gram. Counts were positively correlated to rock porosity (r=0.65) and negatively correlated to rock salinity (r=0.56). Sixty-six actinomycete isolates originating from rocks could be assigned into eight genera, with a high frequency of Nocardioides and Streptomyces. Organic acids were produced by 97% of the isolates. Strains belonging to Actinopolyspora, Actinomadura, Kitasatospora, Nocardioides, and Kibdelosporangium showed the highest acid production indices. Representatives from all eight genera could precipitate metals Cu, Fe, Zn, Cd, and Ag up to concentrations of 2.5 mM each. An actinomycete consortium of two Nocardioides strains and one Kibdelosporangium strain was studied for its potential to cause rock weathering in batch experiments. Results indicated a high ability of the consortium to leach the metals Cu, Zn, and Fe up to 2.6-, 2.1-, and 1.3-fold, respectively, compared to the control after 4 weeks. The pH significantly decreased after 1 week, which was parallel to an increased release of phosphate and sulfate reaching a 2.2- and 2.5-fold increase, respectively, compared to control. Highly significant weight loss (p=0.005) was achieved by the consortium, indicating a potential multiple role of actinomycetes in weathering by acid production, metal leaching, and solubilization of phosphate and sulfate. This study emphasizes the diverse and unique abilities of actinomycetes inhabiting rock surfaces which could be of potential biotechnological applications, such as in the bioremediation of metal-contaminated environments and metal biorecovery.
4251295|This review of the literature concerns the gut microbiota of aquatic invertebrates and highlights the questions and processes that merit attention if an understanding of the role of gut microbes in the physiology of host invertebrates and nutrient dynamics of aquatic systems is to be gained. A substantial number of studies report the presence of gut microbes in aquatic invertebrates. Crustacea, Mollusca, and Echinodermata have received the most attention, with few studies involving other invertebrate groups. Different types of associations (e.g., ingestion, contribution of exoenzymes, incubation, parasitism) are reported to occur between gut microbes and aquatic invertebrates, and it is clear that gut bacterial communities cannot be treated as single functional entities, but that individual populations require examination. In addition, gut microbes may be either ingested transients or residents, the presence of which have different implications for the invertebrate. The most commonly reported genera of gut bacteria are Vibrio, Pseudomonas, Flavobacterium, Micrococcus, and Aeromonas. Quite a number of authors report the physiological properties of gut microbes (including enzyme activities and attributes such as nitrogen fixation), while less attention has been given to consideration of the colonization sites within the digestive tract, the density and turnover of gut bacteria, and the factors affecting the presence and nature of gut microflora. In addition, although a few studies have demonstrated a positive relationship between invertebrates and their gut microbiota, particularly with regard to nutrient gain by the invertebrate, very little conclusive evidence exists as to the role of bacteria in the physiology of host invertebrates. This has resulted from a lack of process-oriented studies. The findings for aquatic gut microbes are compared to those of gut bacteria associated with terrestrial invertebrates, where gut microbes contribute significantly to nutrient gain by the host in some environments.
4251003| Samples were collected from organically polluted and unpolluted groundwater of sandy and gravelly deposits. After filtration onto polycarbonate filters (0.2 m pore size) the number of respiring bacteria was recorded by microscopically counting cells containing red INT-formazan spots, which characterize respiring bacteria. The total number of bacteria was simultaneously recorded by epifluorescence microscopy after staining with acridine orange. The number of respiring bacteria in the groundwater samples (55-490 
4287487|Rhizobium etli elicits nitrogen-fixing nodules on the roots of Phaseolus vulgaris. Using a composite dual-marker mini-Tn5 transposon carrying combinations of a constitutively expressed gfp gene and a promoterless gusA gene, we identified novel genes required for an efficient symbiosis. The induction of the gusA gene was used to determine the expression level of the different target genes under conditions partly mimicking the symbiotic environment ex planta. The green fluorescence was used to localize the bacteria in infection threads or inside the plant cells. Among the identified R. etli mutants, several produced a Nod
23469576|Early steps in the emergence of the discipline of "Oceans and Human Health" are charted in the USA and discussed in relation to past and present marine environment and human health research activities in Europe. Differences in terminology are considered, as well as differences in circumstances related to the various seas of Europe and the intensity of human coastal activity and impact. Opportunities to progress interdisciplinary research are described, and the value of horizon scanning for the early identification of emerging issues is highlighted. The challenges facing researchers and policymakers addressing oceans and human health issues are outlined and some suggestions offered regarding how further progress in research and training into both the risks and benefits of Oceans and Human Health might be made on both sides of the Atlantic.
41489039|Shales play an important role in many earth system processes including coastal erosion, and they form the foundations of many engineering structures. The geobiology of the interior of pyrite-containing receding shale cliffs on the coast of northeast England was examined. The surface of the weathered shales was characterised by a thin layer of disordered authigenic iron oxyhydroxides and localised acicular, platy and aggregated gypsum, which was characterised by Raman spectroscopy, XAS and SEM. These chemical changes are likely to play an important role in causing rock weakening along fractures at the micron scale, which ultimately lead to coastal retreat at the larger scale. The surface of the shale hosts a novel, low-diversity microbial community. The bacterial community was dominated by Proteobacteria, with phylotypes closely associating with Methylocella and other members of the -subdivision. The second largest phylogenetic group corresponded to Nitrospira. The archaeal 16S rRNA phylotypes were dominated by a single group of sequences that matched phylotypes reported from South African gold mines and possessed ammonia monooxygenase (amoA) genes. Both the phylogenetic and the mineral data show that acidic microenvironments play an important role in shale weathering, but the shale has a higher microbial diversity than previously described pyritic acid mine drainage sites. The presence of a potentially biogeochemically active microbial population on the rock surface suggests that microorganisms may contribute to early events of shale degradation and coastal erosion.
40343440|Terrestrial organic carbon is exported to freshwater systems where it serves as substrate for bacterial growth. Temporal variations in the terrigenous organic carbon support for aquatic bacteria are not well understood. In this paper, we demonstrate how the combined influence of landscape characteristics and hydrology can shape such variations. Using a 13-day bioassay approach, the production and respiration of bacteria were measured in water samples from six small Swedish streams (64 N, 19 E), draining coniferous forests, peat mires, and mixed catchments with typical boreal proportions between forest and mire coverage. Forest drainage supported higher bacterial production and higher bacterial growth efficiency than drainage from mires. The areal export of organic carbon was several times higher from mire than from forest at low runoff, while there was no difference at high flow. As a consequence, mixed streams (catchments including both mire and forest) were dominated by mire organic carbon with low support of bacterial production at low discharge situations but dominated by forest carbon supporting higher bacterial production at high flow. The stimulation of bacterial growth during high-flow episodes was a result of higher relative export of organic carbon via forest drainage rather than increased drainage of specific "high-quality" carbon pools in mire or forest soils.
25153436| During a survey of endophytic diazotrophic bacteria associated with different rice varieties in Tamilnadu, some "endophytes" were obtained. Thirteen bacterial isolates from surface-sterilized roots and shoots were obtained in pure culture, which produced indole acetic acid (IAA) and reduced acetylene to ethylene. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification confirmed the presence of nif-H gene in all the isolates. Morphological, biochemical, and molecular characteristics indicated that all of them belonged to the genus Burkholderia One of them, MGK3, was consistently more active in reducing acetylene, and 16S rDNA sequences of isolate MGK3 confirmed its identification as Burkholderia vietnamiensis. Colonization of rice root was confirmed by strain MGK3 marked with gusA gene. The inoculated roots showed a blue color, which was most intense at the points of lateral root emergence and at the root tip. Transverse sections of roots, 15 days after inoculation, revealed beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity within many of the cortical intercellular spaces next to the stele and within the aerenchyma. Nitrogen fixation was quantified by using N isotope dilution method with two different cultivars grown in pot and field experiments. Higher nitrogen fixation was observed in variety Ponni than in ADT-43, where nearly 42% (field) and 40% (pot) of the nitrogen was derived from the atmosphere (% Ndfa). Isolate MGK3 was used to inoculate rice seedings in a comparison with four other diazotrophs, viz., Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus LMG7603, Herbaspirillum seropedicae LMG6513, Azospirillum lipoferum 4B LMG4348, and B. vietnamiensis LMG10929. They were used to conduct two pot and four field inoculation experiments. MGK3 alone, and combined with other diazotrophs, performed best under both pot and field conditions: combined inoculation produced yield increases between 9.5 and 23.6%, while MGK3 alone increased yield by 5.6 to 12.16% over the uninoculated control treatment. 
25153240| In this study, we assessed various leaf structural and chemical features as possible predictors of the size of the phyllosphere bacterial population in the Mediterranean environment. We examined eight perennial species, naturally occurring and coexisting in the same area, in Halkidiki (northern Greece). They are Arbutus unedo, Quercus coccifera, Pistacia lentiscus, and Myrtus communis (evergreen sclerophyllous species), Lavandula stoechas and Cistus incanus (drought semideciduous species), and Calamintha nepeta and Melissa officinalis (nonwoody perennial species). M. communis, L. stoechas, C. nepeta, and M. officinalis produce essential oil in substantial quantities. We sampled summer leaves from these species and (1) estimated the size of the bacterial population of their phyllosphere, (2) estimated the concentration of different leaf constituents, and (3) studied leaf morphological and anatomical features and expressed them in a quantitative way. The aromatic plants are on average more highly colonized than the other species, whereas the nonwoody perennials are more highly colonized than the woody species. The population size of epiphytic bacteria is positively correlated with glandular and nonglandular trichome densities, and with water and phosphorus contents; it is negatively correlated with total phenolics content and the thickness of the leaf, of the mesophyll, and of the abaxial epidermis. No correlation was found with the density of stomata, the nitrogen, and the soluble sugar contents. By regression tree analysis, we found that the leaf-microbe system can be effectively described by three leaf attributes with leaf water content being the primary explanatory attribute. Leaves with water content &gt;73% are the most highly colonized. For leaves with water content &lt;73%, the phosphorus content, with a critical value of 1.34 mg g d.w., is the next explanatory leaf attribute, followed by the thickness of the adaxial epidermis. Leaves higher in phosphorus (&gt;1.34 mg g d.w.) are more colonized, and leaves with the adaxial epidermis thicker than 20.77 m are the least colonized. Although these critical attributes and values hold true only within the Mediterranean ecosystem studied and the range of observations taken, they are important because they provide a hypothesis to be tested in other Mediterranean ecosystems and other biomes. Such comparative studies may give insight as to the general properties governing the leaf-microbe system. 
23597816|Arid regions represent nearly 30 % of the Earth's terrestrial surface, but their microbial biodiversity is not yet well characterized. The surface sands of deserts, a subset of arid regions, are generally subjected to large temperature fluctuations plus high UV light exposure and are low in organic matter. We examined surface sand samples from the Taklamaken (China, three samples) and Gobi (Mongolia, two samples) deserts, using pyrosequencing of PCR-amplified 16S V1/V2 rDNA sequences from total extracted DNA in order to gain an assessment of the bacterial population diversity. In total, 4,088 OTUs (using 97% sequence similarity levels), with Chao 1 estimates varying from 1,172 to 2,425 OTUs per sample, were discernable. These could be grouped into 102 families belonging to 15 phyla, with OTUs belonging to the Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Actinobacteria phyla being the most abundant. The bacterial population composition was statistically different among the samples, though members from 30 genera were found to be common among the five samples. An increase in phylotype numbers with increasing C/N ratio was noted, suggesting a possible role in the bacterial richness of these desert sand environments. Our results imply an unexpectedly large bacterial diversity residing in the harsh environment of these two Asian deserts, worthy of further investigation.
4251586| Advances in molecular techniques have enabled new approaches to identifying bacteria. However, once identified, there is no quantitative information on the in situ growth rate of the species, mainly because the technology has not been available. The quantitative incorporation of
4251725| This study demonstrates microbial community changes over time in a nitroaromatic-contaminated groundwater upon amendment with hydrocarbons previously unknown to the microbial community (extrinsic) and hydrocarbons previously known to the microbial community (intrinsic). Sealed flasks, shaken and incubated at 25C, containing contaminated groundwater and salts were amended twice with extrinsic hydrocarbons including phenol, benzoic acid, and naphthalene, and intrinsic hydrocarbons including 2,4-dinitrotoluene (2,4-DNT) and para-nitrotoluene (p-NT). Microbial growth, biodegradation, and community structure changes measured by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and quantitative PCR (qPCR) targeting catechol-2,3-dioxygenase (C23O) genes were monitored over time. All amended substrates were biodegraded after both substrate amendments except for 2,4-DNT, which was only partially degraded after the second amendment. Unique microbial communities were developed in flasks amended with phenol, benzoic acid, and naphthalene. However, in the flasks amended with intrinsic hydrocarbons the microbial community remained similar to the unamended control flasks. The relative amount of C23O genes detected by qPCR correlated with the biodegradation of phenol and naphthalene but not with 2,4-DNT. The results showed that a selection for microorganisms capable of catabolizing extrinsic hydrocarbons naturally and initially present in the nitroaromatic-contaminated groundwater occurred. However, growth-linked biodegradation of added intrinsic hydrocarbons was not selective. 
25153430| The study presents evidence in support of the bacterial theory associated with the toxicity of Pyrodinium bahamense var. compressum. Bacterial endosymbionts from Philippine P. bahamense var. compressum strain Pbc MZRVA 042595 were isolated and identified via 16S rDNA sequence analysis. Taxonomic diversity of the identified culturable intracellular microbiota associated with Philippine P. bahamense var. compressum was established to be limited to the Phyla Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, and Firmicutes. Major endosymbionts identified included Moraxella spp., Erythrobacter spp., and Bacillus spp., whereas pseudomonas putida, Micrococcus spp., and Dietzia maris were identified as minor isolates. All identified strains except D. maris, P. putida, and Micrococcus spp. were shown to contain either saxitoxin or neo saxitoxin or both at levels 73 ng/10 bacterial cells based on high-performance liquid chromatography analysis. Paralytic shellfish poisoning-like physiologic reactions in test animals used in the mouse assay were recorded for the endosymbionts except for P. putida. The study is the first to elucidate the possible contribution of bacterial endosymbionts in the toxicity of P. bahamense var. compressum isolated in the Philippines. 
27770561|This paper uses molecular techniques to describe the microstructure and microbiological communities of sixteenth century artwork and their relationships. The microbiological populations, analysed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), were highly influenced by the chemical composition of the pictorial layers detected by energy-dispersive X-ray analysis. DGGE revealed that the diversity of microbial communities was lower in pictorial layers composed of pigments with metals, such as Pb, Cu and Hg, than in those found in pictorial layers without such compounds. The number of cultivable microorganisms, mainly fungi and bacteria, was very low in comparison to those found by DGGE, revealing the presence of both cultivable and as-yet-uncultivated (or not viable) species in the samples analysed. Both fungi and bacteria were present in a non-random spatial distribution. Environmental scanning electron microscopy and fluorescent in situ hybridisation analyses revealed that bacterial populations were usually found in close contact with the surface of the pictorial layers, and fungal populations were located on the bacterial biofilm. This work shows, for the first time, the correlation between the diversity of the microbial populations and the chemical composition of the pictorial layers of an artwork.
41692851|To examine the extent of the microbial food web in suboxic waters of a shallow subtropical coastal lagoon, the density and biomass of bacteria and protozooplankton were quantified under different dissolved oxygen (DO) levels. In addition, bottom waters of a stratified site were compared with bottom waters of a homogeneous site under periods of high and low biological oxygen production/consumption in the lagoon. At the stratified site, microbial biomass decreased with oxygen decline, from oxia to suboxia, with a recovery of the initial total biomass after a 20-day period of persistent suboxia. A peak in density and biomass of purple sulfur bacteria (PSB) (90 g C L) occurred in the suboxic waters 20 days prior to the peak in biomass of ciliates > 50 m (Loxophyllum sp. of 150 m) (160 g C L), demonstrating a top down biomass control. Ciliates > 50 m were positively correlated with PSB and bacteriochlorophyll a (photosynthetic pigment of PSB). Total protozoan biomass reached 430 g C L" 1 in the suboxic waters of the stratified site, with ciliates > 50 m accounting for 90% of the total ciliate biomass and of 55 % of biomass of protozoa. At the homogeneous site, total protozoan biomass was only 66 g C L, where flagellates and ciliates < 25 m were the dominant microorganisms. Therefore, as light is available for primary producers in the bottom waters of shallow stratified coastal lagoons or estuaries, one can expect that high primary production of PSB may favor a specialized microbial food web composed by larger microorganisms, accessible to zooplankton that tolerate low DO levels.
25153116|An emerging body of evidence indicates a role for plant genotype as a determinant of the species and genetic composition of the saprophytic microbial community resident to the rhizosphere. In this study, experiments were conducted to determine the capacity of five different wheat cultivars to enhance resident populations and support introduced strains of 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (2,4-DAPG)-producing fluorescent pseudomonads, a group of bacteria known to provide biological control of several soilborne diseases. When soils were cropped with three successive 28-day growth cycles of wheat, the 2,4-DAPG-producing strains were consistently recovered from the rhizosphere of the cultivar Lewjain, and commonly were present at populations higher than those recovered from other wheat cultivars. Based on restriction fragment length polymorphism and sequence analyses of phlD, a key gene involved in 2,4-DAPG production, two previously undefined phlD+ genotypes, referred to as genotypes PfZ and PfY, were discovered. Wheat cultivar Lewjain was the primary source of genotype PfY while cultivar Penawawa yielded the majority of genotype PfZ. Based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis, both new phlD genotypes were classified as P. fluorescens. Comparison of the rhizosphere competence of 2,4-DAPG-producing P. fluorescens Q2-87 (genotype B) and P. fluorescens LR3-A28 (genotype PfY) showed that both strains persisted at similar populations in the rhizosphere of all cultivars tested over a 30 day period when introduced as a seed inoculant. However, when strain LR3-A28 was applied as a soil inoculant, this strain was recovered at higher populations from the rhizosphere of wheat cultivar Lewjain than from the rhizospheres of two other cultivars. No cultivar effects were shown for strain Q2-87. Collectively, these results add further to evidence indicating a degree of specificity in interactions between plant cultivars and specific members of the saprophytic microbial community. Furthermore, as 2,4-DAPG-producing fluorescent Pseudomonas spp. have a central role in the spontaneous reduction in severity of take-all disease of wheat in response to continuous wheat monoculture, we postulate that the use of specific cultivars, such as Lewjain, which possess a superior capacity to enhance resident soil populations of these bacteria may have potential to reduce the length of the monoculture period required to induce natural suppressiveness of soils toward this disease.
41489149|Bioremediation is of great interest in the detoxification of soil contaminated with residues from explosives such as hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX). Although there are numerous forms of in situ and ex situ bioremediation, ruminants would provide the option of an in situ bioreactor that could be transported to the site of contamination. Bovine rumen fluid has been previously shown to transform 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT), a similar compound, in 4 h. In this study, RDX incubated in whole ovine rumen fluid was nearly eliminated within 4 h. Whole ovine rumen fluid was then inoculated into five different types of media to select for archaeal and bacterial organisms capable of RDX biotransformation. Cultures containing 30 g mL RDX were transferred each time the RDX concentration decreased to 5 g mL or less. Time point samples were analyzed for RDX biotransformation by HPLC. The two fastest transforming enrichments were in methanogenic and low nitrogen basal media. After 21 days, DNA was extracted from all enrichments able to partially or completely transform RDX in 7 days or less. To understand microbial diversity, 16S rRNA-gene-targeted denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) fingerprinting was conducted. Cloning and sequencing of partial 16S rRNA fragments were performed on both low nitrogen basal and methanogenic media enrichments. Phylogenetic analysis revealed similar homologies to eight different bacterial and one archaeal genera classified under the phyla Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Euryarchaeota. After continuing enrichment for RDX degraders for 1 year, two consortia remained: one that transformed RDX in 4 days and one which had slowed after 2 months of transfers without RDX. DGGE comparison of the slower transforming consortium to the faster one showed identical banding patterns except one band. Homology matches to clones from the two consortia identified the same uncultured Clostridia genus in both; Sporanaerobacter acetigenes was identified only in the consortia able to completely transform RDX. This is the first study to examine the rumen as a potential bioremediation tool for soils contaminated with RDX, as well as to discover S. acetigenes in the rumen and its potential ability to metabolize this energetic compound.
25153402| We examined bacterial metabolic activity and community similarity in shallow subsurface stream sediments distributed across three regions of the eastern United States to assess whether there were parallel changes in functional and structural attributes at this large scale. Bacterial growth, oxygen consumption, and a suite of extracellular enzyme activities were assayed to describe functional variability. Community similarity was assessed using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) patterns. There were significant differences in streamwater chemistry, metabolic activity, and bacterial growth among regions with, for instance, twofold higher bacterial production in streams near Baltimore, MD, compared to Hubbard Brook, NH. Five of eight extracellular enzymes showed significant differences among regions. Cluster analyses of individual streams by metabolic variables showed clear groups with significant differences in representation of sites from different regions among groups. Clustering of sites based on randomly amplified polymorphic DNA banding resulted in groups with generally less internal similarity although there were still differences in distribution of regional sites. There was a marginally significant (p = 0.09) association between patterns based on functional and structural variables. There were statistically significant but weak (r  30%) associations between landcover and measures of both structure and function. These patterns imply a large-scale organization of biofilm communities and this structure may be imposed by factor(s) such as landcover and covariates such as nutrient concentrations, which are known to also cause differences in macrobiota of stream ecosystems. 
25153224| Despite recent interest in the interactions between birds and environmental microbes, the identities of the bacteria that inhabit the feathers of wild birds remain largely unknown. We used culture-based and culture-independent surveys of the feathers of eastern bluebirds (Sialis sialis) to examine bacterial flora. When used to analyze feathers taken from the same birds, the two survey techniques produced different results. Species of the poorly defined genus Pseudomonas were most common in the molecular survey, whereas species of the genus Bacillus were predominant in the culture-based survey. This difference may have been caused by biases in both the culture and polymerase chain reaction techniques that we used. The pooled results from both techniques indicate that the overall community is diverse and composed largely of members of the Firmicutes and - and - subdivisions of the Proteobacteria. For the most part, bacterial sequences isolated from birds were closely related to sequences of soil-borne and water-borne bacteria in the GenBank database, suggesting that birds may have acquired many of these bacteria from the environment. However, the metabolic properties and optimal growth requirements of several isolates suggest that some of the bacteria may have a specialized association with feathers. 
4287670|We compared the species composition in phytobenthic communities at different sampling sites in a small French river presenting polluted and unpolluted areas. For each sampling point, the total DNA was extracted and used to construct an 18S rRNA gene clone library after PCR amplification of a ca 400 bp fragment. Phytobenthic community composition was estimated by random sequencing of several clones per library. Most of the sequences corresponded to the Bacillariophyceae and Chlorophyceae groups. By combining phylogenetic and correspondence analyses, we showed that our molecular approach is able to estimate and compare the species composition at different sampling sites in order to assess the environmental impact of xenobiotics on phytobenthic communities. Changes in species composition of these communities were found, but no evident decrease in the diversity. We discuss the significance of these changes with regard to the existing level of pollution and their impact on the functionality of the ecosystem. Our findings suggest that it is now possible to use faster molecular methods (DGGE, ARISA...) to test large numbers of samples in the context of ecotoxicological studies, and thus to assess the impact of pollution in an aquatic ecosystem.
4251146| The effect of growth in different mineral media on subsequent oxidation of trichloroethylene (TCE) by type I and type II aquifer methanotrophs was evaluated. Mixed culture MM1, containing a type II methanotroph, and a type I pure culture tentatively identified as a Methylomonas sp., were enriched and isolated from an uncontaminated groundwater aquifer. The second-order rate coefficients (k/ K
4287673|Diel protein and carbohydrate content in Trichodesmium thiebautii was measured to evaluate the relationship to buoyancy status. Carbohydrate:protein ratio was the best predictor of buoyancy and fit a cosine curve with increasing values during the day and decreasing values at night in cycles that paralleled observed diel buoyancy patterns. This ratio also increased in short-term experiments as a function of light and increased in parallel with decreasing positive buoyancy. We used changes in this ratio to estimate the potential for vertical migration. Whereas limited vertical excursions in the upper 70 m are possible, deeper migrations appear unlikely unless respiration rates decrease significantly. N:P ratios in sinking and floating colonies were used to test for the P acquisition at depth (vertical migration). We noted that pooled N:P ratios were not significantly different between sinking and ascending colonies (N:P = 65.6 and 66.3, respectively) collected along the northern Australian coast, much like published results from north of Hawaii. Highly significant differences (p < 0.0001) were observed in the western Gulf of Mexico between sinking and ascending colonies (N:P = 87.0 and 43.5, respectively) and provide the best direct evidence to date of vertical migration for P acquistion. Our physiological data on compositional changes during buoyancy reversals suggest a complex relationship between light and nutrients. It appears likely that light and P metabolism interact to regulate the vertical extent of migrations, with deep vertical migration regulated by P metabolism superimposed on a mixed-layer light-driven migration. The variability in N:P ratios suggests that care should be taken in assuming buoyancy reversals always result in P acquisition in this oceanic cyanobacterium.
4250764|By using substrate molecules of varying degrees of surface activity, we were able to measure some features of bacterial activity in the surface microlayers (SM) and in the subsurface (bulk) water. The fraction of active cells was determined by a combined microautoradiography-epifluorescence (ME) method. Measurements were made of
25153193| In this study we investigated the saprophyte growth of two arbuscular-mycorrhizal fungi (Glomus mosseae isolate) under increasing Cd or Zn levels and the influence of a selected bacterial strain of Brevibacillus brevis. Microorganisms here assayed were isolated from Cd or Zn polluted soils. B. brevis increased the presymbiotic growth (germination rate growth and mycelial development) of Glomus mosseae. Spore germination and mycelial development of both G. mosseae isolate were reduced as much as the amount of Cd or Zn increased in the growth medium. In medium supplemented with 20 g Cd mL, the spore germination was only 12% after 20 days of incubation, but the coinoculation with B. brevis increased this value to 40% after only 15 days. The additin of 20 g Cd mL to the growth medium drastically inhibited hyphal development, but the presence of the bacterium increased hyphal growth of G. mosseae from 195% (without Cd) until 254% (with 20 g Cd mL). The corresponding bacterial effect increasing micelial growth ranged from 125% (without Zn) to 232% (200 g Zn mL) in the case of G. mosseae isolated from Zn-polluted soil. Mycelial growth under 5 g Cd mL (without bacterium) was similarly reduced from that produced at 15 g Cd mL in the presence of the bacteria. As well, 50 g Zn mL (without bacterium) reduced hyphal growth as much as 200 g Zn mL did in the presence of B. brevis. The bacterial effect on the saprophytic growth of G. mosseae in absence of metal may be due to the involvement of indole acetic acid (IAA) produced by these bacteria. The Cd bioaccumulation ability exhibited (76%) by Cd-adapted B. brevis reduced the Cd damage on G. mosseae in Cd-contaminated medium. These capabilities of B. brevis isolates partially alleviate the inhibitory effects of Cd or Zn on the axenic growth of G. mosseae. 
4251260| We performed a series of seawater culture experiments on surface mixed layer samples during the spring phytoplankton bloom in the North Atlantic Ocean. Diluted (20% unfiltered + 80% 0.22 m filtered) and untreated "whole" seawater samples were incubated up to 40 hour and sampled periodically for cell numbers, biovolume, and incorporation of
4250911|Dry matter and volumes of 337 individual bacterial cells with volumes in the range 0.01-7  m
4251149|The white rot fungi appear to be unique in their ability to degrade lignin by the secretion of hydrogen peroxide and a family of peroxidases now referred to as lignin peroxidases or simply ligninases. The fact that these enzymes are naturally secreted and seem to be capable of initiating the oxidation of lignin by a free-radical mechanism led to the proposal and demonstration that the white rot fungi are able to degrade a wide variety of normally very recalcitrant environmental pollutants. The mineralization of chemicals by Phanerochaete chrysosporium does seem to be dependent upon the lignin degrading system. Thus it should be possible to at least initiate degradation extracellularly, eliminating the need for absorption of the chemical. The nonspecific nature of the system gives the potential for oxidation of a wide variety of chemicals and even mixtures of chemicals. As the lignin peroxidases are synthesized and secreted in response to nutrient starvation there is no requirement for conditioning of the organism. Mineralization can occur in either a water or soil matrix using very economical agricultural or wood wastes as nutrients. The lignin peroxidases can be purified from the extracellular fluid quite easily by fast protein liquid chromatography. They are somewhat typical peroxidases but also have some unique properties. The oxidation of some xenobiotics has been demonstrated and cooxidation is also a possible mechanism.
4251353|Scanning confocal laser microscopy was used to directly visualize accumulation of the herbicide diclofop methyl and its breakdown products by a degradative biofilm community, cultivated in continuous-flow cell cultures. Some bacterial cells accumulated these compounds. However, most accumulation occurred in cell capsules and certain regions of the exopolymer matrix. Mass spectroscopic analysis of the biofilm material confirmed accumulation of the parent compound and its breakdown products in the biofilms. Lower molecular weight degradation products were found in the effluent, indicating mineralization of diclofop by the flow cell cultures. Grazing protozoa feeding on the biofilms nonselectively ingested cell capsules and exopolymers, suggesting direct transfer and accumulation of the contaminants in protozoa. These findings demonstrated that microbial exopolymers can play an important role in the bioaccumulation of contaminants in natural systems.
25256212|Archaeal 16S rRNA gene sequences have been found in a variety of moderate-temperature habitats including soil and rhizospheres. In this study, the differences of archaeal communities associated with Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) short roots, different types of mycorrhizospheric compartments, and uncolonized boreal forest humus were tested by direct DNA extraction, polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE), and sequencing. The results indicated that mycorrhizal colonization of Scots pine roots substantially influence the archaeal community of pine rhizospheres. Colonization of short roots by most mycorrhizal fungi tested increased both archaeal frequency and diversity. Most of the archaeal sequences encountered in mycorrhizas belonged to the phylum Euryarchaeota, order of Halobacteriales. The difference in archaeal diversity between the mycorrhizospheric compartments and humus was profound. Most compartments with fungal components contained euryarchaeotal 16S rRNA gene sequences, whereas a high diversity of crenarchaeotal sequences and no euryarchaeotal sequences were found in forest humus outside mycorrhizospheres.
4251553|A three-stage compound continuous culture system was used to study the effect of retention time (27.1 and 66.7 h) on the catabolism of organic carbon and nitrogen sources in mixed populations of human colonic bacteria. The fermentation system was designed to reproduce spatial, temporal, nutritional, and physicochemical characteristics of the microbiota in the proximal (vessel 1) and distal (vessels 2 and 3) colons, and was validated on the basis of chemical and microbiological measurements on intestinal contents obtained from human sudden death victims. Results showed that the majority of carbohydrate breakdown and short-chain fatty acid production occurred in V1. Conversely, dissimilatory amino acid metabolism, as evidenced by formation of branched-chain fatty acids and phenolic compounds, occurred primarily in V2 and V3. Fermentation of aromatic amino acids was strongly affected by system retention time (R), with concentrations of phenolic metabolites being three times higher in V3, at 66.7 h, compared to 27.1 h. Bacteriological measurements of intestinal contents, in which nine groups of marker organisms were studied, showed that, with the exception of bifidobacteria, no major differences in relative bacterial cell numbers were evident in the proximal and distal colons. These organisms were also studied in the continuous culture system, where marked reductions in Escherichia coli were observed in V2 and V3, especially at R = 27.1 h. Increasing R to 66.7 h reduced numbers of Clostridium perfringens, anaerobic Gram-positive cocci, and total anaerobe counts. Correlations between in vivo chemical and bacteriological measurements and data obtained in vitro demonstrate that the three-stage fermentation system provided a useful model for studying the physiology and ecology of large intestinal micro-organisms under different nutritional and environmental conditions.
4287744|Little is known about the structure of microbial communities in Sphagnum peatlands, and the potential effects of the increasing atmospheric CO
25153111|We examined the influence of small-scale turbulence and its associated shear on bacterioplankton abundance and cell size. We incubated natural microbial assemblages and bacteria-only fractions and subjected them to treatments with turbulence and additions of mineral nutrients and/or organic carbon. Bacterial abundance was not affected directly by turbulence in bacteria-only incubations. In natural microbial assemblage incubations, bacterial concentrations were higher under turbulence than in still-water controls when nutrients were added. In general, in the turbulence treatments bacteria increased significantly in size, mainly due to elongation of cells. The addition of inorganic nutrients had a negative effect on bacterial size, but a significantly positive effect on abundance independently of other factors such as turbulence and the presence of predators. Flagellate grazing did not trigger an increase in bacterial size as a grazing resistance response in unmixed containers. With the addition of organic carbon, bacteria elongated and partly settled to the bottom of the containers, in both the turbulent and still treatment, but bacterial abundance did not further increase. Furthermore, bacteria aggregated in the turbulence treatments after the second day of incubation even in the absence of other components of the microbial community. We found that turbulence and the associated shear increase bacterial size and change bacterial morphology, at least under certain nutrient conditions. This might be due to a physiological response (enhanced growth rate and/or unbalanced growth) or due to the selection of opportunistic strains when organic carbon is in excess compared to mineral nutrients. We suggest that shear associated with turbulent flow enhances the DOM flux to bacteria directly as well as indirectly through enhanced grazing activity and photosynthetic release. The formation of bacterial aggregates and filaments under turbulence might give selective advantage to bacteria in terms of nutrient uptake and grazing resistance.
25153135| The Hawaiian Archipelago is a "biodiversity hotspot" where significant endemism among eukaryotes has evolved through geographic isolation and local topography. To address the absence of corresponding region-wide data on Hawaii's microbiota, we compiled the first 16S SSU rDNA clone libraries and cultivated bacteria from five Hawaiian lakes, an anchialine pool, and the L'ihi submarine volcano. These sites offer diverse niches over 5000 m elevation and 1150 nautical miles. Each site hosted a distinct prokaryotic community dominated by Bacteria. Cloned sequences fell into 158 groups from 18 Bacteria phyla, while seven were unassigned and two belonged in the Euryarchaeota. Only seven operational taxonomic units (each OTU comprised sequences that shared 97% sequence identity) occurred in more than one site. Pure bacterial cultures from all sites fell into 155 groups (each group comprised pure cultures that shared 97% 16S SSU rDNA sequence identity) from 10 Bacteria phyla; 15 Proteobacteria and Firmicutes were cultivated from more than one site. One hundred OTUs (60%) and 52 (33.3%) cultures shared &lt;97% 16S SSU rDNA sequence identity with published sequences. Community structure reflected habitat chemistry; most -Proteobacteria occurred in anoxic and sulfidic waters of one lake, while -Proteobacteria were cultivated exclusively from fresh or brackish waters. Novel sequences that affiliate with an Antarctic-specific clade of Deinococci, and Candidate Divisions TM7 and BRC1, extend the geographic ranges of these phyla. Globally and locally remote, as well as physically and chemically diverse, Hawaiian aquatic habitats provide unique niches for the evolution of novel communities and microorganisms. 
4251566|Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiles provide a robust measure that can be used to fingerprint the structure of soil microbial communities, and measure their biomass. A replicated field trial, with gradients in substrate and O
4287762| Acanthamoeba polyphaga feeding on Salmonella typhimurium in a simple model biofilm were observed by light microscopy and a detailed record of interactions kept by digital image capture and image analysis. A strain of S. typhimurium SL1344 carrying a fis:gfp reporter construct (pPDT105) was used to assess intracellular growth in A. polyphaga on non-nutrient agar (NNA) plates. Invasion of the contractile vacuole (CV) was observed at a frequency of 1:100-1000 acanthamoebae at 35C. The salmonellae contained in CVs illustrated significant up-regulation of fis relative to extracellular bacteria, indicating that they were in the early stages of logarithmic growth, and reached numbers of 100-200 cells per vacuole after 4 days. This is the first report of this mode of intracellular growth. Up-regulation of fis was also observed in a proportion of S. typhimurium cells contained within food vacuoles. Filamentation of S. typhimurium and E. coli cells was frequently observed in coculture with A. polyphaga on NNA plates, with bacterial cells reaching lengths of up to 500 m after 10 days' incubation at 35C. A. polyphaga was also seen to mediate bacterial translocation over the agar surface; egested salmonellae subsequently formed microcolonies along amoebal tracks. This illustrated intracellular survival of a fraction of the S. typhimurium population. These phenomena suggest that protozoa such as A. polyhaga may play an important role in the ecology of S. typhimurium in soil and aquatic environments. 
4251067|Antibiotic-insensitive mutants of natural sedimentary bacteria from an intertidal site were selected on gradient plates. Two of these strains, an Aeromonas sp. and Vibrio alginolyticus, were mixed with natural sediments from the field and fed to Abarenicola vagabunda, an intertidal lugworm characteristic of sandy beaches in the Pacific Northwest. Digestive removal was apparent in the midgut, 97% efficiency being seen for Aeromonas sp. Both strains showed rapid growth in the hindgut, increasing between 2 and 3 orders of magnitude in abundance between the midgut and rectum of the polychaete, corresponding with a doubling time of about 50 min for each strain. Direct epifluorescence counts of natural bacteria in guts of animals freshly collected from the field suggest a mean doubling time that is only slightly greater (66 min) for all ingested bacteria that survive midgut digestion. These bacterial growth rates exceed by orders of magnitude the greatest rates reported for ambient marine sediments and suggest that hindgut bacterial growth, though of little immediate importance in the energetics of the animals, may strongly influence both population dynamics of marine bacteria and diagenesis of sedimentary organic matter.
25153225|We studied the relationship between testate amoebae (Protozoa) communities and the depth to the water table (DWT), pH, conductivity, and microhabitat type in Sphagnum dominated peatlands of north-western Poland and built predictive (transfer function) models for inferring DWT and pH based on the testate amoebae community structure. Such models can be used for peatland monitoring and paleoecology. A total of 52 testate amoebae taxa were recorded. In a redundancy analysis, DWT and pH explained 20.1% of the variation in the species data and allowed us to identify three groups of taxa: species that are associated with (1) high DWT and low pH, (2) low DWT and low pH, and (3) high pH and mid-range DWT. Our transfer function models allow DWT and pH to be estimated with mean errors of 9.89 cm and 0.71 pH units. The prediction error of the DWT model and the tolerance of the species both increase with increasing dryness. This pattern mirrors the ecology of Sphagnum mosses: Species growing in wet habitats are more sensitive to change in water table depth than the species growing in drier microhabitats. Our results are consistent with studies of testate amoeba ecology in other regions, and they provide additional support for the use of these organisms in paleoecological and biomonitoring contexts.
40926484|Microbial communities are of major importance in the decomposition of soil organic matter. However, the identities and dynamics of the populations involved are still poorly documented. We investigated, in an 11-month field experiment, how the initial biochemical quality of crop residues could lead to specific decomposition patterns, linking biochemical changes undergone by the crop residues to the respiration, biomass, and genetic structure of the soil microbial communities. Wheat, alfalfa, and rape residues were incorporated into the 0-15 cm layer of the soil of field plots by tilling. Biochemical changes in the residues occurring during degradation were assessed by near-infrared spectroscopy. Qualitative modifications in the genetic structure of the bacterial communities were determined by bacterial-automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis. Bacterial diversity in the three crop residues at early and late stages of decomposition process was further analyzed from a molecular inventory of the 16S rDNA. The decomposition of plant residues in croplands was shown to involve specific biochemical characteristics and microbial community dynamics which were clearly related to the quality of the organic inputs. Decay stage and seasonal shifts occurred by replacement of copiotrophic bacterial groups such as proteobacteria successful on younger residues with those successful on more extensively decayed material such as Actinobacteria. However, relative abundance of proteobacteria depended greatly on the composition of the residues, with a gradient observed from alfalfa to wheat, suggesting that this bacterial group may represent a good indicator of crop residues degradability and modifications during the decomposition process.
4251305| Bacterial biovolumes of hypertrophic Humboldt Lake (total dissolved solids = 3.3 g liter
25153210| The adventurous (A) and social (S) motility systems of the microbial predator Myxococcus xanthus show differential swarming performance on distinct surface types. Under standard laboratory conditions, A-motility performs well on hard agar but poorly on soft agar, whereas the inverse pattern is shown by S-motility. These properties may allow M. xanthus to swarm effectively across a greater diversity of natural surfaces than would be possible with one motility system alone. Nonetheless, the range of ecological conditions under which dual motility enhances effective swarming across distinct surfaces and how ecological parameters affect the complementarity of A-motility and S-motility remain unclear. Here we have examined the role of nutrient concentration in determining swarming patterns driven by dual motility on distinct agar surfaces, as well as the relative contributions of A-motility and S-motility to these patterns. Swarm expansion rates of dually motile (AS), solely A-motile (AS), and solely S-motile (AS) strains were compared on hard and soft agar across a wide range of casitone concentrations. At low casitone concentrations (0-0.1%), swarming on soft agar driven by S-motility is very poor, and is significantly slower than swarming on hard agar driven by A-motility. This reverses at high casitone concentration (1-3.2%) such that swarming on soft agar is much faster than swarming on hard agar. This pattern greatly constrained the ability of M. xanthus to encounter patches of prey bacteria on a soft agar surface when nutrient levels between the patches were low. The swarming patterns of a strain that is unable to produce extracellular fibrils indicate that these appendages are responsible for the elevated swarming of S-motility at high resource levels. Together, these data suggest that large contributions by S-motility to predatory swarming in natural soils may be limited to soft, wet, high-nutrient conditions that may be uncommon. Several likely benefits of S-motility to the M. xanthus life cycle are discussed, including synergistic interactions with A-motility across a wide variety of conditions. 
4250881|Qualitative and quantitative investigations were made on the luminous bacteria associated with the gut of pond cultured milk fish Chanos chanos. Significant differences in luminous bacterial numbers were found between gut and pond water and between gut and pond sediment, but not between pond water and sediment. No significant variation in luminous bacterial population among the gut regions was observed. The quantity of ingesta in the fish gut does not appear to influence the biomass of luminous bacteria. Vibrio harveyi and V. fischeri were the 2 most commonly encountered species, and of the 2 luminous species, V. harveyi was predominant.
4250439| Chemosensory responses by the colorless inshore marine dinoflagellate Crypthecodinium cohnii were observed in quadrant-divided Petri plates containing an agar layer + liquid overlay. A suspension of organisms in salt solution was poured onto this and allowed to stand 3 hr. A differential tendency of the cells to become firmly attached or embedded in the substratum was observed when various substances were incorporated in the gel. A positive response (tendency to attach) occurred with: -L-fucose, dimethyl--propiothetin, betaine, sucrose, glycine, L-alanine, hemin, and fructose; negative response: formalin, glutathione, acid hydrolyzed agar, protamine SO
4251218|Rhodopseudomonas palustris, a purple non-sulfur bacterium, was recently found throughout the water column in Lake Kinneret. It was demonstrated to be of a versatile nature, growing under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions at different light intensities. A comparison of C-acetate uptake by R. palustris and Chlorobium phaeobacterioides, a green sulfur bacterium, showed that, under identical growth conditions, C-acetate assimilation by R. palustris was greater. Furthermore, C-acetate uptake for R. palustris was greater than
25153269|Changes in soil microbial community structure due to improvement are often attributed to concurrent shifts in floristic community composition. The bacterial and fungal communities of unimproved and semi-improved (as determined by floristic classification) grassland soils were studied at five upland sites on similar geological substrata using both broad-scale (microbial activity and fungal biomass) and molecular [terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP), automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA)] approaches. It was hypothesized that microbial community structure would be similar in soils from the same grassland type, and that grassland vegetation classifications could thus be used as predictors of microbial community structure. Microbial community measurements varied widely according to both site and grassland type, and trends in the effect of grassland improvement differed between sites. These results were consistent with those from similar studies, and indicated that floristic community composition was not a stable predictor of microbial community structure across sites. This may indicate a lack of correlation between grassland plant composition and soil microbial community structure, or that differences in soil chemistry between sites had larger impacts on soil microbial populations than plant-related effects.
41489152|Herbivory and bacterivory by phagotrophic protists were estimated in the southern basin of the oligotrophic Lake Tanganyika at different seasons (in the rainy season in February-March 2007 and in the dry season in July-August 2006 and September 2007), using two independent methods: the selective inhibitor technique for assessing community grazing on picocyanobacteria (PCya) and fluorescently labelled bacteria (FLB) and Synechococcus (FLA) to estimate bacterivory and herbivory by phagotrophic nanoflagellates (NF) and ciliates. Protistan grazing impact on both heterotrophic bacteria and PCya was mainly due to NF, which contributed up to 96% of the microbial grazing. There was a clear selection of FLA by protists. PCya represented the main carbon source for both flagellates and ciliates in the mixolimnion, accounting for an average of 83% of the total carbon obtained from the ingestion of picoplanktonic organisms. Protists were the main consumers of particulate primary production (46-74% depending on season). Significant seasonal variation of grazing rates (0.011-0.041 h) was found, chiefly following variation of PCya production and biomass. Assuming a growth efficiency of 0.4, total protozoan production varied seasonally (189-313 g C m day) and was roughly half of particulate phytoplankton production. This study provides evidence that NF and PCya were tightly coupled in Lake Tanganyika and that herbivory by protists may be one of the reasons why this great lake has high productivity. Our results bring support to the idea that microbial herbivory is a major process in oligotrophic freshwater systems.
4251649|Twenty-seven species of tropical and subtropical fungi isolated from freshwater were examined for evidence of interspecific interactions, which are important in determining the ecological roles of fungi. Evidence for interspecific interactions was examined by inoculating paired fungi 25 mm apart on the surface of agar plates. The antagonistic activities were different among different isolates and even between isolates of the same species, for example, Ophioceras dolichostomum isolated from different origins. Pseudohalonectria longirostrum and Kirschsteiniothelia elaterascus, which produced pigment in culture, were strongly inhibitory species. Several aquatic hyphomycetes seems to be less competitive and less likely to produce antagonistic substances. Competitive abilities were also influenced by the range of enzymes that a fungus produced. For example, Verticillium sp. and Diaporthe sp., which produced only one or two kinds of enzyme, were found to exhibit weak competitive abilities and were easily replaced. The results of competition experiments also showed that slow-extending fungi (e.g., Pseudohalonectria longirostrum and Kirschsteiniothelia elaterascus) were more competitive than early fast-extending fungi (e.g., Ophioceras dolichostomum and Nectria haematococca).
25256159|Fecal prevalence of Escherichia coli O157 in ruminants is highest in the summer months and decreases to low or undetectable levels in the winter. We hypothesize that the seasonal variation of this pathogen is a result of physiological responses within the host animal to changing day length. The thyroid is an endocrine gland known to respond to changing day length. Two experiments were conducted to determine if a hyperthyroid status would initiate fecal shedding of E. coli O157 in cattle during the winter when shedding is virtually nonexistent (winter experiment) or influence cattle actively shedding E. coli O157 (summer experiment). Yearling cattle were group-penned under dry-lot conditions, adjusted to a high concentrate ration, and randomly assigned to treatment: control (1 mL corn oil injected s.c. daily) or triiodothyronine (T; 1.5 mg suspended in corn oil injected s.c daily). Cattle were individually processed daily for collection of fecal and blood samples. Treatment with exogenous T produced a significant change in serum thyroid hormone concentrations indicative of a hyperthyroid status in both experiments. No differences (P&gt;0.10) were observed in fecal shedding of E. coli O157 in the winter experiment. In the summer experiment, fecal shedding of E. coli O157 was decreased (P=0.05) by administration of T during the treatment period (days 1-10), tended to be lower (P=0.08) during the following 7-day period of no treatment, and was lower (P=0.01) when examined across the entire experimental period. Results of this research indicate that the thyroid or its hormones may be involved in the seasonal shedding patterns of E. coli O157 in cattle.
4251324|Scanning electron microscopy was used to investigate the presence of microorganisms, probably bacteria, on the gut surface of earthworms. The washed surfaces of the intestines of two earthworms, Lumbricus terrestris and Octolasion cyaneum, were examined. Numerous organisms resembling bacteria were observed throughout the gut, some in situations suggesting attachment. Compared with similar investigations in other invertebrates, there were fewer bacteria, showing less morphological diversity, on the earthworm gut surface. The majority of organisms viewed were coccoid, some were filamentous, and a few rod-shaped cells were observed. Cocci, often in chains, were seen in the foregut of both species. Although cocci were also numerous in the midgut region, particularly in the typhlosole, in O. cyaneum tufts of segmented, filamentous organisms were also seen with some segments resembling spores. Fewer organisms were found in the hindgut, but in L. terrestris there were segmented, filamentous organisms, attached to the epithelium by way of a "socket-like" structure, similar to that by which segmented, filamentous bacteria (SFBs) are attached to the ileum of rats and mice. Transmission electron microscopy of the hindgut of L. terrestris was undertaken to explore the structure and attachment of SFBs to the gut epithelium. However, although a few rod-shaped bacteria were observed, no SFBs were located. The observations reported here provide evidence that earthworms have an attached gut microflora of filamentous microorganisms which are probably indigenous, and as far as we are aware this is the first published report of such findings in these invertebrates.
41489217|Nitrate is a serious problem in closed-circuit public aquariums because its accumulation rapidly becomes toxic to many lifeforms. A moving bed biofilm denitrification reactor was installed at the Montreal Biodome to treat its 3,250-m seawater system. Naturally occurring microorganisms from the seawater affluent colonized the reactor carriers to form a denitrifying biofilm. Here, we investigated the functional diversity of this biofilm by retrieving gene sequences related to narG, napA, nirK, nirS, cnorB, and nosZ. A total of 25 sequences related to these genes were retrieved from the biofilm. Among them, the corresponding napAl, nirKl, cnorB 9, and nosZ3 sequences were identical to the corresponding genes found in Hyphomicrobium sp. NL23 while the narGl and narG2 sequences were identical to the two corresponding narG genes found in Methylophaga sp. JAM1. These two bacterial strains were previously isolated from the denitrifying biofilm. To assess the abundance of denitrifiers and nitrate respirers in the biofilm, the gene copy number of all the narG, napA, nirS, and nirK sequences found in biofilm was determined by quantitative PCR. napAl, nirKl, narGl, and narG2, which were all associated with either Methylophaga sp. JAM1 or Hyphomicrobium sp. NL23, were the most abundant genes. The other genes were 10 to 10,000 times less abundant. nirK, cnorB, and nosZ but not napA transcripts from Hyphomicrobium sp. NL23 were detected in the biofilm, and only the narG1 transcripts from Methylophaga sp. JAM1 were detected in the biofilm. Among the 19 other genes, the transcripts of only two genes were detected in the biofilm. Our results show the predominance of Methylophaga sp. JAM1 and Hyphomicrobium sp. NL23 among the denitrifiers detected in the biofilm. The results suggest that Hyphomicrobium sp. NL23 could use the nitrite present in the biofilm generated by nitrate respirers such as Methylophaga sp. JAM1.
25153012|Past studies of microbial communities responsible for geochemical transformations have been limited by an inability to representatively cultivate, and then identify, the constituent members. Ribosomal RNA sequences, particularly 16S-like rRNAs, provide a measure of phylogenetic relationship that can now be used to examine the structure and diversity of microbial communities. Sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) play an important role in the sulfur cycle and the terminal mineralization of organic matter in estuarine and marine environments. Because the Gram-negative mesophilic SRB comprise a phylogenetically coherent assemblage, their communities are well suited to explorations through rRNA sequence-based methodologies. In this study we related molecular biological methods using rRNA probes to geochemical measurements at two different sites. At an unvegetated site in northwest Florida, rates of sulfate reduction were low and SRB rRNA comprised about 5% of the total rRNA extracted from the sediment. The other site, a salt marsh in New Hampshire, had higher rates of sulfate-reduction with SRB rRNA accounting for up to 30% of the total rRNA extracted from the sediment. SRB community structure differed dramatically between the two sites with Desulfobulbus rRNA much less abundant in the unvegetated site than in the salt marsh. The differences in these SRB communities reflect differences in the ecology of their habitats.
41489771|Protozoa are key components of a wide range of ecosystems, but ecological models that incorporate these microbes often suffer from poor parameterisation, specifically of top-level predator loss rates. We (1) suggest that top-level predator mortality is prey-dependent, (2) provide a novel approach to assess this response, and (3) illustrate the ecological relevance of these findings. Ciliates, Paramecium caudatum (prey) and Didinium nasutum (predator), were used to evaluate predator mortality at varying prey levels. To assess mortality, multiple (>100) predators were individually examined (in 2-ml wells), daily (for 3 days), between 0 and 120 preys ml. Data were used to determine non-linear mortality and growth responses over a range of prey abundances. The responses, plus literature data were then used to parameterise a predator-prey model, based on the Rosenzweig-MacArthur structure. The model assessed the impact of variable and three levels of constant (high, average and low) mortality rates on P. caudatum D. nasutum population dynamics. Our method to determine variable mortality rate revealed a strong concave decline in mortality with increasing prey abundance. The model indicated: (1) high-and low-constant mortality rates yielded dynamics that deviate substantially from those obtained from a variable rate; (2) average mortality rate superficially produced dynamics similar to the variable rate, but there were differences in the period of predator-prey cycles, and the lowest abundance of prey and predators (by ~2 orders of magnitude). The differences between incorporating variable and constant mortality rate indicate that including a variable rate could substantially improve microbial-based ecological models.
27770565|With an increased appreciation of the frequency of their occurrence, large organic falls such as sunken wood and whale carcasses have become important to consider in the ecology of the oceans. Organic-rich deep-sea falls may play a major role in the dispersal and evolution of chemoautotrophic communities at the ocean floor, and chemosynthetic symbiotic, free-living, and attached microorganisms may drive the primary production at these communities. However, little is known about the microbiota thriving in and around organic falls. Our aim was to investigate and compare free-living and attached communities of bacteria and archaea from artificially immersed and naturally sunken wood logs with varying characteristics at several sites in the deep sea and in shallow water to address basic questions on the microbial ecology of sunken wood. Multivariate indirect ordination analyses of capillary electrophoresis single-stranded conformation polymorphisms (CE-SSCP) fingerprinting profiles demonstrated high similarity of bacterial and archaeal assemblages present in timbers and logs situated at geographically distant sites and at different depths of immersion. This similarity implies that wood falls harbor a specialized microbiota as observed in other ecosystems when the same environmental conditions reoccur. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy observations combined with multivariate direct gradient analysis of Bacteria CE-SSCP profiles demonstrate that type of wood (hard vs. softwood), and time of immersion are important in structuring sunken wood bacterial communities. Archaeal populations were present only in samples with substantial signs of decay, which were also more similar in their bacterial assemblages, providing indirect evidence of temporal succession in the microbial communities that develop in and around wood falls.
4250942|Potential rates of nitrification and denitrification were measured in an oligotrophic sediment system. Nitrification potential was estimated using the CO oxidation technique, and potential denitrification was measured by the acetylene blockage technique. The sediments demonstrated both nitrifying and denitrifying activity. E
40343430|The diversity and function of nitrogen-fixing bacteria colonizing rice roots are not well understood. A field experiment was conducted to determine the diversity of diazotrophic communities associated with roots of modern rice cultivars using culture-independent molecular analyses of nitrogenase gene (nifH) fragments. Experimental treatments included four modern rice cultivars (Oryza sativa, one Indica, one Japnica and two hybrid rice varieties) and three levels (0, 50, and 100 kg N ha ) of N (urea) fertilizer application. Cloning and sequencing of 103 partial nifH genes showed that a diverse community of diazotrophs was associated with rice roots. However, the nifH gene fragments belonging to betaproteobacteria were dominant, accounting for nearly half of nifH sequences analyzed across the clone libraries. Most of them were similar to nifH fragments retrieved from wild rice and Kallar grass, with Azoarcus spp. being the closest cultured relatives. Alphaproteobacteria were also detected, but their relative abundance in the nifH gene pools was dramatically decreased with N fertilizer application. In addition, a high fraction of nifH gene pools was affiliated with methylotrophs and methane oxidizers. The sequence analysis was consistent with the terminal restriction fragment-length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprinting of the nifH gene fragments, which showed three of four dominant terminal restriction fragments were mainly related to betaproteobacteria based on in silico digestion of nifH sequences. T-RFLP analyses also revealed that the effects of  fertilizer on the nifH gene diversity retrieved from roots varied according to rice cultivars. In summary, the present study revealed the prevalence of betaproteobacterial sequences among the proteobacteria associated with roots of modern rice cultivars. This group of diazotrophs appeared less sensitive to N fertilizer application than diazotrophic alphaproteobacteria. Furthermore, methylotrophs may also play a role in nitrogen fixation on rice roots. However, it must be noted that due to the potential bias of polymerase chain reaction protocol, the significance of non-proteobacterial diazotrophs such as Firmicutes and anaerobic bacteria is possibly underestimated.
4287508| Samples of short pink-grayish filaments were collected from a hot spring in the Hengill area in southwestern Iceland at 85-88C, pH 6.9 and 1.7 mg/L sulfide. The species composition was studied by cloning and sequencing small subunit rRNA genes obtained by PCR amplifications from mat DNA. Using 98% sequence similarity as a cutoff value, a total of 5 bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and 6 archaeal OTUs were detected among 68 bacterial clones and 97 archaeal clones. Database matching showed that 80.5% of the archaeal sequences were 99% similar to Pyrobaculum islandicum and 14.5% were closest to the Korarchaeota clone sequence SRI306. About 87% of the bacterial sequences had the closest database match (99%) to the clone sequence SRI48 but were also found to be 99% identical with hydrogen-oxidizing strains previously isolated in this laboratory from hot springs in the same region. Out of 7 Thermus sequences, 4 were 100% identical to T. scotoductus NMX2 A.1 but 3 represented a new uncultivated Thermus species. Four different media, varying in organic nutrients and phosphate composition were used to isolate 81 aerobic thermophilic heterotrophs. Four isolates were Bacillus spp; but out of 77 Thermus isolates, 42 belonged to T. scotoductus and 35 to T. brockianus. T. scotoductus seemed to be preferably isolated on media low in nutrients and phosphate, whereas for T. brockianus it was the opposite. The T. scotoductus clones and isolates had 99-100% sequence similarity to each other. No T. brockianus sequences were found in the bacterial clone library. 
23468256|Marine sponges have been suggested to play an important role in the marine nitrogen cycling. However, the role of sponge microbes in the nitrogen transformation remains limited, especially on the bacterial ammonia oxidization and denitrification. Hence, in the present study, using functional genes (amoA, nirS, nirK, and nxrA) involved in ammonia oxidization and denitrification and 16S rRNA genes for specific bacterial groups as markers, phylogenetically diverse prokaryotes including bacteria and archaea, which may be involved in the ammonia oxidization and denitrification processes in sponges, were revealed in seven sponge species. Ammonia oxidizers were found in all species, whereas three sponges (Placospongia sp., Acanthella sp., and Pericharax heteroraphis) harbor only ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB), two sponges (Spirastrellidae diplastrella and Mycale fibrexilis) host only ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA), while the remaining two sponges (Haliclona sp. and Lamellomorpha sp.) harbor both AOB and AOA. S. diplastrella and Lamellomorpha sp. also harbor denitrifying bacteria. Nitrite reductase gene nirK was detected only in Lamellomorpha sp. with higher phylogenetic diversity than nirS gene observed only in S. diplastrella. The detected functional genes related to the ammonia oxidization and nitrite reduction in deep-sea and shallow-water sponges highlighted the potential ecological roles of prokaryotes in sponge-related nitrogen transformation.
41693870|Studies on the ecology of microbial parasites and their hosts are predicated on understanding the assemblage of and relationship among the species present. Changes in organismal morphology and physiology can have profound effects on host-parasite interactions and associated microbial community structure. The marine rickettsial organism, "Candidatus Xenohaliotis californiensis" (WS-RLO), that causes withering syndrome of abalones has had a consistent morphology based on light and electron microscopy. However, a morphological variant of the WS-RLO has recently been observed infecting red abalone from California. We used light and electron microscopy, in situ hybridization and 16S rDNA sequence analysis to compare the WS-RLO and the morphologically distinct RLO variant (RLOv). The WS-RLO forms oblong inclusions within the abalone posterior esophagus (PE) and digestive gland (DG) tissues that contain small rod-shaped bacteria; individual bacteria within the light purple inclusions upon hematoxylin and eosin staining cannot be discerned by light microscopy. Like the WS-RLO, the RLOv forms oblong inclusions in the PE and DG but contain large, pleomorphic bacteria that stain dark navy blue with hematoxylin and eosin. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) examination revealed that the large pleomorphic bacteria within RLOv inclusions were infected with a spherical to icosahedral-shaped putative phage hyperparasite. TEM also revealed the presence of rod-shaped bacteria along the periphery of the RLOv inclusions that were morphologically indistinguishable from the WS-RLO. Binding of the WS-RLO-specific in situ hybridization probe to the RLOv inclusions demonstrated sequence similarity between these RLOs. In addition, sequence analysis revealed 98.9-99.4 % similarity between 16S rDNA sequences of the WSRLO and RLOv. Collectively, these data suggest that both of these RLOs infecting California abalone are "Candidatus Xenohaliotis californiensis," and that the novel variant is infected by a putative phage hyperparasite that induced morphological variation of its RLO host.
23597858|Nutrient or niche-based competition among bacteria is a widespread phenomenon in the natural environment. Such interspecies interactions are often mediated by secreted soluble factors and/or direct cellcell contact. As ubiquitous soil bacteria, Myxococcus species are able to produce a variety of bioactive secondary metabolites to inhibit the growth of other competing bacterial species. Meanwhile, Myxococcus spp. also exhibit sophisticated predatory behavior, an extreme form of competition that is often stimulated by close contact with prey cells and largely depends on the availability of solid surfaces. Myxococcus spp. can also be isolated from aquatic environments. However, studies focusing on the interaction between Myxococcus and other bacteria in such environments are still limited. In this study, using the well-studied Myxococcus xanthus DK1622 and Escherichia coli as model interspecies interaction pair, we demonstrated that in an aqueous environment, M. xanthus was able to kill E. coli in a cell contact-dependent manner and that the observed contact-dependent killing required the formation of co-aggregates between M. xanthus and E. coli cells. Further analysis revealed that exopolysaccharide (EPS), type IV pilus, and lipopolysaccharide mutants of M. xanthus displayed various degrees of attenuation in E. coli killing, and it correlated well with the mutants' reduction in EPS production. In addition, M. xanthus showed differential binding ability to different bacteria, and bacterial strains unable to co-aggregate with M. xanthus can escape the killing, suggesting the specific nature of co-aggregation and the targeted killing of interacting bacteria. In conclusion, our results demonstrated EPS-mediated, contact-dependent killing of E. coli by M. xanthus, a strategy that might facilitate the survival of this ubiquitous bacterium in aquatic environments.
23597860|Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) has been and remains extensively used to assess and monitor the effects of various treatments on soil bacterial communities. Considering only abundant phylotypes, the diversity estimates produced by this technique have been proven to be uncorrelated to true community diversity. The aim of this paper was to develop a framework to estimate a community's true diversity from DGGE. Developed using in silico DGGE profiles generated from published pyrosequencing datasets, this framework elongates the rank-abundance distributions (RADs) drawn by band quantification using the peak-to-signal ratio (PSR) parameter, which was proven to be related to bacterial richness. The ability to compare DGGE-based diversity estimates to the true diversity of communities led to a unique opportunity to identify potential pitfalls when analyzing DGGE gels with commercial analysis software programs and gain insight into the process of DNA band clustering in the profiles. Bacterial diversity was compared through richness, Shannon, and Simpson's 1/D indices. Intermediate results demonstrated that, even though commercial gel analysis software programs were unable to produce consistent results throughout all samples, a newly developed Matlab-based framework unraveled the dominance profiles of communities from band quantification. Elongating these partial RADs using the PSRs extracted from the DGGE profiles chiefly made it possible to accurately estimate the true diversity of communities. For all the samples analyzed, the estimated Shannon and Simpson's 1/D were accurate at 10 %. Richness estimations were less accurate, ranging from 11 to 31 % of the expected values. The framework showed great potential to study the structure and diversity of soil bacterial communities.
25153322| There is little current understanding of the relationship between soil microbial community composition and soil processes rates, nor of the effect climate change and elevated CO will have on microbial communities and their functioning. Using the eastern cottonwood (Populus deltoides) plantation at the Biosphere 2 Laboratory, we studied the relationships between microbial community structure and process rates, and the effects of elevated atmospheric CO on microbial biomass, activity, and community structure. Soils were sampled from three treatments (400, 800, and 1200 ppm CO), a variety of microbial biomass and activity parameters were measured, and the bacterial community was described by 16S rRNA libraries. Glucose substrate-induced respiration (SIR) was significantly higher in the 1200 ppm CO treatment. There were also a variety of complex, nonlinear responses to elevated CO. There was no consistent effect of elevated CO on bacterial diversity; however, there was extensive variation in microbial community structure within the plantation. The southern ends of the 800 and 1200 ppm CO bays were dominated by -Proteobacteria, and had higher fungal biomass, whereas the other areas contained more -Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria. A number of soil process rates, including salicylate, glutamate, and glycine substrate-induced respiration and proteolysis, were significantly related to the relative abundance of the three most frequent bacterial taxa, and to fungal biomass. Overall, variation in microbial activity was better explained by microbial community composition than by CO treatment. However, the altered diversity and activity in the southern bays of the two high CO treatments could indicate an interaction between CO and light. 
4251344| The jumping behavior of Strobilidium velox and Halteria grandinella was analyzed videographically. On average, undisturbed cells of these species jumped 1.7-3.6 and 8 times per minute and spent 0.8 and 1.0% of their time jumping, respectively. Both ciliate species initiated jumps after encounters with rotifer predators. S. velox jumped on contact with Asplanchna girodi, traveling a mean distance of 1.5 mm (33 body lengths) at a mean velocity of 7 mm/s (154 body lengths/s) at 17C. H. grandinella jumped on contact or near contact with Synchaeta pectinata, traveling a mean distance of 0.37 mm (18 body lengths) at a mean velocity of 2.76 mm/s (131 body lengths/s) at 20C. The maximum velocity recorded during these escape jumps was 16.07 mm/s for S. velox and 3.70 mm/s for H. grandinella. In S. velox, swimming velocity during jumps was not significantly correlated either with swimming velocity just before jumping (mean = 0.15 mm/s) or with distance traveled. In H. grandinella, jumping velocity and distance also were not significantly correlated. Jumping in S. velox and H. grandinella was calculated to require approximately 149% and 41% of total metabolic rate, respectively. Jumping seemed to be an effective defense against rotifer predation. Only 3% of 93 S. velox cells contacted by A. girodi were captured, and only 12% of 92 H. grandinella cells contacted or closely approached by S. pectinata were captured; all other cells jumped away. A predation experiment showed that A. girodi was about twice as, and significantly more, likely to ingest Paramecium tetraurelia as S. velox in a mixture of equal numbers of these ciliates. The swimming velocity of S. velox during jumps is the highest one so far reported for an oligotrich, and equals the highest one reported for any ciliate (Mesodinium rubrum). 
25153403| The evolution of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) molecular-weight fractions, DOC biodegradability (BDOC), DOC origin [fluorescence index (FI)], and enzyme activities between the stream waters (main and ephemeral channel) and ground waters (riparian and hillslope) were analyzed during the transition from drought to precipitation in a forested Mediterranean stream. After the first rains, DOC content in stream water reached its maximum value (10-18 mg L), being explained by the leaching of deciduous leaves accumulated on the stream bed during drought. During this period, the largest molecules (&gt;10 kDa), were the most biodegradable, as indicated by high BDOC values measured during storm events and high enzymatic activities (especially for leucine-amino-peptidase). DOC &gt;100 kDa was strongly immobilized (78%) at the stream-riparian interface, whereas the smallest molecules (&lt;1 kDa) were highly mobile and accumulated in ground waters, indicating their greater recalcitrance. Differential enzymatic patterns between compartments showed a fast utilization of polysaccharides in the flowing water but a major protein utilization in the ground water. The results of the FI indicated a more terrestrial origin of the larger molecules in the flowing water, also suggesting that transformation of material occurs through the stream-riparian interface. Microbial immobilization and fast utilization of the most biodegradable fraction at the stream-riparian interface is suggested as a relevant DOC retention mechanism just after initial recharging of the ground water compartment. Large and rapid DOC inputs entering the intermittent river system during the transition from drought to precipitation provide available N and C sources for the heterotrophs. Heterotrophs efficiently utilize these resources that were in limited supply during the period of drought. Such changes in C cycling may highlight possible changes in organic matter dynamics under the prediction of extended drying periods in aquatic ecosystems. 
4251349|A broad-host range algD-lux bioluminescent reporter plasmid was developed to examine the role of exopolymer production in biofilm function. The algD-lux reporter plasmid will allow rapid on-line in situ detection of environmental factors that induce alginate biosynthesis. The algD promoter was stimulated by factors previously reported to induce alginate production, including ethanol and NaCl, and differences were observed with different nitrogen sources. With growth on minimal media with either glucose or succinate as a carbon source, succinate had a greater inductive effect on the algD promoter. An increase in light output of 1.3-fold and 1.7-fold was seen with cultures amended with 50 and 150 mM NaCl, respectively, compared to cultures with succinate alone. NaCl induction of the algD promoter was confirmed by algD RNA slot blots. Light output increased 2.0-fold and 1.7-fold with 0.25% and 0.5% ethanol, respectively, compared with controls grown with succinate only. While the rate of algD promoter response was initially similar when either NH
41489210|Unraveling functional genes related to biodegradation of organic compounds has profoundly improved our understanding of biological remediation processes, yet the ecology of such genes is only poorly understood. We used a culture-independent approach to assess the abundance and diversity of bacteria catalyzing the degradation of  -alkanes with a chain length between C and C at a forest site cocontaminated with mineral oil hydrocarbons and metals for nearly 60 years. The alkB gene coding for a rubredoxindependent alkane monooxygenase enzyme involved in the initial activation step of aerobic aliphatic hydrocarbon metabolism was used as biomarker. Within the area of study, four different zones were evaluated: one highly contaminated, two intermediately contaminated, and a noncontaminated zone. Contaminant concentrations, hydrocarbon profiles, and soil microbial respiration and biomass were studied. Abundance of w-alkane-degrading bacteria was quantified via real-time PCR of alkB, whereas genetic diversity was examined using molecular fingerprints (T-RFLP) and clone libraries. Along the contamination plume, hydrocarbon profiles and increased respiration rates suggested on-going natural attenuation at the site. Gene copy numbers of alkB were similar in contaminated and control areas. However, T-RFLPbased fingerprints suggested lower diversity and evenness of the H-alkane-degrading bacterial community in the highly contaminated zone compared to the other areas; both diversity and evenness were negatively correlated with metal and hydrocarbon concentrations. Phylogenetic analysis of alkB denoted a shift of the hydrocarbon-degrading bacterial community from Gram-positive bacteria in the control zone (most similar to Mycobacterium and Nocardia types) to Gram-negative genotypes in the contaminated zones (Acinetobacter and alkB sequences with little similarity to those of known bacteria). Our results underscore a qualitative rather than a quantitative response of hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria to the contamination at the molecular level.
40343399|The paper explores fungal infection and aflatoxin B contamination of six medicinal plant samples viz. Adhatoda vasica Nees, Asparagus racemosus Linn., Evolvulus alsinoides Linn., Glycyrrhiza glabra Linn., Plumbago zeylanica Linn, and Terminalia chebula Retz. A total of 858 fungal isolates were detected from the raw materials. Maximum number of fungal isolates was detected from A. racemosus (228). The genus Aspergillus was found to be the most dominant genus causing infection to most of the raw materials. Among the 32 isolates of A. flavus tested, 13 isolates were found to be toxigenic elaborating aflatoxin B. The highest elaboration of aflatoxin B was 394.95 ppb by the isolates of A. flavus from G. glabra. The essential oil of Cinnamomum camphora (L.) Presl showed efficacy in arresting aflatoxin B by the toxigenic strain. The growth of a toxigenic strain of A. flavus decreased progressively with increasing concentration of essential oil from leaves of C camphora. The oil completely inhibited aflatoxin B production even at 750 ppm. Hence, the oil of C. camphora is recommended as herbal fungitoxicant against the fungal contamination of the raw materials.
40343350|Experimental studies were carried out on an Antarctic isolate of the heterotrophic nanoflagellate Paraphysomonas imperforata to examine the efficiency of incorporation and remineralization of nitrogen and phosphorus from bacterial prey. Experiments were carried out over a temperature range from ambient Antarctic temperature (0 C) to 10 C. Temperature had a marked effect on the maximal growth rate of the phagotrophic nanoflagellate. Growth rate in the presence of high prey abundance ranged from 0.6 day at 0 C to 2.6 day at 10 C. In contrast, temperature had no discernable effect on the efficiencies of incorporation and remineralization of major nutrients by P. imperforata. The efficiencies of phosphorus and nitrogen incorporation from prey biomass averaged over the temperature range examined were 58 and 39%, respectively, for the two elements. Ammonium and phosphate were the dominant forms of dissolved nitrogen and phosphorus appearing in the culture medium during the grazing phase of the experiments. Overall, dissolved organic nitrogen and phosphorus constituted minor components of these elements released by the grazing activities of the protist. The results of this study indicated that incorporation/remineralization of nitrogen and phosphorus contained in prey was relatively unaffected by culture temperature in this heterotrophic nanoflagellate, although low temperature significantly depressed its growth rate. This finding has important implications for energy utilization and elemental cycling in perennially cold ecosystems and is at odds with conclusions that have been reached in some previous studies regarding the growth efficiency of phagotrophic Antarctic protists.
4251297| Despite the recognized importance of protozoans (flagellates and ciliates) as predators of bacteria, there are very few estimates of their abundance in fine sediments of freshwater lakes. This is due, in part, to the lack of a standard methodology. Because of the low concentration of protists in relation to particles, epifluorescence counts can not always be used. Instead, dilution followed by live counting was used to solve the masking by sediment particles. One to twenty l sample aliquots were diluted with filtered lake water in a Palmer-Maloney counting slide. Four to eight replicates were sufficient to minimize the counting error, while minimizing effort. The method is highly replicable and could potentially be calibrated for different sediment types because sediment masking depends on the mean particle size of the sediment. When this method was applied in a survey of benthic sites in Quebec lakes, flagellate abundances were found to range from 100 to 180,000 cells ml
4250584| The concentrations of volatile fatty acids were measured in the pore water of sediment from the Limfjorden, Denmark. The pore water was freeze-dried and the acids, which were redissolved in formic acid, were analyzed by gas chromatography on a Carbopack column. The limit of detection was 0.1 mol l
4251755|The application of advanced microscopy and molecular and electrochemical high-resolution methods has provided insights into the structural organization and function of biofilm communities. It appears that cellular properties such as growth differentiation, chemotaxis, and cell-to-cell signaling enable biofilm communities to organize structurally in response to the external conditions and the activities of the different biofilm members. Thereby resource utilization becomes optimized, and processes which require syntrophic relationships or special micro-environments become facilitated.
4251706|A microbiological water quality study of Homosassa Springs State Wildlife Park (HSSWP) and surrounding areas was undertaken. Samples were collected in November of 1997 (seven sites) and again in November of 1998 (nine sites). Fecal bacterial concentrations (total and fecal coliforms, Clostridium perfringens, and enterococci) were measured as relative indicators of fecal contamination.
25153456|This study is one of the first to show that invasive plant-induced changes in the soil microbial community can negatively impact native plant performance. This greenhouse experiment tested whether soil microbial communities specific to the rhizospheres of an invasive grass (Aegilops triuncialis) and two native plants (Lasthenia californica and Plantago erecta) affected invasive and/or native plant performance. Each of these species were grown in separate pots for 2 months to prime the soils with plantspecific rhizosphere microbial communities. Each plant species was then planted in native- and invasive-primed soil, and effects on plant performance were monitored. At 5 months, differences in microbial biomarker fatty acids between invaded and native soils mirrored previous differences found in field-collected soil. L. californica performance was significantly reduced when grown in invaded soil compared to native soil (flowering date was delayed, aboveground biomass decreased, specific root length increased, and root mass ratio increased). In contrast, P. erecta and A. triuncialis performance were unaffected when grown in invaded vs native soil. These results suggest that in some cases, invasion-induced changes in the soil microbial community may contribute to a positive feedback loop, leading to the increased dominance of invasive species in an ecosystem.
40802176|When a host organism is infected by a symbiont, the resulting symbiotum has a phenotype distinct from uninfected hosts. Genotypic interactions between the partners may increase phenotypic variation of the host at the population level. "Neotyphodium" is an asexual, vertically transmitted endophytic symbiont of grasses often existing in hybrid form. Hybridization in "Neotyphodium" rapidly increases the symbiotum's genomic content and is likely to increase the phenotypic variation of the host. This phenotypic variation is predicted to enhance host performance, especially in stressful environments. We tested this hypothesis by comparing the growth, survival, and resource allocation of hybrid and nonhybrid infected host plants exposed to controlled variation in soil moisture and nutrients. Infection by a hybrid endophyte did not fit our predictions of comparatively higher root and total biomass production under low moisture/low nutrient treatments. Regardless of whether the host was infected by a hybrid or nonhybrid endophyte, both produced significantly higher root/total biomass when both nutrient and moisture were high compared to limited nutrient/moisture treatments. However, infection by hybrid "Neotyphodium" did result in significantly higher total biomass and host survival compared to nonhybrid infected hosts, regardless of treatment.Endophyte hybridization alters host strategies in response to stress by increasing survival in depauperate habitats and thus, potentially increasing the relative long-term host fitness.
41489221|Fungal diversity of communities in several activated sludge plants treating different influent wastes was determined by comparative sequence analyses of their 18S rRNA genes. Methods for DNA extraction and choice of primers for PCR amplification were both optimised using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profile patterns. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the levels of fungal biodiversity in some communities, like those treating paper pulp wastes, were low, and most of the fungi detected in all communities examined were novel uncultured representatives of the major fungal subdivisions, in particular, the newly described clade Cryptomycota. The fungal populations in activated sludge revealed by these cultureindependent methods were markedly different to those based on culture-dependent data. Members of the genera Penicillium, Cladosporium, Aspergillus and Mucor, which have been commonly identified in mixed liquor, were not identified in any of these plant communities. Non-fungal eukaryotic 18S rRNA genes were also amplified with the primer sets used. This is the first report where cultureindependent methods have been applied to flocculated activated sludge biomass samples to estimate fungal community composition and, as expected, the data obtained gave a markedly different view of their population biodiversity compared to that based on culture-dependent methods.
4251578| The survival of a plasmid-containing Bacillus subtilis released into mushroom compost was investigated. The indigenous Bacillus population of mushroom compost exhibited an antibiotic-resistance profile that was distinguished by almost complete absence of chloramphenicol resistance. Bacillus subtilis containing the chloramphenicol-resistance plasmid pC194 was released into mushroom compost microcosms and populations were monitored at different incubation temperatures. The organism colonized both sterile and untreated compost at 37C, and to a lesser extent at 50C, but was eliminated after 30 d at 65C. Although sporulation of the B. subtilis population occurred within compost, the population was maintained for up to 13 weeks at 50C, largely as vegetative cells. Experiments in which the B. subtilis host strain, without plasmid, was released demonstrated that plasmid carriage had no effect on the ability of the bacterium to colonize and survive in compost. Furthermore, the size and composition of the indigenous bacterial population was unaffected by the presence of the introduced B. subtilis strain. Virtually no loss of plasmid pC194 from the B. subtilis population in compost was observed, and experiments at low growth rates in chemostats confirmed the stability of this host/vector system in the absence of positive selection pressure. 
40802286|Previous studies suggested that methanol and acetate were the likely methanogenic precursors in the cold Zoige wetland. In this study, the contribution of the two substances to methanogenesis and the conversion in Zoige wetland were analyzed. It was determined that methanol supported the highest CH formation rate in the enrichments of the soil grown with Eleochans valleculosa, and even higher at 15C than at 30C; while hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis was higher at 30C. Both methanol-and acetate-using methanogens were counted at the highest (10 g) in the soil, whereas methanol-using acetogens (10 g) were ten times more abundant than either methanol-or acetate-using methanogens. Both methanol and acetate were detected in the methanogenesis-inhibited soil samples, so that both could be the primary methanogenic precursors in E. valleculosa soil. However, the levels of methanol and acetate accumulated in 2-bromoethanesulfonate (BES)-and CHCl-treated soils were in reverse, i.e., higher methanol in CHCl-and higher acetate in BES-treated soil, so that methanol-derived methanogenesis could be underestimated due to the consumption by acetogens. Analysis of the soil 16S rRNA genes revealed Acetobacterum bakii and Trichococcus pasteurii to be the dominant methanol-using acetogens in the soil, and a strain of T. pasteurii was isolated, which showed the high conversion of methanol to acetate at 15C.
25153328|Lotic bacterial communities can be examined at multiple levels: from the assemblage level to populations of individual species. In stream environments, as in many other systems, the percentage of bacteria that are culturable is quite low. In this study, the culturability of the overall bacterial assemblage, as well as the culturability of three common species (Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, Burkholderia cepacia, and Pseudomonas putida), was determined in samples collected from four streams on three dates. Colony hybridization (colonies were grown on modified nutrient agar) and fluorescent in situ hybridization were used to calculate the percentage of cells of a given species that were culturable. Approximately half of the overall assemblage was estimated to be viable but nonculturable cells (VBNC). The culturability of two of the species was low (0.29% for A. calcoaceticus and 0.46% for P. putida), whereas the value for B. cepacia (2.48%) exceeded the overall assemblage level culturability (0.90%). Overall, both bacterial assemblages and populations were dominated by VBNC. These results show quantitatively that not all members of a species that has culturable representatives are culturable when retrieved from natural populations, likely because of interspecific phenotypic and genotypic variability. Thus, the large pool of non-culturable cells includes representatives of species that are, under some circumstances, culturable.
41489072|Understanding the processes that generate patterns of community structure is a central focus of ecological research. With that aim, we manipulated the structure of bacterial activated sludge to test the influence of the species richness and composition of bacterial communities on the dynamics of activated sludge floe assembly in lab-scale bioreactors. Bacterial community structure was analyzed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of RT-PCR amplified 16S rRNA. Fingerprinting of four parallel reactors, started with the same source communities added in different proportions, converged to patterns that were more similar than expected by chance, suggesting a deterministic selection in floe development. Evidence for neutral dynamics was suggested by the dependence of the rate of replacement of species (bacterial taxa-time relationships) on the number of available species in the source community. Further indication of stochastic dynamics was obtained by the application of the Sloan neutral model for prokaryotes. The fitting of the observed data to the model predictions revealed that the importance of the stochastic component increased with the size of the reservoir of species richness from which the community is drawn. Taken together, the results illustrate how both neutral and deterministic dynamics operate simultaneously in the assembly of the bacterial floe and show that the balance of the two depends on the richness of the source community.
40802175|Plant root exudates increase nutrient availability and influence microbial communities including archaeal members. We examined the archaeal community inhabiting the rhizoplane of two contrasting vascular plants, "Dulichium arundinaceum" and "Sarracenia purpurea", from an acidic bog in upstate NY. Multiple archaeal 16S rRNA gene libraries showed that methanogenic "Archaea" were dominant in the rhizoplane of both plants. In addition, the community structure (evenness) of the rhizoplane was found markedly different from the bulk peat. The archaeal community in peat from the same site has been found dominated by the E2 group, meanwhile the rhizoplane communities on both plants were co-dominated by "Methanosarcinaceae" (MS), rice cluster (RC)-I, and E2. Complementary T-RFLP analysis confirmed the difference between bulk peat and rhizoplane, and further characterized the dominance pattern of MS, RC-I, and E2. In the rhizoplane, MS was dominant on both plants although as a less variable fraction in "S. purpurea". RC-I was significantly more abundant than E2 on "S. purpurea", while the opposite was observed on "D. arundinaceum", suggesting a plant-specific enrichment. Also, the statistical analyses of T-RFLP data showed that although both plants overlap in their community structure, factors such as plant type, patch location, and time could explain nearly a third of the variability in the dataset. Other factors such as water table, plant replicate, and root depth had a low contribution to the observed variance. The results of this study illustrate the general effects of roots and the specific effects of plant types on their nearby archaeal communities which in boginhabiting plants were mainly composed by methanogenic groups.
4287514| The small-scale distribution of several structural (bacterial abundance, phytopigment, total and soluble protein, and carbohydrate content) and functional ecological variables (enzymatic activities, frequency of dividing cells) was investigated in coastal sediments during a spring bloom. For bacterial abundance, enzymatic activity, and organic matter determinations, samples were collected at 5-m depth from a sediment surface delimited by a 42  42-cm frame, divided into 49 squares. In order to test the influence of the bottom microtopography on the investigated variables, the size of this frame was defined to cover the distance between two subsequent ripples. As indicated by Fisher's index, benthic bacteria, enzymatic activities, proteins, carbohydrates, and their soluble fractions exhibited an aggregate distribution. Sampling size (i.e., sample unit of 36 cm
41489059|The ecology of peatland testate amoebae is well studied along broad gradient from very wet (pool) to dry (hummock) micro-sites where testate amoebae are often found to respond primarily to the depth to water table (DWT). Much less is known on their responses to finerscale gradients, and nothing is known of their possible response to phenolic compounds, which play a key role in carbon storage in peatlands. We studied the vertical (0-3, 3-6, and 6-9 cm sampling depths) micro-distribution patterns of testate amoebae in the same microhabitat (Sphagnum fallax lawn) along a narrow ecological gradient between a poor fen with an almost flat and homogeneous Sphagnum carpet (fen) and a "young bog" (bog) with more marked micro-topography and mosaic of poor fen and bog vegetation. We analyzed the relationships between the testate amoeba data and three sets of variables (1) "chemical" (pH, Eh potential, and conductivity), (2) "physical" (water temperature, altitude, i.e., Sphagnum mat micro-topography, and DWT), and (3) phenolic compounds in/from Sphagnum (water-soluble and primarily bound phenolics) as well as the habitat (fen/bog) and the sampling depth. Testate amoeba Shannon H' diversity, equitability J of communities, and total density peaked in lower parts of Sphagnum, but the patterns differed between the fen and bog micro-sites. Redundancy analyses revealed that testate amoeba communities differed significantly in relation to Eh, conductivity, water temperature, altitude, water-soluble phenolics, habitat, and sampling depth, but not to DWT, pH, or primarily bound phenolics. The sensitivity of testate amoebae to weak environmental gradients makes them particularly good integrators of micro-environmental variations and has implications for their use in paleoecology and environmental monitoring. The correlation between testate amoeba communities and the concentration of water-soluble phenolic suggests direct (e.g., physiological) and/or indirect (e.g., through impact on prey organisms) effects on testate amoebae, which requires further research.
40343503|Microorganisms mediate the decomposition of leaf-litter through the release of extracellular enzymes. The surfaces of decomposing leaves are both chemically and physically heterogeneous, and spatial patterns in microbial enzyme activity on the litter surface should provide insights into fine-scale patterns of leaf-litter decomposition. Platanus occidentalis leaves were collected from the floodplain of a third-order stream in northern Mississippi, enclosed in individual litter bags, and placed in the stream channel and in the floodplain. Replicate leaves were collected approximately monthly over a 9-month period and assayed for spatial variation in microbial extracellular enzyme activity and rates of organic matter (OM) decomposition. Spatial variation in enzyme activity was measured by sampling 96 small discs (5-mm diameter) cut from each leaf. Discs were assayed for the activity of enzymes involved in lignin (oxidative enzymes) and cellulose (-glucosidase, cellobiohydrolase) degradation. Rates of OM loss were greater in the stream than the floodplain. Activities of all enzymes displayed high variability in both environments, with severalfold differences across individual leaves, and replicate leaves varied greatly in their distribution of activities. Geostatistical analysis revealed no clear patterns in spatial distribution of activity over time or among replicates, and replicate leaves were highly variable. These results show that fine-scale spatial heterogeneity occurs on decomposing leaves, but the level of spatial variability varies among individual leaves at the measured spatial scales. This study is the first to use geostatistical analyses to analyze landscape patterns of microbial activity on decomposing leaf litter and in conjunction with studies of the microbial community composition and/or substrate characteristics, should provide key insights into the function of these processes.
4251739| Five brands of French bottled mineral water were analyzed by heterotrophic plate counts (HPC) and for the presence of multiple antibiotic resistant bacteria. HPC at 22C were around 10
40605773|Bacterial endosymbionts of insects are increasingly being recognized as common, diverse, and integral to the biology of their hosts. Inherited fungal symbionts have been largely overlooked, however, even though insect guts appear to be a key habitat for an incredible array of fungal diversity. Like bacteria, fungal symbionts also likely play important roles in the ecology and evolution of their insect associates. The objective of this study was to lay the foundations for understanding the roles of the vertically transmitted fungal and bacterial associates of both the brownbanded cockroach, Supella longipalpa, and its parasitic wasp, Comperia merceti. We used culture-dependent and culture-independent molecular methods and phylogenetic analyses in order to identify the symbionts. Two fungal associates of brownbanded cockroaches were found. To our knowledge, this is the first record of vertically transmitted fungal symbionts in the order Blattaria. The wasp was found to house a close relative of one of the cockroach fungi but no bacterial symbionts. Finally, the brownbanded cockroaches also harbored three lineages of bacterial symbionts: Blattabacterium and two lineages of Wolbachia, indicating the number of vertically transmitted symbionts in this insect may be as many as five.
4251180| The 16S rDNA genes of an apparently pure culture of a psychrophilic and strict barophilic bacterium (WHB 46) were studied by PCR-mediated amplification and cloning into phage M13 mp18. Sequence analysis of five individual clones revealed the presence of two different 16S rDNA types. The homology value of 90% indicates that culture WHB 46 is actually composed of two closely related species (WHB 46-1 and 46-2). Both strains are members of the -subdivision of proteobacteria. Analysis of a sixth clone (WHB 46-1/2) leads to the conclusion that it represents a 16S rDNA hybrid molecule assembled during the PCR reaction. This hypothesis was confirmed by secondary structure analysis of the chimeric rDNA. The appearance of such hybrid molecules point to a potential risk in studies on the diversity of bacterial populations by analysis of rDNA pattern via PCR-mediated amplification because they suggest the existence of organisms that do not actually exist in the sample investigated. 
25153384| This study was conducted to evaluate: (1) the bacterial growth and the dissolved organic carbon (DOC) uptake in an Amazonian lake (Lake Batata) at high-water and low-water periods of the flood pulse; (2) the influence of nitrogen and phosphorus (NP) additions on bacterial growth and DOC uptake in Lake Batata at two flood pulse periods; and (3) the bioavailability of the main DOC sources in Lake Batata. Lake Batata is a typical clear-water Amazonian lake, located in the watershed of Trombetas River, Central Amazon, Brazil. Bacterial batch cultures were set up with 90% 0.2-m filtered water and 10% inoculum from Lake Batata. N-NHNO and P-KHPO, with final concentrations of 50 and 5 M, respectively, were added to the cultures, except for controls. Extra sources of DOC (e.g., algal lysate, plant leachates) were added to constitute six distinct treatments. Bacterial response was measured by maximum bacterial abundance and rates of bacterial production, respiration, DOC uptake, and bacterial growth efficiency (BGE). Bacterial growth and DOC uptake were higher in NP treatments than in controls, indicating a consistent nutrient limitation in Lake Batata. The composition of DOC also seems to be an important regulating factor of bacterial growth in Lake Batata. Seasonally, bacterial growth and DOC bioavailability were higher at low-water period, when the phytoplankton is a significant extra source of DOC, than at high-water period, when the forest is the main source of DOC. DOC bioavailability was better estimated based on the diversity and the diagenetic stage of carbon compounds than on single classes of labile compounds. Changes in BGE were better related to CNP stoichiometry in the water, and the "excess" of organic substrates was oxidized in catabolism, despite the quality of these compounds for bacterial growth. Finally, we conclude that bacterial growth and DOC uptake vary throughout the flood pulse in clear-water Amazonian ecosystems as a result of changes in nutrient concentration and in DOC composition. 
4251077|The survival of Streptococcus faecalis and Escherichia coli was studied in situ in a tropical rain forest watershed using membrane diffusion chambers. Densities were determined by acridine orange direct count and Coulter Counter. Population activity was determined by microautoradiography, cell respiration, and by nucleic acid composition. Densities of S. faecalis and E. coli decreased less than 1 log unit after 105 hours as measured by direct count methods. Activity as measured by respiration, acridine orange activity, and microautoradiography indicated that both bacteria remained moderately active during the entire study. After 12 hours, E. coli was more active than S. faecalis as measured by nucleic acid composition. In this tropical rain forest watershed, E. coli and S. faecalis survived and remained active for more than 5 days; consequently, both would seem to be unsuitable as indicators of recent fecal contamination in tropical waters.
4250849| A negative correlation between adsorption of low molecular weight organic acids and sugars onto a hydroxyapatite surface and biodegradation rates of the compounds in the presence of the mineral was observed. Qualitatively, the effect was the same whether the organics were equilibrated with the surface prior to the addition of organisms or the organisms were preattached to the surface. Glucose, acetic acid, succinic acid, glutamic acid, and citric acid showed equilibrium adsorption values ranging from 0-94% from a 2 M solution. Changes in both respiration and assimilation of the substrates in the presence of hydroxyapatite were inversely correlated with adsorption. 
4250499|An instrument for measurement of bioluminescence and photosynthesis is described. It may be used to detect chemicals toxic to luminous bacteria or to measure photosynthetic oxygen production of algae in mixed culture with bacteria. The latter technique has been used to study the effect on algal photosynthesis of environmental factors such as light quality, temperature, and salinity, and to study the factors affecting chlorophyll synthesis. The technique is ideal for rapid detection of photosynthesis-inhibiting herbicides and other toxic substances in water.
25153307|The relevance toward virulence of a variety of two-component signal transduction systems is reviewed for 16 pathogenic bacteria, together with the wide array of environmental signals or conditions that have been implicated in their regulation. A series of issues is raised, concerning the need to understand the environmental cues that determine their regulation in the infected host and in the environment outside the laboratory, which shall contribute toward the bridging of bacterial pathogenesis and microbial ecology.
4251446|Degradation of alginate and its constituents, polymannuronate (polyM) and polyguluronate (polyG), by gut bacteria isolated from sea urchins and abalones in the northern part of Japan, were investigated. Bacterial counts in the guts of sea urchin S. intermedius, were 10
25153463|The composition and structure of bacterial communities were examined in soil subjected to a range of diverse agricultural land management and crop production practices. Length heterogeneity polymerase chain reaction (LH-PCR) of bacterial DNA extracted from soil was used to generate amplicon profiles that were analyzed with univariate and multivariate statistical methods. Five land management programs were initiated in July 2000: conventional, organic, continuous removal of vegetation (disk fallow), undisturbed (weed fallow), and bahiagrass pasture (Paspalum notatum var Argentine). Similar levels in the diversity of bacterial 16S rDNA amplicons were detected in soil samples collected from organically and conventionally managed plots 3 and 4 years after initiation of land management programs, whereas significantly lower levels of diversity were observed in samples collected from bahiagrass pasture. Differences in diversity were attributed to effects on how the relative abundance of individual amplicons were distributed (evenness) and not on the total numbers of bacterial 16S rDNA amplicons detected (richness). Similar levels of diversity were detected among all land management programs in soil sample collected after successive years of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) cultivation. A different trend was observed after a multivariate examination of the similarities in genetic composition among soil bacterial communities. After 3 years of land management, similarities in genetic composition of soil bacterial communities were observed in plots where disturbance was minimized (bahiagrass and weed fallow). The genetic compositions in plots managed organically were similar to each other and distinct from bacterial communities in other land management programs. After successive years of tomato cultivation and damage from two major hurricanes, only the composition of soil bacterial communities within organically managed plots continued to maintain a high degree of similarity to each other and remain distinct from other bacterial communities. This study reveals the effects of agricultural land management practices on soil bacterial community composition and diversity in a large-scale, long-term replicated study where the effect of soil type on community attributes was removed.
4251298|Mesocosm studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of dispersed oil on total and heterotrophic bacterial communities of under-ice seawater from the St. Lawrence Estuary. A regular survey of bacterial changes in the oil-contaminated seawater was performed during a two week period. The bacterial community structure was investigated by carrying out 27 morphological and biochemical tests on 168 isolated strains. The results show a detectable but transient response of the bacterial community to crude oil addition. While total bacterial counts were approximately constant during the experiment, dispersed oil induced an increase in heterotrophic bacterial microflora (from 10
4287698| Biotic and abiotic factors can influence interactions between microbial grazers and their prey, thus impacting both the cycling of biogenic carbon within the surface layer of the ocean and the export of carbon to the deep ocean and higher trophic levels. In this study, microcosm experiments were used to evaluate the combined effect of temperature and turbulence on the growth rate of a marine bacterium (Vibrio splendidus), a protistan predator (Paraphysomonas sp.), and the community grazing impact of Paraphysomonas sp. on V. splendidus. It was found that the artificial turbulence generated (
40605870|Recent publications indicate that inter-specific interactions between soil bacteria may strongly affect the behavior of the strains involved, e.g., by increased production of antibiotics or extracellular enzymes. This may point at an enhanced competitive ability due to inter-specific triggering of gene expression. However, it is not known if such inter-specific interactions also occur during competition for carbon which is the normal situation in soil. Here, we report on competitive interactions between two taxonomically non-related bacterial strains, Pseudomonas sp. A21 and Pedobacter sp. V48, that were isolated from a dune soil. The strains showed strong effects on each other's behavior and gene expression patterns when growing together under carbon-limited conditions on agar. The most pronounced observed visual changes in mixed cultures as compared to monocultures were (1) strong inhibition of a bioindicator fungus, suggesting the production of a broadspectrum antibiotic, and (2) the occurrence of gliding-like movement of Pedobacter cells. Two independent techniques, namely random arbitrary primed-PCR (RAP-PCR) and suppressive subtractive hybridization (SSH), identified in total 24 genes that had higher expression in mixed cultures compared to monocultures. Microbial interactions were clearly bidirectional, as differentially expressed genes were detected for both bacteria in mixed cultures. Sequence analysis of the differentially expressed genes indicated that several of them were most related to genes involved in motility and chemotaxis, secondary metabolite production and two-component signal transduction systems. The gene expression patterns suggest an interference competition strategy by the Pseudomonas strain and an escape/explorative strategy by the Pedobacter strain during confrontation with each other. Our results show that the bacterial strains can distinguish between intra- and inter-specific carbon competition.
4250820|A study of the yeast flora of 328 honey stomachs from 7 different pollinating bee species, and 342 flower nectar samples of 9 different flower species yielded 766 yeast isolates composed of 16 genera and 47 species. Most of the yeast species from both the sources belonged to the genus Candida, while the most frequently isolated yeasts were Dekkera intermedia from honey stomach and Candida blankii from flower nectar. Among the honey bees, Xylocopa sp., and among flowers, Citrus medica, yielded the highest number of yeast species. Nineteen species of yeasts belonging to 9 genera were common to both the sources.
4250765| To test the effect of freezing on soil biota, isolated from the shortgrass prairie of northeastern Colorado, a series of experiments were performed using gnotobiotic soil microcosms. Pseudomonas paucimobilis was used to examine the effects of freezing on bacteria of different growth stages. Secondly, the effect of multiple freeze-thaw cycles was tested on an assemblage of bacterial species. Lastly, the effect of freezing on predator-prey interactions was studied using P. paucimobilis and an amoebal predator, Acanthamoeba polyphaga. A temperature of -9C was not detrimental to P. paucimobilis at any growth stage. A single severe freeze-thaw cycle (-27C to 23C) resulted in 40-60% mortality of P. paucimobilis and the mixed bacteria, although additional freezing events did not reduce the populations further. Multiple freeze-thaw cycles (-9C to 23C) gave 40-60% mortality of P. paucimobilis and the mixed bacteria. Predator-prey population cycles were possibly desynchronized by freeze-thaw events. 
4287626|Associations between environmentally transmitted symbionts and their hosts provide a unique opportunity to study the evolution of specificity and subsequent radiation of tightly coupled host-symbiont assemblages [3, 8, 24]. The evidence provided here from the environmentally transmitted bacterial symbiont Vibrio fischeri and its sepiolid squid host (Sepiolidae: Euprymna) demonstrates how host-symbiont specificity can still evolve without vertical transmission of the symbiont [1]. Infection by intraspecific V. fischeri symbionts exhibited preferential colonization over interspecific V. fischeri symbionts, indicating a high degree of specificity for the native symbiotic strains. Inoculation with symbiotic bacteria from other taxa (monocentrid fish and loliginid squids) produced little or no colonization in two species of Euprymna, despite their presence in the same or similar habitats as these squids. These findings of host specificity between native Vibrios and sepiolid squids provides evidence that the presence of multiple strains of symbionts does not dictate the composition of bacterial symbionts in the host.
25153057|A down-well aquifer microbial sampling system was developed using glass wool or Bio-Sep beads as a solid-phase support matrix. Here we describe the use of these devices to monitor the groundwater microbial community dynamics during field bioremediation experiments at the U.S. Department of Energy Natural and Accelerated Bioremediation Research Program's Field Research Center at the Oak Ridge National laboratory. During the 6-week deployment, microbial biofilms colonized glass wool and bead internal surfaces. Changes in viable biomass, community composition, metabolic status, and respiratory state were reflected in sampler composition, type of donor, and groundwater pH. Biofilms that formed on Bio-Sep beads had 2-13 times greater viable biomass; however, the bead communities were less metabolically active [higher cyclopropane/monoenoic phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) ratios] and had a lower aerobic respiratory state (lower total respiratory quinone/PLFA ratio and ubiquinone/menaquinone ratio) than the biofilms formed on glass wool. Anaerobic growth in these systems was characterized by plasmalogen phospholipids and was greater in the wells that received electron donor additions. Partial 16S rDNA sequences indicated that Geobacter and nitrate-reducing organisms were induced by the acetate, ethanol, or glucose additions. DNA and lipid biomarkers were extracted and recovered without the complications that commonly plague sediment samples due to the presence of clay or dissolved organic matter. Although microbial community composition in the groundwater or adjacent sediments may differ from those formed on down-well biofilm samplers, the metabolic activity responses of the biofilms to modifications in groundwater geochemistry record the responses of the microbial community to biostimulation while providing integrative sampling and ease of recovery for biomarker analysis.
4250663| A spatially distributed mathematical model is developed to elucidate the effects of chemical diffusion and cell motility as well as cell growth, death, and substrate uptake on steady-state bacterial population growth in a finite, one-dimensional, nonmixed region. The situation considered is growth limited by a diffusing substrate from an adjacent phase not accessible to the bacteria. Chemotactic movement is not considered in this paper; we consider only "random-walk"-type random motility behavior here. The following important general concepts are suggested by the results of our theoretical analysis: (a) The significance of random motility effects depends on the magnitude of the ratio
25256114|The plasticity of rhizobial genomes is far greater than previously thought, with complex genomic recombination events that may be accelerated by the often stressful environmental conditions of the tropics. This study aimed at evaluating changes in soybean rhizobia due to adaptation to inhospitable environmental conditions (high temperatures, drought, and acid soils) in the Brazilian Cerrados. Both the host plant and combinations of four strains of soybean Bradyrhizobium were introduced in an uncropped soil devoid of rhizobia capable of nodulating soybean. After the third year, seeds were not reinoculated. Two hundred and sixty-three isolates were obtained from nodules of field-grown soybean after the seventh year, and their morphological, physiological, serological, and symbiotic properties determined, followed by genetic analysis of conserved and symbiotic genes. B. japonicum strain CPAC 15 (same serogroup as USDA 123) was characterized as having high saprophytic capacity and competitiveness and by the seventh year represented up to 70% of the cultivable population, in contrast to the poor survival and competitiveness of B. japonicum strain CPAC 7 (same serogroup as CB 1809). In general, adapted strains had increased mucoidy, and up to 43% of the isolates showed no serological reaction. High variability, presumably resulting from the adaptation to the harsh environmental conditions, was verified in rep-PCR (polymerase chain reaction) profiles, being lower in strain CPAC 15, intermediate in B. elkanii, and higher in CPAC 7. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP)-PCR types of the 16S rDNA corresponded to the following: one type for B. elkanii species, two for B. japonicum, associated to CPAC 15 and CPAC 7, and unknown combinations of profiles. However, when nodC sequences and RFLP-PCR of the nifH region data were considered, only two clusters were observed having full congruence with B. japonicum and B. elkanii species. Combining the results, variability was such that even within a genetically more stable group (such as that of CPAC 15), only 6.4% of the isolates showed high similarity to the inoculant strain, whereas none was similar to CPAC 7. The genetic variability in our study seems to result from a variety and combination of events including strain dispersion, genomic recombination, and horizontal gene transfer. Furthermore, the genetic variability appears to be mainly associated with adaptation, saprophytic capacity, and competitiveness, and not with symbiotic effectiveness, as the similarity of symbiotic genes was higher than that of conserved regions of the DNA.
4251551| Microbial communities along vertical transects in the unsaturated zone were evaluated at five sites in the Pasco Basin, in southeastern Washington State. Sites with contrasting recharge rates were chosen to maximize or minimize the potential for microbial transport. Pore water ages along the vertical transects were established using natural chloride tracers, and ranged from modern to either 15,000 yBP (years before present) or 30,000 yBP at the two low-recharge sites. Unsaturated flow processes were short-circuited by preferential flow at two of the three high-recharge sites, resulting in rapid movement of water through the vertical transects. Microbial numbers and biomass, based on plate counts, and phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) concentrations decreased with depth at all sites. The majority (55-90%) of the culturable chemoheterotrophs recovered from most samples were streptomycete bacteria. 16S rRNA gene sequence and MIDI analyses indicated that 75% of the remaining isolates were Gram-positive bacteria (most likely species of Arthrobacter and Bacillus) 25% were Gram-negative bacteria (probably members of several genera in the alpha- and gamma-Proteobacteria). Comparison of microbial communities at low-recharge sites vs. high-recharge sites, where preferential flow occurs, revealed several differences that might be attributed to vertical transport of microbial cells at the high-recharge sites. Plate counts and PLFA analyses indicated that the proportion of streptomycetes, which were abundant at the surface but present in the subsurface as spores, decreased, or remained constant, with depth at the low-recharge sites, but increased with depth at the high-recharge sites. PLFA analyses also indicated that Gram-negative bacteria displayed increased nutrient stress with depth at the high-recharge sites characterized by preferential flow, but not at the low recharge site. This may be a result of advective transport of microbes to depths where it was difficult for them to compete effectively with the established community. Moreover, PLFA community structure profiles fluctuated considerably with depth at the low-recharge sites, but not at the high-recharge sites. This might be expected if transport were distributing the microbial community along the vertical profile at the high-recharge sites. In contrast to the high-recharge sites at which preferential flow occurs, filtration likely prevented vertical transport of microorganisms at the high-recharge site that was characterized by unsaturated flow. 
40926442|In this report, the diversity of oil-degrading bacteria and alkB gene was surveyed in the seawater around Xiamen Island. Forty-four isolates unique in 16S rRNA sequence were obtained after enrichment with crude oil. Most of the obtained isolates exhibited growth with diesel oil and crude oil. alkB genes were positively detected in 16 isolates by degenerate polymerase chain reaction (PCR). And for the first time, alkB genes were found in bacteria of Gallaecimonas, Castellaniella, Paracoccus, and Leucobacter. Additional 29 alkB sequences were retrieved from genomic DNA of the oil-degrading communities. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the obtained alkB genes formed five groups, most of which exhibited 60-80% similarity at the amino acid level with sequences retrieved from the GenBank database. Furthermore, the abundance of alkB genes in seawater was examined by real-time PCR. The results showed that alkB genes of each group in situ ranged from about 3  10 to 3  10 copies L, with the homologs of Alcanivorax and Pseudomonas being the most predominant. Bacteria of Alcanivorax, Acinetobacter, and Pseudomonas are important oil degraders in this area; while those frequently reported in other area, like Oleiphilus spp., Oleispira spp., and Thalassolituus spp. were not found in our report. These results indicate that bacteria and genes involved in oil degradation are quite diverse, and may have restriction in geographic distribution in some species.
25153455|The ability of several Bacillus thuringiensis strains to colonize plant surfaces was assessed and compared with that of more common epithytic bacteria. While all B. thuringiensis strains multiplied to some extent after inoculation on bean plants, their maximum epiphytic population sizes of 10 cfu/g of leaf were always much less than that achieved by other resident epiphytic bacteria or an epiphytically fit Pseudomonas fluorescens strain, which attained population sizes of about 10 cfu/g of leaf. However B. thuringiensis strains exhibited much less decline in culturable populations upon imposition of desiccation stress than did other resident bacteria or an inoculated P. fluorescens strain, and most cells were in a spore form soon after inoculation onto plants. B. thuringiensis strains produced commercially for insect control were not less epiphytically fit than strains recently isolated from leaf surfaces. The growth of B. thuringiensis was not affected by the presence of Pseudomonas syringae when co-inoculated, and vice versa. B. thuringiensis strains harboring a green fluorescent protein marker gene did not form large cell aggregates, were not associated with other epiphytic bacteria, and were not found associated with leaf structures, such as stomata, trichomes, or veins when directly observed on bean leaves by epifluorescent microscopy. Thus, B. thuringiensis appears unable to grow extensively on leaves and its common isolation from plants may reflect immigration from more abundant reservoirs elsewhere.
4251759| The dynamics of a marine virus-host system were investigated at different steady state growth rates in chemostat cultures and the data were analyzed using a simple model. The virus-host interactions showed strong dependence on host cell growth rate. The duration of the infection cycle and the virus burst size were found to depend on bacterial growth rate, and the rate of cell lysis and virus production were positively correlated with steady state growth rate in the cultures ($r^{2}>0.96$, p < 0.05). At bacterial growth rates of 0.02 to 0.10 h
25152970|There is increasing evidence of climate change in Antarctica, especially elevated temperature and ultraviolet B (UVB) flux within the ozone "hole." Its origins are debatable, but the effects on ice recession, water availability, and summer growth conditions are demonstrable. Light-dependent, temperature-sensitive, fast-growing organisms respond to these physical and biogeographical changes. Microalgae (cyanobacteria and eukaryotic algae), which are pioneer colonists of Antarctic mineral fellfield soils, are therefore highly suitable biological indicators of such changes. In frost-heaved soil polygons containing naturally sorted fine mineral particles, microalgal growth is restricted to a shallow zone of light penetration. By virtue of this light requirement, microalgae are exposed to extreme seasonal fluctuations in temperature (air and black-body radiation), photosynthetically active radiation, UV radiation, and desiccation. Dominance of conspicuous autofluorescent indicator species with distinctive morphology allowed quantification of responses using epifluorescence microscopy, and image analysis of undisturbed, unstained communities. However, the physical changes in climate, although significant in the long term, are gradual. The changes were therefore amplified experimentally by enclosing the communities at a fellfield site on Signy Island, maritime Antarctica, in cloches (small greenhouses). These were made of polystyrene of either UV-transparent or UV-opaque acrylic plastic, with or without walls. During a 6-year period, statistically significant changes were observed in microalgal colonization of the soil surface and in the morphology of filamentous populations. Evidence of community succession correlated with measured changes in local environment was found. Results from Signy Island and at continental sites on Alexander Island suggested that rates of microalgal colonization and community development might change significantly during current climate changes in Antarctica.
40343497|Waste streams from industrial processes such as metal smelting or mining contain high concentrations of sulfate and metals with low pH. Dissimilatory sulfate reduction carried out by sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) at low pH can combine sulfate reduction with metal-sulfide precipitation and thus open possibilities for selective metal recovery. This study investigates the microbial diversity and population changes of a single-stage sulfidogenic gas-lift bioreactor treating synthetic zinc-rich waste water at pH 5.5 by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of 16S rRNA gene fragments and quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The results indicate the presence of a diverse range of phylogenetic groups with the predominant microbial populations belonging to the Desulfovibrionaceae from -Proteobacteria. Desulfovibrio desulfuricans-Mke populations were the most abundant among the SRB during the three stable phases of varying sulfide and zinc concentrations and increased from 13% to 54% of the total bacterial populations over time. The second largest group was Desulfovibrio marrakechensis-Mke SRB that increased from 1% to about 10% with decreasing sulfide concentrations. Desulfovibrio aminophilus-like populations were the only SRB to decrease in numbers with decreasing sulfide concentrations. However, their population was <1% of the total bacterial population in the reactor at all analyzed time points. The number of dissimilatory sulfate reducase (DsrA) gene copies per number of SRB cells decreased from 3.5 to 2 DsrA copies when the sulfide concentration was reduced, suggesting that the cells' sulfatereducing capacity was also lowered. This study has identified the species present in a single-stage sulfidogenic bioreactor treating zinc-rich wastewater at low pH and provides insights into the microbial ecology of this biotechnological process.
41489784|The phylogenetic structure and community composition were analysed in an existing data set of marine bacterioplankton communities to elucidate the evolutionary and ecological processes dictating the assembly. The communities were sampled from coastal waters at nine locations distributed worldwide and were examined through the use of comprehensive clone libraries of 16S ribosomal RNA genes. The analyses show that the local communities are phylogenetically different from each other and that a majority of them are phylogenetically clustered, i.e. the species (operational taxonomic units) were more related to each other than expected by chance. Accordingly, the local communities were assembled non-randomly from the global pool of available bacterioplankton. Further, the phylogenetic structures of the communities were related to the water temperature at the locations. In agreement with similar studies, including both macroorganisms and bacteria, these results suggest that marine bacterial communities are structured by "habitat filtering", i.e. through non-random colonization and invasion determined by environmental characteristics. Different bacterial types seem to have different ecological niches that dictate their survival in different habitats. Other eco-evolutionary processes that may contribute to the observed phylogenetic patterns are discussed. The results also imply a mapping between phenotype and phylogenetic relatedness which facilitates the use of community phylogenetic structure analysis to infer ecological and evolutionary assembly processes.
4251701|Decomposition of plant litter is a primary mechanism of nutrient recycling and redistribution in most terrestrial ecosystems. Previously we demonstrated by a nested PCR protocol that 20 distinctive nifH (the gene encoding nitrogenase reductase) HaeIII restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) patterns were derived from bulk DNA associated with samples of plant litter and soil collected at one Douglas Fir (DF) forest [33]. Five of the nifH DNA patterns (II-VI) were dominant types in DF litter with characteristic fragments of 237-303 bp length, whereas samples from soil contained primarily seven other patterns 131-188 bp length (IX-XV). Here we report that the 237-303 bp fragments characteristic for forest litter could generally not be detected in plant litter or soil samples collected in clearcuts that adjoin the forest sites. The same fragments (237-303 bp) were also found in the litter at this DF forest site over 16 months and were consistently found in litter at 12 other DF forest or recent (<2 yrs) clearcut sites. However, trace to none of these fragments were detected in 6 clearcut (5-10 yrs) or different forest types (oak, alder) collected over a 200 km east-west direction in western Oregon, USA. Data suggest that the logging practice in DF forests that creates a clearcut removes a unique gene pool of nitrogen-fixing microorganisms. These organisms could potentially contribute more to nitrogen fixation in forest litter than litter from natural or invasive plants that grow in clearcuts [26].
4250907| Ammonium and nitrite oxidizers were counted with the most probable number (MPN) method and potential ammonium- and nitrite-oxidation rates were determined with a chlorate inhibition technique in an arable soil over a 3-year period. Samples were taken from the topsoil once a month for 2 years and a few times during a third year in four cropping systems: unfertilized lucerne ley and barley, and nitrate fertilized grass ley and barley. The distribution of nitrifiers was determined and their activities measured at various soil depths and between and within plant rows of fertilized barley. The numbers and activities of ammonium oxidizers were highest in the spring and autumn samples. Numbers of ammonium oxidizers ranged from 0.2 to 19  10
25153121| Methanogenic degradation of organic matter is an important microbial process in lake sediments. Temperature may affect not only the rate but also the pathway of CH production by changing the activity and the abundance of individual microorganisms. Therefore, we studied the function and structure of a methanogenic community in anoxic sediment of Lake Dagow, a eutrophic lake in north-eastern Germany. Incubation of sediment samples (in situ 7.5C) at increasing temperatures (4, 10, 15, 25, 30C) resulted in increasing production rates of CH and CO and in increasing steady-state concentrations of H. Thermodynamic conditions for H/CO-dependent methanogenesis were only exergonic at 25 and 30C. Inhibition of methanogenesis with chloroform resulted in the accumulation of methanogenic precursors, i.e., acetate, propionate, and isobutyrate. Mass balance calculations indicated that less CH was formed via H at 4C than at 30C. Conversion of CO to CH also showed that H/CO-dependent methanogenesis contributed less to total CH production at 4C than at 30C. [2-C]Acetate turnover rates at 4C accounted for a higher percentage of total CH production than at 30C. Collectively, these results showed a higher contribution of H-dependent methanogenesis and a lower contribution of acetate-dependent methanogenesis at high versus low temperature. The archaeal community was characterized by cloning, sequencing, and phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA genes retrieved from the sediment. Sequences were affiliated with Methanosaetaceae, Methanomicrobiaceae, and three deeply branching euryarchaeotal clusters, i.e., group III, Rice cluster V, and a novel euryarchaeotal cluster, the LDS cluster. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis showed that 16S rRNA genes affiliated to Methanosaetaceae (20-30%), Methanomicrobiaceae (35-55%), and group III (10-25%) contributed most to the archaeal community. Incubation of the sediment at different temperatures (4-30C) did not result in a systematic change of the archaeal community composition, indicating that change of temperature primarily affected the activity rather than the structure of the methanogenic community. 
27770575|The aim of this study was to analyze successional changes in the bacterial community over a period of 6 months of cultivation of Aplysina aerophoba sponges under different artificial cultivation conditions by use of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). The cultivation conditions varied concerning the water temperature (202 C and 252 C) of the aquaria, additional illumination of one aquarium, and feeding of the sponges. Amplicons from DGGE separation of dominant colonizing or variably appearing bacteria were sequenced and aligned for taxonomical identification. In addition, secondary metabolites typically found in A. aerophoba were analyzed to investigate changes in the natural product profile during cultivation. The cultivation of sponges under any given condition did not lead to a depletion of their bacterial community in the course of the experiment. On the contrary, the distinctive set of associated bacteria was maintained in spite of a dramatic loss of biomass and morphological degradation during the cultivation period. Generally, all sequences obtained from the DGGE gels were related to bacteria of five phyla: Actinobacteria, Cyanobacteria, -Proteobacteria, -Proteobacteria, and Chloroflexi. Despite the overall stability of the bacterial community in A. aerophoba, an unambiguous variability was detected for the Cyanobacteria "A. aerophoba clone TK09". This variability was ascribed to the predominant light conditions. The analysis of the metabolic pattern revealed that the concentration of a class of characteristic-brominated compounds typically found in A. aerophoba, like aeroplysinin-1, aerophobin-1, aerophobin-2, and isofistularin-3, increased over the 6 months of cultivation.
40605665|Batch culture experiments using viral enrichment were conducted to test the response of a coastal bacterial community to autochthonous (i.e., co-existing) or allochthonous riverine viruses. The effects of viral infections on bacterial dynamics and activity were assessed by epifluorescence microscopy and thymidine incorporation, respectively, whereas the effect of viral infection on bacterial community composition was examined by polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism 16S ribosomal RNA fingerprinting. The percentages of high nucleic acid-containing cells, evaluated by flow cytometry, were significantly correlated (r=0.91, n=12, p<0.0001) to bacterial production, making this value a good predictor of active cell dynamics along the study. While confinement and tempera- ture were the two principal experimental factors affecting bacterial community composition and dynamics, respectively, additions of freshwater viruses had significant effects on coastal bacterial communities. Thus, foreign viruses significantly reduced net bacterial population increase as compared to the enrichment treated with inactivated virus. Moreover, freshwater viruses recurrently and specifically affected bacterial community composition, as compared to addition of autochthonous viruses. In most cases, the combined treatment viruses and freshwater dissolved organic matter helped to maintain or even enhance species richness in coastal bacterial communities in agreement to the ' killing the winner' hypothesis. Thus, riverine virus input could potentially influence bacterial community composition of the coastal bay albeit with modest modification of bulk bacterial growth.
25256138|In the postgenomic era, there is a clear recognition of the limitations of nucleic acid-based methods for getting information on functions expressed by microbial communities in situ. In this context, the large-scale study of proteins expressed by indigenous microbial communities (metaproteome) should provide information to gain insights into the functioning of the microbial component in ecosystems. Characterization of the metaproteome is expected to provide data linking genetic and functional diversity of microbial communities. Studies on the metaproteome together with those on the metagenome and the metatranscriptome will contribute to progress in our knowledge of microbial communities and their contribution in ecosystem functioning. Effectiveness of the metaproteomic approach will be improved as increasing metagenomic information is made available thanks to the environmental sequencing projects currently running. More specifically, analysis of metaproteome in contrasted environmental situations should allow (1) tracking new functional genes and metabolic pathways and (2) identifying proteins preferentially associated with specific stresses. These proteins considered as functional bioindicators should contribute, in the future, to help policy makers in defining strategies for sustainable management of our environment.
4287483|Increasingly, focus has been directed towards the use of microorganisms as biological control agents to combat fungal disease, as an alternative to chemical fungicides. Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25 is one bacterial strain that has been demonstrated to promote plant growth by biocontrol of pathogenic fungi. To understand the mode of action of this bacterium, information regarding its localization and metabolic activity on plants is important. In this study, a gfp/luxAB-tagged derivative of P. fluorescens SBW25, expressing the green fluorescent protein (GFP) and bacterial luciferase, was monitored during colonization of wheat starting from seed inoculation. Since bacterial luciferase is dependent on cellular energy reserves for phenotypic expression, metabolically active cells were detected using this marker. In contrast, the stable GFP fluorescence phenotype was used to detect the cells independently of their metabolic status. The combination of these two markers enabled P. fluorescens SBW25 cells to be monitored on wheat plants to determine their specific location and metabolic activity. Studies on homogenized wheat plant parts demonstrated that the seed was the preferred location of P. fluorescens SBW25 during the 65-day time period studied, but the leaves and roots were also colonized. Interestingly, the bacteria were also found to be metabolically active on all plant parts examined. In situ localization of P. fluorescens SBW25 using a combination of different microscopic techniques confirmed the preference for the cells to colonize specific regions of the seed. We speculate that the colonization pattern of P. fluorescens SBW25 can be linked to the mechanism of protection of plants from fungal infection.
4250724|Aeromonas species were recovered from over 27% of 183 chlorinated drinking water samples collected during an 18-month period. Sixteen of 20 isolates tested elicited a cytotoxic response by Y-1 mouse adrenal cells. None of the strains was either enterotoxigenic by the rabbit ligated ileal loop assay, exhibited piliation, or showed significant mannose resistant adherence to human buccal cells. The Aeromonas isolates were further identified to be A. sobria and were resistant to ampicillin and susceptible to chloramphenicol, kanamycin, streptomycin, and tetracycline. Total coliform levels did not correlate with Aeromonas densities in distribution water. With 85% of the samplings, Aeromonas occurred in distribution water when no coliforms were detectable by either the membrane filter or most-probable-number techniques. A significant correlation (P < .001) existed between standard plate count levels and Aeromonas.
23469592|Given their coastal site fidelity and opportunistic foraging behavior, harbor seals (Phoca vitulina) may serve as sentinels for coastal ecosystem health. Seals using urbanized coastal habitat can acquire enteric bacteria, including Vibrio that may affect their health. To understand Vibrio dynamics in seals, demographic and environmental factors were tested for predicting potentially virulent Vibrio in free-ranging and stranded Pacific harbor seals (Phoca vitulina richardii) off California. Vibrio prevalence did not vary with season and was greater in free-ranging seals (29 %, n=319) compared with stranded seals (17 %, n=189). Of the factors tested, location, turbidity, and/or salinity best predicted Vibrio prevalence in free-ranging seals. The relationship of environmental factors with Vibrio prevalence differed by location and may be related to oceanographic or terrestrial contributions to water quality. Vibrio parahaemolyticus, Vibrio alginolyticus, and Vibrio cholerae were observed in seals, with V. cholerae found almost exclusively in stranded pups and yearlings. Additionally, virulence genes (trh and tdh) were detected in V. parahaemolyticus isolates. Vibrio cholerae isolates lacked targeted virulence genes, but were hemolytic. Three out of four stranded pups with V. parahaemolyticus (trh+ and/or tdh+) died in rehabilitation, but the role of Vibrio in causing mortality is unclear, and Vibrio expression of virulence genes should be investigated. Considering that humans share the environment and food resources with seals, potentially virulent Vibrio observed in seals also may be of concern to human health.
4250990|Previous studies on Antarctic seawater have demonstrated the presence of significant numbers of bacteria, but their in situ activity has not been demonstrated. In order to demonstrate this hypothetical activity, a scheduled survey was conducted from January to February 1986 in a coastal area of Adelie Land. Seawater samples were collected in a selected station every day or every hour during a 17 hour period. Bacterial communities in each sample were studied by measuring direct and viable counts, frequency of dividing cells estimation, taxonomic analysis, and heterotrophic potential. Complementary studies used batch cultures with artificial nutrient supplements. The results clearly suggest a strong potential activity of the natural Antarctic bacterial microflora.
4251350|Previous studies have shown that various microorganisms can enhance the dissolution of silicate minerals at low (<5) or high (>8) pH. However, it was not known if they can have an effect at near-neutral pH. Almost half of 17 isolates examined in this study stimulated bytownite dissolution at near-neutral pH while in a resting state in buffered glucose. Most of the isolates found to stimulate dissolution also oxidized glucose to gluconic acid. More detailed analysis with one of these isolates suggested that this partial oxidation was the predominant, if not sole, mechanism of enhanced dissolution. Enhanced dissolution did not require direct contact between the dissolving mineral and the bacteria. Gluconate-promoted dissolution was also observed with other silicate minerals such as albite, quartz, and kaolinite.
25153310|Changes in the composition of viral communities were investigated along a salinity gradient and at different times by means of transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). Samples were collected in fresh (Charente River), estuarine (Charente Estuary), and coastal (Pertuis d'Antioche, French Atlantic coast) waters. Both methods revealed similar patterns in viral community structure with a dominance of small viral particles (capsid and genome size). Viruses with a head size below 65 nm made up 71  5% of total virus-like particles, and virus-like genomes (VLG) below 100 kb accounted for 89  9% of total VLG. Despite this apparent stability of virioplankton composition over spatial scale (salinity gradient), the occurrence of large viruses (capsid and genome size) in estuarine and seawater samples indicated the presence of viral populations specific to a geographical location. Temporal changes in the structure (capsid and genome size) of viral communities were more pronounced than those reported at the spatial scale. From January to May 2003, seasonal changes in viral abundance and bacterial production occurred concomitantly with an increase in viral genomic diversity (richness), suggesting that virioplankton composition was strongly linked to changes in microbial activity and/or in the structure of the host communities. Although PFGE and TEM yielded complementary results in the description of virioplankton structures, it seems that the use of PFGE along should be enough for the monitoring of community changes.
4251491| Growth rate determinations on the individual components of size-fractionated water samples taken within the Louisiana hydrocarbon seep zone and westward of this region revealed that most of the biomass in the water was associated with particles larger than 64 m (>60%). The aggregates in the seep zone were metabolically active and growing; whereas, 80 km to the west, the microbiota on the aggregates had negative growth rates, indicating a cessation of metabolic activity. This suggests that the raw materials for bacterial growth are the hydrocarbons, primarily methane, and that these particles may potentially provide a valuable food resource for regional benthic organisms. The large-scale geographic distribution of hydrocarbon seeps and the westward movement of water along the Louisiana slope suggest a nutritional resource capable of supporting a diverse marine heterotrophic community. 
4250541| Batch and continuous cultures of Ankistrodesmus braunii were established in an inorganic medium with growth rate limited by P. In batch culture, inoculation of lake water bacterial isolates of Pseudomonas sp. and Flavobacterium sp. showed that the Pseudomonas isolate was capable of more rapid growth on algal exudates of lytic products than was the Flavobacterium isolate. When inoculated singly into a continuous culture (D = 0.267 day
4251468| The response of a glucose-fed anaerobic chemostat community to a long-term (>200 days) periodic substrate perturbation was examined. Identical steady-state communities were established in a "mother" and a "daughter" reactor at pH 7, 35C, inlet glucose concentration of 8 g l
4250642|The mode of hyphal interaction and parasitism of Pythium spp. and Rhizoctonia solani by Trichoderma hamatum was studied by both phase-contrast and Nomarski differential interference-contrast microscopy. Directed growth of the mycoparasite toward its host was observed. In the area of interaction, T. hamatum produced appressorial-like structures attached to the host cell wall. Subsequently, several different types of interactions occurred. T. hamatum either grew parallel to and along the host hypha or coiled around its host. In the contrast regions the parasite formed bulbular or hook-like structures that contained granular cytoplasm. In other cases the parasite penetrated into and grew within the mycelium of R. solani or P. ultimum. As a consequence of the attack, the host hypha became vacuolated, shrank, collapsed, and finally disintegrated. These observations suggest the involvement of parasitism followed by lysis rather than involvement of antibiotics in this host-mycoparasite relationship.
25152978| Molecular oxygen (O) is a potent inhibitor of key microbial processes, including photosynthesis, N fixation, denitrification, sulfate reduction, methanogenesis, iron, and metal reduction reactions. Prokaryote survival and proliferation in aquatic environments is often controlled by the ability to tolerate exposure to oxic conditions. Many prokaryotes do not have subcellular organelles for isolating O-producing from O-consuming processes and have developed consortial associations with other prokaryotes and eukaryotes that alleviate metabolic constraints of high O. Nutrient transformations often rely on appropriate cellular and microenvironmental, or microzonal, redox conditions. The spatial and temporal requirements for microenvironmental overlap among microbial groups involved in nutrient transformations necessitates close proximity and diffusional exchange with other biogeochemically distinct, yet complementary, microbial groups. Microbial consortia exist at different levels of community and metabolic complexity, as shown for detrital, microbial mat, biofilm and planktonic microalgal-bacterial assemblages. To assess the macroscale impacts of consortial interactions, studies should focus on the range of relevant temporal (minutes to hours) and spatial (microns to centimeters) scales controlling microbial production, nutrient exchange, and cycling. In this review, we discuss the utility and application of techniques suitable for determining microscale consortial activity, production, community composition, and interactions in the context of larger scale aquatic ecosystem structure and function. 
41489052|Actinobacteria are major producers of secondary metabolites; however, it is unclear how they are distributed in the environment. DNA was extracted from forest, pasture and cultivated soils, street sediments (dust and material in place), and sediments affected by animal activity (e. g. guano, vermicompost) and characterised with two actinobacterial and a bacterial-specific 16S rDNA primer set. Amplicons (140/156) generated with the two actinobacterial-specific and amplicons (471) generated with bacterial-specific primers were analysed. Amplicons from actinobacterial-specific primer were disproportionately actinomycetal from animalaffected (soil) samples and street sediments and either verrucomicrobial (i. e. non-actinobacterial) and from a novel non-actinomycetal actinobacterial group for soils. Actinobacterial amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism fingerprints clustered by land use, with cultivated soils clustering apart from uncultivated soils. Actinobacterial amplicons generated with eubacterial primers were overwhelmingly from (116/126) street sediments; acidobacterial amplicons from soils (74/75). In two street samples, > 90% of clones were actinomycetal. Actinomycetes are selected in terrestrial soils and sediments by cultivation, urbanisation and animal activity.
41489063|The mammalian gut microbiota is considered to be determined mostly by diet, while the effect of genotype is still controversial. Here, we examined the effect of genotype on the gut microbiota in normal populations, exhibiting only natural polymorphisms, and evaluated this effect in comparison to the effect of sex. DNA fingerprinting approaches were used to profile the gut microbiota of eight different recombinant inbred mouse lines of the collaborative cross consortium, whose level of genetic diversity mimics that of a natural human population. Analyses based on automated ribosomal internal transcribed spacer analysis demonstrated significant higher similarity of the gut microbiota composition within mouse lines than between them or within same-gender groups. Thus, genetic background significantly impacts the microbiota composition and is a stronger determinant than gender. These findings imply that genetic polymorphisms help shape the intestinal microbiota of mammals and consequently could affect host susceptibility to diseases.
40605853|RNA methylase genes are common antibiotic resistance determinants for multiple drugs of the macrolide, lincosamide, and streptogramin B (MLS B ) families. We used molecular methods to investigate the diversity, distribution, and abundance of MLS B methylases in waste lagoons and groundwater wells at two swine farms with a history of tylosin (a macrolide antibiotic structurally related to erythromycin) and tetracycline usage. Phylogenetic analysis guided primer design for quantification of MLS B resistance genes found in tylosin-producing Streptomyces (tlr(B), tlr(D)) and commensal/pathogenic bacteria (erm(A), erm(B), erm(C), erm(F), erm(G), erm(Q)). The near absence of tlr genes at these sites suggested a lack of native antibiotic-producing organisms. The gene combination erm(ABCF) was found in all lagoon samples analyzed. These four genes were also detected with high frequency in wells previously found to be contaminated by lagoon leakage. A weak correlation was found between the distribution of erm genes and previously reported patterns of tetracycline resistance determinants, suggesting that dissemination of these genes into the environment is not necessarily linked. Considerations of gene origins in history (i.e., phylogeny) and gene distributions in the landscape provide a useful "molecular ecology" framework for studying environmental spread of antibiotic resistance.
4287581|It is known that ethanol strongly interferes with the development and activity of lactic acid bacteria in wine. In this work, it was observed that membrane composition was dependent of ethanol concentration and cell physiological state. The protein electrophoretic profile was modified in the membranes of Oenococcus oeni cultured in presence of 8 and 10% ethanol. Concerning the membrane lipid composition, it was observed that O. oeni maintained a high level of phospholipid biosynthesis via the relative increased biosynthesis of phosphoethanolamine and sphingomyelin in presence of ethanol. On the other hand, ethanol induced an increase in the membrane lactobacillic acid percentage at the expense of cis-vaccenic acid. This increased synthesis of lactobacillic acid appears as the more significant change induced by ethanol in O. oeni membrane. The increase of lactobacillic acid in the membrane of O. oeni clearly appears as a factor that provides protection against the toxic effect of ethanol, balancing the increase of membrane fluidity normally attributed to ethanol. The results presented in this paper constitute evidence that lactobacillic acid may have a part in the survival and or adaptive mechanisms developed by O. oeni under culture adverse conditions, allowing these bacteria to maintain their activity in the presence of ethanol, namely performing malolactic fermentation in wine.
23469140|Diets shape the animal gut microbiota, although the relationships between diets and the structure of the gut microbial community are not yet well understood. The gut bacterial communities of Reticulitermes flavipes termites fed on four individual plant biomasses with different degrees of recalcitrance to biodegradation were investigated by 16S rRNA pyrosequencing analysis. The termite gut bacterial communities could be differentiated between grassy and woody diets, and among grassy diets (corn stover vs. sorghum). The majority of bacterial taxa were shared across all diets, but each diet significantly enriched some taxa. Interestingly, the diet of corn stover reduced gut bacterial richness and diversity compared to other diets, and this may be related to the lower recalcitrance of this biomass to degradation.
4251760|In a study of bacterioplankton in an oligotrophic lake in northern Wisconsin, a community fingerprinting technique, automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA), was used to determine the effect of resources and trophic interactions on bacterioplankton diversity. Inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus (NP), carbon in the form of glucose (G) or dissolved organic matter extracted from peat (DOM), and carbon and NP in combination were added to two types of experimental systems. Ten-liter mesocosms contained all components of the original aquatic community except for large zooplankton. One-liter dilution cultures were prepared so that the effects of grazers and phytoplankton were removed. During a 3-day incubation, bacterial production showed the greatest response to the carbon plus NP treatment in both experimental systems, but bacterial diversity was strikingly different between them. In the mesocosms, the number of ARISA-PCR fragments averaged 41 per profile, whereas the dilution culture communities were highly reduced in complexity, dominated in most cases by a single PCR fragment. Further analysis of the mesocosm data suggested that whereas the NPDOM addition caused the greatest aggregate bacterial growth response, the addition of NP alone caused the largest shifts in community composition. These results suggest that the measurement of aggregate responses, such as bacterial production, alone in studies of freshwater bacterial communities may mask the effects of resources on bacterioplankton.
23469163|Stomach mucosa biopsies and gastric juices samples of 12 healthy persons were analysed by culturing in selective- and non-selective-rich media. Microbial DNA from four mucosal samples was also amplified by nested PCR using universal bacterial primers, and the 16S rDNA amplicons pyrosequenced. The total number of cultivable microorganisms recovered from the samples ranged from 10 2 to 10 4 cfu/g or ml. The isolates were identified at the species level by PCR amplification and sequencing of the 16S rDNA. Isolates belonged mainly to four genera; Propionibacterium, Lactobacillus, Streptococcus and Staphylococcus. A total of 15,622 high-quality 16S rDNA sequence reads were obtained by pyrosequencing from the four mucosal samples. Sequence analysis grouped the reads into 59 families and 69 genera, revealing wide bacterial diversity. Considerable differences in the composition of the gastric microbiota were observed among the subjects, although in all samples the most abundant operational taxonomic units belonged to Streptococcus, Propionibacterium and Lactobacillus. Comparison of the stomach microbiota with that present in other parts of the human gastrointestinal tract revealed distinctive microbial communities. This is the first study in which a combination of culture and culture-independent techniques has been used to explore the bacterial diversity of the human stomach.
25153429|Asexual, seedborne endophytic fungi in perennial grasses are often viewed as strong mutualists because fitness of the symbiont and host grass are closely coupled. However, at least for some native grasses, the asexual endophyte, Neotyphodium, acts parasitically, yet remains at high frequencies in natural populations. Most previous studies of Neotyphodium effects on host survival have been short term relative to the long life span of the perennial grass host. We therefore tested the hypothesis that Neotyphodium alters the survival in various life stages and long-term survival of adult native Arizona fescue (Festuca arizonica). To test the former, we planted 40 infected (E+) and 40 uninfected (E-, endophyte removed) seeds from four different maternal plants in the field under ambient conditions. We followed survival of seeds, seedlings, and adult plants over a 5-year period. To test the latter, we determined the infection of 1633 adult plants and followed their survival over the next 5-7 years. E+ seeds did not differ from uninfected seeds in terms of overall survival from seed germination to seedling to adult. However, the shape of the survival curve differed, with E+ plants showing higher mortality in early life stages. E+ adult plants did not differ from E-plants in long-term survival. Survival was generally very high during the study, which included a severe and prolonged drought. Infection by asexual Neotyphodium does not increase survival in early life stages or that of adult plants. Because asexual, vertically transmitted symbionts are predicted by evolutionary theory to be strong mutualists, the persistence of high infection frequencies in natural populations without long-term benefits to the host remains enigmatic. One possible explanation is that the long life span of the perennial host and low seedling recruitment may obscure either the costs or benefits of endophyte infection.
4251074| Bacterivorous nanoflagellates (microflagellates) have been routinely enumerated in marine and freshwater samples using either a Most Probable Number (MPN) culture method or by a direct microscopical counting method (DC). These two techniques typically yield highly disparate estimates of the density of nanoflagellates in natural samples. We compared these methods with seawater and marine snow (macroscopic detrital aggregate) samples collected from surface waters throughout the North Atlantic and in freshwater samples collected at three stations in Lake Ontario. Densities of nanoflagellates determined by the two methods differed by as much as four orders of magnitude; the MPN estimate rarely exceeded 10% of the microscopical count, and averaged  1% of this count. The MPN estimate constituted a higher percentage of the DC value in environments with high concentrations of nanoflagellates relative to environments with low concentrations of nanoflagellates. The ratio of the culture count to the microscopical count (MPN:DC) increased along an environmental gradient from oligotrophy to eutrophy, and was positively correlated with the density of bacteria in the samples. In laboratory experiments with two species of bacterivorous nanoflagellates, the MPN count constituted a much greater percentage of the DC count during the exponential growth phase of the nanoflagellate than during the stationary growth phase. Differences in the estimates of nanoflagellate density obtained with these two techniques probably can be explained by the trophic mode of these protozoa, their growth stage, and the amenability of these species to laboratory culture. 
25153137| Species diversity and richness, and seasonal population dynamics of phytoplankton, planktonic protozoa, and bacterioplankton sampled from the epilimnion of Crystal Bog in 2000, were examined in order to test the hypothesis that these groups' diversity and abundance patterns might be linked. Crystal Bog, a humic lake in Vilas County, Wisconsin, is part of the North Temperate Lakes Long-Term Ecological Research Site. Phytoplankton and planktonic protozoa were identified and enumerated in a settling chamber with an inverted microscope. Bacterial cells were enumerated with the use of fluorescence 4, 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)-staining procedures, and automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) was used to assess bacterio-plankton diversity. Bacterial cell counts showed little seasonal variation and averaged 2.6  10 cells/mL over the ice-free season. Phytoplankton and planktonic protozoan numbers varied by up to two orders of magnitude and were most numerous in late spring and summer. Dinoflagellates largely dominated Crystal Bog throughout the ice-free period, specifically Peridiniopsis quadridens in the spring, Peridinium limbatum in summer, and Gymnodinium fuscum and P. quadridens in fall. Brief blooms of Cryptomonas, Dinobryon, and Synura occurred between periods of dinoflagellate domination. The dominant dinoflagellate, Peridinium limbatum, was calculated to have a growth rate of 0.065 day and a doubling time of 10.7 days. Heterotrophic nanoflagellates (HNFs) were a consistent component of the planktonic protozoa; seasonal patterns were determined for three genera of HNFs (Monosiga, Bicosoeca, and Desmarella moniliformis). Three genera of ciliates (Coleps, Strobilidium, and Strombidium) comprised the greater part of the planktonic protozoa in Crystal Bog. The number of species of planktonic protozoa was too low to calculate a diversity index. Shannon-Weaver diversity indices for phytoplankton and bacterioplankton in the epilimnion followed very similar seasonal patterns in this lake, supporting the hypothesis that in freshwaters, diversity patterns of these groups are linked. 
4250906|Viable counts of heterotropic soil bacteria were 3-5 times higher on low-nutrient agar media compared with a series of conventional agar media. Substantial amounts of monosaccharides and amino acids were present in solid media made from distilled water and agar powder, and a salt-solution agar medium (without organic substrates added) gave practically the same colony counts as the low nutrient soil extract agar medium. MPN values were comparable to or lower than plate counts. A search for slow-growing cells in the negative MPN tubes by fluorescence microscopical examination after 3 months incubation was negative. The viable counts were 2-4% of the total microscopical counts in different soils. Assuming that the colony-forming cells did not derive from the numerous "dwarf" cells present in soil, a calculated percent viability of the larger cells was about 10%. The ecological significance of the plate-counting technique is discussed.
4251174|The relationship of mercury resistance to the concentration and chemical speciation of mercurial compounds was evaluated for microbial communities of mercury-polluted and control waters. Methodologies based on the direct viable counting (DVC) method were adapted to enumerate mercury-resistant communities. Elevated tolerance to Hg(II) was observed for the microbial community of one mercury-polluted pond as compared to the community of control waters. These results suggest an in situ acclimation to Hg(II). The results of the methylmercury resistance-DVC assay suggested that minimal acclimation to CH
23361685|The objective of this study was to characterise lactic acid bacteria (LAB) isolated from faecal samples of healthy Ethiopian infants, with emphasis on bacteriocin production and antibiotic susceptibility. One hundred fifty LAB were obtained from 28 healthy Ethiopian infants. The isolates belonged to Lactobacillus (81/150), Enterococcus (54/150) and Streptococcus (15/150) genera. Lactobacillus species were more abundant in the breast-fed infants while Enterococcus dominated the mixed-fed population. Bacteriocin-producing LAB species were isolated from eight of the infants. Many different bacteriocins were identified, including one new bacteriocin from Streptococcus salivarius, avicin A (class IIa) from Enterococcus avium, one class IIa bacteriocin from Enterococcus faecalis strains, one unknown bacteriocin from E. faecalis and two unknown bacteriocins from Lactobacillus fermentum strains and the two-peptide gassericin T from Lactobacillus gasseri isolate. Susceptibility tests performed for nine antibiotics suggest that some lactobacilli might have acquired resistance to erythromycin (3 %) and tetracycline (4 %) only. The streptococci were generally antibiotic sensitive except for penicillin, to which they showed intermediate resistance. All enterococci were susceptible to ampicillin while 13 % showed penicillin resistance. Only one E. faecalis isolate was vancomycin-resistant. Tetracycline (51 %) and erythromycin (26 %) resistance was prevalent among the enterococci, but multidrug resistance was confined to E. faecalis (47 %) and Enterococcus faecium (33 %). Screening of enterococcal virulence traits revealed that 2 % were -haemolytic. The structural genes of cytolysin were detected in 28 % of the isolates in five enterococcal species, the majority being E. faecalis and Enterococcus raffinosus. This study shows that bacteriocin production and antibiotic resistance is a common trait of faecal LAB of Ethiopian infants while virulence factors occur at low levels.
40343496|The Great Salt Plains of Oklahoma is a natural inland terrestrial hypersaline environment that forms evaporite crusts of mainly NaCl. Previous work described the bacterial community through the characterization of 105 isolates from 46 phylotypes. The current report describes the archaeal community through both microbial isolation and cultureindependent techniques. Nineteen distinct archaea were isolated, and ten were characterized phenetically. Included were isolates phylogenetically related to Haloarcula, Haloferax, Halorvbrum, Haloterrigena, and Natrinema. The isolates were aerobic, non-motile, Gram-negative organisms and exhibited little capacity for fermentation. All of the isolates were halophilic, with most requiring at least 15% salinity for growth, and all grew at 30% salinity. The isolates were mainly mesothermic and could grow at alkaline pH (8.5). A 16S rRNA gene library was generated by polymerase chain reaction amplification of direct soil DNA extracts, and 200 clones were sequenced and analyzed. At 99% and 94% sequence identity, 36 and 19 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were detected, respectively, while 53 and 22 OTUs were estimated by Chaol, respectively. Coverage was relatively high (100% and 59% at 89% and 99% sequence identity, respectively), and the Shannon Index was 3.01 at 99% sequence identity, comparable to or somewhat lower than hypersaline habitats previously studied. Only sequences from Euryarchaeota in the Halobacteriales were detected, and the strength of matches to known sequences was generally low, most near 90% sequence identity. Large clusters were observed that are related to Haloarcula and Halorubrum. More than two-thirds of the sequences were in clusters that did not have close relatives reported in public databases.
41489207|Diatoms are responsible for biofouling, which causes many problems in various marine industries. This study examined the effects of different light conditions (intensity, incident direction, time of illumination) on the settling behavior of the marine diatom Navcula sp. on glass surfaces. The density of this diatom's settlement on glass was strongly influenced by light conditions. Moreover, very weak light emitted on the bottom of the culture dish could also rapidly inhibit diatom settlement. These phenomena were explained by spatial interference between chloroplast and holdfast-like structures inside the thecae. The holdfastlike structure is observed to be responsible for diatom locomotion and hence the settlement behavior. It was proposed that the interrelation of illumination and attachment of diatoms allowed them to better adapt to the habitat with higher efficiency of attachment and successive reproduction.
4251646|The phylogenetic composition, three-dimensional structure and dynamics of bacterial communities in river biofilms generated in a rotating annular reactor system were studied by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). Biofilms grew on independently removable polycarbonate slides exposed in the reactor system with natural river water as inoculum and sole nutrient and carbon source. The microbial biofilm community developed from attached single cells and distinct microcolonies via a more confluent structure characterized by various filamentous bacteria to a mature biofilm rich in polymeric material with fewer cells on a per-area basis after 56 days. During the different stages of biofilm development, characteristic microcolonies and cell morphotypes could be identified as typical features of the investigated lotic biofilms. In situ analysis using a comprehensive suite of rRNA-targeted probes visualized individual cells within the alpha-, beta-, and gamma-Proteobacteria as well as the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium group as major parts of the attached community. The relative abundance of these major groups was determined by using digital image analysis to measure specific cell numbers as well as specific cell area after in situ probing. Within the lotic biofilm community, 87% of the whole bacterial cell area and 79% of the total cell counts hybridized with a Bacteria specific probe. During initial biofilm development, beta-Proteobacteria dominated the bacterial population. This was followed by a rapid increase of alpha-Proteobacteria and bacteria affiliated to the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium group. In mature biofilms, alpha-Proteobacteria and Cytophaga-Flavobacteria continued to be the prevalent bacterial groups. Beta-Proteobacteria constituted the morphologically most diverse group within the biofilm communities, and more narrow phylogenetic staining revealed the importance of distinct phylotypes within the beta1-Proteobacteria for the composition of the microbial community. The presence of sulfate-reducing bacteria affiliated to the Desulfovibrionaceae and Desulfobacteriaceae confirmed the range of metabolic potential within the lotic biofilms.
4250905| Actinomycetes were isolated from activated sludge acclimated to thiophene-2-carboxylic acid (T2C) or 5-methyl-thiophene-2-carboxylic acid (T5M2C). These isolates were apparently identical and were identified as strains of Rhodococcus. The strains could grow on T2C, T5M2C, or thiophene-2-acetic acid as sole sources of carbon and energy, but could not use thiophene, methyl thiophenes, several other substituted thiophenes, dibenzothiophene, dimethyl sulfide, or pyrrole-2-carboxylic acid. T2C was degraded quantitatively to sulfate, and its carbon was converted almost entirely to cell biomass and carbon dioxide. Growth yields indicated about 25% conversion of T2C-carbon to cell-carbon. Growth was not supported by thiosulfate or methionine, nor were these compounds oxidized. Rhodococcus strain TTD-1 grown on T2C oxidized both T2C and T5M2C with an apparent K
23469591|The ocean is a natural habitat for antibiotic-producing bacteria, and marine aquaculture introduces antibiotics into the ocean to treat infections and improve aquaculture production. Studies have shown that the ocean is an important reservoir of antibiotic resistance genes. However, there is a lack of understanding and knowledge about the clinical importance of the ocean resistome. We investigated the relationship between the ocean bacterial resistome and pathogenic resistome. We applied high-throughput sequencing and metagenomic analyses to explore the resistance genes in bacterial plasmids from marine sediments. Numerous putative resistance determinants were detected among the resistance genes in the sediment bacteria. We also found that several contigs shared high identity with transposons or plasmids from human pathogens, indicating that the sediment bacteria recently contributed or acquired resistance genes from pathogens. Marine sediment bacteria could play an important role in the global exchange of antibiotic resistance.
4250550|Three psychrotrophic and one mesophilic strains were isolated from winter water samples of different freshwater biotopes and identified as Cytophaga johnsonae (C-21), Cytophaga sp. (M-17), Pseudomonas fluorescens (KD), and Enterobacter cloacae (BS-2). Temperature shift-up experiments with emphasis on low temperatures were carried out with aerated pure batch cultures in glucose mineral medium. The effects of sudden temperature increases on growth rates and substrate conversion were investigated. All three psychrotrophic strains in the temperature increase experiments at low temperatures showed differing reactions within the linear zone of the Arrhenius plot. The C. johnsonae (C-21) shift-up cultures adjusted the growth rate immediately to the rate of the temperature adapted cultures, whereas Cytophaga sp. (M-17) shift-up cultures showed a lower and P. fluorescens (KD) a higher growth rate. The mesophilic E. cloacae (BS-2), like C. johnsonae (C-21), adjusted immediately to the new growth rate. Substrate conversion increased in all experiments immediately after the shift-up. The extracellular substrate conversion by P. fluorescens (KD) of glucose to gluconate and 2-ketogluconate was particularly affected by the sudden temperature increase.
4251710| Physiological status of microbial mats of the Ebro Delta (Tarragona, Spain) based on the extraction of lipids considered "signature lipid biomarkers" (SLB) from the cell membranes and walls of microorganisms has been analyzed. Data from a day-night cycle show significant differences in viable cells countings (PLFA cells counts) ranging from
4251719|The effects of organic protonophores 2,4-dinitrophenol (dNP) and para-nitrophenol (pNP) on the observed growth yield (
23469197|Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) are currently a topic of interest in microbiology due to their role as a prokaryotic immune system. Investigations of CRISPR distribution and characterization to date have focused on pathogenic bacteria, while less is known about CRISPR in commensal bacteria, where they may have a significant role in the ecology of the microbiota of humans and other animals, and act as a recorder of interactions between bacteria and viruses. A combination of PCR and sequencing was used to determine prevalence and distribution of CRISPR arrays in Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus hirae isolates from the feces of healthy pigs. Both type II CRISPRCas and Orphan CRISPR (without Cas genes) were detected in the 195 isolates examined. CRISPRCas was detected in 52 (46/88) and 42 % (45/107) E. faecalis and E. hirae isolates, respectively. The prevalence of Orphan CRISPR arrays was higher in E. faecalis isolates (95 %, 84/88) compared with E. hirae isolates (49 %, 53/107). Species-specific repeat sequences were identified in Orphan CRISPR arrays, and 42 unique spacer sequences were identified. Only two spacers matched previously characterized pig virome sequences, and many were apparently derived from chromosomal sequences of enterococci. Surprisingly, 17 (40 %) of the spacers were detected in both species. Shared spacer sequences are evidence of a lack of species specificity in the agents and mechanisms responsible for integration of spacers, and the abundance of spacer sequences corresponding to bacterial chromosomal sequences reflects interspecific interactions within the intestinal microbiota.
4251515| The impact of clear-cutting, scarification, and prescribed burning on forest soil microbial community structure was assessed using sole-carbon-source utilization (SCSU). Organic and mineral soil samples were collected on two dates from Pinus banksiana plots that had been clear-cut, clear-cut followed by prescribed burning, clear-cut followed by scarification, or had not been harvested. Microorganisms were extracted from the soil samples and used to inoculate Gram-negative Biolog plates. Patterns of substrate metabolism were used to calculate Shannon, Simpson, McIntosh, and related evenness indices. Principal component analysis (PCA) resolved organic and mineral soils. Organic soil exhibited higher metabolic diversity than mineral soil. Scarified plots showed lower diversity on one date, when diversity indices were calculated using all carbon sources, and on both dates when calculated using carboxylic acids, only. The results suggest that SCSU may be used to assess the impact of forestry practices on microbial diversity and community structure by using a subset of carbon substrates. 
40343362|The presence of planktopeptin BL 1125, anabaenopeptin B and anabaenopeptin F, two types of "non-toxic" cyclic peptide produced in bloom forming cyanobacteria, can provoke lysis of different non-axenic Microcystis aeruginosa cell lines via the induction of virus-like particles. The resulting particles are also able to infect the axenic M. aeruginosa cell line without lytic effects. Nevertheless, the presence of "non-toxic" cyclic peptides of cyanobacterial origin can induce lysis of these previously infected cells. This effect implies that a possible role of these peptides in the natural environment is the control of cyanobacterial population density. Lysogenic cyanobacteria can consequently act as hot-spots that, in the presence of cyanobacterial cyclic peptides, release numerous infectious particles. The process can be self-augmented with the simultaneous release of additional cyclic peptides from the producing lysogens, starting a forest fire effect that ends in collapse of cyanobacterial blooms.
4251620| Lakes receive organic carbon from a diversity of sources which vary in their contribution to planktonic microbial food webs. We conducted a mesocosm study to test the effects of three different detrital carbon sources (algae, aquatic macrophytes, terrestrial leaves) on several measures of microbial metabolism in a small meso-eutrophic lake (DOC  5 mg/L). Small DOC additions (C < 1 mg/L) affected bacterial numbers, growth, and pathways of carbon acquisition. Macrophyte and leaf detritus significantly increased TDP and color, but bacterial densities initially (+12 h) were unaffected. After 168 h, densities in systems amended with terrestrial detritus were 60% less than in controls, while production rates in mesocosms with macrophyte detritus were 4-fold greater. Detritus treatments resulted in greater per-cell production rates either through stable cell numbers and greater growth rates (macrophyte-C) or lower densities with stable production rates (terrestrial-C). After only 12 h, rates of leucine aminopeptidase (LAPase) activity were 2.5 greater in macrophyte-C systems than in controls, but LAPase and -N-acetylglucosamindase activities in systems amended with terrestrial-C were only 50% of rates in controls. After 168 h, -xylosidase rates were significantly greater in communities with terrestrial and phytoplankton detritus. Microbial utilization of >20% of 102 carbon sources tested were affected by at least one detritus addition. Macrophyte-C had positive (6% of substrates) and negative (14%) effects on substrate use; terrestrial detritus had mainly positive effects. An ordination based on carbon-use profiles (+12 h) revealed a cluster of macrophyte-amended communities with greater use of psicose, lactulose, and succinamic acid; controls and algal-detritus systems were more effective in metabolizing two common sugars and cellobiose. After 168 h, communities receiving terrestrial detritus were most tightly clustered, exhibiting greater use of raffinose, pyroglutamic acid, and sebacic acid. Results suggest that pelagic bacterial communities respond to changes in organic carbon source rapidly and by different routes, including shifts in per-cell production rates and variations in degradation of a variety of compounds comprising the DOC pool. 
4251296|A strain-specific immunofluorescence assay for enumeration of a marine denitrifying bacterium was developed and applied in the marine environment. The polyclonal antiserum for Pseudomonas stutzeri (ATCC 14405) did not react with other pseudomonads, other heterotrophs, or autotrophic nitrifying strains. The abundance of P. stutzeri in the shallow water column of Monterey Bay was less than 0.1% of the total bacterial abundance and decreased with depth, whereas the total bacterial abundance was variable and nearly constant with depth. P. stutzeri was also detected in the sediments of a microbial mat from Tomales Bay. The relatively low contribution of P. stutzeri to the total bacterial abundance in both environments implies that it is not a major component of the heterotrophic assemblage. This conclusion appears to hold for most other strains for which specific assays have been applied in the marine environment. The isolation of several different denitrifying strains from local marine environments implies that the culturable population is quite diverse, even in the absence of different selective enrichment media. Thus, strain specific immunofluorescence is of limited use in quantifying functional groups of bacteria. Conversely, they provide specific information on the diversity of natural populations and their relation to culturable strains.
41489037|The major objective of the present study was to investigate the occurrence and identity of yeast species in fermented liquid feed (FLF) used for feeding piglets. In total, 40 different Danish farms were included in the analysis. The preparation and composition of FLF was found to be very heterogeneous with high variations in both yeast counts and yeast species composition. The yeast population varied between 6.0  10 and 4.2  10 cfug with an average yeast count of 8.710  1.1  10 cfug. A total of 766 yeasts were isolated and identified by conventional and/or molecular typing techniques. The predominant yeast species in the FLF samples were found to be Candida milleri (58.4%), Kazachstania exigua (17.5%), Candida pararugosa (6.40%) and Kazachstania bulderi (5.09%). No clear separation between isolates of C. milleri and Candida humilis could be obtained based on sequencing of the D1/D2 region of the 26S rRNA gene. The combined use of ITS-RFLP analysis and phenotypic criteria did meanwhile suggest a closer relationship with C. milleri than C. humilis.
4251780| Acetate-degrading anaerobic microorganisms in freshwater sediment were quantified by the most probable number technique. From the highest dilutions a methanogenic, a sulfate-reducing, and a nitrate-reducing microorganism were isolated with acetate as substrate. The methanogen (culture AMPB-Zg) was non-motile and rod-shaped with blunted ends (0.5-1 m  3-4 m long). Doubling times with acetate at 30-35C were 5.6-8.1 days. The methanogen grew only on acetate. Analysis of the 16S rRNA sequence showed that AMPB-Zg is closely related to Methanosaeta concilii. The isolated sulfate-reducing bacterium (strain ASRB-Zg) was rod-shaped with pointed ends (0.5-0.7 m  1.5-3.5 m long), weakly motile, spore forming, and gram positive. At the optimum growth temperature of 30C the doubling times with acetate were 3.9-5.3 days. The bacterium grew on a range of organic acids, such as acetate, butyrate, fumarate, and benzoate, but did not grow autotrophically with H
4251650|We conducted a plume-scale study of the microbial ecology in the anaerobic portion of an aquifer contaminated by crude-oil compounds. The data provide insight into the patterns of ecological succession, microbial nutrient demands, and the relative importance of free-living versus attached microbial populations. The most probable number (MPN) method was used to characterize the spatial distribution of six physiologic types: aerobes, denitrifiers, iron-reducers, heterotrophic fermenters, sulfate-reducers, and methanogens. Both free-living and attached numbers were determined over a broad cross-section of the aquifer extending horizontally from the source of the plume at a nonaqueous oil body to 66 m downgradient, and vertically from above the water table to the base of the plume below the water table. Point samples from widely spaced locations were combined with three closely spaced vertical profiles to create a map of physiologic zones for a cross-section of the plume. Although some estimates suggest that less than 1% of the subsurface microbial population can be grown in laboratory cultures, the MPN results presented here provide a comprehensive qualitative picture of the microbial ecology at the plume scale. Areas in the plume that are evolving from iron-reducing to methanogenic conditions are clearly delineated and generally occupy 25-50% of the plume thickness. Lower microbial numbers below the water table compared to the unsaturated zone suggest that nutrient limitations may be important in limiting growth in the saturated zone. Finally, the data indicate that an average of 15% of the total population is suspended.
4250842|Parametric and nonparametric analyses were used to investigate the relationships between the populations of viable microbes and 4 edaphic variables-soil moisture, rainfall, temperature, and pH. Microbial populations were sampled over a 2-year period in contrasting grass and moss stands on the subantarctic island of South Georgia. Moisture was found to be the most significant edaphic variable, but there were highly significant correlations between bacterial and fungal populations at both sites. Individual plant species showed clear correlations with both bacterial and fungal populations.
25153086| A study was conducted to determine the diversity of 2-, 3-, and 4-chlorobenzoate (CB) degraders in two pristine soils with similar physical and chemical characteristics. Surface soils were collected from forested sites and amended with 500 g of 2-, 3-, or 4-CB g soil. The CB levels and degrader numbers were monitored throughout the study. Degraders were isolated, grouped by DNA fingerprints, identified via 16S rDNA sequences, and screened for plasmids. The CB genes in selected degraders were isolated and/or sequenced. In the Madera soil, 2-CB and 4-CB degraded within 11 and 42 d, respectively, but 3-CB did not degrade. In contrast, 3-CB and 4-CB degraded in the Oversite soil within 14 and 28 d, respectively, while 2-CB did not degrade. Approximately 10 CFU g of degraders were detected in the Madera soil with 2-CB, and the Oversite soil with 3- and 4-CB. No degraders were detected in the Madera soil with 4-CB even though the 4-CB degraded. Nearly all of the 2-CB degraders isolated from the Madera soil were identified as a Burkholderia sp. containing chromosomally encoded degradative genes. In contrast, several different 3- and 4-CB degraders were isolated from the Oversite soil, and their populations changed as CB degradation progressed. Most of these 3-CB degraders were identified as Burkholderia spp. while the majority of 4-CB degraders were identified as Bradyrhizobium spp. Several of the 3-CB degraders contained the degradative genes on large plasmids, and there was variation between the plasmids in different isolates. When a fresh sample of Madera soil was amended with 50, 100, or 200 g 3-CB g, 3-CB degradation occurred, suggesting that 500 g 3-CB g was toxic to the degraders. Also, different 3-CB degraders were isolated from the Madera soil at each of the three lower levels of 3-CB. No 2-CB degradation was detected in the Oversite soil even at lower 2-CB levels. These results indicate that the development of 2-, 3-, and 4-CB degrader populations is site-specific and that 2-, 3-, and 4-CB are degraded by different bacterial populations in pristine soils. These results also imply that the microbial ecology of two soils that develop under similar biotic and abiotic environments can be quite different. 
23468245|A soil sterilizationreinoculation approach was used to manipulate soil microbial diversity and to assess the effect of the diversity of the ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) on the recovery of the nitrifying community to metal stress (zinc). Gamma-irradiated soil was inoculated with 13 different combinations of up to 22 different soils collected worldwide to create varying degrees of AOB diversity. Two months after inoculation, AOB amoA DGGE based diversity (weighted richness) varied more than 10-fold among the 13 treatments, the largest value observed where the number of inocula had been largest. Subsequently, the 13 treatments were either or not amended with ZnCl 2 . Initially, Zn amendment completely inhibited nitrification. After 6 months of Zn exposure, recovery of the potential nitrification activity in the Zn amended soils ranged from <10 % to >100 % of the potential nitrification activity in the corresponding non-amended soils. This recovery was neither related to DGGE-based indices of AOB diversity nor to the AOB abundance assessed 2 months after inoculation (p>0.05). However, recovery was significantly related (r=0.75) to the potential nitrification rate before Zn amendment and only weakly to the number of soil inocula used in the treatments (r=0.46). The lack of clear effects of AOB diversity on recovery may be related to an inherently sufficient diversity and functional redundancy of AOB communities in soil. Our data indicate that potential microbial activity can be a significant factor in recovery.
4251240| Tritiated thymidine incorporation (TTI) into DNA was used to estimate bacterial productivity in sediment and water samples from two sites in Langebaan Lagoon, South Africa. Routine analysis of isotope dilution showed seasonal variations of approximately threefold in the thymidine precursor pool sizes for bacterial assemblages from each site. Dual label incorporation of [
25256088|Kartchner Caverns in Benson, AZ, was opened for tourism in 1999 after a careful development protocol that was designed to maintain predevelopment conditions. As a part of an ongoing effort to determine the impact of humans on this limestone cave, samples were collected from cave rock surfaces along the cave trail traveled daily by tour groups (200,000 visitors year) and compared to samples taken from areas designated as having medium (30-40 visitors year) and low (2-3 visitors year) levels of human exposure. Samples were also taken from fiberglass moldings installed during cave development. Culturable bacteria were recovered from these samples and 90 unique isolates were identified by using 16S rRNA polymerase chain reaction and sequencing. Diversity generally decreased as human impact increased leading to the isolation of 32, 27, and 22 strains from the low, medium, and high impact areas, respectively. The degree of human impact was also reflected in the phylogeny of the isolates recovered. Although most isolates fell into one of three phyla: Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, or Proteobacteria, the Proteobacteria were most abundant along the cave trail (77% of the isolates), while Firmicutes predominated in the low (66%) and medium (52%) impact areas. Although the abundance of Proteobacteria along the cave trail seems to include microbes of environmental rather than of anthropogenic origin, it is likely that their presence is a consequence of increased organic matter availability due to lint and other organics brought in by cave visitors. Monitoring of the cave is still in progress to determine whether these bacterial community changes may impact the future development of cave formations.
41489772|A seasonal study of extracellular enzyme activities (EEA) was conducted in the coastal, sandy aquifer system located in the greater fluvial-littoral ecosystem of Doana (SW, Spain). Glucosidase, leucine aminopeptidase, alkaline phosphatase, and phenol oxidase activities were determined over a 2-year period in 30 piezometers spread in an area of approximately 100 km. Taking into account all enzymes, piezometers, and seasons, EEA ranged over several orders of magnitude, from 1.01 x 10  2.92x10 to 1.370.13 nmol (methylumbelliferyl, amido-4-methylcoumarin, or dihydroxyphenylalanine) mL{ h{. The quality, much more than the quantity, of organic matter and nutrients seemed to be the major variables that controlled the spatiotemporal patterns showed by EEA. EEA patterns obtained in this study agree with several functional models of microbial communities, such as optimal resource allocation and nutrient co-limitation. This study probably represents the first one in which these functional models have been tested in subsurface systems. Results obtained in this study seem to suggest that microbial communities inhabiting groundwaters in Doana are not dead or compromised cells. By contrast, these communities play relevant roles in carbon and nutrient cycling, continue with the decomposition process that begins in the sediments of the shallow lakes located in the area, provide remineralized carbon and nutrients to producers of these surface aquatic systems, and close energy and matter cycles. This study proposes that groundwater systems should be considered dynamic systems, comparable in functional complexity to surface systems.
4251453| Daily bacterial abundance and production, heterotrophic nanoflagellates (HNAN) abundance, chlorophyll, and NH
25153238| Composting is characterized by dramatic changes in microbial community structure, to a high extent driven by changes in temperature and in the composition of the organic substrate. This study focuses on the interrelationships between decomposition of major classes in the organic material and dynamics in microbial populations during thermophilic composting of source-separated organic household waste. Experiments were performed in a 200-L laboratory reactor at 16, 2.5, and 1% O in the compost atmosphere. Major classes of carbon constituents were analyzed by chemical methods, and the microbial biomass and community structure determined by fatty acid analyses with phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA) and total ester-linked fatty acids (EL) methods. At all three O levels, the process was characterized by a rapid increase in microbial activity and biomass in the early thermophilic phase, although this period was delayed at the lower O concentrations. Starch and fat were the main substrates utilized at all three O levels during this period. The depletion of the starch fraction coincided with the beginning of a microbial biomass decrease, suggesting that starch is an important carbon substrate for the growth of thermophilic microorganisms during composting. Growth yields in the microbial community based on consumption of major carbon constituent classes in the high-activity period fell between 22 and 28%. Multivariate statistical analysis of changes in fatty acid composition revealed small, but statistically significant differences in the microbial community succession. At 16% O, 10Me fatty acids from Actinomycetes and cyclopropyl fatty acids (from Gram-negative bacteria) became more important with time, whereas 18:17t was characteristic at 2.5 and 1% O, indicating a more stressed bacterial community at the lower O concentrations. Although adequate composting was achieved at O levels as low as 2.5 and 1%, it is not recommended to compost at such low levels in large-scale systems, because the heterogeneous gas transport through the material in these systems might lead to anaerobic conditions and inefficient composting. 
4250794|The effect of experimental acidification on the soil microfungal community was studied in the humus layer of a coniferous forest in northern Sweden. The study was made 4 years after the last application of sulfuric acid. Fungal species composition was altered by treatments of 100 and 150 kg sulfuric acid ha
4251202| The directed movement of a bacterial population in response to a chemical gradient is known as bacterial chemotaxis and plays a critical role in the distribution and dynamic interaction of bacterial populations. A quantitative characterization of the chemotactic response in terms of intrinsic cell properties is necessary for making reliable predictions about the migratory behavior of bacterial populations within the environment. The design of the stopped-flow diffusion chamber (SFDC) provides a well-characterized chemical gradient and reliable method for measuring bacterial migration behavior. During flow through the chamber a step change in the chemical concentration is imposed on a uniform suspension of bacteria. Once flow is stopped a transient chemical gradient forms due to diffusion; bacteria respond by forming a band of high cell density that travels toward higher concentrations of the attractant. Sequential observations of bacterial spatial distributions over a period of about ten minutes are recorded on photomicrographs. Computer-aided image analysis of the photographic negatives converts light-scattering information to a digital representation of the bacterial density profiles. A mathematical model is used to quantitatively characterize these observations in terms of intrinsic cell parameters: a chemotactic sensitivity coefficient, 
4250938|Temporal dynamics of a lentic microphagotroph community were studied during leaf litter decomposition from December to May. Small plastic vessels containing leaf litter were placed on a pond bottom. They were sampled periodically to collect microphagotrophs. Three abiotic factors and abundance of two food items were also measured to analyze the autogenic and allogenic phenomena during a microphagotroph succession. Three behavior types were recognized in dominant taxa: a free-swimming type, a vagile (creeps on substratum, sometimes swims) type, and a voluntarily fixed type. Dominant taxa changed from the free-swimming to the vagile type up to mid-March, and the reverse change occurred from mid-April. Principal component analysis (PCA) indicated four factors affecting the dynamics of the community: water temperature as a seasonal factor, detritus volume on the litter surface as a habitat factor, and densities of bacteria and small flagellates as food factors. Taxa replacement appeared to occur through two mechanisms. (1) Dominance of small holotrichs, a free-swimming type, was brought about by a high bacterial density caused by seasonal events, i.e., leaf fall in December and detritus formation by litter feeders in mid-April. This is an allogenic aspect of community dynamics. (2) The free-swimming type was replaced by the vagile one during the period with high taxa diversity. This replacement occurred through intertaxa competition for scarce food and/or selective predation by larger microphagotrophs. It is an autogenic process within the community.
4250803|Theoretical calculations based on the depth of field of standard microscope objectives and the visual acuity of normal observors show that direct microscopy of natural samples is rarely able to reveal the presence of small microorganisms at the densities found in natural systems. Overestimation of the importance of bacterial aggregates is also likely from an uncritical use of light microscopy.
40605703|The community composition of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) was analyzed in roots of Gypsophila struthium growing in gypsum soils under semiarid conditions. In order to investigate the effect of plant community degradation on the AMF biodiversity at the single species level, on the basis of the plant community complexity level, we selected four areas affected by degradation and shrub species spatial heterogeneity. The AM fungal community colonizing G. struthium was investigated from the morphological and molecular points of view. All plants were well colonized and showed a high level of infective AM propagules. Roots were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction, restriction fragment length polymorphism screening, and sequence analyses of the ribosomal DNA small subunit region. Four AM fungal types were identified and clustered into the AM fungal family: Glomeraceae, Glomus being the only taxon present. One fungal type was present in all the selected areas. Two fungal types are distinct from any previously published sequences and could be specific to gypsum soils. The chemical-physical properties of the soil were not correlated with the AMF diversity in roots. Our data show vegetation cover complexity-dependent differences in the AM fungal community composition.
25256110|Transformation of urea to ammonium is an important link in the nitrogen cycle in soil and water. Although microbial nitrogen transformations, such as nitrification and denitrification, are well studied in freshwater sediment and epiphytic biofilm in shallow waters, information about urea transformation in these environments is scarce. In this study, urea transformation of sedimentary, planktonic, and epiphytic microbial communities was quantified and urea transformation of epiphytic biofilms associated with three different common wetland macrophyte species is compared. The microbial communities were collected from a constructed wetland in October 2002 and urea transformation was quantified in the laboratory at in situ temperature (12C) with the use of the C-urea tracer method, which measures the release of CO as a direct result of urease activity. It was found that the urea transformation was 100 times higher in sediment (12-22 mmol urea-N m day) compared with the epiphytic activity on the surfaces of the submerged plant Elodea canadensis (0.1-0.2 mmol urea-N m day). The epiphytic activity of leaves of Typha latifolia was lower (0.001-0.03 mmol urea-N m day), while urea transformation was negligible in the water column and on the submerged leaves of the emergent plant Phragmites australis. However, because this wetland was dominated by dense beds of the submerged macrophyte E. canadensis, this plant provided a large surface area for epiphytic microbial activity-in the range of 23-33 m of plant surfaces per square meter of wetland. Thus, in the wetland system scale at the existing plant distribution and density, the submerged plant community had the potential to transform 2-7 mmol urea-N m day and was in the same magnitude as the urea transformation in the sediment.
25153263| Microbial community composition (cyanobacteria and eukaryotic microalgae abundance and diversity, bacterial abundance, and soil respiration) was studied in subglacial and periglacial habitats on five glaciers near Ny-lesund, Svalbard (79N). Soil microbial communities from nonvegetated sites (subglacial, recently deglaciated, and cryoconite sediments) and sites with plant over (deglaciated some hundreds of years ago) were analyzed. Physicochemical analyses (pH, texture, water content, organic matter, total C and N content) were also performed on the samples. In total, 57 taxa of 23 genera of cyanobacteria and algae were identified. Algae from the class Chlorophyceae (25 species) and cyanobacteria (23 species) were richest in biodiversity. The numbers of identified species in single habitat types were 23 in subglacial, 39 in barren, 22 in cryoconite, and 24 in vegetated soils. The highest cyanobacterial and algal biovolume and cell numbers, respectively, were present in cryoconite (13  10 m mg soil and 508 cells per mg of soil), followed by barren (5.7  10 and 188), vegetated (2.6  10 and 120), and subglacial (0.1  10 and 5) soils. Cyanobacteria prevailed in all soil samples. Algae (mainly green algae) were present only as accessory organisms. The density of bacteria showed a slightly different trend to that of the cyanobacterial and algal assemblages. The highest number of bacteria was present in vegetated (mean: 13,722  10 cells per mg of soil dry wt.), followed by cryoconite (3802  10), barren (654  10), and subglacial (78  10) soils. Response of cyanobacteria and algae to physical parameters showed that soil texture and water content are important for biomass development. In addition, it is shown that nitrogen and water content are the main factors affecting bacterial abundance and overall soil respiration. Redundancy analysis (RDA) with forward selection was used to create a model explaining variability in cyanobacterial, algal, and bacterial abundance. Cryoconites accounted for most of the variation in cyanobacteria and algae biovolume, followed by barren soils. Oscillatoriales, desmids, and green coccoid algae preferred cryoconites, whereas Nostocales and Chroococcales occurred mostly in barren soils. From the data obtained, it is evident that of the studied habitats cryoconite sediments are the most suitable ones for the development of microbial assemblages. Although subglacial sediments do not provide as good conditions as cryoconites, they support the survival of microbial communities. Both mentioned habitats are potential sources for the microbial recolonization of freshly deglaciated soil after the glacier retreat. 
4251708|The DNA sequence diversities for microbial communities in four soils affected by agricultural chemicals (mainly triadimefon and ammonium bicarbonate and their intermediates) were evaluated by Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis. Fourteen random primers were used to amplify RAPDs from four soil microbial community DNAs. The products of 12 primers were separated in gel and generated 155 reliable fragments, of which 134 were polymorphic. The richness, modified richness, Shannon-Weaver index, and a similarity coefficient of DNA were calculated to quantify the diversity to access DNA sequence diversities for four soil microbial communities. The results showed that agricultural chemicals affected soil microbial community diversity at the DNA level. The four soil microbial communities were distinguishable in terms of DNA sequence richness, modified richness, Shannon-Weaver index, and coefficient of DNA similarity. Analysis also showed that the amounts of organic C and microbial biomass C were low in the soil polluted by pesticide (mainly triadimefon and its intermediates), but high in the soil polluted by chemical fertilizer (mainly ammonium bicarbonate and its intermediates). The above results combined may indicate that pesticide pollution caused a decrease in the soil microbial biomass but kept high diversity at DNA level, compared with the control without chemical pollution. In contrast, chemical fertilizer pollution caused an increase in the soil biomass but decrease in the DNA diversity. The RAPD marker technique combined with analysis of soil microbial biomass appears to be an effective approach for studying the diversity of soil microbial communities, although the effects of PCR bias on community composition, such as dominating and rare populations in soils, on the diversity needed to be addressed further.
40343511|Many factors can affect the assembly of communities, ranging from species pools to habitat effects to interspecific interactions. In microbial communities, the predominant focus has been on the well-touted ability of microbes to disperse and the environment acting as a selective filter to determine which species are present. In this study, we investigated the role of biotic interactions (e.g., competition, facilitation) in fungal endophyte community assembly by examining endophyte species co-occurrences within communities using null models. We used recombinant inbred lines (genotypes) of maize (Zea mays) to examine community assembly at multiple habitat levels, at the individual plant and host genotype levels. Both culturedependent and culture-independent approaches were used to assess endophyte communities. Communities were analyzed using the complete fungal operational taxonomic unit (OTU) dataset or only the dominant (most abundant) OTUs in order to ascertain whether species co-occurrences were different for dominant members compared to when all members were included. In the culture-dependent approach, we found that for both dataseis, OTUs co-occurred on maize genotypes more frequently than expected under the null model of random species co-occurrences. In the culture-independent approach, we found that OTUs negatively cooccurred at the individual plant level but were not significantly different from random at the genotype level for either the dominant or complete datasets. Our results showed that interspecific interactions can affect endophyte community assembly, but the effects can be complex and depend on host habitat level. To our knowledge, this is the first study to examine endophyte community assembly in the same host species at multiple habitat levels. Understanding the processes and mechanisms that shape microbial communities will provide important insights into microbial community structure and the maintenance of microbial biodiversity.
4250713| Enumerations of colony-forming units of aerobic bacteria and fungi at Marion Island (4654S, 3745E) showed that the mire and bog peats investigated possessed greater numbers of microorganisms on a dry soil weight basis than did the slope fernbrake soils but that counts from both sites were similar per unit soil volume. A fjaeldmark soil of an exposed rocky ridge contained very low microbial populations. Manuring by seabirds and seals caused an increase in levels of soil N and P and in the numbers of bacteria and fungi. Regression analyses indicated that inorganic N and soil pH explained more of the variation in bacterial and fungal counts respectively than all other soil parameters included in the regression. Variation in botanical composition between the sites was examined using multivariate analysis and the resulting pattern compared with the soil microorganism and nutrient levels. This analysis emphasized the importance of manuring influences in elevating NH
23597856|The entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana is widely used as a biological control agent (BCA) for insect pest control, with fungal propagules being either incorporated into the potting media or soil or sprayed directly onto the foliage or soil. To gain a better understanding of entomopathogenic fungal ecology when applied as a BCA to the soil environment, a case study using tagencoded 454 pyrosequencing of fungal ITS sequences was performed to assess the fate and potential effect of an artificially applied B. bassiana strain on the diversity of soil fungal communities in an agricultural field in India. Results show that the overall fungal diversity was not influenced by application of B. bassiana during the 7 weeks of investigation. Strain-specific microsatellite markers indicated both an establishment of the applied B. bassiana strain in the treated plot and its spread to the neighboring nontreated control plot. These results might be important for proper risk assessment of entomopathogenic fungi-based BCAs.
4250464|Microbial succession has been observed on electron microscope grids immersed in lake water for 1, 3, 6, and 10 days. As predicted by ecological theory, the biomass, numbers, and diversity of attached microorganisms increased as succession proceeded. The diversity index of Shannon showed a marked increase from 3.1 at day 1 to 4.2 at day 3. It continued to rise at day 6 and attained the maximum value calculated on day 10 of 4.8. Bacteria were the major pioneer colonizers in this mesotrophic community. Based on these results and the results of other microbiologists who have found bacteria to be the dominant component during the pioneer stage of succession in periphyton communities of varying trophic status, we suggest that microbial heterotrophs may commonly, and perhaps always, be the major component of the early pioneer community of autogenic successions.
4250926| Annual studies of kinetics of alkaline phosphatase (APA) activity and phosphorus availability for microplankton in the photic zone of an eutrophic lake are reported. The total APA activity of microplankton varied strongly. V
25153132|Marine picoplankton are central mediators of many oceanic biogeochemical processes, but much of their biology and ecology remains ill defined. One approach to better defining these environmentally significant microbes involves the acquisition of genomic data that can provide information about genome content, metabolic capabilities, and population variability in picoplankton assemblages. Previously, we constructed and phylogenetically screened a Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) library from surface water picoplankton of Monterey Bay. To further describe niche partitioning, metabolic variability, and population structure in coastal picoplankton populations, we constructed and compared several picoplankton BAC libraries recovered from different depths in Monterey Bay. To facilitate library screening, a rapid technique was developed (ITS-LH-PCR) to identify and quantify ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene-containing BAC clones in BAC libraries. The approach exploited natural length variations in the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) located between SSU and LSU rRNA genes, as well as the presence and location of tRNA-alanine coding genes within the ITS. The correspondence between ITS-LH-PCR fragment sizes and 16S rRNA gene phylogenies facilitated rapid identification of rRNA genes in BAC clones without requiring direct DNA sequencing. Using this approach, 35 phylogenetic groups (previously identified by cultivation or PCR-based rRNA gene surveys) were detected and quantified among the BAC clones. Since the probability of recovering chimeric rRNA gene sequences in large insert BAC clones was low, we used these sequences to identify potentially chimeric sequences from previous PCR amplified clones deposited in public databases. Full-length SSU rRNA gene sequences from picoplankton BAC libraries, cultivated bacterioplankton, and nonchimeric RNA genes were then used to refine phylogenetic analyses of planktonic marine gamma Proteobacteria, Roseobacter, and Rhodospirillales species.
25153229|The decomposition of dissolved organic matter (DOM) in pelagic ecosystems is mediated primarily by heterotrophic bacteria, but transformation by short-wave solar radiation may play an important role in surface waters, in particular when humic substances constitute a substantial fraction of the DOM pool. Most of the studies examining bacterial decomposition and photochemical transformation of DOM stem from limnetic and coastal marine systems and much less information is available from oceanic environments. To examine the bacterial decomposition of humic and non-humic DOM in the Southern Ocean we carried out microcosm experiments in which we measured bacterial growth on isolated fractions of humic and non-humic DOM of the size classes &lt;3 kDa and &gt;3 kDa. Experiments carried out at the Polar Front showed a preferential bacterial growth on non-humic DOM and in particular on the size fraction &lt;3 kDa. Bacterial growth, measured as bacterial biomass production, on non-humic DOM accounted for 74% to 88% of the total growth on all four DOM fractions. In experiments in the Antarctic circumpolar current and the coastal current under pack ice, bacterial growth was 6 lower than at the Polar Front, and humic and non-humic DOM was consumed to equal amounts. The size fraction &lt;3 kDa was always preferred. Experiments examining the effect of solar radiation on the release of dissolved amino acids (DAA) and carbohydrates (DCHO) and their subsequent bacterial utilization showed a stimulating effect on glucose uptake and the release of DAA at the Polar Front but an inhibition in the eastern Weddell Sea. Ultraviolet-B was the most effective component of the solar radiation spectrum tested. Effects of UV-B on glucose uptake and release of DAA were positively correlated with concentrations of humic-bound DAA. The data imply that at low concentrations, e.g., &lt;100 nM (amino acid equivalent), UV-irradiation reduces, whereas at concentrations &gt;100 nM UV-irradiation stimulates glucose uptake and release of DAA as compared to dark conditions.
4251230|Nitrate reductase (NR) activity and nutrient (N, P) recycling in the ciliates Colpoda steinii and Stylonychia sp. and two unidentified flagellates (I and II), isolated from Lake Kinneret, have been studied. When grown on a bacterium also isolated from the lake, all species, except flagellate I, exhibited NR activity. Activity was higher in the presence of nitrate than in its absence, and in the case of C. steinii showed a dependence on initial ambient NO
4287730| The northwest shelf of Australia is a region with known petroleum reserves. Recent geological investigations have revealed carbonate knolls postulated to be of biological origin. Sediment microbial populations at three sites on the northwest shelf, Pee Shoal, Mermaid Reef, and Scott Reef, were investigated for the presence of hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria. From two sampling trips, 246 bacterial strains were purified, and 182 of these strains displayed preferential growth on hydrocarbon-selective media. Strains were tested for nutrient specificity using single hydrocarbon fermentations. Metabolic profiles were constructed using biochemical testing, fatty acid analysis, and metabolic rate experiments. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis of four strains identified these strains as members of the genera Sphingomonas, Bacillus, and Microbacterium, and one strain as a member of the -Proteobacteria. The potential of these strains as bioindicators of hydrocarbon pollutants or for bioremediation in marine environments is discussed. 
4287633|This study identifies the bacteria associated with ectoparasitic chewing lice that live in the fur of pocket gophers. Samples of chewing lice were collected from pocket gopher hosts in Florida, Missouri, New Mexico, and Costa Rica. We used a molecular sampling method whereby total community DNA was extracted from samples of chewing lice, and PCR was used to selectively amplify small-subunit rRNA genes from bacteria. This culture-independent method yielded ca. 35 distinct lineages representing eight widely divergent groups within the domain Bacteria. Phylogenetic analysis of two lineages (Acinetobacter and Staphylococcus) provides evidence that multiple species of each group are found in chewing lice. Phylogenetic analysis also demonstrated that diversification within chewing lice may be evident in both Acinetobacter and Staphylococcus. Some clones amplified from chewing louse hosts appeared to be distinct from known species of Acinetobacter and Staphylococcus. This diversification may be the result of the extreme isolation of populations of both chewing lice and their pocket gopher hosts.
4250450|Microorganisms are characterized by wide ranges of distribution. Some groups, however, are known to have zones of active proliferation, and the development of specific populations in discrete zones results in rather specific microbial associations in some soil types. The soils formed in warm climates are richer in microorganisms and contain more bacilli and actinomycetes. The spectrum of dominant microbial groups varies in different soil types.
23469157|The supportive and negative evidence for the stress gradient hypothesis (SGH) led to an ongoing debate among ecologists and called for new empirical and theoretical work. In this study, we took various biological soil crust (BSCs) samples along a spatial gradient with four environmental stress levels to examine the fitness of SGH in microbial interactions and evaluate its influence on biodiversityfunction relationships in BSCs. A new assessment method of species interactions within hard-cultured invisible soil community was employed, directly based on denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis fingerprint images. The results showed that biotic interactions in soil phototroph community dramatically shifted from facilitation to dominant competition with the improvement of microhabitats. It offered new evidence, which presented a different perspective on the hypothesis that the relative importance of facilitation and competition varies inversely along the gradient of abiotic stress. The path analysis indicated that influence of biotic interactions (r=0.19, p< 0.05) on ecosystem functions is lower than other community properties (r=0.62, p<0.001), including soil moisture, crust coverage, and biodiversity. Furthermore, the correlation between species interactions and community properties was non-significant with low negative influence (r=-0.27, p> 0.05). We demonstrate that the inversion of biotic interaction as a response to the gradient of abiotic stresses existed not only in the visible plant community but also in the soil microbial community.
25153293| Peronosporomycete (oomycete) communities inhabiting the rhizospheres of three plant species were characterized and compared to determine whether communities obtained by direct soil DNA extractions (soil communities) differ from those obtained using baiting techniques (bait communities). Using two sets of Peronosporomycete-specific primers, a portion of the 5 region of the large subunit (28S) rRNA gene was amplified from DNA extracted either directly from rhizosphere soil or from hempseed baits floated for 48 h over rhizosphere soil. Amplicons were cloned, sequenced, and then subjected to phylogenetic and diversity analyses. Both soil and bait communities arising from DNA amplified with a Peronosporomycetidae-biased primer set (Oom1) were dominated by Pythium species. In contrast, communities arising from DNA amplified with a Saprolegniomycetidae-biased primer set (Sap2) were dominated by Aphanomyces species. Neighbor-joining analyses revealed the presence of additional taxa that could not be identified with known Peronosporomycete species represented in GenBank. Sequence diversity and mean sequence divergence
4250972|Winter wheat straw naturally infested with Pyrenophora triticirepentis and Septoria nodorum was incubated in the field in one of three placements: buried in the soil, placed directly on the soil surface, or placed 2 cm above the soil within a straw layer. Periodically between June and April, straws from each treatment were collected and assayed by dilution plating to determine microbial populations in the following categories: total yeasts, total actinomycetes, total other bacteria, and genera or species of fungi. The data were analyzed by the multivariate procedures of ordination and classification, using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and cluster analysis, respectively. The major DCA axis displayed a gradient starting with pioneer colonizer communities of above-soil straw (dominated by Pyrenophora, Septoria, Alternaria, and Cladosporium), through on-soil straws (colonized by secondary saprophytes such as Acremonium strictum, Diplodia, Fusarium, and bacteria) to buried straws (dominated by actinomycetes, bacteria, and soil-inhabiting fungi). The second DCA axis showed a gradient separating different types of late secondary communities. In vitro tests for degradative abilities of straw-inhabiting organisms showed that low-temperature cellulolysis is characteristic of pioneer and early secondary colonizers, whereas chitin degradation is limited to secondary colonizers, particularly soil inhabitants. The results suggest the vulnerability of Pyrenophora and Septoria to displacement by secondary colonists in an active microbial community, and indicate a number of organisms that may be useful in biological control of these plant parasites through exploitative or interference competition in plant residues.
27770568|The introduction of antibiotics to animal feed has contributed to the selection of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in concentrated animal feeding operations. The aim of this work was to characterize the impact of an aerobic thermophilic biotreatment on anaerobic antibiotic-resistant bacteria in swine waste. Despite 162- to 6,166-fold reduction in antibiotic-resistant populations enumerated in the swine waste at 25C and 37C, resistant populations remained significant (10 4 to 10 5 most probable number per milliliter) in the treated swine waste. Five resistance genes were detected before [tet (LMOS) erm(B)], and six resistance genes were detected after [tet(LMOSY) erm(B)] biotreatment. However, the biotreatment decreased the frequency of detection of resistance genes by 57%. Analysis by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of polymerase chain reaction-amplified 16 S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) fragments showed that the biotreatment reduced the bacterial diversity of resistant populations enumerated at 37C. Cloning and sequencing of the 16 S rDNA of these populations revealed that most clones in the treated swine waste were closely similar to some of the clones retrieved from the untreated swine waste. This study revealed that the aerobic thermophilic biotreatment developed in our laboratory does not prevent the introduction of facultatively anaerobic antibiotic-resistant bacteria and their resistance genes into agricultural ecosystems. Horizontal transfer of ecologically advantageous genes within microbial communities are likely to prevent thermophilic biotreatments from completely eliminating antibiotic-resistant bacteria and their resistance genes in animal wastes.
4251214|The subspecies Nostoc commune var. flagelliforme and N. commune var. commune are found in China (Ningxia Province, Inner Mongolia) as two morphologically different ecotypes of the desiccation-independent cyanobacterium N. commune. The first ecotype, but not the second, colonizes arid areas. Various biochemical parameters and water dependence of photosynthesis and nitrogen fixation were compared for both ecotypes. Different patterns of water stress proteins were found in the two ecotypes. Repeated desiccation resulted in an enhanced desiccation independence for photosynthesis and, in the case of the ecotype commune, for nitrogen fixation. The different response of nitrogenase of both ecotypes towards repeated cycles of rewetting and desiccation under conditions simulating the natural environment is discussed in terms of the energy balance of the colonies that are adapted to different environmental conditions.
25153213|Molecular techniques were used to investigate the composition and ontogenetic development of the intestinal bacterial community in the marine herbivorous fish Kyphosus sydneyanus from the north eastern coast of New Zealand. Previous work showed that K. sydneyanus maintains an exclusively algivorous diet throughout post-settlement life and passes through an ontogenetic diet shift from a juvenile diet which is readily digestible to an adult diet high in refractory algal metabolites. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis was used to investigate the relationship between bacterial community structure and fish size. Bacterial diversity was higher in posterior gut sections than anterior gut sections, and in larger fish than in smaller fish. Partial sequencing of bacterial 16S rDNA genes PCR amplified and cloned from intestine content samples was used to identify the phylogenetic affiliation of dominant gastrointestinal bacteria. Phylogenetic analysis of clones showed that most formed a clade within the genus Clostridium, with one clone associated with the parasitic mycoplasmas. No bacteria were specific to a particular intestinal section or size class of host, though some appeared more dominant than others and were established in smaller fishes. Clones closely related to C. lituseburense were particularly dominant in most intestine content samples. All bacteria identified in the intestinal samples were phylogenetically related to those possessing fermentative type metabolism. Short-chain fatty acids in intestinal fluid samples increased from 15.6  2.1 mM in fish &lt;100 mm to 51.6  5.5 mM in fish &gt;300 mm. The findings of this study support the hypothesis that the ontogenetic diet shift of K. sydneyanus is accompanied by an increase in the diversity of intestinal microbial symbionts capable of degrading refractory algal metabolites into short-chain fatty acids, which can then be assimilated by the host.
40343409|The marine methanol-fed fluidized denitrification system operated by the Montreal Biodome includes carriers on which a denitrifying biofilm has developed. Previous observations showed a high abundance of microeukaiyotes living in and around the biofilm. These eukaryotes may influence the system's denitrification efficiency. The composition of the microeukaryote population was determined. Microscopic observations showed at least 20 different morphologies that included large numbers of ciliates. Molecular analyses of an 18S ribosomal RNA (rDNA) gene library revealed 31 different phylotypes. Alveolobiontes were the most abundant phylotypes and made up 75% of the 159 screened clones. Other eukaryotic groups, including Stramenopiles, Fungi, Amoebozoa, and nematodes, were also present. From 18S rDNA specific sequences, one of the Amoebozoa-affiliated phylotypes was visualized by fluorescence in situ hybridization. It had a rod-like irregular shape and measured less than 5 m in length. We determined the impact of protozoans on the denitrifying activity. In a laboratory-scale batch culture assays, the denitrifying biofilm was treated with cycloheximide and nystatin that eliminated the protozoans. No difference in the denitrification rate was found. However, planktonic bacteria were more abundant in the treated culture medium.
25256160|Microbial communities from riparian sediments contaminated with high levels of Ni and U were examined for metal-tolerant microorganisms. Isolation of four aerobic Ni-tolerant, Gram-positive heterotrophic bacteria indicated selection pressure from Ni. These isolates were identified as Arthrobacter oxydans NR-1, Streptomyces galbus NR-2, Streptomyces aureofaciens NR-3, and Kitasatospora cystarginea NR-4 based on partial 16S rDNA sequences. A functional gene microarray containing gene probes for functions associated with biogeochemical cycling, metal homeostasis, and organic contaminant degradation showed little overlap among the four isolates. Fifteen of the genes were detected in all four isolates with only two of these related to metal resistance, specifically to tellurium. Each of the four isolates also displayed resistance to at least one of six antibiotics tested, with resistance to kanamycin, gentamycin, and ciprofloxacin observed in at least two of the isolates. Further characterization of S. aureofaciens NR-3 and K. cystarginea NR-4 demonstrated that both isolates expressed Ni tolerance constitutively. In addition, both were able to grow in higher concentrations of Ni at pH 6 as compared with pH 7 (42.6 and 8.5 mM Ni at pH 6 and 7, respectively). Tolerance to Cd, Co, and Zn was also examined in these two isolates; a similar pH-dependent metal tolerance was observed when grown with Co and Zn. Neither isolate was tolerant to Cd. These findings suggest that Ni is exerting a selection pressure at this site for metal-resistant actinomycetes.
40926441|Drying and rewetting is a frequent physiological stress for soil microbial communities; a stress that is predicted to grow more influential with future climate change. We investigated the effect of repeated dryingrewetting cycles on bacterial (leucine incorporation) and fungal (acetate in ergosterol incorporation) growth, on the biomass concentration and composition (PLFA), and on the soil respiration. Using different plant material amendments, we generated soils with different initial fungal: bacterial compositions that we exposed to 6-10 repetitions of a drying-rewetting cycle. Drying-rewetting decreased bacterial growth while fungal growth remained unaffected, resulting in an elevated fungal:bacterial growth ratio. This effect was found irrespective of the initial fungal:bacterial biomass ratio. Many drying-rewetting cycles did not, however, affect the fungal:bacterial growth ratio compared to few cycles. The biomass response of the microbial community differed from the growth response, with fungal and total biomass only being slightly negatively affected by the repeated drying-rewetting. The discrepancy between growth-and biomass-based assessments underscores that microbial responses to perturbations might previously have been misrepresented with biomass-based assessments. In light of this, many aspects of environmental microbial ecology may need to be revisited with attention to what measure of the microbial community is relevant to study.
4287529|Population studies of enteric bacteria in an agriculturally impacted stream (Ledbetter Creek, Murray, Kentucky, USA) were conducted over a period of 2 years. Total number of bacteria, cultivated heterotrophic aerobic bacteria, and enteric bacteria showed significant differences between winter and summer. The cultivated numbers of heterotrophic aerobic bacteria and enteric bacteria were significantly more abundant in summer than in winter. The abundance of enteric bacteria was 12.9% in an upwelling zone and 9.8% in a downwelling zone in summer. Most of the enteric bacterial strains isolated on MacConkey agar were assigned to Enterobacter cloacae and E. agglomerans by API 20E and an analysis of the restriction patterns produced by amplified DNA coding for 16S rRNA (ARDRA) with the enzyme Hpa II. E. cloacae and E. agglomerans genotypes isolated from three hyporheic and gravel bar depth intervals (0-10 cm, 15-25 cm, and 30-40 cm) in summer and fall showed significant spatial variation and were heterogeneously distributed along the stream. Temperature, inorganic nutrients, and occurrence of anoxic zones affected the distribution of enteric bacteria. These techniques can be used as a model to monitor shifts among different species in the stream ecosystem.
23469593|Cyanobacteria are the Earth's oldest oxygenic photoautotrophs and have had major impacts on shaping its biosphere. Their long evolutionary history (3.5 by) has enabled them to adapt to geochemical and climatic changes, and more recently anthropogenic modifications of aquatic environments, including nutrient over-enrichment (eutrophication), water diversions, withdrawals, and salinization. Many cyanobacterial genera exhibit optimal growth rates and bloom potentials at relatively high water temperatures; hence global warming plays a key role in their expansion and persistence. Bloom-forming cyanobacterial taxa can be harmful from environmental, organismal, and human health perspectives by outcompeting beneficial phytoplankton, depleting oxygen upon bloom senescence, and producing a variety of toxic secondary metabolites (e.g., cyanotoxins). How environmental factors impact cyanotoxin production is the subject of ongoing research, but nutrient (N, P and trace metals) supply rates, light, temperature, oxidative stressors, interactions with other biota (bacteria, viruses and animal grazers), and most likely, the combined effects of these factors are all involved. Accordingly, strategies aimed at controlling and mitigating harmful blooms have focused on manipulating these dynamic factors. The applicability and feasibility of various controls and management approaches is discussed for natural waters and drinking water supplies. Strategies based on physical, chemical, and biological manipulations of specific factors show promise; however, a key underlying approach that should be considered in almost all instances is nutrient (both N and P) input reductions; which have been shown to effectively reduce cyanobacterial biomass, and therefore limit health risks and frequencies of hypoxic events.
25153406|A quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay was developed for monitoring naphthalene degradation during bioremediation processes. The phylogenetic affiliations of known naphthalene-hydroxylating dioxygenase genes were determined to target functionally related bacteria, and degenerate primers were designed on the basis of the close relationships among dioxygenase genes identified from naphthalene-degrading Proteobacteria. Evaluation of the amplification specificity demonstrated that the developed real-time PCR assay represents a rapid, precise means for the group-specific enumeration of naphthalene-degrading bacteria. According to validation with bacterial pure cultures, the assay discriminated between the targeted group of naphthalene dioxygenase sequences and genes in other naphthalene or aromatic hydrocarbon-degrading bacterial strains. Specific amplification of gene fragments sharing a high sequence similarity with the genes included in the assay design was also observed in soil samples recovered from large-scale remediation processes. The target genes could be quantified reproducibly at over five orders of magnitude down to 3  10 gene copies. To investigate the suitability of the assay in monitoring naphthalene biodegradation, the assay was applied in enumerating the naphthalene dioxygenase genes in a soil slurry microcosm. The results were in good agreement with contaminant mineralization and dot blot quantification of nahAc gene copies. Furthermore, the real-time PCR assay was found to be more sensitive than hybridization-based analysis.
4287721| A sharp rise in mercury-resistant bacteria (MRB) capable of tolerating very high concentration of Hg was observed over the last 3-4 years in the coastal environs of India. While none or negligible colony-forming units (CFU) of bacteria were counted on seawater nutrient agar with 0.5 ppm (2.5 M) Hg (II) as HgCl
25152982| Assimilation of S-precursors into microbial proteins was used to investigate toxicity and adaptational responses that occur in nutrient enriched and natural freshwater samples experimentally contaminated with benzene, toluene, trichloroethylene (TCE), or xylene. Experiments were conducted to analyze (1) the potential of using microbial community protein profiles for responsive identification of chemical pollutant exposure, (2) the inhibition of microbial productivity through reduction in rate of protein synthesis caused by specific chemical pollutants, and (3) whether selection of subpopulations in freshwater microbial communities challenged with chemical pollutants leads to adaptive strategies mediated by production of particular polypeptides. The results show that distinct banding patterns of polypeptides in the range of 30 to 100 kilodaltons that were obtained following collective cultivation of freshwater microorganisms differ with each chemical pollutant. Protein yield and radioisotope incorporation were reduced within ten minutes of microbial exposure to chemical pollutants in the following order: xylene &lt; toluene &lt; benzene &lt; TCE. Adaptation of the freshwater microbial community to chemical pollutants prior to radioisotope incorporation produced differences in polypeptide profiles, in the banding patterns of radioactive polypeptides, and in the rate of radioisotope incorporation. The rate of radioisotope incorporation by freshwater microorganisms pre-adapted to chemical pollutants was lowest with xylene (88.1% reduction), followed by TCE (84.0% reduction), toluene (67.3% reduction), and benzene (43.5% reduction). In long-term radioisotope incorporation experiments, protein yield and polypeptide radioactivity was higher in the presence of chemical pollutants than in uncontaminated control samples, suggesting increased metabolic productivity attributable to the chemical pollutants. 
41489238|Olive production is one of the main agricultural activities in Portugal. In the region of Trs-os-Montes, this crop has been considerably affected by Prays oleae. In order to evaluate the diversity of fungi on Prays oleae population of Trs-os-Montes olive orchards, larvae and pupae of the three annual generations (phyllophagous, antophagous and carpophagous) were collected and evaluated for fungal growth on their surface. From the 3,828 larvae and pupae, a high percentage of individuals exhibited growth of a fungal agent (40.6%), particularly those from the phyllophagous generation. From all the moth generations, a total of 43 species from 24 genera were identified, but the diversity and abundance of fungal species differed between the three generations. Higher diversity was found in the carpophagous generation, followed by the antophagous and phyllophagous generations. The presence of fungi displaying entomopathogenic features was highest in the phyllophagous larvae and pupae, with Beauveria bassiana as the most abundant taxa. The first report of Beauveria bassiana presence on Prays oleae could open new strategies for the biocontrol of this major pest in olive groves since the use of an already adapted species increases the guarantee of success of a biocontrol approach. The identification of antagonistic fungi able to control agents that cause major olive diseases, such as Verticillium dahliae, will benefit future biological control approaches for limiting this increasingly spreading pathogen.
40343451|Endolithic microorganisms colonize the pores in exposed dolomite rocks in the Piora Valley in the Swiss Alps. They appear as distinct grayish-green bands about 1-8 mm below the rock surface. Based on environmental small subunit ribosomal RNA gene sequences, a diverse community driven by photosynthesis has been found. Cyanobacteria (57 clones), especially the genus Leptolyngbya, form the functional basis for an endolithic community which contains a wide spectrum of so far not characterized species of chemotrophic Bacteria (64 clones) with mainly Actinobacteria, Alpha-Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria, as well as a cluster within the Chloroflexaceae. Furthermore, a cluster within the Crenarchaeotes (40 clones) has been detected. Although the eukaryotic diversity was outside the scope of the study, an amoeba (39 clones), and several green algae (51 clones) have been observed. We conclude that the bacterial diversity in this endolithic habitat, especially of chemotrophic, nonpigmented organisms, is considerable and that Archaea are present as well.
41692850|The composition and abundance of mycosporinelike amino acids (MAAs) were investigated in the surface waters along a 13,000-km meridional transect (52 N to 45 S) in the Atlantic Ocean (Atlantic Meridional Transect programme: Cruise AMT 18: 4/10/2008-10/11/2008). MAAs were ubiquitous along the transect, although the composition of the MAAs was variable. Highest concentrations were in the far south (below 40 S; MAA > 1 g L) and in north subtropical equatorial region (NER: 0-25 N; MAA up to 0.8 g L). Highest MAA relative to chlorophyll-a occurred in the NER (MAA/chl-a ratio between 2 and 5). MAA/chl-a significantly correlated with the preceding month's mean daily UV dose and with UV-B/UV-A. In the far south, high MAA concentrations coincided with high phytoplankton biomass, high nutrients and a deep mixed layer associated with the austral spring. Here, the phytoplankton community was dominated by micro-and nano-eukaryotes. At the NER, the high MAA/chl-a coincided with low nutrient concentrations, a shallow mixed layer depth (20-70 m) and to a lesser extent to a shallow nitracline (40-90 m). Here, the phytoplankton consisted primarily of picophytoplankton (0-0.2 m), dominated by the pico-cyanobacteria Synechococcus sp. and Prochlorococcus sp. and by the nitrogen fixing filamentous cyanobacterium Trichodesmium. The low nitrate concentrations (<0.1 mol L) at the NER suggest that nitrogen fixation was required for MAA production. Specific MAAs could not easily be assigned to particular groups of phytoplankton and we could not rule out the possibility that MAAs were associated with symbiotic cyanobacteria contained within heterotrophic dinoflagellates or diatoms.
4251647| A typical, small encatchment (catena Blkendorf) in the moraine, northeast German agricultural landscape Schorfheide-Chorin was studied with respect to summit, midslope, and foot-slope positions at northern and southern slope exposure, respectively, including a central noncultivated kettle hole position (pot hole). Across the sequence of seven distinct sampling positions, soil organic carbon and total nitrogen contents, soil gravimetric water content, and soil microbial biomass displayed maxima at the kettle hole position. Soil pH revealed a decreasing trend at the northern exposed slope and a minimum at the kettle hole position. Against this background, the population density of total culturable bacteria clearly displayed a minimum at the kettle hole position, whereas the population density of carboxymethylcellulose decomposing bacteria was not clearly differentiated in relation to sampling positions. To study the phylogenetic diversity of culturable cellulolytic bacteria, 311 isolates were obtained from the sampling positions across the entire encatchment and examined by restriction analysis of PCR-amplified 16S rDNA. Using the restriction enzyme ScrFI, isolates were classified into 31 pattern groups. Although the ratio of actinomycetes within total isolates ranged from 0.73 to 0.94, only 16 pattern groups originated from actinomycetes, but 15 from other bacteria. At all sampling positions, a dominant pattern group was identified, containing 38 to 65% of total isolates. Two site-specific pattern groups could be identified, representing significant parts of the total population, which were highly specific for the kettle hole (19% of total isolates) and for foot- and midslope positions (15-18% of total isolates), respectively. In general, the composition of cellulolytic isolates across the encatchment displayed differences with respect to slope positions, but was not significantly affected by soil properties. Based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis, isolates of the dominant as well as the specific pattern groups could be assigned to the genus Streptomyces. Furthermore, sequencing of 16S rDNA of isolates of another three pattern groups revealed a high phylogenetic diversity among these isolates, including cellulomonads and bacilli. 
4251043|In seawater used for shrimp aquaculture in French Polynesia, the grazing of small bacteria (rods and coccoids) allowed the growth of Ancalomicrobium cells (to more than 2  10<sup>6</sup> cells ml<sup>-1</sup>) and large filaments > 10 m in length (5  10<sup>6</sup> cells ml<sup>-1</sup>). Their contribution to the increase in total bacterial number after grazing was 27.8 and 9.8%, respectively. These large bacteria are not grazed on by microflagellates, but are available for mesoplankton larvae.
23469194|The whole-cell lipid extraction to profile microbial communities on soils using fatty acid (FA) biomarkers is commonly done with the two extractants associated with the phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) or Microbial IDentification Inc. (MIDI) methods. These extractants have very different chemistry and lipid separation procedures, but often shown a similar ability to discriminate soils from various management and vegetation systems. However, the mechanism and the chemistry of the exact suite of FAs extracted by these two methods are poorly understood. Therefore, the objective was to qualitatively and quantitatively compare the MIDI and PLFA microbial profiling methods for detecting microbial community shifts due to soil type or management. Twenty-nine soil samples were collected from a wide range of soil types across Oregon and extracted FAs by each method were analyzed by gas chromatography (GC) and GC-mass spectrometry. Unlike PLFA profiles, which were highly related to microbial FAs, the overall MIDI-FA profiles were highly related to the plant-derived FAs. Plant-associated compounds were quantitatively related to particulate organic matter (POM) and qualitatively related to the standing vegetation at sampling. These FAs were negatively correlated to respiration rate normalized to POM (RespPOM), which increased in systems under more intensive management. A strong negative correlation was found between MIDI-FA to PLFA ratios and total organic carbon (TOC). When the reagents used in MIDI procedure were tested for the limited recovery of MIDI-FAs from soil with high organic matter, the recovery of MIDI-FA microbial signatures sharply decreased with increasing ratios of soil to extractant. Hence, the MIDI method should be used with great caution for interpreting changes in FA profiles due to shifts in microbial communities.
4250526|Two strains of Bacillus sp. and a strain of Brevibacterium sp., originally isolated from a natural quartzite surface, were characterized and employed as test strains with several methods: acridine orange fluorochromation and epifluorescence microscopy were used for detection of individual cells; scanning and transmission microscopy for studying attachment behavior; replica techniques in combination with electron microscopy for following surface interaction effects; and chemical analysis of SiO
25256245|Black band disease (BBD) is a pathogenic consortium of microorganisms that primarily affects massive framework-building scleractinian corals on reefs worldwide. There has been considerable debate concerning the microbial community composition of BBD. The aim of this study was to utilize microbial profiling to assess overall patterns of variation in the BBD bacterial community with respect to geographic location, host coral species, time, and nutrient regime. Length heterogeneity polymerase chain reaction (LH-PCR) was employed to differentiate BBD communities based on the natural variation in the sequence lengths within hypervariable domains of the 16S rRNA gene. Analysis of LH-PCR profiles of 97 BBD samples using multivariate ordination methods and analysis of similarity revealed significant clustering with respect to geographic region when comparing BBD sampled from reefs near Lee Stocking Island in the Bahamas' Exuma Chain, the Northern Florida Keys (NFK), and St. John in the US Virgin Islands. There was much variability in BBD community composition on a regional basis, between sites in the NFK, and in terms of coral host species. The observed differences among BBD microbial community profiles were driven primarily by variation in relative abundance of 313-316-bp amplicons, which correspond to cyanobacteria and -proteobacteria. The results obtained in this study support previous reports of intrinsic variability and complexity of the BBD microbial community but also suggest that this variability has biogeographic patterns.
40343395|Bacteria growing on marine particles generally have higher densities and cell-specific activities than freeliving bacteria. Since rapidity of phage adsorption is dependent on host density, while infection productivity is a function of host physiological status, we hypothesized that marine particles are sites of elevated phage production. In the present study, organic-matter-rich agarose beads and a marine phage-host pair (Cellulophaga sp.,
25153395| The use of pesticides in agricultural soils may affect the soil microbiota. The effect of repeated application of copper sulfate in soil on indigenous populations of rhizobia was assessed in a medium-term field experiment. Copper sulfate was applied over 8 years at two different rates, 12.5 and 50 kg of CuSO ha year, in the field. The concentrations of total copper in soil varied between 14.0 (control plots that did not receive copper sulfate) and 91.0 mg kg (the most contaminated plots) at the time of sampling, 3 years after the end of the copper treatments. All the other physicochemical parameters were similar among the plots that also shared the same cropping history. The target rhizobia were monospecific populations of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae nodulating Vicia sativa and communities of rhizobial species nodulating Phaseolus vulgaris. The size of the vetch rhizobial populations was significantly reduced in the soils with the higher Cu content, whereas the size of the Phaseolus rhizobial populations was not significantly affected. However, the number of nodules formed on both vetches and common beans were reduced for the plants grown in the most contaminated soils, suggesting an additional toxic effect of copper on plant physiology. The diversity (Simpson's indices) of rhizobial genotypes, as characterized by polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism of 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer (IGS), was not influenced by copper application. Also, the genetic structure of the R. leguminosarum bv. viciae populations was not modified by copper treatments. By contrast, a shift was observed in the composition of the Phaseolus-nodulating communities in relation to soil copper content. The communities were composed of three 16S rDNA haplotypes: one corresponding to the R. leguminosarum (biovar phaseoli) species, the two others forming a new lineage of Phaseolus rhizobia based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis. The reduced frequency of the R. leguminosarum species in the Phaseolus-nodulating communities from the copper-treated soils was linked to its higher sensitivity to copper as compared to the higher tolerance of isolates belonging to the other rhizobial lineage. The new lineage was functionally efficient for symbiotic nitrogen fixation with P. vulgaris. Our results suggest that functional redundancy among species exhibiting variability for copper tolerance preserved the size of Phaseolus-nodulating communities. In contrast, the abundance of the vetch-nodulating rhizobia, which was a monospecific functional group mainly constituted by copper-sensitive genotypes, was adversely affected by repeated application of copper sulfate. 
4287743| The response of a bacterial community to liming of a forest humus soil (pH 4.9 increased to pH 7.5) was studied in the laboratory at three temperatures (5, 20, and 30C). As a comparison an unlimed soil (pH 4.9) and a soil limed in the field 15 years ago (pH around 6) were also included. The bacterial community tolerance of pH was measured using TdR incorporation. The pH of the bacterial suspensions (bacteria directly extracted from soil) was altered to 3.6 and 8.3 using different buffers before measuring TdR incorporation. The logarithmic ratio between TdR incorporation at 8.3 and 3.6 was then used as an indicator of the community pH tolerance. The rate of changes in the community tolerance to pH after liming was fastest for the soil incubated at 30C, but only minor differences in rate of change could be seen between samples incubated at 5 and 20C. Changes in phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) pattern after increasing the pH were most rapid for the bacterial community in the soil incubated at 30C followed by the soil incubated at 20C, whereas no changes could be seen in the PLFA pattern of the soil incubated at 5C, even after 82 days' incubation. Thus, the changes in the PLFA pattern were considerably slower than the changes in bacterial community tolerance to pH measured using TdR incorporation. 
4250674|A direct microscopic count technique employing fluorescein isothiocyanate stain was used to compare microbial colonization on the exposed surfaces of rocks and minerals suspended in several ponds for various time intervals. Hematitic sandstone was never colonized at a rate greater than limestone, but quartz was always colonized more rapidly than calcite. The use of single-crystal minerals (quartz and calcite) in a nested factor experiment showed that the effect of the minerals on colonization was statistically significant, but that differences among the immersion sites were also significant. Sandstone samples placed in a pond outflow accumulated microbial colonizers more rapidly than those placed in the still waters of the same pond. The results indicate that the composition of the mineral substrate, in concert with the immersion environment, controls the formation of primary slime layers in aquatic systems.
41489797|The mesothermal outflow zones (50-65C) of geothermal springs often support an extensive zone of green and orange laminated microbial mats. In order to identify and compare the microbial inhabitants of morphologically similar green-orange mats from chemically and geographically distinct springs, we generated and analyzed small-subunit ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene amplicons from six mesothermal mats (four previously unexamined) in Yellowstone National Park. Between three and six bacterial phyla dominated each mat. While many sequences bear the highest identity to previously isolated phototrophic genera belonging to the Cyanobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Chlorobi phyla, there is also frequent representation of uncultured, unclassified members of these groups. Some genus-level representatives of these dominant phyla were found in all mats, while others were unique to a single mat. Other groups detected at high frequencies include candidate divisions (such as the OP candidate clades) with no cultured representatives or complete genomes available. In addition, rRNA genes related to the recently isolated and characterized photosynthetic acidobacterium "Candidatus Chloracidobacterium thermophilum" were detected in most mats. In contrast to microbial mats from well-studied hypersaline environments, the mesothermal mats in this study accrue less biomass and are substantially less diverse, but have a higher proportion of known phototrophic organisms. This study provides sequences appropriate for accurate phylogenetic classification and expands the molecular phylogenetic survey of Yellowstone microbial mats.
4251550|The short-term and long-term effects of light regime on nitrogenase activity (NA) and cyanobacterial communities in rice fields (Valencia, Spain) were examined. Daily variation in nitrogen fixation was measured during three periods of the crop cycle: tillering (formation of secondary stems in the rice plants), heading (formation of reproductive structures), and maturity. Two locations were examined over two consecutive years (1994 and 1995). Despite differences in the crop-cycle periods, location, and year, a consistent pattern of nitrogen fixation was observed, with a main activity peak in the morning and another in the late evening. Short-term experiments, performed on two cyanobacterial blooms (Nostoc sp. and Anabaena sp.) exposed to natural light under plant canopy (7% incidence irradiance), and to different light intensities under neutral density screens without plant cover (full sunlight, 43%, 26%, and 13% of incident irradiance), indicated that nitrogenase activity (NA) was dependent on both light intensity and quality. In long-term experiments, where natural communities of cyanobacteria were exposed to one month of different light intensities, changes in the species composition of the three main genera of heterocystous cyanobacteria (Nostoc, Anabaena, and Calothrix) were observed. The light intensity at which communities were exposed for one month became the optimum irradiance for NA for each cyanobacterial community. Assays performed at higher or lower irradiances showed lower NA. Nitrogen fixation followed a pattern of seasonal variation along the crop cycle. Values were low at the beginning of the crop (May), reached a maximum value at the end of the tillering stage (June), and declined thereafter until the end of the cultivation cycle (September).
4250810|A survey was made of the yeast communities isolated from necrotic tissue of 4 species of prickly-pear cacti (Opuntia stricta, O. tomentosa, O. monacantha, and O. streptacantha) which have colonized in Australia. Yeast communities were sampled from a number of localities and at different times. Cactus specific yeasts accounted for 80% of the total isolates, and the 3 most common species contributed 63% of the total. Comparisons of the species compositions of the yeast communities indicated that the differences among communities were greater between Opuntia species than between different localities within a single cactus species, and also that differences between years were greater than average differences between localities within years. Multivariate statistical tests of association between yeast community and physical features of rots indicated that temperature, pH, and age of rot all exerted some influence on the structure of the yeast community. Similar analyses involving Drosophila species inhabiting these cactus rots suggested the existence of complex associations between Drosophila community, yeast community, and physical and chemical attributes of the cactus necroses.
4287644| All studies of the microbial community of the gastrointestinal tract of salmon to date have employed culture-based approaches, typically on pond- or tank-raised, freshwater animals. We present a phylogenetic survey of the bacterial populations present in the distal intestine of salmon from three different marine locations in Europe. This was accomplished through PCR amplification, cloning, and sequencing of partial 16S rDNA genes from microbial community DNA isolated from the contents of the GI tract distal to the pyloric ceca. Using this approach, the intestinal microbial communities of wild salmon from Scotland and pen-raised salmon from Scotland and Norway were compared. The predominating bacterial populations detected were Acinetobacter junii and a novel Mycoplasma phylotype. This Mycoplasma phylotype apparently comprised 96% of the total microbes in the distal intestine of wild salmon. Substantial differences in intestinal microbial community composition and diversity were observed between the two groups of pen-raised salmon, which, in addition to geographical separation, were raised on different feeds. The microbial profiles found in this study were substantially different from those indicated in earlier culture-based studies for several species of fish, presumably because of the culture-independent techniques employed. Further, analysis of short-chain fatty acids in the digestive tract indicated that the decreasing redox gradient from proximal to distal reaches common to homeothermic animals was absent in salmon, and that the bacterial fermentation levels were much lower than are reported in homeothermic animals. 
40343463|Although ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) are likely to play a key role in the soil nitrogen cycle, we have only a limited understanding of how the diversity and composition of soil AOB communities change across ecosystem types. We examined 23 soils collected from across North America and used sequence-based analyses to compare the AOB communities in each of the distinct soils. Using 97% 16S rRNA sequence similarity groups, we identified only 24 unique AOB phylotypes across all of the soils sampled. The majority of the sequences collected were in the Nitrosospira lineages (representing 80% of all the sequences collected), and AOB belonging to Nitrosospira cluster 3 were particularly common in our clone libraries and ubiquitous across the soil types. Community composition was highly variable across the collected soils, and similar ecosystem types did not always harbor similar AOB communities. We did not find any significant correlations between AOB community composition and measures of N availability. From the suite of environmental variables measured, we found the strongest correlation between temperature and AOB community composition; soils exposed to similar mean annual temperatures tended to have similar AOB communities. This finding is consistent with previous studies and suggests that temperature selects for specific AOB lineages. Given that distinct AOB taxa are likely to have unique functional attributes, the biogeographical patterns exhibited by soil AOB may be directly relevant to understanding soil nitrogen dynamics under changing environmental conditions.
4287597|Along the coastline of Tamil Nadu, five sites were chosen to assess the diversity of Pseudomonas populations isolated from rice (Oryza sativa) cultivated along a salinity gradient. One of these sites was under organic farming while the other four were under inorganic farming. A total of 256 Pseudomonas strains isolated from these five sites were analyzed using both phenotypic (substrate utilization patterns and antibiotic resistance assay) and genotypic (PCR-RFLP of 16S rDNA) characteristics. The results derived from this study indicate that soil salinity affects rhizosphere Pseudomonas populations. It was observed that increasing salinity led to decreasing diversity. Fluorescent pseudomonads were the dominant species found in the non-saline site, while in the saline sites they were replaced by salt-tolerant species, in particular Pseudomonas alcaligenes and P. pseudoalcaligenes. An interesting observation was the increase in diversity found in the saline site under organic farming. Organic farming was found to be capable of mitigating the harmful effects of saline stress to a large extent, and restoring the Pseudomonas diversity, thereby making it comparable with the diversity encountered in the non-saline site.
41412401|Two recurring syndromes threaten the viability of the shrimp industry in New Caledonia, which represents the second largest export business. The "Syndrome 93" is a cold season disease due to Vibrio penaeicida affecting all shrimp farms, while the "Summer Syndrome" is a geographically restricted vibriosis caused by a virulent lineage of Vibrio nigripulchritudo. Microbiological procedures for diagnosis of these diseases are time-consuming and do not have the ability to discriminate the range of virulence potentials of V. nigripulchritudo. In this study, we developed a multiplex PCR method to simultaneously detect these two bacterial species and allow for pathotype discrimination. The detection limits of this assay, that includes an internal amplification control to eliminate any false-negative results, were determined at 10 pg purified DNA and 200 cfu/ml. After confirming the effectiveness of our method using experimentally infected animals, its accuracy was compared to standard biochemical methods during a field survey using 94 samples collected over 3 years from shrimp farms encountering mortality events. The multiplex PCR showed very high specificity for the detection of V. penaeicida and V. nigripulchritudo (inclusivity and exclusivity 100%) and allowed us to detect the spreading of highly pathogenic isolates of V. nigripulchritudo to a farm adjoining the "Summer Syndrome area." This assay represents a simple, rapid, and cost-effective diagnostic tool for implementing timely risk management decisions but also understanding the seasonal and geographical distribution of these pathogens.
25153242|To provide insight into the phylogenetic bacterial diversity of the freshwater sponge Spongilla lacustris, a 16S rRNA gene libraries were constructed from sponge tissues and from lake water. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of &gt;190 freshwater sponge-derived clones resulted in six major restriction patterns, from which 45 clones were chosen for sequencing. The resulting sequences were affiliated with the Alphaproteobacteria (n = 19), the Actinobacteria (n = 15), the Betaproteobacteria (n = 2), and the Chloroflexi (n = 2) lineages. About half of the sequences belonged to previously described actinobacterial (hgc-I) and betaproteobacterial (beta-II) sequence clusters of freshwater bacteria that were also present in the lake water 16S rRNA gene library. At least two novel, deeply rooting alphaproteobacterial lineages were recovered from S. lacustris that showed &lt;89% sequence similarity to known phylogenetic groups. Electron microscopical observations revealed that digested bacterial remnants were contained within food vacuoles of sponge archaeocytes, whereas the extracellular matrix was virtually free of bacteria. This study is the first molecular diversity study of a freshwater sponge and adds to a growing database on the diversity and community composition of sponge-associated microbial consortia.
4250685|Bacteria in sediments from the surface aerobic layer (0-1 cm) and a deeper anaerobic layer (20-21 cm) of a seagrass bed were examined in section by transmission electron microscopy. Bacteria with a Gram-negative ultrastructure made up 90% of bacteria in the surface layer, and Gram-positive bacteria comprised 10%. In the anaerobic zone, Gram-negative bacteria comprised 70% and Gram-positive bacteria 30% of the bacterial population. These differences were highly significant and support predictions of these proportions made from muramic acid measurements and direct counting with fluorescence microscopy. Most cells were enveloped in extracellular slime layers or envelopes, some with considerable structural complexity. The trophic value to animals of these envelopes is discussed. A unique organism with spines was observed.
25153320|The photosynthetic performance of a microalgal biofilm colonizing a building facade was investigated between February and July 2004, with an emphasis on changing water availability and air humidity. The fluorimetric measurements of the quantum efficiency
4287666|Sediments often exhibit low rates of nitrogen fixation, despite the presence of elevated concentrations of inorganic nitrogen. The organisms that potentially fix nitrogen in sediments have not previously been identified. Amplification of nifH genes with degenerate primers was used to assess the diversity of diazotrophs in two distinct sediment systems, anoxic muds of Chesapeake Bay and shallow surficial sediments of the Neuse River. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that sequences obtained from mid-Chesapeake Bay, which receive high organic loading and are highly reducing, clustered closely with each other and with known anaerobic microorganisms, suggesting a low abundance of aerobic or facultative diazotrophs in these sediments. Sulfate reduction dominates in the surface, but methanogenesis becomes more important with depth. A thin (<1 cm) oxidized layer is present only in the spring. No archaeal nifH sequences were obtained from Chesapeake Bay. Sequences of nifH amplified from surficial sediments of the Neuse River were distant from Chesapeake Bay sequences and included nif phylotypes related to sequences previously reported from marine mats and the Spartina rhizosphere. Differences in environmental site characteristics appear to select for different types of sediment diazotrophs, which is reflected in the phylogenetic composition of amplified nifH sequences.
40343408|Luminous bacteria are isolated from both Hydrozoa and Bryozoa with chitinous structures on their surfaces. All the specimens of the examined hydroid species (Aglaophenia kirchenpaueri, Aglaophenia octodonta, Aglaophenia tubiformis, Halopteris diaphana, Plumularia setacea, Ventromma halecioides), observed under blue light excitation, showed a clear fluorescence on the external side of the perisarc (chitinous exoskeleton) around hydrocladia. In the bryozoan Myriapora truncata, luminous bacteria are present on the chitinous opercula. All the isolated luminous bacteria were identified on the basis of both phenotypic and genotypic analysis. The isolates from A. tubiformis and H. diaphana were unambiguously assigned to the species Vibrio fischeri. In contrast, the isolates from the other hydroids, phenotypically assigned to the species Vibrio harveyi, were then split into two distinct species by phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences and DNA-DNA hybridization experiments. Scanning electron microscopy analysis and results of culture-based and culture-independent approaches enabled us to establish that luminous vibrios represent major constituents of the bacterial community inhabiting the A. octodonta surface suggesting that the interactions between luminous bacteria and the examined hydrozoan and bryozoan species are highly specific. These interactions might have epidemiological as well as ecological implications because of the opportunistic pathogenicity of luminous Vibrio species for marine organisms and the wide-distribution of the hydrozoan and bryozoan functioning as carriers.
41489801|The specificity of culturable bacteria on healthy and Fusarium head blight (FHB)-infected spikelets of wheat heads was investigated to find a candidate of biocontrol agents against FHB. The bacterial genus Pseudomonas was commonly isolated from the tissues, and phylogenetic analysis using 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences of isolates of the genera revealed that particular phylogenetic groups in the genus specifically inhabited either healthy or infected spikelet tissues. The specificity of each group was suggested to be due to differences in the ability to form biofilms and colonize spikelet tissues; isolates originated from healthy spikelets formed biofilms on polyvinyl chloride microplate wells and highly colonized the spikelet tissues. Other bacterial groups obtained from FHB-infected spikelets less formed biofilms and attached with low densities on the spikelet tissues. Their colonization on the tissues, however, was promoted when co-inoculated with the causal pathogenic fungus, Fusarium graminearum, and several isolates were observed to smash the mycelia in vivo. Moreover, based on results of in vitro mycelial growth inhibition activity, the diseased tissue-originated isolates were verified to have a negative effect on the fungal growth. These results suggest that Pseudomonas isolates obtained from infected spikelet tissues were highly associated with the FHB pathogen and have potential as candidates for biological control against FHB.
4251668|We have analyzed select physicochemical and biological characteristics of two acidic rivers, the Tinto and the Odiel, located in the Pyritic Belt of Southwestern Spain. Despite a common geography and geochemistry, they exhibit important differences. Most of the measured physicochemical parameters, especially pH and those related to conductivity (heavy metal concentrations), showed more extreme values in the Tinto than in the Odiel. However, it was at the microbiological level (fungal and bacterial populations) where both rivers showed the most important differences according to the statistical analysis of principal components. Lithoautotrophic bacteria were more abundant in the more acidic Tinto River and fungal diversity varied significantly from one river to the other.
41489783|The capability and speed in generating genomic data have increased profoundly since the release of the draft human genome in 2000. Additionally, sequencing costs have continued to plummet as the next generation of highly efficient sequencing technologies (next-generation sequencing) became available and commercial facilities promote market competition. However, new challenges have emerged as researchers attempt to efficiently process the massive amounts of sequence data being generated. First, the described genome sequences are unequally distributed among the branches of bacterial life and, second, bacterial pan-genomes are often not considered when setting aims for sequencing projects. Here, we propose that scientists should be concerned with attaining an improved equal representation of most of the bacterial tree of life organisms, at the genomic level. Moreover, they should take into account the natural variation that is often observed within bacterial species and the role of the often changing surrounding environment and natural selection pressures, which is central to bacterial speciation and genome evolution. Not only will such efforts contribute to our overall understanding of the microbial diversity extant in ecosystems as well as the structuring of the extant genomes, but they will also facilitate the development of better methods for (meta) genome annotation.
23361601|Several fast-growing and multipurpose tree species have been widely used in West Africa to both reverse the tendency of land degradation and restore soil productivity. Although beneficial effects have been reported on soil stabilization, there still remains a lack of information about their impact on soil microorganisms. Our investigation has been carried out in exotic and native tree plantations of 28 years and aimed to survey and compare the abundance and genetic diversity of natural legume-nodulating rhizobia (LNR). The study of LNR is supported by the phylogenetic analysis which clustered the isolates into three genera: Bradyrhizobium, Mesorhizobium, and Sinorhizobium. The results showed close positive correlations between the sizes of LNR populations estimated both in the dry and rainy seasons and the presence of legume tree hosts. There were significant increases in Rhizobium spp. population densities in response to planting with Acacia spp., and high genetic diversities and richness of genotypes were fittest in these tree plantations. This suggests that enrichment of soil Rhizobium spp. populations is host specific. The results indicated also that species of genera Mesorhizobium and Sinorhizobium were lacking in plantations of non-host species. By contrast, there was a widespread distribution of Bradyrhizobium spp. strains across the tree plantations, with no evident specialization in regard to plantation type. Finally, the study provides information about the LNR communities associated with a range of old tree plantations and some aspects of their relationships to soil factors, which may facilitate the management of man-made forest systems that target ecosystem rehabilitation and preservation of soil biota.
25153374|There is growing interest in understanding the linkages between above- and belowground communities, and very little is known about these linkages in tropical systems. Using an experimental site at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, we examined whether plant diversity, plant community composition, and season influenced microbial communities. We also determined whether soil characteristics were related to differences in microbial communities. Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) composition revealed that microbial community composition differed across a plant diversity gradient (plots contained 1, 3, 5, or over 25 species). Plant species identity also was a factor influencing microbial community composition; PLFA composition significantly varied among monocultures, and among three-species combinations that differed in plant species composition. Differences among treatments within each of these comparisons were apparent in all four sampling dates of the study. There was no consistent shift in microbial community composition between wet and dry seasons, although we did see significant changes over time. Of all measured soil characteristics, soil C/N was most often associated with changes in microbial community composition across treatment groups. Our findings provide evidence for human alteration of soil microbial communities via the alteration of plant community composition and diversity and that such changes are mediated in part by changes in soil carbon quality.
4250749|The fungus Trichoderma harzianum which parasitizes its host Rhizoctonia solani (AG 1-6) was observed under a light microscope and the interaction sites photomicrographed with infrared film. Bright regions indicating infrared irradiation were observed at the interaction sites, apparently due to the high parasitic activity occurring there. The possible use of infrared photomicrography in cell-cell interactions is discussed.
4251510|The biodegradation of a mixture of several creosote-related compounds, p-cresol, phenanthrene, fluorene, and carbazole was examined in columns containing aquifer sands. The aquifer material, itself, had an effect on the migration of the test compounds, with p-cresol being retarded the least, followed by carbazole, then fluorene, and finally phenanthrene. The biodegradation of all the compounds was greatly enhanced by the inclusion of p-cresol (10 ppm) in the substrate mixture. Associated with this enhanced degradation was a 100-fold increase in the total culturable bacterial population, and increases in the xylE- and ndoB-positive bacterial populations of more than three orders of magnitude. The products of these two genes are involved in the degradation of monocyclic and polycyclic aromatic compounds, respectively. In columns that did not receive p-cresol, there was no significant change in either the total culturable bacterial population density or the xylE-positive bacterial population, but there were significant increases of one to two orders of magnitude in the ndoB-positive bacterial populations. The results suggest that the ndoB gene probe can detect bacteria capable of utilizing phenanthrene, carbazole, and possibly fluorene.
40926459|Fecal pellets make up a significant fraction of the global flux of organic matter in oceans, and the associated bacterial communities in particular are a potential food source for marine organisms. However, these communities remain largely unknown. In the present study, the bacterial communities on fecal pellets of the benthic copepod Paramphiascella fulvofasciata feeding on the diatoms Navicula phyllepta and Seminavis robusta were analyzed. The aim of this study was to characterize the bacterial communities associated with the diatoms and the fecal pellets by means of DGGE profiling. Furthermore, isolated bacteria were characterized by means of partial 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The composition of the bacterial microflora on fecal pellets was studied in terms of the effect of the original food source, the age of the fecal pellets and the copepod's identity. Alphaproteobacteria, Flavobacteria, and Bacilli were found on the fecal pellets; whereas on diatoms, exclusively Gammaproteobacteria were identified. Especially after eating N. phyllepta, there was an important increase in bacterial diversity, although the diatom N. phyllepta harbored a less diverse bacterial community than S. robusta. Our data suggest that the additional bacteria originate from the copepod's digestive tract and largely depends on the initial food source.
4251607| The biochemical pathway and genetics of autotrophic ammonia oxidation have been studied almost exclusively in Nitrosomonas europaea. Terrestrial autotrophic ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AAOs), however, comprise two distinct phylogenetic groups in the -Proteobacteria, the Nitrosomonas and Nitrosospira groups. Hybridization patterns were used to assess the potential of functional probes in non-PCR-based molecular analysis of natural AAO populations and their activity. The objective of this study was to obtain an overview of functional gene homologies by hybridizing probes derived from N. europaea gene sequences ranging in size from 0.45 to 4.5 kb, and labeled with
4250748|A technique to observe neuston organisms, combining membrane adsorption and scanning electron microscopy, is described. Bacteria, algae, and protozoa collected from the surface of 2 freshwater ponds using this methodology appeared well preserved by the fixation and dehydration procedures used.
25256169|Members of the Roseobacter clade are abundant and widespread in marine habitats and have very diverse metabolisms. Production of acylated homoserine lactones (AHL) and secondary metabolites, e.g., antibiotics has been described sporadically. This prompted us to screen 22 strains of this group for production of signaling molecules, antagonistic activity against bacteria of different phylogenetic groups, and the presence of genes encoding for nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPS) and polyketide synthases (PKS), representing enzymes involved in the synthesis of various pharmaceutically important natural products. The screening approach for NRPS and PKS genes was based on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with degenerate primers specific for conserved sequence motifs. Additionally, sequences from whole genome sequencing projects of organisms of the Roseobacter clade were considered. Obtained PCR products were cloned, sequenced, and compared with genes of known function. With the PCR approach genes showing similarity to known NRPS and PKS genes were found in seven and five strains, respectively, and three PKS and NRPS sequences from genome sequencing projects were obtained. Three strains exhibited antagonistic activity and also showed production of AHL. Overall production of AHL was found in 10 isolates. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences of the tested organisms showed that several of the AHL-positive strains clustered together. Three strains were positive for three or four categories tested, and were found to be closely related within the genus Phaeobacter. The presence of a highly similar hybrid PKS/NRPS gene locus of unknown function in sequenced genomes of the Roseobacter clade plus the significant similarity of gene fragments from the strains studied to these genes argues for the functional requirement of the encoded hybrid PKS/NRPS complex. Our screening results therefore suggest that the Roseobacter clade is indeed employing PKS/NRPS biochemistry and should thus be further studied as a potential and largely untapped source of secondary metabolites.
23361600|Constructed wetlands offer an effective means for treatment of wastewater from a variety of sources. An understanding of the microbial ecology controlling nitrogen, carbon and sulfur cycles in constructed wetlands has been identified as the greatest gap for optimizing performance of these promising treatment systems. It is suspected that operational factors such as plant types and hydraulic operation influence the subsurface wetland environment, especially redox, and that the observed variation in effluent quality is due to shifts in the microbial populations and/or their activity. This study investigated the biofilm associated sulfate reducing bacteria and ammonia oxidizing bacteria (using the dsrB and amoA genes, respectively) by examining a variety of surfaces within a model wetland (gravel, thick roots, fine roots, effluent), and the changes in activity (gene abundance) of these functional groups as influenced by plant species and season. Molecular techniques were used including quantitative PCR and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), both with and without propidium monoazide (PMA) treatment. PMA treatment is a method for excluding from further analysis those cells with compromised membranes. Rigorous statistical analysis showed an interaction between the abundance of these two functional groups with the type of plant and season (p<0.05). The richness of the sulfate reducing bacterial community, as indicated by DGGE profiles, increased in planted vs. unplanted microcosms. For ammonia oxidizing bacteria, season had the greatest impact on gene abundance and diversity (higher in summer than in winter). Overall, the primary influence of plant presence is believed to be related to root oxygen loss and its effect on rhizosphere redox.
40802174|"Achnatherum sibiricum" (Poaceae) is a perennial bunchgrass native to the Inner Mongolia Steppe of China. This grass is commonly infected by epichlo endophytes with high-infection frequencies. Previously, we identified two predominant "Neotyphodium" spp., "N. sibiricum" and "N. gansuense". In the present study, genetic diversity and structure were analyzed for the two predominant "Neotyphodium" spp. as well as the host grass. We obtained 103 fungal isolates from five populations; 33 were identified as "N. sibiricum" and 61 as "N. gansuense". All populations hosted both endophytic species, but genetic variation was much higher for "N. gansuense" than for "N. sibiricum". The majority of fungal isolates were haploid, and 13% of them were heterozygous at one SSR locus, suggesting hybrid origins of those isolates. Significant linkage disequilibrium of fungal SSR loci suggested that both fungal species primarily propagate by clonal growth through plant seeds, whereas variation in genetic diversity and the presence of hybrids in both endophytic species revealed that although clonal propagation was prevalent, occasional recombination might also occur. By comparing genetic differentiation among populations, we found around 4-7-fold greater differentiation of endophyte populations than host populations, implying more restricted gene flow of endophytes than hosts. We proposed that endophyte infection of "A. sibiricum" might confer the host some selective advantages under certain conditions, which could help to maintain high-endophyte-infection frequencies in host populations, even when their gene flows do not match each other.Furthermore, we suggested that the same genotype of endophyte as well as host should be confirmed if the objective of the study is to know the influence of endophyte or host genotype on their symbiotic relationship, instead of just considering whether the plant is infected by an endophyte or not, since endophytes from the same host species could exhibit high levels of genetic diversity, which is likely to influence the outcome of their symbiotic relationship.
27770592|The diversity and dynamics of the denitrifying genes (nirS, nirK, and nosZ) encoding nitrite reductase and nitrous oxide (N2O) reductase in the dairy cattle manure composting process were investigated. A mixture of dried grass with a cattle manure compost pile and a mature compost-added pile were used, and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis was used for denitrifier community analysis. The diversity of nirK and nosZ genes significantly changed in the initial stage of composting. These variations might have been induced by the high temperature. The diversity of nirK was constant after the initial variation. On the other hand, the diversity of nosZ changed in the latter half of the process, a change which might have been induced by the accumulation of nitrate and nitrite. The nirS gene fragments could not be detected. The use of mature compost that contains nitrate and nitrite promoted the N2O emission and significantly affected the variation of nosZ diversity in the initial stage of composting, but did not affect the variation of nirK diversity. Many Pseudomonaslike nirK and nosZ gene fragments were detected in the stage in which N2O was actively emitted.
4251679|To determine the effects of environmental changes on stream bacterial populations, assemblage- and population-level measurements were compared between an anthropogenically disturbed stream and an undisturbed reference stream during different seasons. Physical and chemical variables monitored at two disturbed sites from a stream affected by multiple environmental perturbations confirmed discernibly different water quality from three reference sites: two from an adjacent, undisturbed watershed and one from the headwaters of the polluted stream. Assemblage-level variables, including total number of bacteria, colony forming units, and number of Bacteria from in situ hybridization revealed only one statistically significant difference between disturbed and undisturbed sites. Population-level changes of three bacterial species, Burkholderia cepacia, Pseudomonas putida, and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, were determined by colony hybridization with rDNA probes. Abundance of culturable A. calcoaceticus was higher at disturbed sites in November and February; B. cepacia and P. putida did not exhibit pollution-associated responses. In contrast, in situ hybridization indicated that there was more A. calcoaceticus at the reference sites in November and April, suggesting that culturability of the species increased at disturbed sites. To determine if differences among sites were attributable to changes in water quality among the streams, three bacterial strains isolated from the disturbed stream were grown for 64 h in flasks in water from disturbed and reference sites. As observed in the stream, A. calcoaceticus numbers increased in polluted stream water after an initial lag period of approximately 24 h. Our results indicate that although assemblage-level measurements of bacterial communities did not reflect environmental differences among sites, A. calcoaceticus population sizes differed between disturbed and reference sites, suggesting that anthropogenic disturbance can alter some bacterial populations and not others.
4251431|To develop a better understanding of the ecological aspects of microbial biodegradation, it is important to assess the phenotypic and biochemical diversity of xenobiotic degrading organisms. Forty-six bacterial isolates capable of degrading 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and representing several geographically distinct locations were characterized and placed into taxonomic groups based on the results of several independent analyses. The isolates were characterized based on Gram's reaction, colony morphology, cell morphology, fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) fingerprints, carbon substrate oxidation patterns (BIOLOG), DNA homology to whole-plasmid probes and repetitive extragenic palindromic (REP) fingerprints. Attempts to group organisms taxonomically based on colony morphology and cell morphology were largely unsuccessful. Both FAME and BIOLOG analyses were generally unable to provide reliable genus or species identifications of these environmental isolates by comparison of fingerprints or substrate use patterns to existing data bases. Modification of the standard protocols for these analyses, however, allowed taxonomic grouping of the isolates and the construction of new data bases, comprised solely of 2,4-D-degrading organisms, against which future novel isolates can be compared. Independent cluster analysis of the FAME and BIOLOG data shows that the isolates can be segregated into five taxonomic classes. The collection of 2,4-D-degrading isolates was also separated into five classes based on DNA homology to whole-plasmid probes obtained from individual isolates. REP analysis allowed isolates that likely represent the same (or very similar) organism(s) to be identified and grouped. Each of the analyses used represents a mechanistically different means of classifying organisms, yet the taxonomic groupings obtained by several of the methods (FAME, BIOLOG, DNA homology, and to some degree, REP analysis) were in good agreement. This indicates that the features discriminated by these different methods represent fundamental characteristics that determine phylogenetic groups of bacteria.
4250902| The bacterioplankton assemblage in Lake Kinneret, Israel, sampled on 6 occasions representative of different seasonal conditions was studied with scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and epifluorescence microscopy after acridine-orange staining. In near-surface (1-3 m) samples taken in October 1981 and March 1983, several unusual types of budding, appendaged, and filamentous cells were found. During lake stratification, typical large anaerobic forms (including photosynthetic green sulphur bacteria) were observed in samples from the metalimnion and deep (40 m) hypolimnion. Epifluorescence counts indicated that bacteria in the water column ranged from 0.55 to 2.67  10
25153461|In the semiarid Mediterranean regions, water scarcity represents a common physiological stress for microbial communities residing in river sediments. However, the effect of drying has not yet adequately been evaluated when analyzing riverine microbiological processes. The bacterial community structure (abundance, biomass, composition) and functioning (carbon production, live cell percentage) were assessed during experimental desiccation in microcosms with sediments from different Mediterranean temporary rivers (Tagliamento, Krathis, Mulargia, Pardiela). Our results showed that the overall responses to drying of the bacterial community were independent from sediment origin and strictly related to water content. During desiccation, a prompt decline (up to 100%) of the initial bacterial carbon production was followed by a slower decrease in abundance and biomass, with an overall reduction of 74% and 78%, respectively. By the end of the experiment, live cells were still abundant but depressed in their main metabolic functions, thus resulting in a drastic increase in the community turnover time. Only 14% of the initial live cell biomass was available in dry sediments to immediately start the reactivation of the aquatic microbial food web after the arrival of new water. Community composition analysis showed a relative increase in alpha-and beta-Proteobacteria, when passing from wet to dry conditions. Our results suggest that the occurrence of drought events could affect carbon cycling through the freshwater microbial compartment, by temporarily limiting microbial mineralization and altering bacterial community structure.
25153300| The River Warnow is the drinking water source for the city of Rostock. Its eutrophic status is accompanied by high amounts of bacteria, which may reach up to 24  10 cells mL as recorded during a seasonal study in 2002. Because the river is eutrophic and also heavily loaded with organic matter, this burden is a problem for drinking water purification, as it must be removed completely to not trigger new bacterial growth in the pipeline network. Therefore, restoration measures in the river have to be planned, and bacteria have to be favored as decomposers. That includes the investigation of the physiological state of bacteria in situ. Viable and active cells in the lower reaches of River Warnow were estimated using a broad set of methods. Intact bacteria were investigated by the LIVE/DEAD BacLight bacterial viability kit, containing a mixture of permeant and impermeant nucleic acid stains. Cells with ribosomes were visualized by fluorescence in situ hybridization with the EUB338 oligonucleotide probe. Intact cells and ribosome-containing bacteria represented 24% of total numbers stained by 46,-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) or 66 and 62%, respectively, in relation to all bacteria visualized by the LIVE/DEAD kit. Both fractions were considered as viable, although the fraction of RIB + bacteria is most likely underestimated by the protocol applied. 5-Cyano-2,3-ditolyltetrazolium chloride (CTC) was applied to mark respiring bacteria. The esterase substrate CellTracker Green 5-chloromethylfluorescein diacetate showed cells with intracellular hydrolytic activity. Whereas 1.5% of DAPI-stained bacteria were observed as respiring, 3.8% exhibited intracellular hydrolytic activity on average. If these active fractions were calculated as the percentages of intact cells, much higher fractions of 5.4% were respiring and 16% hydrolytic. Temperature was a main factor influencing total and viable cell numbers simultaneously. The results confirm that there are different states of viable and active cells in natural bacterioplankton communities. However, it remains unclear why fractions of viable and active cells were rather low in this eutrophic river in comparison to similar waters. We recommend to carefully address cells as viable in contrast to nonviable, i.e., dead. As viable cells may be active or inactive with respect to many different activities, e.g., substrate uptake, respiration, hydrolysis, and cell deviation, it is necessary to choose the method to visualize active cells according to the question to be answered. 
41489078|Examining the relationship between biodiversity and functional stability (resistance and resilience) of activated sludge bacterial communities following disturbance is an important first step towards developing strategies for the design of robust biological wastewater treatment systems. This study investigates the relationship between functional resistance and biodiversity of dominant bacterial taxa by subjecting activated sludge samples, with different levels of biodiversity, to toxic shock loading with cupric sulfate (Cu[II]), 3,5-dichlorophenol (3,5-DCP), or 4-nitrophenol (4-NP). Respirometric batch experiments were performed to determine the functional resistance of activated sludge bacterial community to the three toxicants. Functional resistance was estimated as the 30 min IC or the concentration of toxicant that results in a 50% reduction in oxygen utilization rate compared to a referential state represented by a control receiving no toxicant. Biodiversity of dominant bacterial taxa was assessed using polymerase chain reaction-terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-T-RFLP) targeting the 16S ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) gene. Statistical analysis of 30 min IC values and PCR-T-RFLP data showed a significant positive correlation (P< 0.05) between functional resistance and microbial diversity for each of the three toxicants tested. To our knowledge, this is the first study showing a positive correlation between biodiversity of dominant bacterial taxa in activated sludge and functional resistance. In this system, activated sludge bacterial communities with higher biodiversity are functionally more resistant to disturbance caused by toxic shock loading.
4250977| The formation of microbial mats by thermophilic organisms on submerged rocks in radioactive thermal springs was followed quantitatively in situ as well as under experimental conditions, by determining the change in dry weight and organic matter as a function of time. Furthermore, the decay of the rock occurring in the springs could be shown to be directly related to the microbial colonization. Early in that process the formation of silicious gels, facilitating the settling of the organisms, could be observed. Simultaneously, this was accompanied by the leaching of silica from the underlying rock. This resulted in the destruction of the rock, which had been altered to a fine-grained dust underneath the colonizing mats; the microorganisms were found to move further downward within this layer. From the heavy metals present in the rock-iron (Fe), copper (Cu), manganese (Mn), uranium (U)- the leaching of uranium could be demonstrated, leading to the acquisition of this metal in the microbial mats in concentrations up to 15.34 g/mg dry weight. Direct evidence for the leaching of Si (silicon) and U could be obtained by measurement of these elements after their release from ground rock chips in cultures with microorganisms from the hot springs at 50C. X-ray analysis of the biomats strongly suggested that Cu, Mn, and Fe are also accumulated. 
23468249|Nasal swabs of 100 healthy dogs were obtained in 2011 in Tunisia and tested for Staphylococcus pseudintermedius recovery. Antimicrobial resistance profile and virulence gene content were determined. Multilocus-sequence-typing (MLST) and SmaI-pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) were investigated. S. pseudintermedius was recovered in 55 of the 100 tested samples (55 %), and one isolate per sample was further studied. All 55 S. pseudintermedius isolates were susceptible to methicillin (MSSP) but showed resistance to the following antimicrobials (% resistant isolates/resistance gene): penicillin (56/4/blaZ), tetracycline (40/tetM), trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (23.7), fusidic acid (9), kanamycin (3.7/aph(3)-Ia), erythromycin-clindamycin (1.8/erm(B)), streptomycin (1.8/ant(6)-Ia), chloramphenicol (1.8) and ciprofloxacin (1.8). The following toxin genes were identified (% of isolates): lukS/F-I (98.2), expA (5.5), se-int (98.2), sec canine (1.8), siet (100), sea (5.5), seb (3.6), sec (10.9), sed (54.5), sei (5.5), sej (29.1), sek (3.6), ser (9.1), and hlg v (38.2). Ten different sequence-types were detected among 11 representative MSSP isolates: ST20, ST44, ST69, ST70, ST78, ST100, ST108, ST160, ST161, and ST162, the last three ones revealing novel alleles or allele combinations. Eleven different PFGE-patterns were identified in these isolates. The nares of healthy dogs could be a reservoir of antimicrobial resistant and virulent MSSP, highlighting the presence of the recently described exfoliating gene expA and several enterotoxin genes.
25256115|Vibrio cholerae, the etiologic agent of cholera, is autochthonous to various aquatic environments. Recently, it was found that chironomid (nonbiting midges) egg masses serve as a reservoir for the cholera bacterium and that flying chironomid adults are possible windborne carriers of V. cholerae non-O1 non-O139. Chironomids are the most widely distributed insect in freshwater. Females deposit egg masses at the water's edge, and each egg mass contains eggs embedded in a gelatinous matrix. Hemagglutinin/protease, an extracellular enzyme of V. cholerae, was found to degrade chironomid egg masses and to prevent them from hatching. In a yearly survey, chironomid populations and the V. cholerae in their egg masses followed phenological succession and interaction of host-pathogen population dynamics. In this report, it is shown via FISH technique that most of the V. cholerae inhabiting the egg mass are in the viable but non-culturable (VBNC) state. The diversity of culturable bacteria from chironomid egg masses collected from two freshwater habitats was determined. In addition to V. cholerae, representatives of the following genera were isolated: Acinetobacter, Aeromonas, Klebsiella, Shewanella, Pseudomonas, Paracoccus, Exiguobacterium, and unidentified bacteria. Three important human pathogens, Aeromonas veronii, A. caviae, and A. hydrophila, were isolated from chironomid egg masses, indicating that chironomid egg masses may be a natural reservoir for pathogenic Aeromonas species in addition to V. cholerae. All isolates of V. cholerae were capable of degrading chironomid egg masses. This may help explain their host-pathogen relationship with chironomids. In contrast, almost none of the other bacteria that were isolated from the egg masses possessed this ability. Studying the interaction between chironomid egg masses, the bacteria inhabiting them, and V. cholerae could contribute to our understanding of the nature of the V. cholerae-egg mass interactions.
40343447|Ingestion and growth rates of the nanoflagellate predator Ochromonas danica feeding on the bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens were quantified in laboratory cultures. Bacterial prey were grown under four nutritional conditions with respect to macronutrient elements: Climited, N-limited, P-limited, and balanced. Ingestion and growth rates were saturating functions of prey abundance when preying upon nutritionally balanced, C-limited, and P-limited bacteria but were unimodal functions of abundance when preying on N-limited bacteria. At saturating prey concentrations, the ingestion rate of C-limited prey was about twice that of prey in other nutritional states, while at subsaturating prey concentrations, the ingestion rates of both C-and N-limited prey were higher than those of prey in other nutritional states. Over all prey concentrations, growth was most rapid on balanced and C-limited prey and generally lowest for P-limited prey. Due to the unimodal response of growth rate to abundance of Nlimited prey, growth rate on N-limited prey approached that obtained on balanced and C-limited prey when prey were available at intermediate abundances. The accumulation of recycled N increased with the growth rate of O. danica. Recycling of N was highest when O. danica was feeding upon P-limited prey. The accumulation of recycled P increased with growth rate for balanced and N-limited prey, but not for P-limited prey, which consistently had low accumulation of recycled P. The low growth rate and negligible recycling of P for O. danica preying on P-limited prey is consistent with the theory of ecological stoichiometry and resembles results found for crustacean zooplank- ton, especially in the genus Daphnia. Potentially, the major predators of bacterioplankton and a major predator of phytoplankton play analogous roles in the trophic dynamics and biogeochemistry of aquatic ecosystems.
40926429|The effect of the location of wheat residues (soil surface vs. incorporated in soil) on their decomposition and on soil bacterial communities was investigated by the means of a field experiment. Bacterial-automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis of DNA extracts from residues, detritusphere (soil adjacent to residues), and bulk soil evidenced that residues constitute the zone of maximal changes in bacterial composition. However, the location of the residues influenced greatly their decomposition and the dynamics of the colonizing bacterial communities. Sequencing of 16S rRNA gene in DNA extracts from the residues at the early, middle, and late stages of degradation confirmed the difference of composition of the bacterial community according to the location. Bacteria belonging to the -subgroup of proteobacteria were stimulated when residues were incorporated whereas the -subgroup was stimulated when residues were left at the soil surface. Moreover, Actinobacteria were more represented when residues were left at the soil surface. According to the ecological attributes of the populations identified, our results suggested that climatic fluctuations at the soil surface select populations harboring enhanced catabolic and/or survival capacities whereas residues characteristics likely constitute the main determinant of the composition of the bacterial community colonizing incorporated residues.
41412390|Diversity of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) species has been analyzed for three consecutive years (2006, 2007, and 2008) during alcoholic and malolactic fermentations of Tempranillo wine in a winery at La Rioja. The results showed differences in malolactic fermentation duration, and in both diversity of LAB species and diversity of Oenococcus oeni genotypes. O. oeni was shown to be the predominant species (73% of total isolates). Monitoring the different strains of O. oeni using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis of chromosomal DNA digested with Sfil and Apal allowed detection of a total of 37 distinct genotypes, most of them comprised at least two isolates. Six appeared in more than one vintage, one of them being present in the three studied years. Moreover, four genotypes were indistinct of the strains isolated from the air of this same winery in 2007 vintage. The frequency of participation of each genotype varied from year to year, thus dominant genotypes at one year were minority or not present at another year. This suggests that distinct indigenous O. oeni strains are better adapted to the different winery conditions every year. Predominant genotypes that appeared in more than one vintage and lead to quality wines with low histamine contents could be considered as interesting for selecting of new malolactic starter cultures.
25153473| Eastern Mediterranean sediments are characterized by the periodic occurrence of conspicuous, organic matter-rich sapropel layers. Phylogenetic analysis of a large culture collection isolated from these sediments revealed that about one third of the isolates belonged to the genus Photobacterium. In the present study, 22 of these strains were examined with respect to their phylogenetic and metabolic diversity. The strains belonged to two distinct Photobacterium populations (Mediterranean cluster I and II). Strains of cluster I were isolated almost exclusively from organic-rich sapropel layers and were closely affiliated with P. aplysiae (based on their 16S rRNA gene sequences). They possessed almost identical Enterobacterial Repetitive Intergenic Consensus (ERIC) and substrate utilization patterns, even among strains from different sampling sites or from layers differing up to 100,000 years in age. Strains of cluster II originated from sapropels and from the surface and carbon-lean intermediate layers. They were related to Photobacterium frigidiphilum but differed significantly in their fingerprint patterns and substrate spectra, even when these strains were obtained from the same sampling site and layer. Temperature range for growth (4 to 33C), salinity tolerance (5 to 100), pH requirements (5.5-9.3), and the composition of polar membrane lipids were similar for both clusters. All strains grew by fermentation (glucose, organic acids) and all but five by anaerobic respiration (nitrate, dimethyl sulfoxide, anthraquinone disulfonate, or humic acids). These results indicate that the genus Photobacterium forms subsurface populations well adapted to life in the deep biosphere. 
40802281|Black yeast members of the Herpotrichiellaceae present a complex ecological behavior: They are often isolated from rather extreme environments polluted with aromatic hydrocarbons, while they are also regularly involved in human opportunistic infections. A selective technique to promote the in vitro growth of herpotrichiellaceous fungi was applied to investigate their ecophysiology. Samples from natural ecological niches and man-made environments that might contain black yeasts were enriched on an inert solid support at low humidity and under a controlled atmosphere rich in volatile aromatic hydrocarbons. Benzene, toluene, and xylene were provided separately as the sole carbon and energy source via the gas phase. The assayed isolation protocol was highly specific toward mesophilic Exophiala species (70 strains of this genus out of 71 isolates). Those were obtained predominantly from creosote-treated railway ties (53 strains), but isolates were also found on wild berries (11 strains) and in guano-rich soil samples (six strains). Most of the isolates were obtained on toluene (43 strains), but enrichments on xylene and benzene also yielded herpotrichiellaceous fungi (17 and 10 isolates, respectively). Based upon morphological characterizations and DNA sequences of the full internal transcriber spacers (ITS) and the 8.5S rRNA genes, the majority of the obtained isolates were affiliated to the recently described species Exophiala xenobiotica (32 strains) and Exophiala bergeri (nine strains). Members of two other phylogenetic groups (24 and two strains, respectively) somewhat related to E. bergeri were also found, and a last group (three strains) corresponded to an undescribed Exophiala species.
25153319|Bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus) in Lake Biwa, Japan, feed on benthic invertebrates (benthivorous type), aquatic plants (herbivorous type), and zooplankton (planktivorous type). To evaluate the effect of food on intestinal bacterial microbiota, we characterized and compared the intestinal microbiota of these three types of bluegill in terms of community-level physiological profile (CLPP) and genetic structure. The CLPP was analyzed using Biolog MicroPlates (Biolog, Inc., Hayward, CA, USA), and multivariate analysis of variance revealed that the CLPP of intestinal microbiota differed significantly between any pairs of the three types of bluegill. The genetic profiles were analyzed by temperature gradient gel electrophoresis of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified 16S rDNA fragments, and multidimensional scaling indicated the existence of specific intestinal bacterial structures for both the benthivorous and the planktivorous types. These results suggest that the host's feeding habit can be one factor controlling the intestinal microbiota of fish in the natural environment.
25153206|An apparent paradox exists in the ecology of Antarctic lichens: their net photosynthetic temperature optimum (around 0C) lies far below the temperature optima of their constituent algae and fungi (around 20C). To address this paradox, we consider lichens as microbial communities and propose the "community adaptation" hypothesis, which posits that in each thermal regime there is an equilibrium between photosynthetic primary producers (photobionts), and heterotrophic consumers (mycobiont and parasymbiont fungi). This equilibrium, expressed as the producer/consumer ratio
4251825|The microenvironment and community composition of microbial mats developing on beaches in Scapa Flow (Orkney Islands) were investigated. Analysis of characteristic biomarkers (major fatty acids, hydrocarbons, alcohols, and alkenones) revealed the presence of different groups of bacteria and microalgae in mats from Waulkmill and Swanbister beach, including diatoms, Haptophyceae, cyanobacteria, and sulfate-reducing bacteria. These analyses also indicated the presence of methanogens, especially in Swanbister beach mats, and therefore a possible role of methanogenesis for the carbon cycle of these sediments. High amounts of algal lipids and slightly higher numbers (genera, abundances) of cyanobacteria were found in Waulkmill Bay mats. However, overall only a few genera and low numbers of unicellular and filamentous cyanobacteria were present in mats from Waulkmill and Swanbister beach, as deduced from CLSM (confocal laser scanning microscopy) analysis. Spectral scalar irradiance measurements with fiber-optic microprobes indicated a pronounced heterogeneity concerning zonation and density of mainly anoxygenic phototrophs in Swanbister Bay mats. By microsensor and T-RFLP (terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism) analysis in Swanbister beach mats, the depth distribution of different populations of purple and sulfate-reducing bacteria could be related to the microenvironmental conditions. Oxygen, but also sulfide and other (inorganic and organic) sulfur compounds, seems to play an important role in the stratification and diversity of these two major bacterial groups involved in sulfur cycling in Swanbister beach mats.
40343375|To determine whether the diversity of pyrenedegrading bacteria in an aged polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-contaminated soil is affected by the addition of inorganic nutrients or by slurrying the soil, various incubation conditions (all including phosphate buffer) were examined by mineralization studies and stable-isotope probing (SIP). The addition of nitrogen to either continuously mixed slurry or static field-wet soil incubations increased the rate and extent of mineralization of [C] pyrene, with the most rapid mineralization observed in slurried, nitrogen-amended soil. Microcosms of slurry and static field-wet soil amended with nitrogen were also examined by SIP with [U-C] pyrene. Recovered Cenriched deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was analyzed by denaturing-gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) gene clone libraries. DGGE profiles of C-enriched DNA fractions from both incubation conditions were similar, suggesting that pyrenedegrading bacterial community diversity may be independent of treatment method. The vast majority (67 of 71) of the partial sequences recovered from clone libraries were greater than or equal to 97% similar to one another, 98% similar to sequences of pyrene-degrading bacteria previously detected by SIP with pyrene in different soil, and only 89% similar to the closest cultivated genus. All of the sequences recovered from the field-wet incubation and most of the sequences recovered from the slurry incubation were in this clade. Of the four sequences from slurry incubations not within this clade, three possessed greater than 99% similarity to the 16S rRNA gene sequences of phylogenetically dissimilar Caulobacter spp.
4251152|Measurements of microbial biomass, bacterial numbers, and microbial production were determined for three small woodland streams located in the Adirondack Mountain region of New York State, USA. These streams exhibited spatial and temporal gradients in water pH ranging from a high of 7.0 to a low of 4.5. Twelve sites along these streams were used for comparative analyses of the effects of pH and related water chemistry parameters on the planktonic, sedimentary, and epilithic bacterial communities. The planktonic bacterial communities were not influenced by water pH or related water chemistry parameters. For sedimentary populations, the organic content of the sediment was more important than the chemistry of the overlying water. The epilithic bacterial communities, however, were influenced significantly by the pH of the water column, showing decreased bacterial production at lower pH.
4251402|Intertidal stromatolites, covered by cyanobacterial mats, were recently discovered at Stocking Island, Exuma Cays, Bahamas. Ecophysiological responses ( CO
41489803|Wildfires subject soil microbes to extreme temperatures and modify their physical and chemical habitat. This might immediately alter their community structure and ecosystem functions. We burned a fire-prone shrubland under controlled conditions to investigate (1) the fire-induced changes in the community structure of soil archaea, bacteria and fungi by analysing 16S or 18S rRNA gene amplicons separated through denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis; (2) the physical and chemical variables determining the immediate shifts in the microbial community structure; and (3) the microbial drivers of the change in ecosystem functions related to biogeochemical cycling. Prokaryotes and eukaryotes were structured by the local environment in pre-fire soils. Fire caused a significant shift in the microbial community structure, biomass C, respiration and soil hydrolases. One-day changes in bacterial and fungal community structure correlated to the rise in total organic and NO-N caused by the combustion of plant residues. In the following week, bacterial communities shifted further forced by desiccation and increasing concentrations of macronutrients. Shifts in archaeal community structure were unrelated to any of the 18 environmental variables measured. Fire-induced changes in the community structure of bacteria, rather than archaea or fungi, were correlated to the enhanced microbial biomass, CO production and hydrolysis of C and P organics. This is the first report on the combined effects of fire on the three biological domains in soils. We concluded that immediately after fire the biogeochemical cycling in Mediterranean shrublands becomes less conservative through the increased microbial biomass, activity and changes in the bacterial community structure.
4251557|Intestinal microbiota comprise a complex ecosystem whose equilibrium is crucial for the health of animal species. For humans, data exist on the microbiota composition in adult subjects, but few studies have addressed the microbiota composition in infants. In particular, data on the presence and species distribution of members of the genus Lactobacillus in newborns (less than one week old) are lacking. In the present work, the feces of healthy newborns were sampled to determine the taxonomic composition of Lactobacillus in the intestinal microbiota in a group of 16 neonates. In total, 1640 colony-forming units (CFU) were isolated, of which 420 grouped in the Lactobacillus genus by means of primary phenotypic characterization. The 420 isolates were further grouped into 125 strains on the basis of identical plasmid profiles. Of these 125 strains, 21 turned out to be permanent, i.e., they were identified in the feces of the same subject on several consecutive days. Sugar fermentation, DNA/DNA hybridization, and S-layer protein determination enabled us to classify 52 of the 125 strains as follows: L. paracasei (40 strains), L. delbrueckii sp. (1 strain), and L. acidophilus (sensu stricto) (11 strains). Based on the same criteria, the remaining 73 strains were tentatively allotted to the Johnson subgroup B, although hybridization experiments with probes specific for L. gasseri and L. johnsonii species were not performed. The presence of new species among these 73 strains cannot be excluded. Surprisingly, the obligately heterofermentative lactobacilli, L. reuteri in particular, were entirely absent from the feces of healthy newborns.
4251423|Inter-root movement and dispersion of the beneficial bacterium Azospirillum brasilense were monitored in root systems of wheat seedlings growing in the field and in growth chamber soil trays. Two strains were used, a motile wild-type strain (Cd,
40605871|Using artificial systems to simulate natural lake environments with cyanobacterial blooms, we investigated plankton community succession by polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCRDGGE) fingerprinting and morphological method. With this approach, we explored potential ecological effects of a newly developed cyanobacterial blooms removal method using chitosan-modified soils. Results of PCR-DGGE and morphological identification showed that plankton communities in the four test systems were nearly identical at the beginning of the experiment. After applying the newly developed and standard removal methods, there was a shift in community composition, but neither chemical conditions nor plankton succession were significantly affected by the cyanobacteria removal process. The planted Vallisneria natans successfully recovered after cyanobacteria removal, whereas that in the box without removal process did not. Additionally, canonical correspondence analysis indicated that other than for zooplankton abundance, total phosphorus was the most important environmental predictor of planktonic composition. The present study and others suggest that dealing with cyanobacteria removal using chitosan-modified soils can play an important role in controlling cyanobacterial blooms in eutrophicated freshwater systems.
25153106|The population diversity of cultured isolates of the phylum Bacteroidetes was investigated from salt-marsh sediments. A total of 44 isolates that belonged to this phylum were isolated either from high-dilution plates or from end-dilution most-probable-number (MPN) tubes. The majority of the isolates came from Virginia, with others isolated from salt marshes in Delaware and North Carolina. All the isolates were aerobic Gram-negative, catalase positive small rods that formed uniform colonies; most had either yellow or orange pigmentation. Riboprinting of 40 isolates revealed they were genotypically diverse, consisting of 33 different riboprint patterns; there were four riboprint groups with two or more members. The isolates could be divided into 23 different fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) profiles at the species level with 14 of the profiles being unique to single isolates. One group of 10 isolates was closely related, suggesting this group may be well adapted for life in salt marshes. Thirteen of the isolates were selected for sequencing of the small-subunit ribosomal RNA gene representing a diverse group of isolates that fell within the classes Sphingobacteria and Flavobacteria. Only one of the isolates was &gt;97% similar at the 16S rDNA to a described species of Cytophaga marinoflava; the other isolates were 94 to 96.5% related to undescribed isolates mostly within the class Flavobacteria. There was good concordance between the FAME dendrogram and a phylogenetic tree based on comparison of 16S sequences. There were no obvious temporal or spatial distribution patterns to the isolates, suggesting that this group of bacteria is inherently diverse.
4251630| Artificial bacterial biofilms were formed by making microwave-irradiated, dual-radioisotope-labelled Vibrio bacteria adhere to 0.4 m pore size filters with albumin. The rate of release of
4250700|Tidal fluctuations and transports of total microbial biomass (measured as adenosine triphosphate [ATP]) were investigated at three marsh creeks comprising the major transfer points between the North Inlet marsh and the adjoining aquatic ecosystems. Two creeks, Town Creek and North Jones Creek, form the inlet mouth and are the only marsh-ocean exchange points. The third creek, South Jones Creek, connects to a brackish water embayment. The creeks were simultaneously sampled every 1.5 hours for 50 consecutive hours during neap tides (four tidal cycles) and 50 consecutive hours during spring tides of each season. At the inlet, ATP concentration fluctuated in phase with the tide during winter and fall and out of phase with the tide during the spring. Fluctuation patterns at South Jones Creek were irregular. The highest ATP concentrations were during the spring (mean = 2.17 mg of ATP per m
23597807|We examined the potential long-term impacts of riparian plant diversity loss on diversity and activity of aquatic microbial decomposers. Microbial assemblages were obtained in a mixed-forest stream by immersion of mesh bags containing three leaf species (alder, oak and eucalyptus), commonly found in riparian corridors of Iberian streams. Simulation of species loss was done in microcosms by including a set of all leaf species, retrieved from the stream, and non-colonized leaves of three, two or one leaf species. Leaves were renewed every month throughout six months, and microbial inoculum was ensured by a set of colonized leaves from the previous month. Microbial diversity, leaf mass loss and fungal biomass were assessed at the second and sixth months after plant species loss. Molecular diversity of fungi and bacteria, as the total number of operational taxonomic units per leaf diversity treatment, decreased with leaf diversity loss. Fungal biomass tended to decrease linearly with leaf species loss on oak and eucalyptus, suggesting more pronounced effects of leaf diversity on lower quality leaves. Decomposition of alder and eucalyptus leaves was affected by leaf species identity, mainly after longer times following diversity loss. Leaf decomposition of alder decreased when mixed with eucalyptus, while decomposition of eucalyptus decreased in mixtures with oak. Results suggest that the effects of leaf diversity on microbial decomposers depended on leaf species number and also on which species were lost from the system, especially after longer times. This may have implications for the management of riparian forests to maintain stream ecosystem functioning.
4251495|The hypothesis that the microbially catalyzed pathway proceeds with a step that would yield the highest energy was examined for the reductive dechlorination of chloroanilines (CAs) under anaerobic conditions. The Gibbs free energy of formation was estimated with Benson's method, then the redox potentials were determined using an
4287682|Rhizoremediation has been suggested as an attractive bioremediation strategy for the effective breakdown of pollutants in soil. The presence of plant root exudates such as organic acids, sugars, and amino acids that may serve as carbon sources or biosynthetic building blocks and the limited bioavailability of iron may influence the degradation of pollutants in the rhizosphere. To test the effect of such compounds on hydrocarbon degradation, trace concentrations of yeast extract or mixtures of organic acids and amino acids were added to continuous cultures of Pseudomonas putida mt2 and P. putida WCS358 (TOL) growing on toluene. By addition of these compounds increased growth yields and higher specific growth rates on toluene were obtained. The effects of iron limitation on the substrate utilization pattern of both strains were tested by growing the strains on a mixture of toluene and the readily degradable carbon source citrate while the iron concentration was varied. Simultaneous use of both substrates under carbon-limited as well as iron-limited conditions was observed. Growth yields were less reduced and iron requirement was lower during iron-limited growth in the toluene + citrate grown cultures compared to cultures in which toluene was used as the sole carbon source. The kinetic properties of the cells for toluene degradation were less hampered by the lack of iron when citrate was used as an additional carbon source. The results indicate that the availability of low concentrations of natural organic compounds, such as produced in the rhizosphere, may positively influence the degradative performance of hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria.
4251375|The microbial loop in flowing waters is dependent on allochthonous sources of carbon, which vary in quality. The proportion of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) that can be degraded ranges from <1 to over 50%, and the bioavailability of DOC (micrograms bacterial biomass produced per milligram DOC present) ranges over two orders of magnitude. Bioavailability of DOC is predictable from the ratio of H/C and O/C of the DOC, but further work is needed to develop simple predictors of bioavailability of DOC in a range of environments. Consumers of bacteria in streams range in size from protists to insect larvae, with highest rates of bacterial consumption found among the meiofauna and certain filter feeders and grazers. Because there appear to be fewer trophic transfers in the lotic microbial loop, it functions more as a link in flowing waters than it appears to do in the marine plankton.
4250471|Enrichment cultures were prepared with different media for phototrophic bacteria from four species of marine sponges, collected from oxic coastal waters near Split (Yugoslavia). We obtained pure cultures of six strains of Chromatiaceae and two strains of Rhodospirillaceae by agar shake dilution. The Rhodospirillaceae were identified as Rhodopseudomonas sulfidophila and a marine form of Rhodopseudomonas palustris. The Chromatiaceae were identified as Chromatium vinosum, Chromatium gracile, Chromatium minutissimum. Ectothiorhodospira mobilis, and a Chromatium species, which in some respects resembles Chromatium minus. The occurrence of strictly anaerobic phototrophic bacteria in aerobic sponges is discussed with respect to nutrition and possible syntrophism.
41489042|Biofumigation (BIOF) is carried out mainly by the incorporation of brassica plant parts into the soil, and this fumigation activity has been linked to their high glucosinolate (GSL) content. GSLs are hydrolyzed by the endogenous enzyme myrosinase to release isothiocyanates (ITCs). A microcosm study was conducted to investigate the effects induced on the soil microbial community by the incorporation of broccoli residues into soil either with (BM) or without (B) added myrosinase and of chemical fumigation, either as soil application of 2-phenylethyl ITC (PITC) or metham sodium (MS). Soil microbial activity was evaluated by measuring fluorescein diacetate hydrolysis and soil respiration. Effects on the structure of the total microbial community were assessed by phospholipid fatty acid analysis, while the impact on important fungal (ascomycetes (ASC)) and bacterial (ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB)) guilds was evaluated by denaturating gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Overall, B, and to a lesser extent BM, stimulated microbial activity and biomass. The diminished effect of BM compared to  was particularly evident in fungi and Gram-negative bacteria and was attributed to rapid ITC release following the myrosinase treatment. PITC did not have a significant effect, whereas an inhibitory effect was observed in the MS-treated soil. DGGE analysis showed that the ASC community was temporarily altered by BIOF treatments and more persistently by the MS treatment, while the structure of the AOB community was not affected by the treatments. Cloning of the ASC community showed that MS application had a deleterious effect on potential plant pathogens like Fusarium, Nectria, and Cladosporium compared to BIOF treatments which did not appear to inhibit them. Our findings indicate that BIOF induces changes on the structure and function of the soil microbial community that are mostly related to microbial substrate availability changes derived from the soil amendment with fresh organic materials.
25153177|Cryptococcus neoformans, the etiological agent of cryptococcosis, has been associated with avian droppings and certain trees in different countries, including Colombia. C neoformans environmental isolates were obtained in urban areas in Bogot, Colombia, and the strains recovered were phenotypically characterized. Attempts to determine the ecological conditions (micro- and macroclimatic) possibly related to their habitat were also undertaken. Four hundred and eighty samples from bark, soil around trunk bases, and detritus inside hollows of 32 trees were collected in three urban areas during a 5-month period, as well as 89 avian droppings samples from different places. Of plant samples, 6.7% collected from nine tree species yielded C. neoformans var. gattii, serotype B strains in 99% of the cases, and C. neoformans var. grubii, serotype A in 1%. The yeast was more frequently recovered from bark than from soil or detritus inside hollows, and from trees with hollows or rotted wood rather than from trees in which birds nest. C. neoformans was present with higher frequency and density in the rainy season than in the dry season; we found that slightly higher temperature and humidity values of the microhabitat, as compared to those of the environment, favored fungal occurrence, but the phenological state of the tree did not. Of dropping samples, 7.9% yielded C. neoformans strains, all of them C. neoformans var. grubii, serotype A. The yeast was obtained more frequently from dry droppings than from moist ones, but neither the sunlight exposure nor the site of collection of samples was correlated with this occurrence. Population density was significantly higher in droppings than in tree samples. Under laboratory conditions, isolates of different serotype showed similar capsular sizes. Water content and pH ranges were wide and did not show any significant difference between positive and negative samples.
25153154| A field experiment was carried out to assess the effectiveness of the addition of sugar beet, rock phosphate, and Aspergillus niger directly into the planting hole, and the mycorrhizal inoculation of seedlings with Scleroderma verrucosum, for promotion of plant growth of Cistus albidus L. and Quercus coccifera L. and enhancement of soil physicochemical, biochemical, and biological properties, in a degraded semiarid Mediterranean area. One year after planting, the available phosphorus content in the amended soils of both species was about fourfold higher than in the nonamended soil. Amendment addition increased the aggregate stability of the rhizosphere of C. albidus (by 56% with respect to control soil) while the mycorrhizal inoculation increased only the aggregate stability of the rhizosphere of Q. coccifera (by 13% with respect to control soil). Biomass C content and enzyme activities (dehydrogenase, urease, protease-BAA, acid phosphatase, and -glucosidase) of the rhizosphere of C. albidus were increased by amendment addition but not by mycorrhizal inoculation. Both treatments increased enzyme activities of the rhizosphere of Q. coccifera. The mycorrhizal inoculation of the seedlings with S. verrucosum was the most effective treatment for stimulating the growth of C. albidus (by 469% with respect to control plants) and Q. coccifera (by 74% with respect to control plants). The combined treatment, involving mycorrhizal inoculation of seedlings and addition of the amendment directly into soil, had no additive effect on the growth of either shrub species. 
40343435|In search for microbiological indicators of coral health and coral diseases, community profiles of coralassociated epizoic prokaryotes were investigated because of their dual potential as a source of coral pathogens and their antagonists. In pairwise samples of visually healthy and diseased coral specimens from Bolinao Bay (Pangasinan, Philippines), mixed biofilm communities of ectoderm-and mucus-colonizing epizoic prokaryotes were compared using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). Oligonucleotide probes targeted 13 phylotypes representing the main taxonomic groups of marine prokaryotes. Coral taxa tended to show specific community profiles. An attempt to separate the profiles of healthy and diseased specimens by applying principal component analysis (PCA) to a (nonselective) collection of corals (affected by various diseases) proved unsuccessful. On the other hand, separate PCA clusters were obtained from healthy and diseased corals belonging to a single species (Pocillopora damicornis) only. This cluster formation was dominated by principal component 1 with the genus Vibrio accounting for 18%. At the same time, reef-site-specific clusters were formed as well. At a reef site exposed to pollution from intensive fish cage {Chanos chanos) farming, healthy P. damicornis were mainly (93%) colonized by unicellular cyanobacteria. The formal calculation of diversity parameters suggested that evenness in particular was driven by both health status and reef site location. Despite the low resolution of taxonomic levels achieved with FISH probes targeting only large phylotype groups, significant differences between healthy and diseased corals and also between polluted and nonpolluted reef sites were observed.
4250885| This study examined the importance of zooplankton in the flux of dissolved free amino acids (DFAA) in the water and into bacteria. DFAA release rates were followed in laboratory grazing experiments using Daphnia galeata and Eudiaptomus graciloides as grazers, and Scenedesmus acutus and Synechococcus elongatus as food sources. Except for minor initial peaks, DFAAs were released continuously during the first 2 hours and made up 6-12% (in one experiment 50%) of the calculated ingestion rates. During three diel studies in lakes, effects of removal and increase of the density of zooplankton (>200 m) on the pools of DFAA as well as on the bacterial production were followed. During two of the diel studies, higher DFAA pools were measured when 3-4 times the natural zooplankton density was present, and in one study a minor increase also occurred in the bacterial production, compared with results from experiments without zooplankton and with a natural zooplankton density. The increase in bacterial growth coincided with a decline in DFAA. During the third study, neither DFAA nor the bacterial production changed significantly when the zooplankton density was increased 3 times. Removal of zooplankton, however, caused a decline in both DFAA and bacterial production. Our data suggest a close relationship between occurrence of zooplankton and release of DFAA, but the factors regulating the amount of DFAA released and its effect on bacterial growth are not yet understood. 
25256240|The study reports the effects on volatiles of an endophytic fungus inhabiting asymptomatically the leaves of peppermint. By means of headspace solid-phase micro-extraction (HS-SPME) and gaschromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) terpenoids were sampled in time course from the head space of peppermint leaves and roots. After removal of the mycelium from peppermint tissues, fungal volatiles were analyzed and compared with those of pure fungal cultures. In the presence of the endophyte, the relative amount of all main compounds increased in leaves. Starting from the first 14 d of culture, (-)-menthone and (+)-neomenthol were consistently higher than in control plants. On the contrary, (+)-menthofuran increased only by 28 d of culture. Root volatiles were also dramatically altered by the presence of the fungus, with (+)-pulegone accounting for at least 44% of the total volatile emission. (+)-Pulegone was also the main compound of PGP-HSF mycelium isolated from peppermint roots. The sesquiterpenoid cuparene was found as a novel compound of peppermint leaf headspace and was a main volatile of ex planta and pure culture mycelia. The chemical spectrum of terpenoids and their distribution among peppermint roots, leaves, and mycelia are likely to account for a fine regulation of the mutualism in planta and for the acquisition by the fungus of novel metabolic competences.
4250978| The growth characteristics of small (0.2-1.0 m) and large (1.0-3.0 m) free-living and attached bacteria were studied in Lake Constance by comparing the spatial and seasonal dynamics of their biomass turnover time (ratio of biomass/production). The biomass of small free-living bacteria usually turned over significantly faster than that of large free-living bacteria throughout the water column. The turnover of attached bacterial biomass was characterized by large fluctuations. Occasionally, in aphotic water layers, it was as long as that of large free-living bacteria, but when large amounts of decaying organic particles were present, it was shorter than that of small free-living cells. Biomass turnover times of free-living bacteria were in the same range as their generation times, which were estimated from the increase in bacterial abundance in 3 m prefiltered samples. The biomass turnover time of actively metabolizing bacteria was comparable to the generation time of actively metabolizing cells. These results indicate that the biomass turnover time is a useful indicator of the growth of different bacterial fractions, as it reflects their different amounts of participation in microbial processes of aquatic ecosystems. 
41692868|Bacterial translocation and the development of sepsis after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) may be promoted by immunological damage to the intestinal mucosa or by quantitative and qualitative changes in intestinal microbiota. This study monitored structural shifts of gut microbiota in rats with OLT using PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). RT-qPCR targets six major microorganisms (Domain Bacteria, Bacteroides, Bifidobacteria, Enterobacteriaceae, Lactobacillus and Clostridium leptum subgroup). Isograft, Allograft and Sham model were studied. Bacterial translocation to host organs and plasma endotoxin were determined. Alteration in gut microbiota was associated with the elevation of plasma endotoxin and a higher rate of bacterial translocation (BT) to liver in rats with acute rejection. Dynamic analysis of DGGE fingerprints showed that the gut microbiota structure of animals in the three groups was similar before the operation. But significant alterations in the composition of fecal microbiota in Allograft group were observed at 1 and 2 weeks after the OLT. The acute rejection was accompanied by the shifts of gut microbiota towards members of Bacteroides and Ruminococcus. Results from RT-qPCR indicated that Bacteroides significantly increased at 2 weeks after the OLT, whereas numbers of Bifidobacterium spp. decreased at 1 week and recovered at 2 weeks after the OLT. In summary, our data showed that rats with acute rejection after OLT exhibited significant structure shifts in the gut microbiota which dominant by overgrowth of Bacteroides and Ruminococcus, and these were associated with elevation of plasma endotoxin and higher rate of BT.
4250704|The establishment and proliferation of a model population of autochthonous surface-associated microorganisms in the small bowel of growing rats (2-12 weeks of age) was studied. Segmented filamentous bacteria on the distal ileal villi were examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and counted in situ by transect line analysis. In young animals, these bacteria first colonized the villous base, but occupied all areas on the villus by adult age. Their distribution on Peyer's patches was also noted. In growing animals, colonization of the ileal villi by filamentous bacteria was significantly correlated to the development of host resistance to fatal infection by orally-dosed Salmonella enteritidis. In animals given Salmonella and examined by SEM and transmission EM (TEM), the pathogen was seen only on ileal tissue surfaces, predominantly the villous base, from which the autochthonous population was absent. Conversely, in animals with filamentous bacteria, Salmonella surface colonization was not observed. The results suggest a possible protective role for the surface flora in the small bowel.
4251005|Distribution and activity of microorganisms in surface soil and subsurface sediments were studied in depth profiles of six different microbial biomass and activity indicators (total direct counts, number of cells capable of electron transport system activity, viable cell plate counts, most probable numbers of protozoa, and 4-hydroxybenzoate-degrading microorganisms, and ATP content). The profiles showed the same general trends on two different dates (January and June 1985). Seasonal variations were noted, but they were not extreme. Biomass and activity values declined sharply with depth in the unsaturated zone, reaching minima in a clay confining layer in the interface zone between 3 and 4 m. Contiguous 10cm samples from the interface zone showed significant textural and microbiological variability. Higher and more stable biomass and activity values were detected in the saturated zone, the highest being a very permeable gravelly loamy sand layer at approximately 7.5 m. In this layer, viable counts were nearly equal to total counts and they approached the viable counts in surface soil. Surface-type protozoa and cyanobacteria also were detected in this layer, suggesting that it was connected hydrologically to a nearby river. Lowest values were detected in an underlying bedrock clay layer at 8 m, which, despite its impermeability and low viable counts, did contain measurable total counts, 4-hydroxybenzoate-degrading microorganisms, and ATP. Correlations were noted between sediment texture and microbial activity (i.e., sandy texture = high activity, clayey texture = low activity), but other hydrogeological and geochemical factors probably also influenced microbial distribution and activity in the profile.
4251421|The relative abundance of gram-positive bacteria in a variety of near-shore marine samples was determined using the KOH method. Gram-positive bacteria accounted for 14%, 25%, 31%, and 12%, respectively, of the colony-forming bacteria obtained from seawater, sediments, and the surfaces of algae and invertebrates. A total of 481 gram-positive strains were isolated representing a wide range of morphological groups including regular and irregular rods, cocci, and actinomycetes. Seventy-seven percent of the strains characterized did not form spores and were aerobic, catalase-positive rods with regular to irregular cell morphologies. Eighty-two percent of the strains tested showed an obligate requirement of seawater for growth. None of the cocci tested required seawater or sodium for growth. This is the first report documenting that gram-positive bacteria can compose a large percentage of the culturable, heterotrophic bacteria associated with the surfaces of tropical marine algae.
40343371|Boiling Springs Lake is an ~ 12,000 m, 55 C, pH 2 thermal feature located in Lassen Volcanic National Park in northern California, USA. We assessed the microbial diversity in the lake by analyzing -500 sequences from clone libraries constructed using three different primer sets targeted at 16S rRNA genes and one targeted at 18S rRNA genes. We assessed the stability of the microbial community by constructing terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) profiles using DNA extracts collected in four separate years over a 7-year period. The four most prevalent phylotypes in the clone libraries shared an average -85% sequence identity with their closest cultured relatives, and three fourths of the prokaryotic sequences shared less than 91% identity. Phylogenetic analyses revealed novel lineages devoid of cultivated representatives in the Bacterial and Archaeal domains. Many detected phylotypes were related to taxonomically diverse genera previously associated with high-temperature environments, while others were related to diverse Proteobacteria and Firmicutes that would not be expected to grow within BSL conditions. All of the 18S rRNA sequences most closely matched fungi in the phyla Ascomycota and Basidiomycota (91-99% identity). T-RFLP detected fragments corresponding to the most prevalent phylotypes detected in 16S rRNA gene libraries. The T-RFLPs from separate years were similar, and the waterderived T-RFLPs were similar to the sediment-derived (average pairwise Sorenson's similarity index of 0.74, and 0.78, respectively). Collectively, these results indicate that a stable community of diverse novel microorganisms exists in Boiling Springs Lake.
4250796| Kinetic analyses indicate that members of natural bacterial populations from 2 marine environments near Woods Hole, MA, possess enzyme-mediated transport systems which permit utilization of
23597820|Aquifer microbes in the 300 Area of the Hanford Site in southeastern Washington State, USA, are located in an oligotrophic environment and are periodically exposed to U(VI) concentrations that can range up to 10 M in small sediment fractures. Assays of 3 H-leucine incorporation indicated that both sediment-associated and planktonic microbes were metabolically active, and that organic C was growth-limiting in the sediments. Although bacteria suspended in native groundwater retained high activity when exposed to 100 M U(VI), they were inhibited by U(VI) <1 M in synthetic groundwater that lacked added bicarbonate. Chemical speciation modeling suggested that positively charged species and particularly (UO2)3(OH)5+ rose in concentration as more U(VI) was added to synthetic groundwater, but that carbonate complexes dominated U(VI) speciation in natural groundwater. U toxicity was relieved when increasing amounts of bicarbonate were added to synthetic groundwater containing 4.5 M U(VI). Pertechnetate, an oxyanion that is another contaminant of concern at the Hanford Site, was not toxic to groundwater microbes at concentrations up to 125 M.
4250686|The colonization equation shown below was evaluated using Thermothrix thiopara as a model organism.
41412389|Magnetotactic bacteria (MTB) mineralize nanosized magnetite or greigite crystals within cells and thus play an important role in the biogeochemical process. Despite decades of research, knowledge of MTB distribution and ecology, notably in areas subjected to oil industry activities, is still limited. In the present study, we investigated the presence of MTB in the Gulf of Fos, French Mediterranean coast, which is subjected to intensive oil industry activities. Microcosms containing sediments/water (1: 2, v/v) from several sampling sites were monitored over several weeks. The presence of MTB was revealed in five of eight sites. Diverse and numerous MTB were revealed particularly from one site (named CAR), whilst temporal variations of a homogenous magnetotactic cocci population was shown within the LAV site microcosm over a 4-month period. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that they belonged to Alphaproteobacteria, and a novel genus from the LAV site was evidenced. Among the physicochemical parameters measured, a correlation was shown between the variation of MTB abundance in microcosms and the redox state of sulphur compounds.
4250691|The cultural bacterial strains of two sediment samples, i.e., 260 strains, were submitted to numerical taxonomy to determine "ecological profiles." From these profiles several calculations of bacterial diversity were done with increasing number of strains (between 10 and 130). Studying 20-30 strains was sufficient to obtain a diversity of bacterial community. Number of tests could be reduced from 62 to 30 without any influence on bacterial diversity. Similarity between studied tests was shown by using numerical taxonomy.
40343384|We investigated the network relationships of bacteria in a structurally stable mixed culture degrading cellulose. The mixed culture consists of four bacterial strains (a cellulose-degrading anaerobe [strain S], a saccharideutilizing anaerobe [strain F], a peptide- and acetate-utilizing aerobe [strain 3] and a peptide-, glucose-, and ethanolutilizing aerobe [strain 5]). Interspecies interactions were examined by analyzing the effects of culture filtrates on the growth of the other strains and by comprehensively analyzing population dynamics in the mixed-culture systems with all possible combinations of the four bacterial strains. The persistence of strain S depends on the effects of strain 5. However, strain 5 is a disadvantaged strain because strain 3 has bacteriocidal activity on strain 5. The extinction of strain 5 is indirectly prevented by strain F that suppresses the growth of strain 3. Although strain F directly has suppressive effects on the growth of strain S, strain F is essential for the persistence of strain S, considering the indirect effects (maintaining strain 5, which is essential for the survival of strain S, by inhibiting strain 3). These indirect relationships form a bacterial network in which all the relationships including suppressive effects were well balanced to maintain the structural stability. In addition to direct metabolite interactions, such kind of indirect relationships could have a great impact on microbial community structure in the natural environment.
25153247| We tested whether seasonal changes in the sources of organic substances for microbial metabolism were reflected changes in the activities of five extracellular enzymes in the eighth order lowland River Elbe, Germany. Leucine aminopeptidase showed the highest activities in the water column and the sediments, followed by phosphatase &gt; -glucosidase &gt; -glucosidase &gt; exo-1,4--glucanase. Individual enzymes exhibited characteristic seasonal dynamics, as indicated by their relative contribution to cumulative enzyme activity. Leucine aminopeptidase was significantly more active in spring and summer. In contrast, the carbohydrate-degrading enzymes peaked in autumn, and -glucosidase activity peaked once again in winter. Thus, in sediments, the ratio of leucine aminopeptidase/-glucosidase reached significant higher medians in spring and summer (5-cm depth: ratio 7.7; 20-cm depth: ratio 10.1) than in autumn and winter (5-cm depth: ratio 3.7, 20-cm depth: ratio 6.3). The relative activity of phosphatase in the sediments was seasonally related to both the biomass of planktonic algae as well as to the high content of total particulate phosphorus in autumn and winter. Due to temporal shifts in organic matter supply and changes in the storage capacity of sediments, the seasonal peaks of enzyme activities in sediments exhibited a time lag of 2-3 months compared to that in the water column, along with a significant extension of peak width. Hence, our data show that the seasonal pattern of extracellular enzyme activities provides a sensitive approach to infer seasonal or temporary availability of organic matter in rivers from autochthonous and allochthonous sources. From the dynamics of individual enzyme activities, a consistent synoptic pattern of heterotrophic functioning in the studied river ecosystem could be derived. Our data support the revised riverine productivity model predicting that the metabolism of organic matter in high-order rivers is mainly fuelled by autochthonous production occurring in these reaches and riparian inputs. 
4251306| Nitrification rates were measured along a salinity gradient in the Rhne River estuary, using specific inhibitors (allylthiourea and chlorate) coupled with the measurement of change in nitrite concentration and inorganic carbon uptake by nitrifiers. Rates of ammonium and nitrite oxidation were similar up to 15 practical salinity units (from 1 to 2 mol N oxidized
4250481| In aerobic enrichment experiments with a chemostat, using phosphate-limited lactate medium, a Spirillum sp. predominated at the lower range of dilution rates. At the higher dilution rates an (chemoorganotrophic) unidentified rod-shaped bacterium came to the fore. The same result was obtained in competition experiments with pure cultures of the two bacteria. Growth parameters were: Rod,
25153301|The aims of this study were to investigate the hypothesis that intrinsic antibiotic resistance (IAR) profiles of chickpea rhizobia are correlated with the isolates site of origin, and to compare the discriminating power of IAR profiles with molecular approaches in rhizobial strain identification and differentiation. Rhizobial diversity from five Portuguese soils was assessed by IAR profiles and molecular methods [16S rDNA restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis, direct amplified polymorphic DNA (DAPD) fingerprinting, and SDS-PAGE analysis of protein profiles]. For each analysis, a dendrogram was generated using the software BioNumerics. All three molecular methods generated analogous clustering of the isolates, supporting previous results on 16S rDNA sequence-based phylogeny. Clusters obtained with IAR profile are similar to the species groups generated with the molecular methods used. IAR groups do not correlate significantly with the geographic origin of the isolates. These results may indicate a chromosomal location of antibiotic resistance genes, and suggest that IAR is species related. DAPD and IAR profiles proved to be the most discriminating approaches in strain differentiation and can be used as fast methods to screen diversity in new isolates.
40802163|Military recruits experience a high incidence of febrile respiratory illness (FRI), leading to significant morbidity and lost training time. Adenoviruses, group A "Streptococcus pyogenes", and influenza virus are implicated in over half of the FRI cases reported at recruit training center clinics, while the etiology of the remaining cases is unclear. In this study, we explore the carriage rates and disease associations of adenovirus, enterovirus, rhinovirus, "Streptococcus pneumoniae", "Haemophilus influenzae", and "Neisseria meningitidis" in military recruits using highdensity resequencing microarrays. The results showed that rhinoviruses, adenoviruses, "S. pneumoniae", "H. influenzae", and "N. meningitidis" were widely distributed in recruits. Of these five agents, only adenovirus showed significant correlation with illness. Among the samples tested, only pathogens associated with FRI, such as adenovirus 4 and enterovirus 68, revealed strong temporal and spatial clustering of specific strains, indicating that they are transmitted primarily within sites. The results showed a strong negative association between adenoviral FRI and the presence of rhinoviruses in recruits, suggesting some form of viral interference.
4251181|Genetic similarity among cyanobacteria of a morphological subgroup of Nostoc was evaluated through a comparison of several specific genes and the extent of DNA methylation. Four of six cyanobacteria were originally cultured from facultative symbioses with higher plants (Gunnera and Encephalartos); these and one free-living isolate had been identified or reputed to be N. punctiforme. No consistent correlation to species or symbiotic history was found from DNA hybridizations to genes coding for phycocyanin (cpcAB), allophycocyanin (apcAB), gas vesicle protein (gvpA1), and dinitrogenase reductase (nifH). One gene (gvpC) was not present, and gvpA1 was a single-copy gene in all strains. The gas vesicle genes were concluded to be potentially useful for broadly characterizing Nostoc or at least this subgroup. Incubations of Nostoc genomic DNA with 22 restriction endonucleases indicated a high degree of methylation and similarity of its methylated DNA to that of other heterocystous cyanobacteria. The genetic variation of the Nostoc isolates was judged to reflect primarily different soil origins.
25256226|The occurrence and the distribution of rhizobial populations naturally associated to Acacia seyal Del. were characterized in 42 soils from Senegal. The diversity of rhizobial genotypes, as characterized by polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of 16S-23S rDNA, performed on DNA extracted from 138 nodules resulted in 15 clusters. Results indicated the widespread occurrence of compatible rhizobia associated to A. seyal in various ecogeographic areas. However, the clustering of rhizobial populations based on intergenic spacer (IGS) RFLP profiles did not reflect their geographic origin. Four genera were discriminated on the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequences of the strains representative for the IGS-RFLP profiles. The majority of rhizobia associated to A. seyal were affiliated to Mesorhizobium and Sinorhizobium 64 and 29%, respectively, of the different IGS-RFLP profiles. Our results demonstrate the coexistence inside the nodule of plant-pathogenic non-N-fixing Agrobacterium and Burkholderia strains, which induced the formation of ineffective nodules, with symbiotic rhizobia. Nodulation was recorded in saline soils and/or at low pH values or in alkaline soils, suggesting adaptability of natural rhizobial populations to major ecological environmental stress and their ability to establish symbiotic associations within these soil environments. These results contribute to the progressing research efforts to uncover the biodiversity of rhizobia and to improve nitrogen fixation in agroforestry systems in sub-Saharan Africa.
25153138|The Great Salt Plains (GSP), an unvegetated, barren salt flat that is part of the Salt Plains National Wildlife Refuge near Cherokee, Oklahoma, is the site of the Salt Plains Microbial Observatory. At the GSP the briny remains of an ancient sea rise to the surface, evaporate under dry conditions, and leave crusts of white salt. Adaptation to this environment requires development of coping mechanisms providing tolerance to desiccating conditions due to the high salinity, extreme temperatures, alkaline pH, unrelenting exposure to solar UV radiation, and prevailing winds. Several lines of evidence suggest that the same DNA repair mechanisms that are usually associated with UV light or chemically induced DNA damage are also important in protecting microbes from desiccation. Because little is known about the DNA repair capacity of microorganisms from hypersaline terrestrial environments, we explored the DNA repair capacity of microbial isolates from the GSP. We used survival following exposure to UV light as a convenient tool to assess DNA repair capacity. Two species of Halomonas (H. salina and H. venusta) that have been isolated repeatedly from the GSP were chosen for analysis. The survival profiles were compared to those of Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Halomonas spp. from aquatic saline environments. Survival of GSP organisms exceeded that of the freshwater organism P. aeruginosa, although they survived no better than E. coli. The GSP isolates were much more resistance to killing by UV than were the aquatic species of Halomonas reported in the literature [17]. Unlike E. coli, the GSP isolates did not appear to have an inducible, error-prone repair mechanism. However, they demonstrated high levels of spontaneous mutation.
41412413|The genus Pseudomonas has gone through many taxonomic revisions over the past 100 years, going from a very large and diverse group of bacteria to a smaller, more refined and ordered list having specific properties. The relationship of the Pseudomonas genus to Azotobacter vinelandii is examined using three genomic sequence-based methods. First, using 16S rRNA trees, it is shown that A. vinelandii groups within the Pseudomonas close to Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Genomes from other related organisms (Acinetobacter, Psychrobacter, and Cellvibrio) are outside the Pseudomonas cluster. Second, pan genome family trees based on conserved gene families also show A. vinelandii to be more closely related to Pseudomonas than other related organisms. Third, exhaustive BLAST comparisons demonstrate that the fraction of shared genes between A. vinelandii and Pseudomonas genomes is similar to that of Pseudomonas species with each other. The results of these different methods point to a high similarity between A. vinelandii and the Pseudomonas genus, suggesting that Azotobacter might actually be a Pseudomonas.
4251408|The effects of catechol, vanillic, caffeic (CAF), 2-hydroxyphenylacetic, 4-hydroxy- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic (3,4-DHBA) acids on the growth of a common rice rhizosphere inhabitant, Azospirillum lipoferum were studied. Two strains of this nonfermenting nitrogen-fixing bacterium were used: a motile strain (4B), and a nonmotile strain (4T). Under atmospheric conditions ( pO
40605862|In this study, the mixture of mono- and dirhamnolipids produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa DS10-129 was characterized for its toxicity and modulatory effects on Cd availability to different bacteria. Gramnegative naturally bioluminescent Vibrio fischeri and recombinant bioluminescent Pseudomonas fluorescens, P. aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, and Gram-positive Bacillus subtilis were used as model organisms. Rhamnolipids reduced the bioluminescence of these bacteria in less than a second of exposure even in relatively low concentrations (30-min EC 45-167 mg 1). Toxicity of Cd to Gramnegative bacteria (30-min EC values 0.16 mg 1 for E. coli, 0.96 mg 1 for P. fluorescens, and 4.4 mg 1 for V. fischeri) was remarkably (up to 10-fold) reduced in the presence of 50 mg 1 rhamnolipids. Interestingly, the toxicity of Cd to Gram-positive B. subtilis (30-min EC value 0.49 mg 1) was not affected by rhamnolipids. Rhamnolipids had an effect on desorption of Cd from soil: 40 mg 1 rhamnolipids increased the water-extracted fraction of Cd twice compared with untreated control. However, this additionally desorbed fraction of Cd remained bound with rhamnolipids and was not available to bacteria. Hence, in carefully chosen concentrations (still effectively complexing heavy metals but not yet toxic to soil bacteria), rhamnolipids could be applied in remediation of polluted areas.
4250447|Scanning electron microscopy observations of in situ suspended marine and freshwater particles show diverse but similar modes of bacterial and fungal attachment. A survey of Sierra Nevada mountain lakes and pelagic and near-shore waters in the Pacific Ocean indicates that attachment is most noticeable in the near-surface waters where fresh dissolved and particulate input of carbon from phytoplankton and elevated temperatures favor microbial growth. The most common modes of attachment are: adhesive stalk formation, growth on adhesive webs, attachment by the use of pili-like appendages and slimy capsular secretions, and molecular or chemical sorption without the use of visualized structural appendages. Attached microbial growth is accelerated when particulate substrates are supplied, even when they are not rich in organic nutrients. This is the case in the Lake Tahoe basin, where microflora attached to eroded silts can significantly modify the organic carbon and nutrient content of such minerogenous particles.
23597862|Phlebiopsis gigantea has been routinely used as the biological control agent for the conifer pathogen Heterobasidion annosum sensu lato, but the actual mechanism for the biocontrol process is not known. To investigate the effect of secreted molecules from culture filtrate produced by P. gigantea on the gene expression profile of H. annosum s.s., microarray analysis was used. Analysis of the differentially expressed genes led to the identification of genes with diverse functions. A major proportion of the up- and downregulated genes were either uncharacterized or genes whose functions were not known. A number of genes coding for proteins involved in metabolism, transport, and signal transduction were differentially downregulated; comparatively lower number of such genes were upregulated. Some genes involved in transport (polyamine transporters, 2573-fold, P=0.002) and metabolism (endoglucanase, 622.5-fold, P=0.002, cytochrome P450, 133.2-fold, P=0.05) showed high transcript fold changes and were statistically significantly upregulated. Genes encoding defense-related proteins such as hydrophobins were either downregulated or expressed at relatively low levels. Further analysis of the effect of the culture filtrate on glucose metabolism showed downregulation of some key enzymes at the early stage of the glycolytic pathway while some genes were upregulated at the later stage of the pathway. A subset of the genes were selected and used to validate the micro-array result by quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) method. Generally, the high transcript levels of genes encoding several biochemically important genes (protein kinases, major facilitator superfamily polyamine transporters, endoglucanase, cytochrome P450, endoglucanase) suggests their potential functional relevance in signal perception, stress tolerance, cell defenses, and detoxification of toxic molecules during competitive interaction. These results have provided further insights into possible molecular and genetic factors underlying the response of H. annosum to metabolites from P. gigantea during interspecific interaction.
4251624| The impact of the dissolved O
41412430|Little is known of how bacterial diversity in soils varies with elevation. One previous study found a decline with elevation, whereas another found no trend. We chose Mount Fuji of Japan as a geologically and topographically simple mountain system. Samples were taken at elevational intervals, between the base of the mountain at 1,000 m and its summit at 3,700 m. Polymerase chain reaction-amplified soil DNA for the bacterial 16S gene targeting V1-V3 region was pyrosequenced using the 454 Roche machine, and taxonomically classified with reference to a bioinformatic database. There was a significant "peak" in total bacterial diversity at around 2,500 m above the tree line with a decline towards the highest elevations around 3,700 m near the summit. Individual bacterial phyla show distinct trendsincrease, decrease, or a mid-elevational "bulge" in diversity. Bacterial diversity does not parallel woody plant or herbaceous plant diversity. We suggest that beyond the tree and vegetation line, the more extreme temperature fluctuations, stronger UV, lack of nutrients, and more frequent disturbance of the loose substrate of these slopes allows less competition and greater bacterial species diversity due to "lottery" recruitment. However, at the highest elevations, the physiological challenges are so extreme that fewer bacterial species are capable of surviving.
40605701|Four experiments covering different seasons were performed to test the impact of increased benthic and planktonic resource availability on the structure of biofilm-dwelling ciliate communities which were cultivated in river bypass systems. The growth of benthic bacteria was stimulated by the addition of dissolved organic carbon. The enrichment of the planktonic resource was achieved by supplementation with suspended bacteria. It was shown that both resource enrichments can differentially influence abundance and taxonomic structure of ciliate communities. Furthermore, both resources can influence different stages during biofilm colonization. Increased benthic bacterial growth mainly resulted in both an accumulation of primarily grazing-resistant bacterial filaments and in an increase in the number of vagile heterotrophic flagellates. This can stimulate nanophagous ciliates (feeding on flagellates) in addition to the direct stimulation of bacterio vorous ciliates. The effects of the planktonic bacteria enrichments were twofold: They could have been utilized either directly by suspension-feeding ciliates or indirectly through an enhanced growth of suspension-feeding attached heterotrophic flagellates, which were then in turn grazed upon by ciliates. The magnitude of responses of the total ciliate abundance to the two resource enrichments further depended on the background conditions, thereby showing temporarily variable limitations of these resources. Furthermore, the particular taxonomic groups stimulated by one resource type sometimes differed between the experiments, an observation which demonstrates that the response depends on different environmental factors and is not easily predictable based simply on resource type. Taken together, our results emphasize the need of a differentiated view on the effects of resources on complex biofilm-dwelling consumer communities with respect to both the origin of carbon source as well as the particular environmental conditions.
4250778|Seawater samples from a variety of locations contained viable luminous bacteria, but luminescence was not detectable although the system used to measure light was sensitive enough to measure light from a single, fully induced luminous bacterial cell. When the symbiotically luminous fish Cleidopus gloriamaris was placed in a sterile aquarium, plate counts of water samples showed an increase in luminous colony-forming units. Luminescence also increased, decreasing when the fish was removed. Light measurements of water samples from a sterile aquarium containing Photoblepharon palpebratus, another symbiotically luminous fish, whose bacterial symbionts have not been cultured, showed a similar pattern of increasing light which rapidly decreased upon removal of the fish. These experiments suggest that symbiotically luminous fishes release brightly luminous bacteria from light organs into their environment and may be a source of planktonic luminous bacteria. Although planktonic luminous bacteria are generally not bright when found in seawater, water samples from environments with populations of symbiotically luminous fish may show detectable levels of light.
23469154|Grassland productivity is often primarily limited by water availability, and therefore, grasslands may be especially sensitive to climate change. Fungal symbionts can mediate plant drought response by enhancing drought tolerance and avoidance, but these effects have not been quantified across grass species. We performed a factorial meta-analysis of previously published studies to determine how arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and endophytic fungal symbionts affect growth of grasses under drought. We then examined how the effect of fungal symbionts on plant growth was influenced by biotic (plant photosynthetic pathway) and abiotic (level of drought) factors. We also measured the phylogenetic signal of fungal symbionts on grass growth under control and drought conditions. Under drought conditions, grasses colonized by AM fungi grew larger than those without mycorrhizal symbionts. The increased growth of grasses conferred from fungal symbionts was greatest at the lowest soil moisture levels. Furthermore, under both drought and control conditions, C3 grasses colonized by AM fungi grew larger than C3 grasses without symbionts, but the biomass of C4 grasses was not affected by AM fungi. Endophytes did not increase plant biomass overall under any treatment. However, there was a phylogenetically conserved increase in plant biomass in grasses colonized by endophytes. Grasses and their fungal symbionts seem to interact within a context-dependent symbiosis, varying with biotic and abiotic conditions. Because plant-fungal symbioses significantly alter plant drought response, including these responses could improve our ability to predict grassland functioning under global change.
4287737|It has been reported that PGPB, containing ACC deaminase, can cleave the plant ethylene precursor ACC and thereby lower ethylene concentration in a developing or stressed plant, protecting it against the deleterious effects of stress ethylene and facilitating the formation of longer roots. In a previous work we have demonstrated expression of the ACC deaminase gene (acdS) from Enterobacter cloacae UW4 under the control of the lac promoter in Azospirillum brasilense Cd. With the inference that a construct including the ACC deaminase gene under the control of a constitutive promoter weaker than the lac promoter might impose less metabolic load on Azospirillum and improve its fitness, it was decided to clone acdS under the control of a tetracycline resistance gene promoter. The ACC deaminase structural gene was fused to the
41489099|Carnivorous pitcher plants host diverse microbial communities. This plant-microbe association provides a unique opportunity to investigate the evolutionary processes that influence the spatial diversity of microbial communities. Using next-generation sequencing of environmental samples, we surveyed microbial communities from 29 pitcher plants (Sarracenia alata) and compare community composition with plant genetic diversity in order to explore the influence of historical processes on the population structure of each lineage. Analyses reveal that there is a core S. alata microbiome, and that it is similar in composition to animal gut microfaunas. The spatial structure of community composition in S. alata (phyllogeography) is congruent at the deepest level with the dominant features of the landscape, including the Mississippi river and the discrete habitat boundaries that the plants occupy. Intriguingly, the microbial community structure reflects the phylogeographic structure of the host plant, suggesting that the phylogenetic structure of bacterial communities and population genetic structure of their host plant are influenced by similar historical processes.
4251412| The dynamics of carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P), elemental ratios, and dark uptake/release of N and P in bacterial and phytoplankton size fractions were studied during summer 1992 in three lakes of contrasting food web structure and trophic status (L240, L110, L227). We wished to determine if phytoplankton and bacteria differed in their elemental characteristics and to evaluate whether the functional role of bacteria in nutrient cycling (i.e., as sink or source) depended on bacterial elemental characteristics. Bacterial contributions to total suspended particulate material and to fluxes of nutrients in the dark were substantial and varied for different elements. This indicated that some techniques for assaying phytoplankton physiological condition are compromised by bacterial contributions. C/N ratios were generally less variable than C/P and N/P ratios. Both elemental ratios and biomass-normalized N and P flux indicated that phytoplankton growth in each lake was predominantly P-limited, although in L227 these data reflect the dominance of N-fixing cyanobacteria, and N was likely limiting early in the sampling season. In L227, phytoplankton N/P ratio and biomass-normalized N flux were negatively correlated, indicating that flux data were likely a reasonable measure of the N status of the phytoplankton. However, for L227 phytoplankton, P-flux per unit biomass was a hyperbolic function of N/P, suggesting that the dominant L227 cyanobacteria have a limited uptake and storage capacity and that P-flux per unit biomass may not be a good gauge of the P-limitation status of phytoplankton in this situation. Examination of N-flux data in the bacterial size fraction relative to the N/P ratio of the bacteria revealed a threshold N/P ratio (22:1 N/P, by atoms), below which, bacteria took up and sequestered added N, and above which, N was released. Thus, the functional role of bacteria in N cycling in these ecosystems depended on their N/P stoichiometry. 
4251183|Seven soil samples and seven groundwater samples from a site contaminated with fuel-oil were investigated using several chemical and microbiological techniques. In soil samples, 500 to 7,500 mg/kg of total hydrocarbons were found. These samples contained no n-alkanes but iso- and branched chain alkanes. No polychlorinated biphenyls could be detected. Microbiological investigations included estimations of total cell counts, viable cell counts on different media, and numbers of methylotrophic, denitrifying, sulphate reducing, anaerobic (with the exception of methanogenic organisms), and hydrocarbon degrading bacteria. Viable and hydrocarbon degrading bacteria were found in all samples. A total of 1,366 pure cultures was characterized morphologically and physiologically and identified by numerical identification using a data base of more than 4,000 reference strains. Groundwater samples were dominated by gram-negative bacteria of the genera Pseudomonas, Comamonas, Alcaligenes, and Acinetobacter, which were also found in soil samples. In addition, more gram-positive bacteria belonging to the genera Arthrobacter, Nocardia, and Bacillus could be isolated from soil samples.
4251671|A new procedure to investigate the relationship between bacterial cell size and activity at the cellular level has been developed; it is based on the coupling of radioactive labeling of bacterial cells and cell sorting by flow cytometry after SYTO 13 staining. Before sorting, bacterial cells were incubated in the presence of tritiated leucine using a procedure similar to that used for measuring bacterial production by leucine incorporation and then stained with SYTO 13. Subpopulations of bacterial cells were sorted according to their average right-angle light scatter (RALS) and fluorescence. Average RALS was shown to be significantly related to the average biovolume. Experiments were performed on samples collected at different times in a Mediterranean seawater mesocosm enriched with nitrogen and phosphorus. At four sampling times, bacteria were sorted in two subpopulations (cells smaller and larger than 0.25  m
41692858|In this work, we studied the ecological interactions between grape berry microorganisms and Drosophila sp. flies involved in sour rot disease during grape ripening. After verison the total microbial counts of grape berries affected by sour rot increased from about 2 log CFU/g of berries to more than 7 log CFU/g. Berry damage provoked a clear shift in yeast diversity from basidiomycetes to ascomycetous fermentative species. The latter were mostly Pichia terricola, Hanseniaspora uvarum, Candida zemplinina, and Zygoascus hellenicus. However, these species were not able to produce the metabolites characteristic of sour rot (gluconic and acetic acids) in inoculated berries. On the contrary, the acetic acid bacteria Gluconacetobacter saccharivorans produced high levels of these acids, mainly when berries were incubated in the presence of the insect Drosophila sp. Sour rot was not observed when grape bunches were physically separated from insects, even when berries were artificially injured. The wounds made in berry skin healed in the absence of insects, thus preventing the development of sour rot. Therefore, in the vineyard, the induction of sour rot depends on the contamination of wounded berries by a microbial consortiumyeasts and acetic acid bacteriatransported by drosophilid insects which disseminate sour rot among damaged berries. In the absence of these insects, plant defense mechanisms are effective and lead to skin healing, preventing disease spread. Thus, we showed that Drosophila sp. act as a vector for microorganisms associated with grape sour rot disease.
40605774|Dominant bacterial microbiota of the gut of juvenile farmed Atlantic salmon was investigated using a combination of molecular approaches. Bacterial community composition from the stomach, the pyloric caeca, and the intestine was assessed by extracting DNA directly from each gut compartment. Temporal temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TTGE) analysis of 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) amplicons showed very similar bacterial compositions throughout the digestive tract. Band sequencing revealed a narrow diversity of species with a dominance of Pseudomonas in the three compartments. However, cloning revealed more diversity among the Pseudomonas sequences. To confirm these results, we analyzed the bacterial community by amplifying the variable 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer region (ITS). Similar ITS profiles were observed among gastrointestinal compartments of salmon, confirming the TTGE results. Moreover, the dominant ITS band at 650 bp, identified as Pseudomonas, was observed in the ITS profile from fish collected in two seasons (July 2003 and 2004). In contrast, aerobic culture analysis revealed Shewanella spp. as the most prevalent isolate. This discrepancy was resolved by evaluating 16S rDNA and ITS polymerase chain reaction amplification efficiency from both Shewanella and Pseudomonas isolates. Very similar efficiencies were observed in the two bacteria. Hence, this discrepancy may be explained by preferential cultivation of Shewanella spp. under the experimental conditions. Also, we included analyses of pelleted feed and the water influent to explore environmental influences on the bacterial composition of the gut microbiota. Overall, these results indicate a homogeneous composition of the bacterial community composition along the gastrointestinal tract of reared juvenile salmon. This community is mainly composed of Pseudomonas spp., which could be derived from water influent and may be selectively associated with salmon in this hatchery.
4251159|The vertical distribution of microbial biomass, activity, community structure and the mineralization of xenobiotic chemicals was examined in two soil profiles in northern Wisconsin. One profile was impacted by infiltrating wastewater from a laundromat, while the other served as a control. An unconfined aquifer was present 14 meters below the surface at both sites. Biomass and community structure were determined by acridine orange direct counts and measuring concentrations of phospholipid-derived fatty acids (PLFA). Microbial activity was estimated by measuring fluorescein diacetate (FDA) hydrolysis, thymidine incorporation into DNA, and mixed amino acid (MAA) mineralization. Mineralization kinetics of linear alkylbenzene sulfonate (LAS) and linear alcohol ethoxylate (LAE) were determined at each depth. Except for MAA mineralization rates, measures of microbial biomass and activity exhibited similar patterns with depth. PLFA concentration and rates of FDA hydrolysis and thymidine incorporation decreased 10-100 fold below 3 m and then exhibited little variation with depth. Fungal fatty acid markers were found at all depths and represented from 1 to 15% of the total PLFAs. The relative proportion of tuberculostearic acid (TBS), an actinomycete marker, declined with depth and was not detected in the saturated zone. The profile impacted by wastewater exhibited higher levels of PLFA but a lower proportion of TBS than the control profile. This profile also exhibited faster rates of FDA hydrolysis and amino acid mineralization at most depths. LAS was mineralized in the upper 2 m of the vadose zone and in the saturated zone of both profiles. Little or no LAS biodegradation occurred at depths between 2 and 14 m. LAE was mineralized at all depths in both profiles, and the mineralization rate exhibited a similar pattern with depth as biomass and activity measurements. In general, biomass and biodegradative activities were much lower in groundwater than in soil samples obtained from the same depth.
4250839|Three different biotopes, groundwater, surface water, and activated sludge, were examined and the total colony count on nutrient agar determined. The bacteria that could be isolated from the agar plates were identified and their in vitro activities investigated. Three principal approaches were used: (1) isolates were identified and the results used in a numerical analysis to determine their similarity; (2) the different physiological properties of isolates originating from a single biotope were compiled and used to characterize the community (collective total activity); and (3) the diversity of the physiological properties of the isolates of all populations was determined; on the basis of main characters a "heterotrophic" diversity index was calculated. The possibility of using a polyphasic ecological study to characterize aquatic bacterial communities is considered.
4250496| Differential filtration and multiple isotopic labeling were combined to study the uptake of [
25153037|The 15-year experience of orbital station Mir service demonstrated that specifically modified space vehicle environments allows for the consideration of spaceship habitats as a certain ecological niche of microbial community development and functioning, which was formed from the organisms of different physiological and taxonomical groups. The base unit of the orbital station (OS) Mir was launched on February 20, 1986, and on March 13 the first crew arrived to it. From that moment a unique microbiocenosis started forming in the closed environment of the space station, and vital activity of the microorganisms continued for the next 15 years in a specifically changed environment, in conditions of continuous influence of a set of factors intrinsic to space flight. A total of 234 species of bacteria and fungi were found onboard orbital station Mir, among which microorganisms capable of resident colonization of the environment of space objects as a unique anthropo-technological niche were revealed. In such conditions the evolution of microflora is followed by the rise of medical and technical risks that can affect both sanitary-microbiological conditions of the environment and the safety and reliability characteristics of space equipment. The latter is caused by progressing biological damage to the structural materials. The microbial loading dynamic does not have linearly progressing character, but it is a wavy process of alternation of the microflora activation and stabilization phases; on this background there is a change of the dominating species by quantity and prevalence. The accumulated data is evidence of the necessity of the constant control of the microbial environmental factors to maintain their sanitary and microbiological optimum condition and to prevent the processes of constructional materials biodestruction.
25153318|The influence of the use of antibiotics on the prevalence of resistance genes in the environment is still poorly understood. We studied the diversity of tetracycline and sulfonamide resistance genes as influenced by fertilization with pig manure in soil microcosms and at two field locations. Manure contained a high diversity of resistance genes, regardless of whether it stemmed from a farm operation with low or regular use of antibiotics. In the microcosm soils, the influence of fertilization with manure was clearly shown by an increase in the number of resistance genes in the soil after manuring. Spiking of the tetracycline compounds to the microcosms had only little additional impact on the diversity of resistance genes. Overall, the tetracycline resistance genes tet(T), tet(W), and tet(Z) were ubiquitous in soil and pig slurries, whereas tet(Y), tet(S), tet(C), tet(Q), and tet(H) were introduced to the microcosm soil by manuring. The diversity of tetracycline and sulfonamide [sul1, sul2, and sul3] resistance genes on a Swiss pasture was very high even before slurry amendment, although manure from intensive farming had not been applied in the previous years. The additional effect of manuring was small, with the tetracycline and sulfonamide resistance diversity staying at high levels for the complete growth season. At an agricultural field site in Germany, the diversity of tetracycline and sulfonamide resistance genes was considerably lower, possibly reflecting regional differences in gene diversity. This study shows that there is a considerable pool of resistance genes in soils. Although it is not possible to conclude whether this diversity is caused by the global spread of resistance genes after 50 years of tetracycline use or is due to the natural background in soil resistance genes, it highlights a role that environmental reservoirs might play in resistance gene capture.
4250994|The heterotrophic bacterial communities associated with the seaweeds Fucus vesiculosus and Ulva rigida in an estuary were studied. Changes in these communities were monitored by monthly sampling during the year. The isolated strains were identified at the genus level and grouped into 14 clusters by their similarities. Seasonal changes in genera and clusters as well as variations in diversity were related to primary production periods and fluctuation of salinity levels. The Flavobacterium group was the major inhabitant of algal surfaces, being dominant after the primary production peaks occurred in spring and autumn. The decrease of dissolved organic matter after these peaks yielded an increase in diversity. Important alterations in these bacterial communities were observed during a period of large decrease in the salinity of estuarine water. In general, the epiphytic communities of both seaweeds were similar in their composition and dynamics, but they were very different from the surrounding water communities.
4250882|There were different amounts and types of yeasts associated with individuals of Ips typographus spruce bark beetles during different phases of their attack on a healthy spruce tree. The yeasts were isolated on Sabouraud agar medium in order to identify them and estimate their numbers. Hansenula holstii and Candida diddensii type yeasts were most frequently isolated. The increase in numbers of these two yeast types probably accounted for most of the total yeast increase found during the later attack phases of the bark beetles. Lesser amounts of Hansenula capsulata, Pichia pinus, Candida nitratophila, and two Cryptococcus type yeasts were also found.
25256093|Examples of a new class of phytase related to protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTP) were recently isolated from several anaerobic bacteria from the rumen of cattle. In this study, the diversity of PTP-like phytase gene sequences in the rumen was surveyed by using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Two sets of degenerate primers were used to amplify sequences from rumen fluid total community DNA and genomic DNA from nine bacterial isolates. Four novel PTP-like phytase sequences were retrieved from rumen fluid, whereas all nine of the anaerobic bacterial isolates investigated in this work contained PTP-like phytase sequences. One isolate, Selenomonas lacticifex, contained two distinct PTP-like phytase sequences, suggesting that multiple phytate hydrolyzing enzymes are present in this bacterium. The degenerate primer and PCR conditions described here, as well as novel sequences obtained in this study, will provide a valuable resource for future studies on this new class of phytase. The observed diversity of microbial phytases in the rumen may account for the ability of ruminants to derive a significant proportion of their phosphorus requirements from phytate.
4251028|The bacterial microflora of nine varieties of witloof chicory (Cichorium intybus L. var. foliosum Hegi) seeds was studied. The 184 isolates were characterized by protein profiles determined by SDS-protein polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the total cell proteins. Isolates with identical protein profiles were grouped into one fingerprint type. Sixty-seven fingerprint types were distinguished. Two quantitatively major fingerprint types, Erwinia herbicola and an arthrobacter, represented 52% of the total number of isolates and were found on different chicory varieties. The latter organism was inhibited at seed germination. Other isolates, i.e., Xanthomonas maltophilia, Pseudomonas paucimobilis, Agrobacterium radiobacter, Pseudomonas syringae, and a fluorescent Pseudomonas, were only occasionally found. A minority were gram-positive isolates, i.e., Bacillus sp., Streptomyces sp., and coryneforms. In vitro activity of the isolates was tested against five fungi. Isolates with strong antifungal activity were found among Erwinia herbicola and Bacillus sp.
41489035|Gut microbiota is the most complex bacterial community in the human body and its study may give important clues to the etiology of different intestinal diseases. Most studies carried out so far have used fecal samples, assuming that these samples have a similar distribution to the communities present throughout the colon. The present study was designed to test this assumption by comparing samples from the rectal mucosa and feces of nine healthy volunteers by sequencing libraries of 16S rRNA genes. At the family taxonomic level, where rarefaction curves indicate that the observed number of taxa is close to the expected one, we observe under different statistical analyses that fecal and mucosal samples cluster separately. The same is found at the level of species considering phylogenetic information. Consequently, it cannot be stated that both samples from a given individual are of similar composition. We believe that the evidence in support of this statement is strong and that it would not change by increasing the number of individuals and/or performing massive sequencing. We do not expect clinicians to stop using feces for research, but we think it is important to caution them on their potential lack of representativeness with respect to the bacterial biofilm on the rectal mucosa.
4250723| Plating methods for estimating survival of indicator organisms, such as Escherichia coli, and water-borne pathogens including Vibrio cholerae, have severe limitations when used to estimate viable populations of these organisms in the aquatic environment. By combining the methods of immunofluorescent microscopy, acridine orange direct counting, and direct viable counting, with culture methods such as indirect enumeration by most probable number (MPN) estimation and direct plating, it was shown that both E. coli and V. cholerae undergo a "nonrecoverable" stage of existence, but remain viable. Following 2-week incubations in saltwater (5-25 NaCl) microcosms, total counts, measured by direct microscopic examination of fluorescent antibody and acridine orange stained cells, remained unchanged, whereas MPN estimates and plate counts exhibited rapid decline. Results of direct viable counting, a procedure permitting estimate of substrate-responsive viable cells by microscopic examination, revealed that a significant proportion of the nonculturable cells were, indeed, viable. Thus, survival of pathogens in the aquatic environment must be re-assessed. The "die-off" or "decay" concept may not be completely valid. Furthermore, the usefulness of the coliform and fecal coliform indices for evaluating water quality for public health purposes may be seriously compromised, in the light of the finding reported here. 
4287582| The option for biological nitrogen removal has recently been broadened with the description of simultaneous nitrification/denitrification, anaerobic ammonium oxidation (ANAMMOX) and the concept of CANON (completely autotrophic nitrogen removal over nitrite). An autotrophic anaerobic ammonium oxidation (AAAO) consortium was successfully selected and enriched from municipal treatment plant sludges in Sydney, Australia, but not from industrial coke-oven wastewater sludges. Chemolithoautotrophic basic salt (CLABS) medium was used in the selection of AAAO organisms and chloramphenicol was added to the initial stage of selection to eliminate denitrifiers. Two different temperatures, 37C and 55C, were used in the selection of mesophilic and thermophilic consortia, respectively. Thermophilic AAAO organisms were not selected at 55C. Mesophilic AAAO activities, however, were evident in both batch and continuous cultures, whereby ammonium was consumed concurrently with a decrease of nitrite, giving a ratio of 1:1-1:1.3 in ammonium removal rate over nitrite consumption rate. A continuous-mode mesophilic fixed-bed reactor was established to enrich the AAAO consortium. After 1 year, biofilms, pinkish in color, had developed on the support media and side wall of the feed-line tubing. Ammonium and nitrite consumption increased from 15 mg to 60 mg
25256173|We used molecular methods to determine the microbial community of soil and avian plumage across biogeographic, ecological, and taxonomic scales. A total of 17 soil and 116 feather samples were collected from five avian species across multiple habitat types within one Neotropical and one temperate locality. Hypotheses regarding patterns of microbial composition relative to acquisition and dispersal of plumage bacteria in the ecosystem were tested by comparing microbial communities within and between soil and plumage. Samples from the plumage of American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) were collected across both habitat types and geographic scales for intraspecific comparisons. The microbial diversity in avian plumage was moderately diverse and was dominated by Pseudomonas species. Despite a highly significant individual bird effect on microbial composition of the plumage, we detected significant biogeographic and type of habitat effects. Pseudomonas species were more abundant on the temperate site when all avian species were included in the analysis, and Bacillus subtilis and Xanthomonas groups were more abundant on the Neotropical site for redstarts alone. However, 16S rDNA sequence libraries were not significantly different between Jamaican and Maryland redstarts. Biogeographic and habitat effects were significant and more pronounced for soil samples indicating lower dispersal of soil microbiota. We detected a significant difference between soil and plumage microbial communities suggesting that soil plays a small role in plumage bacterial acquisition. Our results suggest bacterial communities on the plumage of birds are dynamic and may change at different stages in a bird's annual cycle.
23469595|In May of 2011, a live mass stranding of 26 short-finned pilot whales (Globicephala macrorhynchus) occurred in the lower Florida Keys. Five surviving whales were transferred from the original stranding site to a nearby marine mammal rehabilitation facility where they were constantly attended to by a team of volunteers. Bacteria cultured during the routine clinical care of the whales and necropsy of a deceased whale included methicillin-sensitive and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA and MRSA). In order to investigate potential sources or reservoirs of MSSA and MRSA, samples were obtained from human volunteers, whales, seawater, and sand from multiple sites at the facility, nearby recreational beaches, and a canal. Samples were collected on 3 days. The second collection day was 2 weeks after the first, and the third collection day was 2 months after the last animal was removed from the facility. MRSA and MSSA were isolated on each day from the facility when animals and volunteers were present. MSSA was found at an adjacent beach on all three collection days. Isolates were characterized by utilizing a combination of quantitative real-time PCR to determine the presence of mecA and genes associated with virulence, staphylococcal protein A typing, staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec typing, multilocus sequence typing, and pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). Using these methods, clonally related MRSA were isolated from multiple environmental locations as well as from humans and animals. Non-identical but genetically similar MSSA and MRSA were also identified from distinct sources within this sample pool. PFGE indicated that the majority of MRSA isolates were clonally related to the prototype human strain USA300. These studies support the notion that S. aureus may be shed into an environment by humans or pilot whales and subsequently colonize or infect exposed new hosts.
4251437| We studied nutrient-limitation of bacterioplankton growth in Lake Constance, a mesotrophic lake, between February and August in 1992. We amended 1-m filtrates with a single nutrient or nutrient combinations at 5 or 10 M final concentration, and the limiting nutrient or nutrient combination was inferred from the assay in which bacterial growth was most stimulated. The following nutrients were added individually or in combination: glucose, amino acids, peptone, and ammonium as C and N sources, and inorganic phosphate. From January until the beginning of the phytoplankton spring bloom in mid-April, C alone was growth-limiting. During the spring bloom a complex growth-limitation pattern occurred; first P was limiting, then for only 1 week C + N together, and thereafter P + C. During the clear-water phase with very low chlorophyll concentrations, P + C together limited bacterial growth again, interrupted by a period when C + N + P shortage caused a triple limitation. Later in the season, P + C were growth-limiting again. The growth efficiency (bacterial biomass produced/substrates used) on the basis of amino acid and carbohydrate used varied between 17 and 35%. The addition of various C and N sources indicated that the growth efficiency strongly depended on the quality of the substrates and the adaptation of the bacterial assemblages, for example, whether C and N originated from amino acids or glucose and ammonium. 
40605662|The production of hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (DAPG) is a major factor in the control of soil-borne diseases by Pseudomonas fluorescens CHAO. We investigated the impact of different biotic factors on the expression of HCN-in comparison to DAPG biosynthetic genes in the rhizosphere. To this end, the influence of plant cultivar, pathogen infection, and coinoculation with other biocontrol strains on the expression of hcnA-lacZ and phlA-lacZ fusion in strain CHAO was monitored on the roots of bean. Interestingly, all the tested factors influenced the expression of the two biocontrol traits in a similar way. For both genes, we observed a several-fold higher expression in the rhizosphere of cv. Derakhshan compared with cvs. Goli and Naz, although bacterial rhizosphere colonization levels were similar on all cultivars tested. Root infection by Rhizoctonia solani stimulated total phlA and hcnA gene expression in the bean rhizosphere. Coinoculation of strain CHAO with DAPG-producing P. fluorescens biocontrol strains Pf-68 and Pf-100 did neither result in a substantial alteration of hcnA nor of phlA expression in CHA0 on bean roots. To our best knowledge, this is the first study investigating the impact of biotic factors on HCN production by a bacterial biocontrol strain in the rhizosphere.
25153027| Previous studies have shown that sulfate-reduction activity occurs in a heterogeneous manner throughout the terrestrial subsurface. Low-activity regions are often observed in the presence of clay minerals. Here we report that clays inhibit sulfate reduction activity in sediments and in a pure culture of Desulfovibrio vulgaris. Clay minerals including bentonite and kaolinite inhibited sulfate reduction by 70-90% in sediments. Intact clays and clay colloids or soluble components, capable of passing through a 0.2-m filter, were also inhibitory to sulfate-reducing bacteria. Other adsorbent materials, including anion or cation exchangers and a zeolite, did not inhibit sulfate reduction in sediments, suggesting that the effect of clays was not due to their cation-exchange capacity. We observed a strong correlation between the AlO content of clays and their relative ability to inhibit sulfate reduction in sediments (r = 0.82). This suggested that inhibition might be a direct effect of Al (aq) on the bacteria. We then tested pure aluminum oxide (AlO) and showed it to act in a similar manner to clay. As dissolved aluminum is known to be toxic to a variety of organisms at low concentrations, our results suggest that the effects of clay on sulfate-reducing bacteria may be directly due to aluminum. Thus, our experiments provide an explanation for the lack of sulfate-reduction activity in clay-rich regions and presents a mechanism for the effect. 
25153083| Phytoplankton have traditionally been identified based on morphological characteristics. However, identifications based on morphology are time-consuming, require expertise in taxonomy, and often fail to distinguish differences among the multitudes of minute, nondescript planktonic organisms. Molecular techniques, which have revealed new insights into bacterial and picoplankton communities, may also enhance our knowledge of the diversity among communities of larger plankton. We compared plankton identifications and community assessments based on the two types of techniques (morphological vs molecular) for surface seawater samples collected on 2 May, 31 July and 25 September 2000 from several sampling stations in the Bay of Fundy. Phytoplankton captured in surface bucket samples were quantified and identified based on morphology. DNA was extracted from plankton communities (5-100 m in diameter) collected by filtration, and 18S rRNA gene fragments were amplified with primers specific for eukaryotes. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) was used to develop DNA profiles of eukaryotic phylogenetic diversity and to select cloned 18S rDNA fragments for sequencing. Both morphological and molecular methods showed great community diversity. However, the communities identified with the two different types of techniques were starkly different. Morphological abundances and taxon richness were lowest in the May samples, whereas the number of DGGE bands was highest in May and July. Morphological identifications showed a succession of dominant organisms through time. Whereas neither diatoms nor dinoflagellates were dominant in May, diatoms and a few dinoflagellates were dominant in July and September. In contrast, few 18S rDNA sequences were related to rDNA sequences of known identity, and furthermore, few diatoms were identified in the molecular analyses. Molecular phylogenetic analysis indicated the presence of many novel organisms, several of which were most closely related to other unidentified sequences from diverse marine environments representing new lineages. Our results support the ideas that we are just beginning to uncover the diversity of eukaryotic marine organisms and that there may be many more ubiquitous, microeukaryotic plankton than previously realized. Our results suggest that both types of methods capture only a portion of the community. Morphological methods may be more adept at capturing the phototrophic organisms within the community. However, just as for bacteria and picoplankton, molecular techniques can enhance our understanding of plankton diversity, particularly by detecting previously unidentified organisms. 
41412431|The active methanotroph community was investigated in two contrasting North American peatlands, a nutrient-rich sedge fen and nutrient-poor Sphagnum bog using in vitro incubations and C-DNA stable-isotope probing (SIP) to measure methane (CH) oxidation rates and label active microbes followed by fingerprinting and sequencing of bacterial and archaeal 16S rDNA and methane monooxygenase (pmoA and mmoX) genes. Rates of CH oxidation were slightly, but significantly, faster in the bog and methanotrophs belonged to the class Alphaproteobacteria and were similar to other methanotrophs of the genera Methylocystis, Methylosinus, and Methylocapsa or Methylocella detected in, or isolated from, European bogs. The fen had a greater phylogenetic diversity of organisms that had assimilated C, including methanotrophs from both the Alpha- and Gammaproteobacteria classes and other potentially non-methanotrophic organisms that were similar to bacteria detected in a UK and Finnish fen. Based on similarities between bacteria in our sites and those in Europe, including Russia, we conclude that site physicochemical characteristics rather than biogeography controlled the phylogenetic diversity of active methanotrophs and that differences in phylogenetic diversity between the bog and fen did not relate to measured CH oxidation rates. A single crenarchaeon in the bog site appeared to be assimilating C in 16S rDNA; however, its phylogenetic similarity to other CO-utilizing archaea probably indicates that this organism is not directly involved in CH oxidation in peat.
4251821|The ACC deaminase structural gene (acdS) from Enterobacter cloacae UW4 was cloned in the broad host range plasmid pRK415 under the control of the lac promoter and transferred into Azospirillum brasilense Cd and Sp245. A. brasilense Cd and Sp245 transformants showed high ACC deaminase activity, similar to that observed in Enterobacter cloacae UW4. The expression of ACC deaminase improved the existing growth promoting activity of Azospirillum. The roots of tomato and canola seedlings were significantly longer in plants inoculated with A. brasilense Cd transformants than those in plants inoculated with the nontransformed strains of the same bacterium. In the case of wheat seedlings, inoculation with A. brasilense Cd transformants did not promote root growth. The difference in plant response (canola and tomato versus wheat) is attributed to the greater sensitivity of canola and tomato plants to ethylene as compared to wheat plants.
4251245| Three unsaturated subsurface paleosols influenced by moisture recharge, including a highly developed calcic paleosol, were studied to investigate the microbiology of paleosols. Two near-surface paleosols, one impacted by moisture recharge and the other beyond the influence of recharge, were also sampled to directly assess the effect of moisture recharge on the activity and composition of the microbial community associated with paleosols. The highly developed paleosol had a higher population of culturable heterotrophs, a greater glucose mineralization potential, a higher microbial diversity based on colony morphology, and a more than 20-fold higher concentration of ATP than the two weakly developed paleosols. The recharged near-surface paleosol, as compared to the near-surface paleosol unaffected by recharge, had a lower population of culturable heterotrophs, smaller mineralization rate constant, and lower richness based on colony morphology. The recharged paleosols contained predominantly gram-negative isolates, whereas the paleosol unaffected by recharge contained predominantly gram-positive isolates. Storage at 4C of subsurface and near-surface paleosol samples containing high water potential increased the population of culturable aerobic heterotrophs, decreased diversity in colony morphology, and increased first-order rate constants and decreased lag times for glucose mineralization. These results indicate that aerobic heterotrophs are present in deep vadose zone paleosols and that there is potential for stimulation of their in situ growth and activity. 
4251057| Autotrophic and heterotrophic growth characteristics of a nanoflagellate were investigated. The flagellate, Ochromonas sp., was isolated from the northern Baltic Sea. Autotrophic growth was poor. Axenically pregrown flagellates did not increase significantly in cell number during incubation in different inorganic media. The number of flagellates remained constant 3-5 weeks in cultures kept in the light (100 mol
25153142|A study was undertaken to investigate expression of a gene encoding a c-type cytochrome in cells of the dissimilatory metal reducing bacterium (DMRB) Geobacter sulfurreducens during association with poorly crystalline and crystalline solid-phase Fe(III)-oxides. The gene encoding OmcC (outer membrane c-type cytochrome) was used as a target for PCR-based molecular detection and visualization of omcC gene expression by individual cells and aggregates of cells of G. sulfurreducens associated with ferrihydrite and hematite mineral particles. Expression of omcC was demonstrated in individual bacterial cells associated with these Fe-oxide surfaces by in situ RT-PCR (IS-RT PCR) and epifluorescence microscopy. Epifluorescence microscopy also permitted visualization of total DAPI-stained cells in the same field of view to assess the fraction of the cell population expressing omcC. By combining reflected differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy and epifluorescence microscopy, it was possible to determine the spatial relationship between cells expressing omcC and the mineral surface. Introduction of the fluorescently labeled lectin concanavalin A revealed extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) extending between aggregations of bacterial cells and the mineral surface. The results indicate that EPS mediates an association between cells of G. sulfurreducens and ferrihydrite particles, but that direct cell contact with the mineral surface is not required for expression of omcC. XPS analysis revealed forms of reduced Fe associated with areas of the mineral surface where EPS-mediated bacterial associations occurred. The results demonstrate that by combining molecular biology, reflectance microscopy, and XPS, chemical transformations at a mineral surface can be related to the expression of specific genes by individual bacterial cells and cell aggregates associated with the mineral surface. The approach should be useful in establishing involvement of specific gene products in a wide variety of surface chemical processes.
25153317|The rhizosphere is the site of intense interactions between plant, bacterial, and fungal partners. In plant-bacterial interactions, signal molecules exuded by the plant affect both primary initiation and subsequent behavior of the bacteria in complex beneficial associations such as biocontrol. However, despite this general acceptance that plant-root exudates have an effect on the resident bacterial populations, very little is still known about the influence of these signals on bacterial gene expression and the roles of genes found to have altered expression in plant-microbial interactions. Analysis of the rhizospheric communities incorporating both established techniques, and recently developed "omic technologies" can now facilitate investigations into the molecular basis underpinning the establishment of beneficial plant-microbial interactomes in the rhizosphere. The understanding of these signaling processes, and the functions they regulate, is fundamental to understanding the basis of beneficial microbial-plant interactions, to overcoming existing limitations, and to designing improved strategies for the development of novel Pseudomonas biocontrol strains.
25153010|Methods designed to detect microorganisms involved in the biogeochemistry of nitrogen in the marine environment are rapidly being developed and deployed in ecological investigations. Probes based on phylogenetic sequences (usually rRNA) and those based on the sequences of functional genes or proteins have both been demonstrated in the nitrogen cycle. The most progress has been made for ammonia oxidizers; several sets of PCR primers have been described and their specificity may be optimized to allow detection of genetically and ecologically meaningful groups. For denitrifying bacteria, functional probes based on nitrite reductase show most promise. These approaches should complement the more familiar, but no less sophisticated, methods that focus on quantification of in situ transformation rates. Both approaches in combination will be useful in understanding regulation and environmental control of biogeochemical processes.
25153054|Microorganisms continually redefine themselves at many levels, including the molecule, cell, and community. Although it was initially assumed that this resulted from the genesis of information within DNA alone, it has since been shown that innovation originates at multiple levels. This occurs through calculative units, each unit consisting of two proliferating structures, one nested within the other and each undergoing changes in structural geometry that affect the proliferation rate of the other. For example, the recombination of genetic structures affects the proliferation of community structures, and the recombination of community structures affects the proliferation of genetic structures. The proliferation of a nested series of structures (e.g., genes proliferating within cells, cells proliferating within communities, communities proliferating within ecosystems) results in a logic circuit that calculates the form and function of each structural element in the series. In this situation each element functions as both a habitat and an inhabitant (environment and organism), and it is this dichotomy that determines the balance of nature. Nested geological structures, such as minerals and continents, also proliferate and redefine themselves in much the same way. Microbe-mineral interactions thus link nested biological calculations to an analogous set of nested geological calculations. Examples include the microorganisms involved in the nucleation (proliferation) of ferric hydroxides, carbonates, silicates, and ice crystals.
4250816| The effects of light intensity, oxygen concentration, and pH on the rates of photosynthesis and net excretion by metalimnetic phytoplankton populations of Little Crooked Lake, Indiana, were studied. Photosynthetic rates increased from 1.42 to 3.14 mg C mg
40926493|Mine tailing deposits in semiarid and arid environments frequently remain devoid of vegetation due to the toxicity of the substrate and the absence of a diverse soil microbial community capable of supporting seed germination and plant growth. The contribution of the plant growth promoting bacterium (PGPB) Azospirillum brasilense Sp6 to the growth of quailbush in compostamended, moderately acidic, high-metal content mine tailings using an irrigation-based reclamation strategy was examined along with its influence on the rhizosphere bacterial community. Sp6 inoculation resulted in a significant (2.2-fold) increase in plant biomass production. The data suggest that the inoculum successfully colonized the root surface and persisted throughout the 60-day experiment in both the rhizosphere, as demonstrated by excision and sequencing of the appropriate denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) band, and the rhizoplane, as indicated by fluorescent in situ hybridization of root surfaces. Changes in rhizosphere community structure in response to Sp6 inoculation were evaluated after 15, 30, and 60 days using DGGE analysis of 16S rRNA polymerase chain reaction amplicons. A comparison of DGGE profiles using canonical correspondence analysis revealed a significant treatment effect (Sp6-inoculated vs. uninoculated plants vs. unplanted) on bacterial community structure at 15, 30, and 60 days (p<0.05). These data indicate that in an extremely stressed environment such as acid mine tailings, an inoculated plant growth promoting bacterium not only can persist and stimulate plant growth but also can directly or indirectly influence rhizobacterial community development.
4287703| The diversity of ascomycete laccase sequences was surveyed in a southeastern US salt marsh using a degenerate primer set designed around copper binding sites conserved in fungal laccases. This gene was targeted for diversity analysis because of its potential function in lignin degradation in the salt marsh ecosystem and because few studies have assessed functional gene diversity in natural fungal communities. Laccase sequences were amplified from genomic DNA extracted from 24 isolates (representing 10 ascomycete species) cultured from decaying blades of Spartina alterniflora, and from DNA extracted directly from the decaying blades. Among the ascomycete isolates, 21 yielded a PCR product of expected size (900 bp) that was tentatively identified as laccase based on sequence similarities to previously published laccase sequences from related organisms. Overall, 13 distinct sequence types, containing 39 distinct sequences, were identified among the isolates, with several species yielding multiple distinct laccase types. PCR amplifications from early and late decay blades of S. alterniflora yielded seven laccase types. Of these, five were composed of sequences >96% similar at the amino acid level to sequences from three cultured ascomycetes previously found to be dominant members of the fungal communities on decaying S. alterniflora blades. Two of the laccase types from the natural-decay clone library were novel and did not match any of the sequences obtained from the cultured ascomycetes. The 39 distinct sequences and 15 distinct laccase sequence types retrieved from the S. alterniflora decay system demonstrate high sequence diversity of this functional gene in a natural fungal community. 
41412407|Microcystis aeruginosa isolated in 2005 from the shallow eutrophic Lake Chao (Anhui, China) was investigated in terms of growth parameters and microcystin production under varying nutrient concentrations (P,N) and pH values (abiotic factors) as well as under the influence of spent medium of the non-toxic cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. (biotic factors). Stimulating effects on growth were observed at the alkaline pH value (10.5), whereas toxin production was significantly increased under phosphate-P limitation (0.6 mg L medium). Within a broad range of nitrate-N concentrations (41.2 247.2 mg L medium), no significant influence on cell growth and microcystin production was observed; however, N-starvation resulted in a typical decrease of growth and toxicity. In addition, cryopreservation of M. aeruginosa evidenced the decrease of toxin production by timedependent exposure with the cryoprotectant dimethy1 sulfoxide under thawing conditions without affecting the growth of the cyanobacterial cells.
41489032|The genetic diversity of Frankia populations in soil and in root nodules of sympatrically grown Alnus taxa was evaluated by rep-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and nifH gene sequence analyses. Rep-PCR analyses of uncultured Frankia populations in root nodules of 12 Alnus taxa (n = 10 nodules each) growing sympatrically in the Morton Arboretum near Chicago revealed identical patterns for nodules from each Alnus taxon, including replicate trees of the same host taxon, and low diversity overall with only three profiles retrieved. One profile was retrieved from all nodules of nine taxa (Alnus incana subsp. incana, Alnus japonica, Alnus glutinosa, Alnus incana subsp. tenuifolia, Alnus incana subsp. rugosa, Alnus rhombifolia, Alnus mandshurica, Alnus maritima, and Alnus serrulata), the second was found in all nodules of two plant taxa (A. incana subsp. hirsuta and A. glutinosa var. pyramidalis), and the third was unique for all Frankia populations in nodules of A. incana subsp. rugosa var. americana. Comparative sequence analyses of nifH gene fragments in nodules representing these three profiles assigned these frankiae to different subgroups within the Alnus host infection group. None of these sequences, however, represented frankiae detectable in soil as determined by sequence analysis of 73 clones from a Frankia-specific nifH gene clone library. Additional analyses of nodule populations from selected alders growing on different soils demonstrated the presence of different Frankia populations in nodules for each soil, with populations showing identical sequences in nodules from the same soil, but differences between plant taxa. These results suggest that soil environmental conditions and host plant genotype both have a role in the selection of Frankia strains by a host plant for root nodule formation, and that this selection is not merely a function of the abundance of a Frankia strain in soil.
40343498|Currently, the investigation of Legionella ecology falls into two distinct areas of research activity: (1) that Legionella multiply within water sources by parasitizing amoebic or ciliate hosts or (2) that Legionella grows extracellularly within biofilms. Less focus has been given to the overlaps that may occur between these two areas or the likelihood that Legionella employs multiple survival strategies to persist in water sources. It is likely that Legionella interacts with protozoa, bacteria, algae, fungi, etc., and biofilm components in a more complex fashion than multiplication or death due to the presence or absence of single components of these complex microbial systems. This paper addresses gaps that exist in the understanding of Legionella ecology and serves to pinpoint areas of future research. To assume that only one other class of organism is important to Legionella ecology may limit our understanding of how this bacterium proliferates in heated water sources and also limit our strategies for its control in the built environment.
4287560| Biofilm-produced and commercially-purified - and -glucosidase and alkaline phosphatase were subjected to different spectral portions of natural and artificial light and exposed to various humic substances to elucidate their impact on enzyme activities. Photochemical degradation of all enzymes occurred under different portions of the light spectrum. UVB irradiance produced the greatest overall photochemical degradation of enzymes, with significant rates occurring with UVA and PAR irradiance. The complexation of enzymes with humic substances resulted in inhibition, stabilization, and photochemical protection of the enzyme. Inhibition of enzyme activity occurred via reductions in overall enzyme activity in the presence of humic substances. However, humic-enzyme complexation also resulted in stabilization by restricting enzyme degradation while retaining high activities. Enzymes exposed to natural and artificial light sources had significantly lower reductions in enzyme activities in the presence of humic substances, which indicates that humic-enzyme complexes may protect enzymes from light-induced photochemical degradation. Bacterial surface-bound - and -glucosidase activities were significantly reduced in the presence of humic substances. Photosynthetically induced pH changes within biofilm communities can cause large reductions in - and -glucosidase activities while enhancing the hydrolytic activity of alkaline phosphatase. 
4287579|The effect of phosphate (P), nitrate (N), and organic carbon (C, glucose) enrichment on heterotrophic bacterial production was examined along two longitudinal transects covering the whole Mediterranean Sea during June and September 1999. During these cruises, integrated bacterial production ranged from 11 to 349 mgC m
25153347| In situ experiments were conducted to measure sulfate reduction rates and identify rate-limiting factors in a shallow, alluvial aquifer contaminated with municipal landfill leachate. Single-well, push-pull tests conducted in a well adjacent to the landfill with &gt;8 mM dissolved organic carbon (DOC) exhibited a sulfate reduction rate of 3.2 mol SO (L sediment) day, a value in close agreement with laboratory-derived estimates. Identical tests conducted in wells located 90 m downgradient where DOC levels remained high (&gt;3 mM) showed no detectable sulfate consumption, and laboratory assays confirmed this observation. However, the rates of sulfate reduction in sediment samples obtained from this site were three times larger when they were amended with filter-sterilized groundwater from the upgradient location. The effect of various amendments on sulfate reduction rates was further examined in laboratory incubations using sediment collected from the downgradient site amended with S sulfate. Unamended sediments showed only weak conversion of the tracer to S sulfide (5 to 7 cpm/cm), whereas the addition of Desulfovibrio cells increased S sulfide production to 44 cpm/cm. However, the application of heat-killed Desulfovibrio had a similar stimulatory effect, as did a lactate amendment. Collectively, these findings indicate that the lack of measurable sulfate reduction at the downgradient site was not due to the absence of the necessary metabolic potential, the presence of lower sulfate concentration, or the quantity of electron donor, but by its biodegradability. The findings also indicate that field bioaugmentation attempts should be interpreted with caution. 
23597806|The genus Prochlorococcus is globally abundant and dominates the total phytoplankton biomass and production in the oligotrophic ocean. The single species, Prochlorococcus marinus, comprises six named ecotypes. Our aim was to analyze the taxonomic structure of the genus Prochlorococcus. We analyzed the complete genomes of 13 cultured P. marinus type and reference strains by means of several genomic taxonomy tools (i.e., multilocus sequence analysis, amino acid identity, Karlin genomic signature, and genome to genome distance). In addition, we estimated the diversity of Prochlo rococcus species in over 100 marine metagenomes from all the major oceanic provinces. According to our careful taxonomic analysis, the 13 strains corresponded, in fact, to ten different Prochlorococcus species. This analysis establishes a new taxonomic framework for the genus Prochlorococcus. Further, the analysis of the metagenomic data suggests that, in total, there may only be 35 Prochlorococcus species in the world's oceans. We propose that the dearth of species observed in this study is driven by high selective pressures that limit diversification in the global ocean.
4251735| Atmospheric methane oxidation by a spruce forest soil from Norway at 15C was found to be maximal at a depth of ca 7 cm. Examination of the kinetics of this methane oxidation revealed an apparent K
40343429|Anthropogenic nitrogen (N) deposition affects a wide range of soil processes including phenol oxidase (PO) activity and soil organic matter dynamics. Depression of phenol oxidase activity in response to N saturation is believed to be mediated by the activity of white-rot basidiomycetes, whose production of extracellular oxidative enzymes can be limited by high N availability. We examined the effect of short-term N deposition on basidiomycete lacease gene diversity and relative abundance in temperate oak forest soil in which significant decreases in phenol oxidase and increased SOM have been recorded in response to experimental N deposition. UniFrac was used to compare the composition of lacease genes between three control-and three nitrogen-fertilized (80 kg ha per year) oak forest soils. The relative abundance of lacease genes was determined from qPCR analysis of lacease and basidiomycete ITS gene abundances. Our results indicate that there was no significant shift in the composition of lacease genes between control-and N-fertilized soils, nor was there a significant change in the relative abundance of lacease genes. These data suggest that N deposition effects on mineral soil PO activity do not result from changes in lacease gene diversity of white-rot basidiomycetes but are likely the result of altered microbial abundance or expression in this ecosystem type. Furthermore, lacease gene composition may be tied to factors that structure microbial communities in general, as soil lacease gene communities are more similar to other forest soils than with the corresponding litter.
4250766|Almost equal numbers of Desulfovibrio, Veillonella, and Acetobacterium species were found in agar shake dilutions of anaerobic intertidal brackish sediments applying L-lactate as the only energy source and sulfate as electron acceptor. Pure cultures of these bacteria were studied in more detail in batch cultures as well as in L-lactate-limited chemostats. The maximal specific growth rates on L-lactate were determined in washout experiments and amounted to 0.16, 0.30, and 0.06 h
40605659|Biological soil crusts (BSCs) are found in all dryland regions of the world, including the polar regions. They are also known to occur in the southern African region.Although there were a number of case studies on BSCs from that region, we did not know if they are a normal part of the vegetation cover or just a phenomenon that occasionally occurs here and there. In order to investigate diversity, distribution patterns, and the driving factors of both, we followed a random sampling system of observatories along a transect, stretching from the Namibian-Angolan border down south to the Cape Peninsula, covering seven different major biomes. Biological soil crusts were found to occur in six out of seven biomes. Despite the fact that soil-dwelling algae occurred in the Fynbos biome, crust formation was not observed for hitherto unknown reasons. Seven BSC types were distinguished on the basis of morphology and taxonomic composition: three of them were cyanobacteriadominated, one with additional chlorolichens, two with bryophytes, one hypolithic type restricted to quartz gravel pavements, and the unique lichen fields of the Namib Desert. Besides 29 green algal species in 21 genera, one heterokont alga, 12 cyanolichens, 14 chlorolichens, two genera of liverworts, and three genera of mosses, these crusts are positioned among the most diverse BSCs worldwide mainly because of the unusual high cyanobacterial species richness comprising 58 species in 21 genera. They contribute considerably to the biodiversity of arid and semi-arid bioregions. Taxonomic diversity of cyanobacteria was significantly higher in the winter rain zone than in the summer rain zone (54 versus 32 species). The soil photosynthetic biomass (chlorophyll a /m), the carbon content of the soil and the number of BSC types were significantly higher in the winter rain zone (U, =215.0, p=0.004 [ch1 a ; U,=135.0, p=0.031 [C]; U, =261.5, p=0.028 [BSC types]; excluding the fog-dominated Namib biome). The winter rain zone is characterized by a lower precipitation amount, but a higher rain frequency with the number of rainy days more evenly distributed over the year. The dry period is significantly shorter per year in the winter rain zone (U, =5.0, p=0.003). We conclude that rain frequency and duration of dry periods rather than the precipitation amount is the main factor for BSC growth and succession. Nitrogen content of the soils along the transect was generally very low and correlated with soil carbon content. There was a weak trend that an increasing proportion of silt and clay (<0.63 mm) in the soil is associated with higher values of BSC chlorophyll content (Pearson correlation coefficient=0.314, p=0.237). Furthermore, we found a significant positive correlation between silt and clay and the number of BSC types (Pearson correlation coefficient=0.519, p=0.039), suggesting that fine grain-size promotes BSC succession and their biomass content. Lichens and bryophytes occurred in BSCs with lower disturbance frequencies (e.g. trampling) only. Crust thickness and chlorophyll content increased significantly from crusts of the early successional type to the late successional crust types. From our results, we conclude that BSCs are a normal and frequent element of the vegetation in arid and semi-arid southwestern Africa, and that rain frequency and duration of dry periods rather than the precipitation amount are the key factors for the development, differentiation and composition of BSCs.
4287675|The hypothesis that spatial isolation is a key determinant of microbial community structure in soils was evaluated by examining the competitive dynamics of two species growing on a single resource in a uniform sand matrix under varied moisture content. One species dominated the community under highly connected, saturated treatments, suggesting that these conditions allow competitive interactions to structure the community. As moisture content decreased, however, the less competitive species became established in the community. This effect was most pronounced at a matric water potential of -0.14 MPa where estimates of final population density and species fitness were equal. A second but more closely related species pair exhibited a similar response to decreasing moisture, suggesting that the effects of spatial isolation we observed are not simply a species-pair-specific phenomenon. These findings indicate that spatial isolation, created by low moisture content, plays an important role in structuring soil microbial communities.
4251330| Bacteria and other microorganisms in the pelagic zone participate in the recycling of organic matter and nutrients within the water column. The microbial loop is thought to enhance ecosystem efficiency through rapid recycling and reduced sinking rates, thus reducing the loss of nutrients contained in organisms remaining within the photic zone. We conducted experiments with lake communities in 5400-liter mesocosms, and measured the flux of materials and nutrients out of the water column. A factorial design manipulated 8 nutrient treatments: 4 phosphorus levels  2 nitrogen levels. Total sedimentation rates were greatest in high-N mesocosms; within N-surplus communities, 1 M P resulted in 50% increase in total particulate losses. P additions without added N had small effects on nutrient losses from the photic zone; +2 M P tanks received 334 mg P per tank, yet after 14 days lost only 69 mg more particulate-P than did control communities. Nutrient treatments resulted in marked differences in phytoplankton biomass (twofold N effect, fivefold P effect in +N mesocosms only), bacterioplankton densities (twofold N-effect, twofold P effects in -N and +N mesocosms), and the relative importance of autotrophic picoplankton (maximum in high N:P mesocosms). Multiple regression analysis found that of 8 plankton and water chemistry variables, the ratio of autotrophic picoplankton to total phytoplankton (measured as chlorophyll a) explained the largest portion of the total variation in sedimentation loss rates (65% of P-flux, 57% of N-flux, 26% of total flux). In each case, systems with greater relative importance of autotrophic picoplankton had significantly reduced loss rates. In contrast, greater numbers of planktonic bacteria were associated with increased sedimentation rates and lower system efficiency. We suggest that different microbial components may have contrasting effects on the presumed enhanced efficiency provided by the microbial loop. 
41489776|Temperature has generally great effects on both the activity and composition of microbial communities in different soils. We tested the impact of soil temperature and three different boreal forest tree species on the archaeal populations in the bulk soil, rhizosphere, and mycorrhizosphere. Scots pine, silver birch, and Norway spruce seedlings were grown in forest humus microcosms at three different temperatures, 7-11.5C (night-day temperature), 12-16C, and 16-22C, of which 12-16C represents the typical mid-summer soil temperature in Finnish forests. RNA and DNA were extracted from indigenous ectomycorrhiza, non-mycorrhizal long roots, and boreal forest humus and tested for the presence of archaea by nested PCR of the archaeal 16S rRNA gene followed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) profiling and sequencing. Methanogenic Euryarchaeota belonging to Methanolobus sp. and Methanosaeta sp. were detected on the roots and mycorrhiza. The most commonly detected archaeal 16S rRNA gene sequences belonged to group I.1c Crenarchaeota, which are typically found in boreal and alpine forest soils. Interestingly, also one sequence belonging to group I.1b Crenarchaeota was detected from Scots pine mycorrhiza although sequences of this group are usually found in agricultural and forest soils in temperate areas. Treeand temperature-related shifts in the archaeal population structure were observed. A clear decrease in crenarchaeotal DGGE band number was seen with increasing temperature, and correspondingly, the number of euryarchaeotal DGGE bands, mostly methanogens, increased. The greatest diversity of archaeal DGGE bands was detected in Scots pine roots and mycorrhizas. No archaea were detected from humus samples from microcosms without tree seedling, indicating that the archaea found in the mycorrhizosphere and root systems were dependent on the plant host. The detection of archaeal 16S rRNA gene sequences from both RNA and DNA extractions show that the archaeal populations were living and that they may have significant contribution to the methane cycle in boreal forest soil, especially when soil temperatures rise.
4251292| To characterize the deep subsurface environment of Rainier Mesa, Nevada Test Site, rock samples were taken from tunnels U12b, U12g, U12p, and U12n, which varied in depth from 50 m to 450 m and in gravimetric moisture content from 4% to 27%. Values for total count, viable count, biomass, Simpson diversity, equitability, similarity coefficient, and number of distinct colony types indicated microbiological variability between samples. Viable counts ranged from less than 1  10
41489786|In this study, grazing and virus-induced mortality of phytoplankton was investigated in a freshwater pond at the University of Toronto Mississauga, Canada, during September 2009. The modified dilution assay, which partitions phytoplankton mortality into virus and grazing-induced fractions, was used along with newly designed, taxonspecific quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assays that target psbA gene fragments to estimate growth and mortality rates for both the entire phytoplankton community and four distinct phytoplankton populations. Community mortality was estimated via fluorometric determination of chlorophyll a (Chi a) concentrations, whereas the relative mortality of individual phytoplankton populations was estimated via qPCR. The sources and amounts of mortality for individual phytoplankton populations differed from those of the whole community, as well as from each other. Grazing was found to be the only significant source of mortality for the community (0.32 day), and the Prymnesiales (1.65 day) and Chroococcales (2.79 day) populations studied. On the other hand, the Chlamydomonadales population examined experienced both significant grazing (1.01 day) and viral lysis (0.96 day), while the Chlorellales population only experienced significant mortality as a result of viral lysis (1.38 day). Our results demonstrate that the combination of qPCR and the modified dilution method can be used to estimate both viral lysis and grazing pressure on several individual phytoplankton populations within a community simultaneously. Further, previously noted limitations of the modified dilution method associated with the dilution of specific phytoplankton populations at low abundances can be overcome with the qPCR-based approach. Most importantly, this study demonstrates that when used alone, whole community-based methods of assessing mortality can overlook valuable information about carbon flow in aquatic microbial food webs.
25153052| The hydrochemistry and the microbial diversity of a pristine aquifer system near Garzweiler, Germany, were characterized. Hydrogeochemical and isotopic data indicate a recent activity of sulfate-reducing bacteria in the Tertiary marine sands. The community structure in the aquifer was studied by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Up to 7.3  10 cells/mL were detected by DAPI-staining. Bacteria (identified by the probe EUB338) were dominant, representing 51.9% of the total cell number (DAPI). Another 25.7% of total cell were affiliated with the domain Archaea as identified by the probe ARCH915. Within the domain Bacteria, the -Proteobacteria were most abundant (21.0% of total cell counts). Using genus-specific probes for sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB), 2.5% of the total cells were identified as members of the genus Desulfotomaculum. This reflects the predominant role these microorganisms have been found to play in sulfate-reducing zones of aquifers at other sites. Previously, all SRB cultured from this site were from the spore-forming genera Desulfotomaculum and Desulfosporosinus. 
23361670|A novel thermoacidophilic archaeal strain has been isolated from three geothermal acidic hot springs in Copahue, Argentina. One of the most striking characteristic of ALE1 isolate is its metabolic versatility. It grows on sulphur, tetrathionate, iron (II) and sucrose under aerobic conditions, but it can also develop under anaerobic conditions using iron (III) or sulphur as electron acceptors and sulphur or hydrogen as electron donors autotrophically. A temperature of 75 C and a pH between 2.5 and 3.0 are strain ALE1 optimal growth conditions, but it is able to oxidise iron (II) even at pH 1.0. Cells are irregular cocci surrounded by a regularly arrayed glycoprotein layer (S-layer). Phylogenetic analysis shows that strain ALE1 belongs to the family Sulfolobaceae in the class Thermoprotei, within the phylum Crenarchaeota. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity on NCBI database, ALE1 does not have closely related relatives, neither in culture nor uncultured, which is more surprising. Its closest related species are strains of Acidianus hospitalis (91 % of sequence similarity), Acidianus infernus (90 %), Acidianus ambivalens (90 %) and Acidianus manzanensis (90 %). Its DNA base composition of 34.5 %mol C+ G is higher than that reported for other Acidianus species. Considering physiological and phylogenetic characteristics of strain ALE1, we considered it to represent a novel species of the genus Acidianus (candidatus "Acidianus copahuensis"). The aim of this study is to physiologically characterise this novel archaea in order to understand its role in iron and sulphur geochemical cycles in the Copahue geothermal area and to evaluate its potential applications in bioleaching and biooxidation.
4251747|The nodulation of S. herbacea was compared under flooded and non-flooded conditions in two different soils. One soil was from a flooded field in Sierra de Huautla, the native habitat of this legume, while the other soil was from a well-drained field in Cuernavaca, where rhizobia were found to nodulate the introduced S. herbacea plants. Nodulation of the plants was completely eliminated by flooding in the Cuernavaca soil, whereas nodules were obtained in the same soil under non-flooded conditions. In contrast, nodules were formed in Huautla soil under both flooded and non-flooded conditions. Most isolates, except isolate HS2, from Huautla soil and water were identified as R. huautlense by colony morphology, growth rate, PCR-RFLP of 16S rRNA genes, MLEE, cellular plasmid contents, and RFLP of nifH and nodDAB genes. Isolate HS2 was identified as Mesorhizobium sp. Isolates from Cuernavaca soil were different from R. huautlense in many aspects and were classified into five rDNA types within the genera Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium, and Sinorhizobium by PCR-RFLP of 16S rRNA genes. R. huautlense is a water Rhizobium species. Growth by denitrification under oxygen limitation or with ethanol was observed for R. huautlense bacteria but not for the isolates from Cuernavaca. In an interstrain nodulation competitive assay under both flooded and non-flooded conditions, R. huautlense strain S02 completely inhibited the nodulation of Mesorhizobium sp. Sn2, an isolate from Cuernavaca. From these results, we conclude that R. huautlense has the unique ability to nodulate S. herbacea not only in flooded soils, but in non-flooded soils as well.
4250763| Enterobacter cloacae was recovered from surface sediments of a flood control channel in an area where freshwater runoff mixed with coastal seawater. Cells of this bacterium elaborated an extensive capsule when cultured under laboratory conditions designed to promote extracellular polysaccharide production. Colonization of glass surfaces by cells was similar under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Temperature exerted little effect on maximum adherent cell density in the range of 15-25C. The availability of organic nutrients also had little influence on the tendency of cells to adhere to surfaces. Maximum adherent cell densities decreased (76%) as salinity increased from 0 to 12. The results suggest that cells of E. cloacae are suitably adapted to maintain a sessile existence in brackish water sediments of temperate coastal areas. 
4250904| Counts of bacterial microcolonies attached to deep-sea sediment particles showed 4-, 8-, 16-, and 32-celled microcolonies to be very rare. This was investigated with a mathematical model in which microcolonies grew from single cells at a constant growth rate (), detached from particles at constant rate (), and reattached as single cells. Terms for attachment of foreign bacteria (a) and death of single cells (d) were also included. The best method of fitting the model to the microcolony counts was a weighted least-squares approach by which (0.83
4251523|The enrichment of several genes (xylE, nahAcd, todC1C2BA, tmoABCDE, alkB) that encode enzymes responsible for key steps in the degradation of hydrocarbons, and one gene specific to rRNA group I of the genus Pseudomonas, was studied in DNA extracted from a fuel oil-contaminated field site, and in laboratory microcosms (with the exception of alkB). Toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene, and naphthalene concentrations were related to the extent of hybridization of the genes in the field studies. Significant differences were observed in the extent of hybridization of some of the genes between contaminated and noncontaminated samples. In the microcosm studies, gasoline at rates ranging from 0.5 mg to 125 mg gasoline/g of soil as applied to soils, and the changes in hybridization intensity of these genes monitored with time. The lower threshold of gene enrichment of these genes in response to gasoline addition was below 0.5 mg/g soil. Small increases were observed at the 0.5-mg exposure level, but hybridization intensity quickly decreased to levels below detection 6-8 days after addition of the gasoline. A dose-response effect was observed from treatments with gasoline concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 35 mg/g soil. Inhibition by toxic components in gasoline was observed at 75 and 125 mg/g soil levels. Hybridization of the Pseudomonas group 1 probe to field DNA was not significantly enriched in the contaminated field site, although these sequences were enriched in the microcosm studies. Among the genes tested, xylE was the most sensitive indicator of low levels of fuel oil contamination.
23597861|A methodology aiming at identifying and removing biofilms from cultural heritage was applied to stones from tuff walls in historical sites. Identification of phototrophic encrusting microorganisms was carried out by optical and electron microscopy, as well as by molecular techniques (DNA analyses and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)). In all sites, the examination of microbial components of biofilms resulted in the identification of 17 species belonging to Cyanobacteria, Rhodophyta, Bacillariophyta and Chlorophyta, with Cyanobacteria being the dominant components in all biofilms. In order to remove the biofilms, an innovative technique based on the use of nonthermal effects of radiofrequencies was adopted. The source of the electromagnetic fields was a signal generator connected to a horn antenna through an amplifier to provide the power boost required to generate the target field amplitude. Seven days after exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic field, about 50 % reduction of biofilm was observed; after 14 days, biofilm extension was reduced by about 90 %. DGGE analyses performed after 14 days confirmed these visual inspections. Also, DGGE analyses carried out before and 14 days after treatments showed that 12 out of 17 identified species disappeared. A complete visual disappearance of biofilms was observed a month after the beginning of treatments. DGGE repeated at this time confirmed the total disappearance of biofilm-forming species. Treated stones, when transferred back to their original sites, did not show any microorganism re-growing after 6 months. No alteration in the color and structural consistency of tuff substrata was observed after radiofrequency treatments.
40926450|16S-23S rRNA internally transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences from 53 Frankia strains were sequenced and sized from polymerase chain reaction amplification products and compiled with 14 selected 16S-23S ITS sequences from public database. Frankia genomes included two to three ITS copies lacking length polymorphism except for nine strains. No tRNA gene was encountered in this region. Frankia strains exhibited various lengths (369 to 452 nt) and a wide range of sequence similarity (35100%) in the ITS region. The average pairwise distance varied from 0.368 (clusters 1 and 2) to 0.964 (clusters 3 and 4) and was 0.397, 0.138, 0.129, and 0.016, respectively, for cluster 4 (saprophytic non-infective/non-effective), clusters 1 and 3 (facultative symbiotic), and cluster 2 (obligate symbiotic). This suggests a gradual erosion of Frankia diversity concomitantly with a shift from saprophytic non-infective/non-effective to facultative and symbiotic lifestyle. Comparative sequence analyses of the 16S-23S rRNA intergenic spacer region of Frankia strains are not useful to assign them to their respective cluster or host infection group. Accurate assignment required the inclusion of the adjacent 16S and 23S rRNA gene fragments.
4250992|The fate of bacteria in the food of a common freshwater invertebrate has been studied both in controlled laboratory experiments and in a stream sediment. The animal chosen was the larva of the burrowing mayfly, Ephemera danica. It ingested all available bacteria nonselectively. More bacteria were found associated with the hindgut than with the mesenteron despite continuous plug flow of food through the alimentary canal. Species of bacteria were affected in different ways. Aeromonas hydrophila and Citrobacter freundii were both digested, the former selectively. Flavobacterium sp. and other unidentified species appeared to attach to the hindgut wall. Digestion of bacteria was not due to a sudden change in pH.
4251156|During a bloom of the brown phototrophic sulfur bacterium Chlorobium phaeobacteroides in Lake Kinneret the decisive hydrochemical parameters pH,
41489762|Viruses in aquatic ecosystems comprise those produced by both autochthonous and allochthonous host taxa. However, there is little information on the diversity and abundance of viruses of allochthonous origin, particularly from non-anthropogenic sources, in freshwater and marine ecosystems. We investigated the presence of nucleopolyhedroviruses (NPV) (Baculovirus), which commonly infect terrestrial lepidopteran taxa, across the landscape of Appledore Island, Gulf of Maine. PCR and qPCR primers were developed around a 294-bp fragment of the polyhedrin (polH) gene, which is the major constituent protein of NPV multivirion polyhedral occlusion bodies.polH was successfully amplified from several aquatic habitats, and recovered polH sequences were most similar to known lepidopteran NPV. Using quantitative PCR designed around a cluster of detected sequences, we detected polH in Appledore Island soils, supratidal freshwater ponds, nearshore sediments, near- and offshore plankton, and in floatsam. This diverse set of locations suggests that NPVs are widely dispersed along the terrestrialmarine continuum and that free polyhedra may be washed into ponds and eventually to sea. The putative hosts of detected NPVs were webworms (Hyphantria sp.) which form dense nests in late summer on the dominant Appledore Island vegetation (Prunus virginiana). Our data indicate that viruses of terrestrial origin (i.e., allochthonous viruses) may be dispersed widely in coastal marine habitats. The dispersal of NPV polH and detection within offshore net plankton (>64 m) demonstrates that terrestrial viruses may interact with larger particles and plankton of coastal marine ecosystem, which further suggests that viral genomic information may be transported between biomes.
4250868| Recent explorations of aquatic volcanic environments have led to the isolation of novel microorganisms with optimal growth temperatures of 80C or higher. Expectations of equally novel, highly thermostable biocatalysts and specialty chemicals from such organisms remain high but must be tempered with the laboratory realities of manipulating unusual bacteria whose growth characteristics are as yet poorly defined. Advancing the biotechnological future of "super-thermophiles" will require new cultivation methods, including the use of highly thermostable gels and pressurized bioreactors. 
25153363|The present study was conducted to investigate the effect of decomposition site and plant litter species on the colonizing microbial communities. For this, litter bag technique using beech and spruce litter was combined with RNA-based fingerprinting and cloning. Litter bags were incubated for 2 and 8 weeks in the ${\rm A}_{{\rm h}}$ horizon of beech and beech-spruce mixed forest sites. Although sugars and starch were rapidly lost, lignin content increased by more than 40% for beech and more than doubled for spruce litter at both soil sites at the end of the experiment. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis of 16S and 18S rRNA RT-PCR products was used for screening of differences between bacterial and fungal communities colonizing the two litter types. Development of the microbial community over time was observed to be specific for each litter type and decomposition site. RT-PCR products from both litter types incubated in beech-spruce mixed forest site were also cloned to identify the bacterial and fungal colonizers. The 16S rRNA clone libraries of beech litter were dominated by -proteobacterial members, whereas spruce libraries were mainly composed of -, -, and -proteobacterial members. Ascomycota members dominated the 18S rRNA clone libraries. Clones similar to Zygomycota were absent from spruce, whereas those similar to Basidiomycota and Glomeromycota were absent from beech libraries. Selective effects of litter quality were observed after 8 weeks. The study provides an insight into the bacterial and fungal communities colonizing beech and spruce litter, and the importance of litter quality and decomposition site as key factors in their development and succession.
4251068|Fungal immigration dynamics and community development were followed over time on sets of surface-disinfested apple leaves in the field. Immigration was defined as the arrival of viable propagules on the leaf surface. In three separate experiments (May, June, July), total numbers of fungal immigrants, numbers of filamentous fungal immigrants, and numbers of yeast immigrants per leaf were estimated for successive 12-hour immigration periods. Communities developing over 2-14 immigration periods (1-7 days) were compared with the corresponding estimates of cumulative immigration. There were significant differences among both experiments and immigration periods within each experiment in mean numbers of immigrants per leaf. Leaf area was often significantly correlated with numbers of immigrants. Developing communities supported progressively fewer individuals than the corresponding sums of immigrants, suggesting that losses due to emigration and/or death play a critical role in shaping these communities.
4250737|Numerical taxonomic analysis of a freshwater bacterial guild demonstrated that the bacteria capable of growth on phenanthrene and polychlorinated biphenyl media were representative of the taxa obtained from low nutrient oligotrophic media. The diversity of heterotrophic bacteria and members of new taxa recovered from the guild followed a poisson distribution relative to the number of isolation media used. Moderately high nutrient, yeast extract peptone and glucose agar was found to be the most selective isolation medium relative to the total number of taxa recovered whereas low nutrient, lake water agar was the least selective medium used. Carbon source utilization patterns of the isolated taxa indicated that taxa within the guild had broad niche ranges and could potentially occupy many niches within a dynamic environment. The structure of the bacterial guild was dominated by mesophilic oligotrophs. The results of this investigation demonstrate that potential biodegradative populations are representative of the diverse taxa found in uncontaminated freshwater environments.
41489796|It is a well-recognized fact that the composition of human salivary microbial community is greatly affected by its nutritional environment. However, most studies are currently focused on major carbon or nitrogen sources with limited attention to trace elements like essential mineral ions. In this study, we examined the effect of iron availability on the bacterial profiles of an in vitro human salivary microbial community as iron is an essential trace element for the survival and proliferation of virtually all microorganisms. Analysis via a combination of PCR with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis demonstrated a drastic change in species composition of an in vitro human salivary microbiota when iron was scavenged from the culture medium by addition of the iron chelator 2,2'-bipyridyl. This shift in community profile was prevented by the presence of excessive ferrous iron (Fe). Most interestingly, under iron deficiency, the in vitro grown salivary microbial community became dominated by several hemolytic bacterial species, including Streptococcus spp., Gemella spp., and Granulicatella spp. all of which have been implicated in infective endocarditis. These data provide evidence that iron availability can modulate host-associated oral microbial communities, resulting in a microbiota with potential clinical impact.
4251380|A variety of approaches including enumeration of visibly infected microbes, removal of viral particles, decay of viral infectivity, and measurements of viral production rates have been used to infer the impact of viruses on microbial mortality. The results are surprisingly consistent and suggest that, on average, about 20% of marine heterotrophic bacteria are infected by viruses and 10-20% of the bacterial community is lysed daily by viruses. The effect of viruses on phytoplankton is less certain, but ca. 3% of Synechococcus biomass may be lysed daily. The fraction of primary productivity this represents depends upon the relative biomass and growth rate of Synechococcus. Virus enrichment experiments suggest that the productivity of eukaryotic phytoplankton would be ca. 2% higher in the absence of viruses. Overall, probably about 2-3% of primary productivity is lost to viral lysis. There is considerable variation about these estimates; however, they represent a starting point for incorporating viral-mediated processes into aquatic ecosystem models.
40926437|The Chernobyl catastrophe provides a rare opportunity to study the ecological and evolutionary consequences of low-level, environmental radiation on living organisms. Despite some recent studies about negative effects of environmental radiation on macroorganisms, there is little knowledge about the effect of radioactive contamination on diversity and abundance of microorganisms. We examined abundance patterns of total cultivable bacteria and fungi and the abundance of feather-degrading bacterial subset present on feathers of barn swallows (Hirundo rustica), a colonial migratory passerine, around Chernobyl in relation to levels of ground level environmental radiation. After controlling for confounding variables, total cultivable bacterial loads were negatively correlated with environmental radioactivity, whereas abundance of fungi and feather-degrading bacteria was not significantly related to contamination levels. Abundance of both total and feather-degrading bacteria increased with barn swallow colony size, showing a potential cost of sociality. Males had lower abundance of feather-degrading bacteria than females. Our results show the detrimental effects of low-level environmental radiation on total cultivable bacterial assemblage on feathers, while the abundance of other microorganism groups living on barn swallow feathers, such as feather-degrading bacteria, are shaped by other factors like host sociality or host sex. These data lead us to conclude that the ecological effects of Chernobyl may be more general than previously assumed and may have long-term implications for host-microbe interactions and overall ecosystem functioning.
4250422| Two areas of Chesapeake Bay, Colgate Creek in Baltimore Harbor and Eastern Bay, are presently under study, with routine sampling of water and sediment for petroleum-degrading microorganisms (bacteria, yeasts, and fungi) by direct plating and enrichment culture. Selected physical and chemical parameters are recorded for each sampling site, and water and sediment samples are extracted for hydrocarbons. Numbers of petroleum-degrading microorganisms enumerated by direct plating were found to correlate with the concentration of benzene-extractable material and were higher for the Colgate Creek than for the Eastern Bay site. Petroleum-degrading microorganisms were isolated from water and sediment samples at environmental temperatures of 0, 5, and 10C. A salts medium supplemented with nitrate and phosphate was used to provide optimum conditions for petroleum degradation, whereas Chesapeake Bay water was used to simulate natural environmental conditions. Use of a model petroleum permitted quantitative measurement of utilization of individual hydrocarbons ranging in complexity from simple alkanes to polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons. Higher growth yields and maximum hydrocarbon degradation was observed for microorganisms in the salts medium at 0, 5, and 10C, although significant quantities of hydrocarbons were utilized in some samples grown in a medium for which Chesapeake Bay water was the diluent. Bacterial hydrocarbon degradation accounted for most of the model petroleum utilization at 0 and 5C. However, oscillations of bacterial populations, with significant growth of yeasts, was observed at 10C. Photomicroscopy and scanning electron microscopy revealed aggregates of bacteria, yeasts, and fungi associated with oil globules. From preliminary identification and classification of the hydrocarbon-utilizing bacteria, members of the genera Vibrio, Aeromonas, Pseudomonas, and Acinetobacter were present in the enrichment cultures. From results of this study, it is concluded that utilization of model petroleum at low temperatures is a function of the types and numbers of microorganisms present in an original inoculum taken from the natural environment. 
25153355|Temperature is a master variable controlling biochemical processes in organisms, and its effects are manifested on many organizational levels in organisms and ecosystems. We examined the effects of temperature on the biochemical composition and stoichiometry of a model heterotrophic bacterium, Escherichia coli K-12, held at constant growth rate in chemostats. Increasing temperature led to increased cellular organic carbon (C) and organic nitrogen (N) with decreased phosphorus (P) content, leading to increased C/P and N/P biomass ratios. P content was related to cellular RNA, which is P-rich (9-10% by weight) and nonnucleic acid P (presumably composed of mostly phospholipids, intracellular phosphate, and polyphosphate). These results indicate that E. coli allocates an increased proportion of its P cell quota toward assembly (ribosomes) at low temperatures and an increasing proportion toward resource acquisition machinery (membranes) at higher temperatures. If these results are relevant to the behavior of prokaryotic heterotrophs in natural settings (the gut, soils, lakes, oceans, etc.), it suggests greater nutrient regeneration and less microbial nutrient retention as temperatures increase.
25153176|The biological control agent (BCA) Pseudomonas fluorescens DR54 was applied to seeds (experiment 1) or roots (experiment 2) of barley growing in microcosms, while noninoculated plants served as controls. The fate of the BCA and its effects on the rhizosphere microbial community was evaluated in microcosms destructively sampled at days 2, 4, 6, and 9 after inoculation. In both experiments the number of P. fluorescens DR54 cells decreased immediately after application as enumerated by immunostaining and microscope direct counting. Substrate-induced respiration (SIR) was taken as a measurement of the active microbial biomass, while indicators of the total microbiota (and main taxonomic groups) were obtained using the phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) technique. In experiment 1, these parameters were unaffected by the relatively small number of BCA cells applied, whereas in experiment 2, the larger BCA input resulted in an enhanced level of both SIR and PLFAs from Gram-negative bacteria (which included the BCA itself). However, at day 9 after inoculation, treatments with P. fluorescens DR54 and controls were similar in all measured parameters in both experiments. This was also illustrated very clearly by principal component analysis of the PLFA data, which in both experiments were able to discriminate between treatments in the first days after BCA inoculation, thus confirming the sensitivity of this method. Laccase activity has a potential as an indicator of fungal stress, e.g., when challenged with an antifungal BCA. This seemed to be supported in experiment 2, where the activity of this enzyme was enhanced four-fold in the BCA treatment at day 2. Our study shows that under the present conditions, P. fluorescens DR54 disappears from the soil and causes only transient effects on the soil microbiota. It also shows that the PLFA technique is a sensitive and reliable monitoring tool in in situ assessment of BCA nontarget effect on indigenous microorganisms in soil.
4251424|Bacterial populations on above-ground plant surfaces were estimated at three different biological scales, including leaflet disks, entire leaflets, and whole plants. The influence of sample scale on the estimation of mean bacterial population size per unit and per gram and on the variability among sampling units was quantified at each scale. Populations were highly variable among sampling units at every scale examined, suggesting that there is no optimal scale at which sample variance is reduced. The distribution of population sizes among sample units was sometimes, but not consistently, described by the lognormal. Regardless of the sampling scale, expression of population sizes on a per gram basis may not reduce variance, because population size was not generally a function of sample unit weight within any single sampling scale. In addition, the data show that scaling populations on a per gram basis does not provide a useful means of comparing population estimates from samples taken at different scales. The implications of these results for designing sampling strategies to address specific issues in microbial ecology are discussed.
25153375|Planktonic bacteria passing to a sessile state during the formation of a biofilm undergo many gene expression and phenotypic changes. These transformations require a significant time to establish. Inversely, cells extracted from a biofilm should also require a significant time before acquiring the same physiological characteristics as planktonic cells. Relatively few studies have addressed the kinetics of this inverse transformation process. We tested one aspect, namely, the contamination potential of freshly extracted Escherichia coli biofilm cells, precultured in a synthetic medium, in a rich liquid growth medium. We compared the time between inoculation and the beginning of the growth phase of freshly extracted biofilm cells, and suspended exponential and suspended stationary phase cells precultured in the same synthetic medium. Unexpectedly, the lag time for the extracted biofilm cells was the same as the lag time of the suspended exponential phase cells and significantly less than the lag time of the suspended stationary phase cells. The lag times were determined by an impedance technique. Cells extracted from biofilms, i.e., biofilms formed in canalizations and broken up by hydrodynamic forces, are an important source of contamination. Our work shows, in the case of E. coli, the high potential of freshly extracted biofilm cells to reinfect a new medium.
4287576|The bacterial community structure in the Changjiang estuary was studied for comparison with future changes, related to the construction of the Three Gorges Dam. Population densities of bacteria in the surface water at station C1 estimated by CFU on marine agar plates and by DAPI direct count, were
23469573|The human bacterial pathogen, Vibrio vulnificus, is found in brackish waters and is concentrated by filter-feeding molluscan shellfish, especially oysters, which inhabit those waters. Ingestion of raw or undercooked oysters containing virulent strains of V. vulnificus can result in rapid septicemia and death in 50 % of victims. This review summarizes the current knowledge of the environmental interactions between these two organisms, including the effects of salinity and temperature on colonization, uptake, and depuration rates of various phenotypes and genotypes of the bacterium, and hostmicrobe immunological interactions.
4250734| Several models of microbial surface colonization have been devised to quantitate growth and attachment rates on surfaces. One of these, the surface growth rate equation, is based on the assumption that the number of microcolonies of a given size ( C
23361603|Maize is one of the most important crops worldwide, and in Brazil, the state of Paran stands as its largest producer. The crop demands high inputs of N fertilizers, therefore all strategies aiming to optimize the grain production with lower inputs are very relevant. Endophytic bacteria have a high potential to increment maize grain yield by means of input via biological nitrogen fixation and/or plant growth promotion, in this last case increasing the absorption of water and nutrients by the plants. In this study, we established a collection of 217 endophytic bacteria, isolated from roots of four lineages and three hybrid genotypes of maize, and isolated in four different N-free culture media. Biochemicalcomprising growth in different carbon sources, intrinsic tolerance to antibiotics, and biochemical tests for catalase, nitrate reductase, urease, and growth in N-free media in vitroand genetic characterization by BOX-PCR revealed great variability among the isolates. Both commercial hybrids and homozygous lineages were broadly colonized by endophytes, and sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene revealed the presence of bacteria belonging to the genera Pantoea, Bacillus, Burkholderia, and Klebsiella. Qualitative differences in endophytic colonization were detected between lineages and hybrid genotypes.
40605885|Succession is a widely studied process in plant and animal systems, but succession in microbial communities has received relatively little attention despite the ubiquity of microorganisms in natural habitats. One important microbial habitat is the phyllosphere, or leaf surface, which harbors large, diverse populations of bacteria and offers unique opportunities for the study of succession and temporal community assembly patterns. To explore bacterial community successional patterns, we sampled phyllosphere communities on cottonwood (Populus deltoides) trees multiple times across the growing season, from leaf emergence to leaf fall. Bacterial community composition was highly variable throughout the growing season; leaves sampled as little as a week apart were found to harbor significantly different communities, and the temporal variability on a given tree exceeded the variability in community composition between individual trees sampled on a given day. The bacterial communities clearly clustered into early-, mid-, and late-season clusters, with early- and late-season communities being more similar to each other than to the mid-season communities, and these patterns appeared consistent from year to year. Although we observed clear and predictable changes in bacterial community composition during the course of the growing season, changes in phyllosphere bacterial diversity were less predictable. We examined the species-time relationship, a measure of species turnover rate, and found that the relationship was fundamentally similar to that observed in plant and invertebrate communities, just on a shorter time scale. The temporal dynamics we observed suggest that although phyllosphere bacterial communities have high levels of phylogenetic diversity and rapid turnover rates, these communities follow predictable successional patterns from season to season.
25256090|We studied the relationships between testate amoeba communities and heavy metal (Pb, Cd, Zn, Ni, Cu, Mn, and Fe) concentrations in the moss Barbula indica sampled at 29 sites in and around the city of Hanoi (Vietnam). Our first approach was to compare the heavy metal concentrations and testate amoeba variables between the city (zone 1) and the surrounding (zone 2). Mean moss concentrations of Pb, Cd, Zn, Ni, and Cu were significantly higher and testate amoeba species richness and abundance were significantly lower in zone 1 and the abundance of eight taxa differed significantly between the two zones. We then studied the correlation between heavy metals and testate amoebae. Species richness and abundance were correlated negatively to Pb concentration. Shannon H was negatively correlated to both Pb and Cd. The abundance of several species was negatively correlated with Pb, Cd, Zn, and Ni; however, at the community level, Pb emerged as the only significant variable in a redundancy analysis. Our results suggest that testate amoebae are sensitive to and may be good bioindicators for heavy metal pollution, especially lead. Further research is needed to understand the causal relationships underlying the observed patterns.
4250913|Cell growth and division of the ciliate Tetrahymena corlissi were examined upon refeeding after prolonged starvation of up to 12 days. Division did not automatically occur when a certain critical cell size was reached. Rather, it varied both with the nutritional history of the cell and the nutrient conditions in which the cell was growing. Upon refeeding, cells starved for 12 days divided at a smaller size and later than cells starved for 6 days. Cells refed at high density took longer to begin division than cells refed at low density. The results are discussed with respect to the "relative starvation" and "critical constituent" models of the cell cycle and in terms of the polymorphic life cycle of Tetrahymena species.
23597819|Understanding the methanogen structure from sika deer (Cervus nippon) in China may be beneficial to methane mitigation. In the present preliminary study, we investigated the methanogen community in the rumen of domesticated sika deer fed either tannin-rich plants (oak leaf, OL group) or corn stalk (CS group) using 16S rRNA gene clone libraries. Overall, we obtained 197 clone sequences, revealing 146 unique phylotypes, which were assigned to 36 operational taxonomic units at the species level (98 % identity). Methanogens related to the genus Methanobrevibacter were the predominant phylotypes representing 83.9 % (OL library) and 85.9 % (CS library) of the clones. Methanobrevibacter millerae was the most abundant species in both libraries, but the proportion of M. millerae-related clones in the CS library was higher than in the OL library (69.5 and 51.4 %, respectively). Moreover, Methanobrevibacter wolinii-related clones (32.5 %) were predominant in the OL library. Methanobrevibacter smithii-related clones and Methanobrevibacter ruminantium-related clones accounted for 6.5 and 6.6 % in the CS library, respectively. However, these clones were absent from the OL library. The concentrations of butyrate and total short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were significantly higher in the OL group, but the concentrations of acetate, propionate, and valerate and the acetate to propionate ratio in the OL group were not significantly different between the two groups. Tannin-rich plants may have affected the distribution of genus Methanobrevibacter phylotypes at the species level and the concentration and composition of SCFAs.
23469147|Crop production may benefit from plant growth-promoting bacteria. The knowledge on bacterial communities is indispensable in agricultural systems that intend to apply beneficial bacteria to improve plant health and production of crops such as canola. In this work, the diversity of root bacterial communities associated to two different developmental phases of canola (Brassica napus L.) plants was assessed through the application of new generation sequencing technology. Total bacterial DNA was extracted from root samples from two different growth states of canola (rosette and flowering). It could be shown how bacterial communities inside the roots changed with the growing stage of the canola plants. There were differences in the abundance of the genera, family, and even the phyla identified for each sample. While in both root samples Proteobacteria was the most common phylum, at the rosette stage, the most common bacteria belonged to the family Pseudomonadaceae and the genus Pseudomonas, and in the flowering stage, the Xanthomonadaceae family and the genus Xanthomonas dominated the community. This implies in a switch in the predominant bacteria in the different developmental stages of the plant, suggesting that the plant itself interferes with the associated microbial community.
41489065|In arctic glacier moraines, bioweathering primed by microbial iron oxidizers creates fertility gradients that accelerate soil development and plant establishment. With the aim of investigating the change of bacterial diversity in a pyrite-weathered gradient, we analyzed the composition of the bacterial communities involved in the process by sequencing 16S rRNA gene libraries from different biological soil crusts (BSC). Bacterial communities in three BSC of different morphology, located within 1 m distance downstream a pyritic conglomerate rock, were significantly diverse. The glacier moraine surrounding the weathered site showed wide phylogenetic diversity and high evenness with 15 represented bacterial classes, dominated by Alphaproteobacteria and pioneer Cyanobacteria colonizers. The bioweathered area showed the lowest diversity indexes and only nine bacterial families, largely dominated by Acidobacteriaceae and Acetobacteraceae typical of acidic environments, in accordance with the low pH of the BSC. In the weathered BSC, iron-oxidizing bacteria were cultivated, with counts decreasing along with the increase of distance from the rock, and nutrient release from the rock was revealed by environmental scanning electron microscopy-energy dispersive X-ray analyses. The vegetated area showed the presence of Actinomycetales, Verrucomicrobiales, Gemmatimonadales, Burkholderiales, and Rhizobiales, denoting a bacterial community typical of developed soils and indicating that the lithoid substrate of the bare moraine was here subjected to an accelerated colonization, driven by iron-oxidizing activity.
41693746|Marine sponges often harbor photosynthetic symbionts that may enhance host metabolism and ecological success, yet little is known about the factors that structure the diversity, specificity, and nature of these relationships. Here, we characterized the cyanobacterial symbionts in two congeneric and sympatric host sponges that exhibit distinct habitat preferences correlated with irradiance: Ircinia fasciculata (higher irradiance) and Ircinia variabilis (lower irradiance). Symbiont composition was similar among hosts and dominated by the sponge-specific cyanobacterium Synechococcus spongiarum. Phylogenetic analyses of 16S-23S rRNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) gene sequences revealed that Mediterranean Ircinia spp. host a specific, novel symbiont clade ("M") within the S. spongiarum species complex. A second, rare cyanobacterium related to the ascidian symbiont Synechocystis trididemni was observed in low abundance in I. fasciculata and likewise corresponded to a new symbiont clade. Symbiont communities in I. fasciculata exhibited nearly twice the chlorophyll a concentrations of I. variabilis. Further, S. spongiarum clade M symbionts in I. fasciculata exhibited dense intracellular aggregations of glycogen granules, a storage product of photosynthetic carbon assimilation rarely observed in I. variabilis symbionts. In both host sponges, S. spongiarum cells were observed interacting with host archeocytes, although the lower photosynthetic activity of Cyanobacteria in I. variabilis suggests less symbiont-derived nutritional benefit. The observed differences in clade M symbionts among sponge hosts suggest that ambient irradiance conditions dictate symbiont photosynthetic activity and consequently may mediate the nature of host-symbiont relationships. In addition, the plasticity exhibited by clade M symbionts may be an adaptive attribute that allows for flexibility in host-symbiont interactions across the seasonal fluctuations in light and temperature characteristic of temperate environments.
4287603| Previous work in an alpine dry meadow in the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains has shown that microbial biomass is high during winter and declines rapidly as snow melts in the spring, and that this decline is associated with changes in temperature regime and substrate availability. In this study we tested the hypothesis that the summer and winter microbial communities differ in function and composition. Shifts in species composition between pre- and post-snowmelt communities were detected using reciprocal hybridization of community DNA; DNA extracted from soils sampled at different times was significantly less homologous relative to spatial replicates sampled at the same time. Fungal/bacterial ratios, as measured by direct microscopic counts and by substrate-induced respiration experiments with specific inhibitors, were higher in winter soils. Specific activity of cellulase (absolute cellulase activity per unit microbial biomass C) was higher in the winter soils than in summer soils, while specific amylase activity was not different between winter and summer. Based on most-probable number measurements, the use of the phenolic compound vanillic acid was highest in the winter, while the use of the amino acid glycine was lowest in the winter. Winter and summer soil respiration responded differently to temperature; at 0C, winter soils respired at a higher proportion of the 22C rate than did summer soils. 
25153373| The marine phage HSIC has been previously reported to enter into a pseudolysogenic-like interaction with its host Listonella pelagia. This phage-host system displays behaviors that are characteristic of both pseudolysogeny and lysogeny including a high rate of spontaneous induction and chromosomal integration of the prophage. To determine what parameters may influence the transition from lysogenic to lytic existence in the HSIC/L. pelagia phage-host system, cultures of this organism were incubated under different environmental conditions, while host cell growth and bacteriophage production were monitored. The environmental parameters tested included salinity, temperature, a rapid temperature shift, and degree of culture aeration. The highest titers of phage were produced by HSIC-1a cells grown in high-salinity nutrient artificial seawater media (67 ppt with a natural salinity equivalent of 57 ppt) or those cultured in highly aerated nutrient artificial seawater media (cultures shaken at 300 rpm). Conversely, the lowest titers of phage were produced under low salinity or rate of aeration. In general, conditions that stimulated growth resulted in greater lytic phage production, whereas slow growth favored lysogeny. These results indicate that elevated salinity and aeration influenced the switch from lysogenic to lytic existence for the phage HSIC. These results may have implications for environmental controls of the lysogenic switch in natural populations of marine bacteria. 
4287731| The interrelation of heterotrophic bacteria with bacterivorous protists has been widely studied in pelagic environments, but data on benthic habitats, especially in freshwater systems, are still scarce. We present a seasonal study focusing on bacterivory by heterotrophic nanoflagellates (HNF) and ciliates in the silty sediment of a temperate macrophyte-dominated oxbow lake. From January 2001 to February 2002 we monitored the standing stock of bacteria and protozoa, bacterial secondary production (BSP,
25153397|The positive influence of bacterial feeding nematodes on bacterial mediated processes such as organic matter mineralization and nutrient cycling is widely accepted, but the mechanisms of these interactions are not always apparent. Both transport of bacteria by nematodes, and nutritional effects caused by nematode N excretion are thought to be involved, but their relative importance is not known because of the difficulties in studying these interactions in soil. We developed a simple in vitro assay to study complex nematode/bacterial interactions and used it to conduct a series of experiments to determine the potential influence of nematode movement and nutritional effects on bacterial resource use. The system used bacterial feeding and nonfeeding insect parasitic nematodes, and luminescent bacteria marked with metabolic reporter genes. Both nutritional enhancement of bacterial activity and bacterial transport were observed and we hypothesize that in nature, the relative importance of transport is likely to be greater in bulk soil, whereas nematode excretion may have greater impact in the rhizosphere. In both cases, the ability of nematodes to enhance bacterial resource utilization has implications for soil components of biogeochemical cycling.
4250636| In situ heterotrophic uptake of mixed
25256215|Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is considered a highly sensitive method for the quantification of microbial organisms in environmental samples. This study was conducted to evaluate real-time PCR with SybrGreen detection as a quantification method for sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) in industrial wastewater produced by several chemical industries. We designed four sets of primers and developed standard curves based on genomic DNA of Desulfovibrio vulgaris from pure culture and on plasmids containing dissimilatory sulfate reductase (dsrA) or adenosine-5'-phosphosulfate reductase (apsA) genes of SRB. All the standard curves, two for dsrA and two for apsA genes, had a linear range between 0.9510 and 9.510 copies/L and between 1.210 and 1.210 copies/L, respectively. The theoretical copy numbers of the tenfold dilutions of D. vulgaris genomic DNA were best estimated (between 2.7 to 10.5 times higher than theoretical numbers) by the standard curve with DSR1F and RH3-dsr-R primers. To mimic the effect of foreign DNA in environmental samples, serial dilutions of D. vulgaris genomic DNA were mixed with Escherichia coli chromosomal DNA (40 ng per assay). This influenced neither PCR amplification nor the quantification of target DNA. Industrial wastewater was sampled during a 15-month period and analyzed for the presence of SRB, based on dsrA gene amplification. SRB displayed a higher abundance during the summer (about 10-10 targets mL) and lower during the winter (about 10-10 targets mL). The results indicate that our real-time PCR approach can be used for detection of uncultured SRB and will provide valuable information related to the abundance of SRB in durable environmental samples, such as complex and saline industrial wastewaters.
4250474| Thirty-seven species of marine microplanktonic algae from 10 taxonomic classes were tested for their viability in axenic culture after prolonged exposure to darkness at 2, 10, and 20C. The darkness test periods were prolonged in weekly installments up to a maximum of 1 year, and viability retention (survival) was judged from the capability for resuming growth after replacement in light. The 2C-tests showed 32% of the species reaching the limits of survival with 5-6 months of darkness exposure, but another similar percentage continued to tolerate darkness for double this period. These darkness toleration limits were considerably shorter at 20C for the strains known to be isolated from cold marine regions, whereas the warm-water strains showed the reverse temperature effect in surviving significantly longer at 10-20C than at 2C. Irrespective of temperature or algal class, the bulk of the more resistant survivors was formed by the strains qualifying as benthic types, about 70% of which tolerated 11-12 months and the rest at least 5-6 months of darkness. A few randomly chosen benthic strains extended this toleration to 3 years of darkness. It was concluded that phytoplankters retain darkness-endurance capacity determined by their ecological origin and with no obvious taxonomic correspondence. The concept of ecological races, characterized by temperature control of darkness survival, is discussed. 
40926460|The ability to produce several antibacterial agents greatly increases the chance of producer's survival. In this study, red-pigmented Vibrio sp. DSM 14379 and Bacillus sp., both isolated from the same sampling volume from estuarine waters of the Northern Adriatic Sea, were grown in a co-culture. The antibacterial activity of the red pigment extract was tested on Bacillus sp. in microtiter plates. The MIC for Bacillus sp. was estimated to be around 10 mg/L. The extract prepared form the nonpigmented mutant of Vibrio sp. had no antibacterial effect. The pigment production of Vibrio sp. was studied under different physicochemical conditions. There was no pigment production at high or low temperatures, high or low salt concentrations in peptone yeast extract (PYE) medium, low glucose concentration in mineral growth medium or high glucose concentration in PYE medium. This indicates that the red pigment production is a luxurious good that Vibrio sp. makes only under favorable conditions. The Malthusian fitness of Bacillus sp. in a co-culture with Vibrio sp. under optimal environmental conditions dropped from 4.0 to -7.6, which corresponds to three orders of magnitude decrease in the number of CFU relative to the monoculture. The nonpigmented mutant of Vibrio sp. in a co-culture with Bacillus sp. had a significant antibacterial activity. This result shows that studying antibacterial properties in isolation (i.e. pigment extract only) may not reveal full antibacterial potential of the bacterial strain. The red pigment is a redundant antibacterial agent of Vibrio sp.
4287747|We analyzed, by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms (T-RFLPs) of PCR-amplified 16S rDNA, microbial diversity in water collected during the dry and wet seasons in a human-impacted coastal lagoon. Water samples were fractionated by prefiltration to differentiate particle-associated and free-living microbes. From a sample collected during the dry season, prefiltration removed 23 to 44% of bacteria, as assessed by direct counts and MPN, and 99% of phytoplankton, as assessed by chlorophyll a. Restriction with RsaI yielded fewer peaks than restriction with HhaI. Diversity indices calculated from T-RFLPs were higher in the lagoon than adjoining coastal waters and higher in the particle-associated than the free-living fraction. In the dry season, peaks found only in bulk and particle-associated T-RFLPs were consistent with plastid and cyanobacterial ribotypes. These peaks matched those observed in the sequence of a clone generated from the bulk fraction with plastid and cyanobacterial specific primers. This clone appeared related to plastids found in the diatom genus Skeletonema. Principal component analysis of T-RFLPs suggested that the difference between the free-living and particle-associated fractions in the dry season was less than temporal variability in this lagoon and that these fractions varied significantly only in the wet season. This fractionation of microbial populations into particle-associated and free-living guilds during the wet season, when water residence time in the lagoon is relatively low, suggests an external source of particle-associated bacteria such as erosion of upland soils by runoff.
4251132|A simple and reliable technique to study bacterial chemotaxis in natural aquatic environments is reported. This technique uses the test chemicals in known volumes of semi-solid agar media placed in double layered, highly porous, polyester tubes. Following in situ incubation, bacteria attracted by the test chemicals are enumerated with fluorescence microscopy following acridine orange staining. Studies in an eutrophic reservoir showed that significant numbers of bacteria were attracted to D-glucose and glycine; no significant effects were observed with L-serine, sodium succinate, or sodium chloride.
4251080|Fungal immigration to apple leaves in the field was altered by the introduction of populations of Chaetomium globosum or Aureobasidium pullulans to surface-disinfested leaves either immediately following, or 6 days after, disinfestation. Total numbers of fungal individuals and numbers of filamentous fungal and yeast individuals were estimated and compared over time for 4-7 weeks on control leaves (leaves disinfested but no populations applied), on Aureobasidium-treated, and on Chaetomium-treated leaves. Fungal communities developing on leaves during three experiments in two different time frames (experiment 1: July 9-August 27; experiments 2 and 3: July 29-August 27), and thus under different immigration regimes, were also compared. Survival of introduced populations was not related to the presence of prior fungal immigrants. Rates of increase in total numbers of fungi and numbers of filamentous fungi and yeasts per leaf varied among experiments, apparently in relation to differences in immigration and environmental history. Differences among leaves in immigration had a short-term (days) influence on community size. However, no long-term effects of altered immigration on phylloplane fungal community size were evident.
25153160|The influence of seasonality and Zygophyllum dumosum root canopy on the species diversity of free-living amoebae at two soil depths (0-10 and 10-20 cm) was studied in a Negev Desert ecosystem in Israel. Free-living amoebae were extracted and identified after cultivation in non-nutritive agar plates. A total of 90 amoeba species were identified in the soil during the study period, with the most common genera present being Hartmannella, Platyamoeba, Vahlkampfia, Acanthamoeba, and Echinamoeba. Differences between the control soil and the soil under Z. dumosum were found mainly during the dry seasons, when 97% similarity was found between the two soil layers, which could be due to the effect of the shrub on the soil microenvironment. The amoeba community exhibited more species diversity in spring (reaching a value of 34 species) than in the winter (18 species) or summer and autumn (20 species), since the community has a time lag for becoming stabilized after the dry summer and autumn. This is one of the first studies on the amoeba population in the Negev Desert and elucidates the importance and the need for taking trophic and functional groups into consideration in order to understand biomineralization processes.
25153125|A model system was devised, evaluating the influence that species diversity (species richness) has on fungal establishment and coexistence. Seven members of the fungal phylloplane community of Vaccinium macrocarpon (American cranberry) were selected to assess how species diversity affected development and coexistence of another community member, Pestalotia vaccinii. Pestalotia was engaged in competitive interactions on 1% Malt Extract Agar (MEA) petri dishes with each of the seven individual saprotrophs (two-way interaction), in random combinations with three of the seven saprotrophs (four-way interaction), and in random combinations with five of the seven saprotrophs (six-way interaction). The saprotrophic fungi used in this study were Aspergillus sp., Alternaria alternata, Cladosporium cladosporoides, Curvularia lunata, Epicoccum purpuracens, Penicillium sp., and Pithomyces chartarum. We hypothesized that species diversity would have a significant impact on the establishment and coexistence of Pestalotia vaccinii in culture. In an effort to minimize density-dependent effects, the number of viable spores employed in the three types of interactions was kept constant. Target spore concentrations of 50 viable spores of P. vaccinii and 50 saprotroph spores were used, regardless of the number of species involved in the interaction. This proved to be a very important factor in the experiment. As our results show, species diversity had little or no effect on the establishment and coexistence of Pestalotia vaccinii; however, spore density played an extremely important role in the establishment and development of fungal propagules in our model.
4250549| An annual investigation of rates of photolithotrophy, photoheterotrophy, and chemoheterotrophy utilizing glucose and bicarbonate was made within the pelagic zone of a small, hardwater, southwestern Michigan lake. Sampling proceeded on a monthly, diurnal, and depth-wise basis. Annual mean photoheterotrophic uptake was estimated at 2.6 g C m
4251812|A major challenge in microbial ecology is to develop reliable and facile methods of computer-assisted microscopy that can analyze digital images of complex microbial communities at single cell resolution, and compute useful quantitative characteristics of their organization and structure without cultivation. Here we describe a computer-aided interactive system to analyze the high degree of morphological diversity in growing microbial communities revealed by phase-contrast microscopy. The system, called "CMEIAS" (Center for Microbial Ecology Image Analysis System) consists of several custom plug-ins for UTHSCSA ImageTool, a free downloadable image analysis program operating on a personal computer in a Windows NT environment. CMEIAS uses various measurement features and two object classifiers to extract size and shape measurements of segmented, digital images of microorganisms and classify them into their appropriate morphotype. The first object classifier uses a single measurement feature to analyze relatively simple communities containing only a few morphotypes (e.g., regular rods, cocci, filaments). A second new hierarchical tree classifier uses an optimized subset of multiple measurement features to analyze significantly more complex communities containing greater morphological diversity than ever before possible. This CMEIAS shape classifier automatically categorizes each cell into one of 11 predominant bacterial morphotypes, including cocci, spirals, curved rods, U-shaped rods, regular straight rods, unbranched filaments, ellipsoids, clubs, rods with extended prostheca, rudimentary branched rods, and branched filaments. The training and testing images for development and evaluation of the CMEIAS classifier were obtained from 1,937 phase-contrast grayscale digital images of various diverse communities. The CMEIAS shape classifier had an accuracy of 96.0% on a training set of 1,471 cells and 97.0% on a test set of 4,270 cells representing all 11 bacterial morphotype classes, indicating that accurate classification of rich morphological diversity in microbial communities is now possible. An interactive edit feature was added to address the main sources of error in automatic shape classification, enabling the operator to inspect the assigned morphotype of each bacterium based on visual recognition of its distinctive pseudocolor, reassign it to another morphotype class if necessary, and add up to five other morphotypes to the classification scheme. The shape classifier reports on the number and types of different morphotypes present and the abundance among each of them, thus providing the data needed to compute the morphological diversity within the microbial community. An example of how CMEIAS can augment the analysis of microbial community structure is illustrated by studies of morphological diversity as an indicator of dynamic ecological succession following a nutrient shift-up perturbation in two continuously fed, anaerobic bioreactors with morphologically distinct start communities. Various steps to minimize the limitations of computer-assisted microscopy to classify bacterial morphotypes using CMEIAS are described. In summary, CMEIAS is an accurate, robust, flexible semiautomatic computing tool that can significantly enhance the ability to quantitate bacterial morphotype diversity and should serve as a useful adjunct to the analysis of microbial community structure. This first version of CMEIAS will be released as free, downloadable plug-ins so it can provide wide application in studies of microbial ecology.
25153330| In this work, we estimate the contributions of the different sources of N incorporated by two N-fixing cyanobacterial blooms (Anabaena sp. and Microchaete sp.) in the rice fields of Valencia (Spain) during the crop cycles of 1999 and 2000, and evaluate the response of nitrogenase and C assimilation activities to changing irradiances. Our results show that, far from the generally assumed idea that the largest part of the N incorporated by N-fixing cyanobacterial blooms in rice fields comes from N fixation, both cyanobacterial blooms incorporated about three times more N from dissolved combined compounds than from N fixation (only about 33-41% of the N incorporated came from N fixation). Our results on the photodependence of C and N fixation indicate that in both cyanobacterial blooms, N fixation showed a steeper initial slope () and was saturated with less irradiance than C fixation, suggesting that N fixation was more efficient than photosynthesis under conditions of light limitation. At saturating light, N fixation and C fixation differed depending on the bloom and on the environmental conditions created by rice plant growth. Carbon assimilation but not nitrogenase activity appeared photoinhibited in the Anabaena but not in the Microchaete bloom in August 1999, when the plants were tall and the canopy was important, and there was no limitation of dissolved inorganic carbon. The opposite was found in the Microchaete bloom of June 2000, when plants were small and produced little shade, and dissolved inorganic carbon was very low. 
40343405|We investigated the bacterial diversity of microbial communities in water-filled, human-made and natural container habitats of the mosquitoes Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus in suburban landscapes of New Orleans, Louisiana in 2003. We collected water samples from three classes of containers, including tires (n=12), cemetery urns (n=23), and miscellaneous containers that included two tree holes (n=19). Total genomic DNA was extracted from water samples, and 16S ribosomal DNA fragments (operational taxonomic units, OTUs) were amplified by PCR and separated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). The bacterial communities in containers represented diverse DGGE-DNA banding patterns that were not related to the class of container or to the local spatial distribution of containers. Mean richness and evenness of OTUs were highest in water samples from tires. Bacterial phylotypes were identified by comparative sequence analysis of 90 16S rDNA DGGE band amplicons. The majority of sequences were placed in five major taxa: Alpha-, Beta-and Gammaproteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Cyanobacteria, Firmicutes, and an unclassified group; Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were the predominant heterotrophic bacteria in containers. The bacterial communities in human-made containers consisted mainly of undescribed species, and a phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA sequences suggested that species composition was independent of both container type and the spatial distribution of containers. Comparative PCR-based, cultivation-independent rRNA surveys of microbial communities associated with mosquito habitats can provide significant insight into community organization and dynamics of bacterial species.
4251392|Contemporary models of the microbial loop should be critically evaluated relative to their compartmental structures, flow networks, and treatment of upper ocean physics (vertical and horizontal boundary conditions). The development of new models that include better representation of the autotrophic components and mixotrophy/competitive interactions is warranted. The mathematical structures should reflect contemporary knowledge of controls (e.g., multiple resource limitation), thresholds and limits, and be based on testable assumptions. Stochastic processes must at some point be included to evaluate known patterns of spatial and temporal variability.
4251015| Laboratory studies of the interactions between a bacterial population and a population of bacterivorous ciliates consistently show that the bacteria are able to persist in the presence of viable ciliates. Reproduction of the bacteria, presumably at the expense of substrates produced by death and lysis of the ciliates and/or by their metabolic activity, has been suggested to be a factor involved in the observed bacterial persistence. Rates and extents of growth of Escherichia coli in broths of mixed cultures of this bacterium and the ciliate Tetrahymena pyriformis were determined in order to provide some data necessary to assess the importance of the suggested factor. In addition, an attempt was made to suppress bacterial growth on produced substrates so that feeding of the ciliates could be studied free of this complication. However, the procedure tested-addition of the antibiotic chloramphenicol (CM) at a concentration of 150 g/ml-led to other complications that made it impossible to obtain the desired information about feeding. 
4251153| The sizes of the populations of individual bacterial species diminished following their addition to water from lakes with different trophic levels at temperatures of 5, 10, 15, and 30C. Some species persisted after their initial reduction in cell numbers, but others were undetectable after 3 to 15 days. The decline of these introduced bacteria was not a result of their inoculation at higher densities than are found in nature. The death of most of the test species was not the result of starvation, abiotic factors, bdellovibrios, or bacteriophages. Despite the presence of lytic bacteria, the lake water did not have lytic activity against the test species. Protozoan predation was a significant factor in the fall in bacterial population sizes because protozoa increased in numbers as the bacterial density fell, the suppression of protozoa led to the elimination or delay of the decline of the bacteria, and the addition of protozoa to lake water in which indigenous protozoa were suppressed produced the same pattern of bacterial elimination as in untreated lake water. 
41489172|Increases in global temperatures have been shown to enhance glacier melting in the Arctic region. Here, we have evaluated the effects of meltwater runoff on the microbial communities of coastal marine sediment located along a transect of Temelfjorden, in Svalbard. As close to the glacier front, the sediment properties were clearly influenced by dglaciation. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles showed that the sediment microbial communities of the stations of glacier front (stations 188-178) were distinguishable from that of outer fjord region (station 176). Canonical correspondence analysis indicated that total carbon and calcium carbonate in sediment and chlorophyll a in bottom water were key factors driving the change of microbial communities. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene clone libraries suggested that microbial diversity was higher within the glacier-proximal zone (station 188) directly affected by the runoffs than in the outer fjord region. While the crenarchaeotal group I. la dominated at station 176 (62%), Marine Benthic Group-B and other Crenarchaeota groups were proportionally abundant. With regard to the bacterial community, alpha-Proteobacteria and Flavobacteria lineages prevailed (60%) at station 188, whereas deita-Proteobacteria (largely sulfatereducers) predominated (32%) at station 176. Considering no clone sequences related to sulfate-reducers, station 188 may be more oxic compared to station 176. The distance-wise compositional variation in the microbial communities is attributable to their adaptations to the sediment environments which are differentially affected by melting glaciers.
25256121|The rational assembly of microbial communities to perform desired functions would be of great practical benefit to society. Broadly speaking, there are two major theoretical foundations for microbial community assembly: one based on island biogeography theory and another based on niche theory. In this study, we compared a parameter from each theory (immigration rate and sustainability, respectively) to ascertain which was more influential in establishing a functional bacterial population in phenol degrading activated sludge over a 30-day period. Two bacterial strains originally isolated from activated sludge, but differing in their ability to sustain a population in this environment, were repeatedly added to activated sludge reactors at different doses. The resulting size of each population was monitored by competitive polymerase chain reaction. Large, unexpected, yet reproducible fluctuations in population sizes were observed. Irrespective of this, difference in the ability to sustain a population in this environment, overshadowed the influence of 100-fold differences in immigration rate.
40343455|Denitrification in the ocean is a major sink for fixed nitrogen in the global N budget, but the process is geographically restricted to a few oceanic regions, including three oceanic oxygen minimum zones (OMZ) and hemipelagic sediments worldwide. Here, we describe the diversity and community composition of microbes responsible for denitrification in the OMZ using polymerase chain reaction, sequence and fragment analysis of clone libraries of the signature genes (nirK and nirS) that encode the enzyme nitrite reductase, responsible for key denitrification transformation steps. We show that denitrifying assemblages vary in space and time and exhibit striking changes in diversity associated with the progression of denitrification from initial anoxia through nitrate depletion. The initial denitrifying assemblage is highly diverse, but succession on the scale of 3-12 days leads to a much less diverse assemblage and dominance by one or a few phylotypes. This progression occurs in the natural environment as well as in enclosed incubations. The emergence of dominants from a vast reservoir of rare types has implications for the maintenance of diversity of the microbial population and suggests that a small number of microbial dominants may be responsible for the greatest rates of transformations involving nitrous oxide and global fixed nitrogen loss. Denitrifying blooms, driven by a few types responding to episodic environmental changes and distributed unevenly in time and space, are consistent with the sampling effect model of diversity-function relationships. Canonical denitrification thus appears to have important parallels with both primary production and nitrogen fixation, which are typically dominated by regionally and temporally restricted blooms that account for a disproportionate share of these processes worldwide.
4287578|In order to find out how many genotypes determine microcystin production of Microcystis spp. in field populations, single colonies (clones) were sampled from Lake Wannsee (Berlin, Germany), characterized morphologically, and subsequently analyzed by PCR for a region within the mcyB gene encoding the activation of one amino acid during microcystin biosynthesis. The different morphospecies varied considerably in the proportion of microcystin-producing genotypes. Most colonies (73%) of M. aeruginosa contained this gene whereas only 16% of the colonies assigned to M. ichthyoblabe and no colonies of M. wesenbergii gave a PCR product of the mcyB gene. Restriction fragment length polymorphism revealed seven restriction profiles showing low variability in nucleotide sequence within each restriction type (0.4-4%) and a low to high variability (1.6-38%) between restriction types. In addition, the sequences of amino acids within the mcyB gene were analyzed to compare the specificity of the amino acid activation during microcystin biosynthesis between restriction types and with the occurrence of amino acids in microcystin variants as detected by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Most of the microcystin-producing colonies showed high similarity in the sequence of amino acids and contained microcystin-LR (LR refers to leucine and arginine in the variable positions of the heptapeptide), microcystin-RR, and microcystin-YR, as well as other variants in minor concentrations. It is concluded that the gene product found for most of the microcystin-producing colonies in the lake is rather unspecific and the diversity of microcystin variants in the lake results from activation of various amino acids during microcystin biosynthesis in the same genotypes.
25256107|A study was conducted to investigate the involvement of bacteria in oyster mortalities during summer. Moribund and apparently healthy oysters were sampled during mortality events along the French coast and in rearing facilities, usually when temperature reached 19C or higher, and oysters were in the gonadal maturation phase. Hemolymph samples were aseptically withdrawn and submitted to bacteriological analysis. In healthy oysters, bacteria colonized hemolymph at low concentrations depending on the location. In most moribund oysters, bacteria were present in hemolymph and other tissues. These bacterial populations were more often diverse in oysters originating from the open sea than from facilities where animals were generally infected by a single type of bacterium. Only the dominant colonies were identified by phenotypic and genotypic characters (RFLP of GyrB gene and partial sequence of 16S rRNA gene). They belonged to a limited number of species including Vibrio aestuarianus, members of the V. splendidus group, V. natriegens, V. parahaemolyticus, and Pseudoalteromonas sp. The most frequently encountered species was V. aestuarianus (56% of isolates), which was composed of several strains closely related by their 16S rRNA gene but diverse by their phenotypic characters. They appeared intimately linked to oysters. The species within the V. splendidus group were less prevalent (25% of isolates) and more taxonomically dispersed. A majority of the dominant strains of V. aestuarianus and V. splendidus group injected to oysters induced mortality, whereas others belonging to the same species, particularly those found in mixture, appeared innocuous.
4287616|Bacteria in nature frequently grow as biofilms, yet little is known regarding how biofilm bacteria morphologically adapt to low nutrient availability, which is common in unsaturated environments such as the terrestrial subsurface or on plant leaves. For unsaturated biofilms, in which the substratum may provide all nutrients, what are the relationships between nutrition and cell size and shape-the simplest metrics of cellular morphology? To address this question, we cultured Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a ubiquitous gram-negative bacterium that is environmentally and medically important, on membranes overlaying solid media, and then measured cellular dimensions using atomic force microscopy (AFM). Nutrition was controlled chemically by media composition and physically by stacking membranes to increase the path length for nutrient diffusion. Under conditions of carbon-nitrogen imbalance, low carbon bioavailability, or increased nutrient diffusional path length, cells elongated while maintaining constant width. A mathematical relationship suggests that, by elongating, biofilm bacteria strategically enlarge their nutrient collection surface without substantially changing the ratio of surface area to volume (SA/V). We conclude that P. aeruginosa growing as unsaturated biofilm with a planar nutrient source morphologically adapt to starvation by elongating. This adaptation, if generalizable, differs from a better-understood starvation response (i.e., cell size decreases; thus SA/V increases) for planktonic bacteria in well-mixed environments.
4250935|Phase and computer-enhanced microscopy were used to observe the surface microenvironment of continuous-flow slide cultures during microbial colonization and to document the diversity of bacterial colonization maneuvers among natural stream populations. Surface colonization involved 4 discrete types of cell movement, which were designated as packing, spreading, shedding, and rolling maneuvers. Each maneuver appeared to be associated with a specific species population within the community. The packing maneuver resulted in the formation of a monolayer of contiguous cells, while spreading maneuvers resulted in a monolayer of adjacent cells. During the shedding maneuver, cells attached perpendicular to the surface and the daughter cells were released. The rate of growth of new daughter cells gradually decreased as the attached mother cell aged. During the rolling maneuver, cells were loosely attached and continuously somersaulted across the surface as they grew and divided. Only those populations with a packing maneuver conformed fully to the assumptions of kinetics used previously to calculate growth and attachment rates from cell number and distribution. Consequently, these kinetics are not applicable to stream communities unless fluorescent antisera are used to study specific species populations within natural communities. Virtually all of the cells that attached to the surface were viable and underwent cell division. The abundance of unicells on surfaces incubated in situ was thus primarily the consequence of bacterial colonization behavior (shedding and spreading maneuvers) rather than the adhesion of dead or moribund cells.
40605735|The diversity of heterotrophic bacterial isolates of three commercial and two homemade composts was studied. The commercial composts were produced from poultry litter (PC), sewage sludge (SC), municipal solid waste (MC), and homemade composts (thermal compost [DC] and vermicompost [VC]) from food wastes. The taxonomic and physiological diversity of the heterotrophic culturable bacteria was assessed using phenotypic and genotypic characterization and the analysis of the partial 16S rRNA gene sequence. Composts DC and SC presented the higher genotypic diversity, as could be inferred from the number of distinct genotypic patterns observed, 28 and 21, respectively. Gram-positive bacteria, mainly Firmicutes, were predominant in all the composts. Some organisms related with taxa rarely reported in composts, as Rhodanobacter spathiphylli, Moraxella osloensis, Lysobacter, Corynebacterium, Pigmentiphaga kullae, and new taxa were also isolated. The highest relative proportion of isolates able to degrade starch was found in compost SC (> 70%), to degrade gelatine in compost DC (> 70%), to degrade Tween 80 in compost PC (> 90%), and to degrade poly-epsilon-caprolactones in compost DC (>80%). Compost MC presented the lowest relative proportions of isolates able to degrade starch (<25%), gelatine (<20%), and poly-epsilon-caprolactone (<40%). When compared with the others, the homemade composts presented higher relative proportions of Gram-positive isolates able to inhibit the target organisms Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In compost MC, none of the Gram-positive isolates was able to inhibit those targets.
25256223|Microbial mats are highly productive microbial systems and a source of not-yet characterized microorganisms and metabolic strategies. In this article, we introduced a lipid biomarker/microbial isolation approach to detect short-term variations of microbial diversity, physiological and redox status, and also characterize lipid biomarkers from specific microbial groups that can be further monitored. Phospholipid fractions (PLFA) were examined for plasmalogens, indicative of certain anaerobes. The glycolipid fraction was processed for polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA) and the neutral lipid fraction was used to evaluate respiratory quinone content. Data demonstrate an increase in the metabolic stress, unbalanced growth, proportion of anaerobic bacteria and respiratory rate after the maximal photosynthetic activity. Higher accumulation of polyhydroxyalkanoates at the same sampling point also suggested a situation of carbon storage by heterotrophs closely related to photosynthetic microorganisms. Besides, the characterization of lipid biomarkers (plasmalogens, sphingolipids) from specific microbial groups provided clues about the dynamics and diversity of less-characterized mat members. In this case, lipid analyses were complemented by the isolation and characterization of anaerobic spore formers and sulfate reducers to obtain insight into their affiliation and lipid composition. The results revealed that temporal shifts in lipid biomarkers are indicative of an intense change in the physiology, redox condition, and community composition along the diel cycle, and support the hypothesis that interactions between heterotrophs and primary producers play an important role in the carbon flow in microbial mats.
25153478| The spatial and temporal changes in the bacterial communities associated with the Atlantic cod Gadus morhua were investigated using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of 16S recombinant DNA (rDNA). Epidermal mucous was sampled from 366 cod caught in three harvest locations (Baltic, Icelandic, and North Seas) over three seasons (spring 2002, autumn 2002, and spring 2003), and an automated method for the high-throughput processing of environmental samples was developed using a Qiagen BioRobot. The analysis revealed that a diverse consortium of bacteria were found on fish; -proteobacteria and Cytophaga-Flavobacter-Bacteroides (CFB) species were dominant. T-RFLP peak profiles suggested that operational taxonomic units (OTUs) related to Photobacterium sp., Psychrobacter sp., and Bacteroides sp. were common to all sites in all three seasons, but there were intersite variations in community composition. Cod caught from different seas had distinct reproducible bacterial assemblages. Whereas communities from fish caught in the Baltic and Icelandic Seas were relatively stable over the three seasons, those from fish from the North Sea changed significantly over time. 
4251185|The colonization of leaves of the aquatic macrophyte Ceratophyllum demersum L. by epiphytic bacteria, and the hypothesis that bacterial invasion causes leaf senescence, was studied using transmission and scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy. Population densities of epiphytic bacterial communities on Ceratophyllum leaves were positively correlated with leaf age. Initial settlement of bacteria on young leaves appeared to favour the boundaries between epidermal cells. On older leaves, large populations of bacteria were present over the whole surface. One third of senescent Ceratophyllum leaves examined by transmission electron microscopy showed signs of bacterial invasion. Of these, up to 54% of the leaf's epidermal cells contained bacteria. Areas of cell wall degradation were associated with invasive bacteria in senescent leaves. In healthy, nonsenescent leaves, no bacterial invasion was observed. These results suggest that epiphytic bacteria did not cause leaf senescence but probably colonized the internal tissues of leaves once senescence had occurred.
4251525|The role of grazing by marine sediment flagellates, ciliates, and meiobenthic animals in controlling production of their bacterial and diatom prey was investigated. At six selected time points, over the year, bacterial production and diatom standing stock were compared to grazing pressure exercised by proto- and micrometazoan consumers. The intensity of prey-predator relations showed pronounced yearly dynamics in which two stages could be distinguished. During the first phase, from the end of winter to mid-summer, the consumption of diatoms gradually increased, with possible overgrazing at the end of the period. This was followed by a collapse of diatom abundance, to the winter level. During the first stage, no appreciable bacterial consumption was observed in spite of the high abundance and production of bacteria. The second stage started in mid-summer and continued through the fall. During this period, the grazing on bacteria increased and reached the year's maximum. For at least a brief period (October), micrograzers removed the majority of bacterial production. In contrast, herbivory stayed at the year's lowest level, and diatoms appeared to be controlled by factors other than grazing. The observed ingestion rates seem to support the apparent energy requirements of flagellates and some ciliates (scuticociliates and hypotrichids). Other ciliates (pleurostomatids and karyorelictids) could not subsist on the observed diet and might have to complement it with other energy sources, possibly via dissolved organic matter absorption.
4250789| The nonlinear and 3 linearized forms of the integrated Michaelis-Menten equation were evaluated for their ability to provide reliable estimates of uptake kinetic parameters, when the initial substrate concentration ( S
4287746|The integrated biomass beneath the surface horizon in unsaturated soils is large and potentially important in nutrient and carbon cycling. Compared to surface soils, the ecology of these subsurface soils is weakly understood, particularly in terms of the composition of bacterial communities. We compared soil bacterial communities along two vertical transects by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms (TRFLPs) of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes to determine how surface and deep bacterial communities differ. DNA yield from soils collected from two Mediterranean grassland transects decreased exponentially from the surface to 4 m deep. Richness, as assessed by the number of peaks obtained after restriction with HhaI, MspI, RsaI, or HaeIII, and diversity, as assessed by the Shannon diversity indices, were lowest in the deepest sample. Lower diversity at depth is consistent with species-energy theory, which would predict relatively low diversity in the low organic matter horizons. Principal components analysis suggested that, in terms of HhaI and HaeIII generated TRFLPs, bacterial communities differed between depths. The most abundant amplicons cloned from the deepest sample contained sequences with restriction sites consistent with the largest peaks observed in TRFLPs generated from deep samples. These more abundant operational taxonomic units (OTUs) appeared related to Pseudomonas and Variovorax. Several OTUs were more related to each other than any previously described ribotypes. These OTUs showed similarity to bacteria from the divisions Actinobacteria and Firmicutes.
27770579|The search for microorganisms that improve soil fertility and enhance plant nutrition has continued to attract attention due to the increasing cost of fertilizers and some of their negative environmental impacts. The objectives of this greenhouse study with tomato were to determine (1) if reduced rates of inorganic fertilizer coupled with microbial inoculants will produce plant growth, yield, and nutrient uptake levels equivalent to those with full rates of the fertilizer and (2) the minimum level to which fertilizer could be reduced when inoculants were used. The microbial inoculants used in the study were a mixture of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) strains Bacillus amyloliquefaciens IN937a and Bacillus pumilus T4, a formulated PGPR product, and the arbuscular mycorrhiza fungus (AMF), Glomus intraradices. Results showed that supplementing 75% of the recommended fertilizer rate with inoculants produced plant growth, yield, and nutrient (nitrogen and phosphorus) uptake that were statistically equivalent to the full fertilizer rate without inoculants. When inoculants were used with rates of fertilizer below 75% of the recommended rate, the beneficial effects were usually not consistent; however, inoculation with the mixture of PGPR and AMF at 70% fertility consistently produced the same yield as the full fertility rate without inoculants. Without inoculants, use of fertilizer rates lower than the recommended resulted in significantly less plant growth, yield, and nutrient uptake or inconsistent impacts. The results suggest that PGPR-based inoculants can be used and should be further evaluated as components of integrated nutrient management strategies.
25153405|A real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method to quantify the proportion of microorganisms containing alkane monooxygenase was developed and used to follow changes in the microbial community in hydrocarbon-contaminated Antarctic soil during a bioremediation field trial. Assays for the alkB and rpoB genes were validated and found to be both sensitive and reproducible (less than 2% intrarun variation and 25-38% interrun variation). Results from the real-time PCR analysis were compared to analysis of the microbial population by a culture-based technique [most probable number (MPN) counts]. Both types of analysis indicated that fertilizer addition to hydrocarbon-contaminated soil stimulated the indigenous bacterial population within 1 year. The proportion of alkB containing microorganisms was positively correlated to the concentration of n-alkanes in the soil. After the concentration of n-alkanes in the soil decreased, the proportion of alkane-degrading micro-organisms decreased, but the proportion of total hydrocarbon-degrading microorganisms increased, indicating another shift in the microbial community structure and ongoing biodegradation.
4251751| Microcystis aeruginosa Ktzing releases a variety of bioactive compounds during growth. This study determined whether bacteria from communities co-occurring (M+) or not (M-) with this cosmopolitan cyanobacterium respond similarly to its products. Fifty M+ bacteria from a M. aeruginosa bloom site (Western Basin of Lake Erie) and 50 M- bacteria from a Microcystis-free site (East Twin Lake, Portage Co., OH) were isolated and grown on Standard Methods Agar. Three levels of testing were performed: chemotaxis, antibiotic response, and 48-h cell abundance. Chemotaxis was compared using capillary tubes placed in contact with bacterial, Standard Methods Broth (SMB) suspensions. The capillary choices were conditioned SMB, M. aeruginosa exudate, and BG-11. M+ bacteria showed significantly greater (Tukey's test, p < 0.005) positive chemotaxis to M. aeruginosa exudate compared to control conditions and to M-strains. The latter showed a negative chemotactic response to M. aeruginosa exudate compared to control conditions. Antibiotic response was tested by sensitivity disk assays, first using M. aeruginosa exudates, whole cells, and homogenized cells, and then placing the disks on bacterial lawns of each strain. M+ bacteria were significantly more resistant to inhibition than M- bacteria (chi-square test, p < 0.01). M. aeruginosa exudate, BG-11 algal medium, SMB, and distilled water effects on 48-h abundance of the strains were compared. The M- community bacteria exhibited significantly lower growth yields (Tukey's comparison of means test, p < 0.005) in M. aeruginosa exudate than did the M+ strains. It is evident that those bacteria co-occurring with M. aeruginosa are more likely to be attracted to it, able to withstand exposure to it, and able to utilize its products without inhibition than are bacteria from communities without previous exposure to this cyanobacterium. 
27770578|We have characterised the northern Pacific undescribed sponge Haliclona (?gellius) sp. based on rDNA of the sponge and its associated microorganisms. The sponge is closely related to Amphimedon queenslandica from the Great Barrier Reef as the near-complete 18S rDNA sequences of both sponges were identical. The microbial fingerprint of three specimens harvested at different times and of a transplanted specimen was compared to identify stably associated microorganisms. Most bacterial phyla were detected in each sample, but only a few bacterial species were determined to be stably associated with the sponge. A sponge-specific - and -Proteobacterium were abundant clones and both of them were present in three of the four specimens analysed. In addition, a Planctomycete and a Crenarchaea were detected in all sponge individuals. Both were closely related to operational taxonomic units that have been found in other sponges, but not exclusively in sponges. Interestingly, also a number of clones that are closely related to intracellular symbionts from insects and amoeba were detected.
40605666|Ephemerally wet playas are conspicuous features of arid landscapes worldwide; however, they have not been well studied as habitats for microorganisms. We tracked the geochemistry and microbial community in Silver Lake playa, California, over one flooding/desiccation cycle following the unusually wet winter of 2004-2005. Over the course of the study, total dissolved solids increased by ~10-fold and pH increased by nearly one unit. As the lake contracted and temperatures increased over the summer, a moderately dense planktonic population of ~1  10 cells ml of culturable heterotrophs was replaced by a dense population of more than 1  10 cells ml, which appears to be the highest concentration of culturable planktonic heterotrophs reported in any natural aquatic ecosystem. This correlated with a dramatic depletion of nitrate as well as changes in the microbial community, as assessed by small subunit ribosomal RNA gene sequencing of bacterial isolates and uncultivated clones. Isolates from the early-phase flooded playa were primarily Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, and Bacteroidetes, yet clone libraries were dominated by Betaproteobacteria and yet uncultivated Actinobacteria. Isolates from the late-flooded phase ecosystem were predominantly Proteobacteria, particularly alkalitolerant isolates of Rhodobaca, Porphyrobacter, Hydrogenophaga, Alishwenella, and relatives of Thauera; however, clone libraries were composed almost entirely of Synechococcus (Cyanobacteria). A sample taken after the playa surface was completely desiccated contained diverse culturable Actinobacteria typically isolated from soils. In total, 205 isolates and 166 clones represented 82 and 44 species-level groups, respectively, including a wide diversity of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, Gemmatimonadetes, Acidobacteria, and Cyanobacteria.
4250837| A method for measuring microbial degradation and mineralization of radiolabeled native chitin is described.
25256152|Bacterial growth efficiency (BGE) is a key factor in understanding bacterial influence on carbon flow in aquatic ecosystems. We report intra-annual variability in BGE, and bacteria-mediated carbon flow in the tropical Mandovi and Zuari estuaries (southwest India) and the adjoining coastal waters (Arabian Sea). BGE ranged from 3% to 61% and showed clear temporal variability with significantly (ANOVA, p &lt; 0.01) higher values in the estuaries (mean, 28  14%) than coastal waters (mean, 12  6%). The greater variability of BGE in the estuaries than coastal waters suggest some systematic response to nutrient composition and the variability of dissolved organic matter pools, as BGE was governed by bacterial secondary production (BP). Monsoonal rains and its accompanied changes brought significant variability in BGE and bacterial productivity/primary productivity (BP/PP) ratio when compared to nonmonsoon seasons in the estuaries and coastal waters. High BP/PP ratio (&gt;1) together with high carbon flux through bacteria (&gt;100% of primary productivity) in the estuarine and coastal waters suggests that bacterioplankton consumed dissolved organic carbon in excess of the amount produced in situ by phytoplankton of this region, which led to the mismatch between primary production of carbon and amount of carbon consumed by bacteria. Despite the two systems being subsidized by allochthonous inputs, the low BGE in the coastal waters may be attributable to the nature and time interval in the supply of allochthonous carbon.
4251592| Many termite species rely on intestinal protozoan symbionts to digest their cellulosic foods. We examined cellulose acquisition by the symbionts of the Eastern subterranean termite Reticulitermes flavipes Kollar (Isoptera; Rhinotermitidae) by following their phagocytosis of red paper fed to the termite host. The effects of termite host starvation and environmental temperature on feeding activity were studied in the zooflagellates Trichonympha agilis Leidy (Trichonymphidae), Pyrsonympha vertens Leidy, Dinenympha fimbriata Kirby, and D. gracilis Leidy (Pyrsonymphidae), which are among the largest residents in R. flavipes' hindguts. Protozoans in termites starved for 24 h ingested red paper significantly sooner than protozoans in termites with continuous access to food. Trichonympha, Pyrsonympha, and Dinenympha all ingested red paper particles at approximately the same rate. Red paper appeared significantly sooner in protozoans in termites maintained at 32C than in those maintained at 22C or 26C. At 32C, numbers of Trichonympha per gut remained constant over 96 h. Pyrsonympha and Dinenympha cells were absent or significantly reduced in number by 72 h at that temperature. These results provide insight into the environmental factors that shape the termite-protozoan symbiosis. They may aid in the development of protozoicides used to control pest termites. 
4251793|N
4250416|The effects of sorption phenomena on the interaction between a parasite and its host bacterium have been investigated using an Escherichia coli-bacteriophage-saline sediment system. The sediment contained organic matter and a high proportion of clay, predominantly montmorillonoid. Both E. coli and phage remained firmly sorbed to saline sediments or montmorillonite, but were rapidly desorbed following dilution of the electrolyte below a critical concentration. This desorption coincided with the dispersal of sediment colloids. Escherichia coli was protected from phage attack by the presence of sediment, montmorillonite, or organic matter at salinity levels both above and below this critical point for dispersal and desorption. Evidence is presented indicating that E. coli is protected from phage attack at low electrolyte concentrations by an envelope of sorbed colloidal materials around the cell, whereas at high electrolyte concentrations protection results both from the colloid envelope around the cells as well as from the sorption of cells and phages to solid particles. The protection of E. coli and possibly other fecal bacteria may result in their accumulation in saline sediments, producing a possible health hazard in estuaries and lagoons if the bacteria are desorbed following dilution as a result of heavy rainfall.
4287637| We used geochemical analyses of groundwater and laboratory-incubated microcosms to investigate the physiological responses of naturally occurring microorganisms to coal-tar-waste constituents in a contaminated aquifer. Waters were sampled from wells along a natural hydrologic gradient extending from uncontaminated (1 well) into contaminated (3 wells) zones. Groundwater analyses determined the concentrations of carbon and energy sources (pollutants or total organic carbon), final electron acceptors (oxygen, nitrate, sulfate), and metabolic byproducts (dissolved inorganic carbon [DIC], alkalinity, methane, ferrous iron, sulfide, Mn
41489212|The microbiology underpinning soil nitrogen cycling in northeast China remains poorly understood. These agricultural systems are typified by widely contrasting temperature, ranging from -40 to 38C. In a long-term site in this region, the impacts of mineral and organic fertilizer amendments on potential nitrification rate (PNR) were determined. PNR was found to be suppressed by longterm mineral fertilizer treatment but enhanced by manure treatment. The abundance and structure of ammoniaoxidizing bacterial (AOB) and archaeal (AOA) communities were assessed using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis techniques. The abundance of AOA was reduced by all fertilizer treatments, while the opposite response was measured for AOB, leading to a six-to 60-fold reduction in AOA/AOB ratio. The community structure of AOA exhibited little variation across fertilization treatments, whereas the structure of the AOB community was highly responsive. PNR was correlated with community structure of AOB rather than that of AOA. Variation in the community structure of AOB was linked to soil pH, total carbon, and nitrogen contents induced by different long-term fertilization regimes. The results suggest that manure amendment establishes conditions which select for an AOB community type which recovers mineral fertilizer-suppressed soil nitrification.
4287556|Solar ultraviolet radiation may produce daily stress on marine and estuarine communities as cells are damaged and repair that damage. Reduction in the earth's stratospheric ozone layer has increased awareness of the potential effects that ultraviolet radiation may have in the environment, including how marine bacteria respond to changes in solar radiation. We examined the use of the bacterial RecA protein as an indicator of the potential of bacteria to repair DNA damage caused by solar UV irradiation using the marine bacterium Vibrio natriegens as a model. RecA is universally present in bacteria and is a regulator protein for the so-called Dark Repair Systems, which include excision repair, postreplication recombinational repair, and mutagenic or SOS repair. Solar UVB and UVA both reduced V. natriegens viability in seawater microcosms. After exposure to unfiltered solar radiation or radiation in which UVB was blocked, survival dropped below 1%, whereas visible light from which UVA and UVB had been filtered had no effect on survival. Using a RecA-specific antibody for detection, RecA protein was induced by solar radiation in a diel pattern in marine microcosms conducted in the Gulf of Mexico. Peak induction was observed at dusk each day. Although RecA expression was correlated with the formation of UVB-induced cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimers, longer wavelength UVA radiation also induced recA gene expression. Our results demonstrate that RecA-regulated, light-independent repair is an important component in the ability of marine bacteria to survive exposure to solar ultraviolet radiation and that RecA expression is a useful monitor of bacterial repair after exposure to solar UVR.
41489197|The phylogenetic diversity of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) was surveyed in the surface sediments from the northern part of the South China Sea (SCS). The distribution pattern of AOA in the western Pacific was discussed through comparing the SCS with other areas in the western Pacific including Changjiang Estuary and the adjacent East China Sea where high input of anthropogenic nitrogen was evident, the tropical West Pacific Continental Margins close to the Philippines, the deep-sea methane seep sediments in the Okhotsk Sea, the cold deep sea of Northeastern Japan Sea, and the hydrothermal field in the Southern Okinawa Trough. These various environments provide a wide spectrum of physical and chemical conditions for a better understanding of the distribution pattern and diversities of AOA in the western Pacific. Under these different conditions, the distinct community composition between shallow and deep-sea sediments was clearly delineated based on the UniFrac PCoA and Jackknife Environmental Cluster analyses. Phylogenetic analyses showed that a few ammonia-oxidizing archaeal subclades in the marine water column/sediment clade and endemic lineages were indicative phylotypes for some environments. Higher phylogenetic diversity was observed in the Philippines while lower diversity in the hydrothermal vent habitat. Water depth and possibly with other environmental factors could be the main driving forces to shape the phylogenetic diversity of AOA observed, not only in the SCS but also in the whole western Pacific. The multivariate regression tree analysis also supported this observation consistently. Moreover, the functions of current and other climate factors were also discussed in comparison of phylogenetic diversity. The information collectively provides important insights into the ecophysiological requirements of uncultured ammonia-oxidizing archaeal lineages in the western Pacific Ocean.
4250653|Eighteen strains of obligately oligotrophic bacteria that grow in a medium containing 1 mg of organic carbon per liter and do not grow in a rich medium (5 g/liter of nutrient) were isolated as dominant organisms from the oligotrophic water of Lake Biwa. The growth properties of these, especially of five strains, were examined. The maximum cell yield ranged from
4250817| The effects of various metabolic inhibitors (dichlorophenyl dimethylurea, chloramphenicol, cycloheximide, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone) on the accumulation of radiolabeled substrates (amino acids, glucose, bicarbonate, phosphate) by size-fractionated marine microbial plankton from the Sargasso Sea and the eastern Canadian arctic were studied in time-course fashion during experimental incubations either exposed to or shielded from ambient solar radiation. Picoplankton accounted for 65% of the organic substrates and phosphate accumulated by the assemblages. The rate of organic substrate accumulation was stimulated by solar radiation in some cases but inhibited in other cases. Presumably, stimulation and inhibition co-occur and the measured response is the net result arising from these counteracting tendencies. Approximately 40% of
4287500| The stimulation of groundwater bacteria to form biofilms, for the remediation of polluted aquifers, is subjected to environmental regulations that include measurement of effects on microbial biodiversity. Groundwater microorganisms contain a proportion of unidentified and uncharacterized ultramicrobacteria (UMB) that might play a major role in the bioclogging of geological materials. This study aimed to assess the changes in genetic and metabolic biodiversity when a community of UMB, isolated from groundwater, is stimulated to form biofilms on a ceramic surface. UMB were stimulated with aerobic conditions and injection of molasses, in reactors reproducing groundwater composition and temperature. Concentration of planktonic viable UMB, secretion of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS), and biofilm thickness were monitored. The assessment of changes in biodiversity was achieved by comparing the initial UMB community to the biofilm community, using the single strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) method, the cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA gene (16S rDNA) sequences, and the Biolog microplate system. The hypothesis stating that indigenous UMB would play a significant role of in the biofilm development was corroborated. Within 13 days of stimulation, the UMB produced 700 mg L
25153050|Samples from 27 natural and artificial aquatic environments were analyzed for the presence of rosette-forming bacteria by a combined cultivation and molecular biological approach. Rosette-forming bacteria developed in 20 enrichment cultures with ammonia-free medium under air. Three morphotypes could be distinguished. The most abundant type I resembled Nevskia ramosa and formed hydrophobic, flat, and dichotomously branching rosettes. Type II rosettes were three-dimensional and were observed in 10 enrichments, often together with those of type I. These rosettes were hydrophilic indicating life in the hyponeuston underneath the air-water interface. Rosettes of a third type consisted of hydrophilic slime stalks that were excreted at the cell poles and were observed in only one sample. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with the Nevskia-specific probes NEV177 and NEV656, the presence of Nevskia ramosa was demonstrated in exactly those samples that showed type I rosettes. In a series of most-probable-number experiments, during a calm and sunny weather period 430,000 Nevskia-like bacteria per mL were found in surface samples, while during rainy weather and within the water body the numbers were lower by several orders of magnitude. Five pure cultures isolated from various enrichments were characterized in detail. The two isolates forming type I rosettes were identified as Nevskia ramosa by 16S rDNA analysis. However, comparison by genomic fingerprinting (ERIC-PCR) revealed differences between the two isolates and previously characterized strains. The 16S rDNA of two isolates forming type II rosettes showed 97.6% similarity to that of Pseudomonas fluorescens. The closest relative of the isolate forming type III rosettes was Sphingomonas parapaucimobilis (96.4% sequence similarity of the 16S rRNA sequence). All isolates grew homogeneously submersed if ammonia was added to the medium. Our results indicate that Nevskia ramosa is a widely distributed epineustonic bacterium, which can specifically be deleted by its flat and hydrophobic rosettes on ammonia-free media.
4251659|Claims that organisms can be cultured from amber, if substantiated, would be significant contributions to our understanding of the evolution, tenacity, and potential spread of life. Three reports on the isolation of organisms from amber have been published. Cano and Borucki recently reported the isolation of Bacillus sphaericus and Lambert et al. have described a new species designated Staphylococcus succinus from 25-40 million year old Dominican amber. These characterized organisms were phylogenetically distant from extant relatives and the Staphylococcus sp. sufficiently far removed from other extant staphylococci to be considered a new species. Here we report the culture of bacteria from Dominican and previously untested 120 million year old Israeli (Lebanese lode) amber. Twenty-seven isolates from the amber matrix have been characterized by fatty-acid profiles (FAME) and/or 16S rRNA sequencing. We also performed a terminal restriction fragment pattern (TRF) analysis of the original amber before prolonged culture by consensus primer amplification of the 16S rRNA followed by restriction enzyme digestion of the amplicons. Sample TRFs were consistent with a sparse bacterial assemblage and included at least five of the isolated organisms. Finally, we microscopically mapped the internal topography of an amber slice.
4251109| A method was developed for the quantitation of pyruvyl groups in microbial polymers using mild acid hydrolysis, o-phenylenediamine labeling, reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RPHPLC), and fluorescence detection. The method was used to determine the pyruvate content of various microbial exopolysaccharides and to estimate the abundance of polymeric pyruvate in freshwater sediments. The results of this method were compared with those of several other pyruvate assays. The detection limit of the method was 1.6 nmol pyruvate. As little as 3.7 g of the bacterial polysaccharide xanthan gum, or from 5 to 22 mg of sediment (depending on polymeric pyruvate content), were needed for detection and quantitation of polymeric pyruvate. The results should be useful in determining the contribution of polymeric pyruvate to total metal-binding ligands in sediments. 
4251818| The diversity of bacteria and archaea associating on the surface and interior of maize roots (Zea mays L.) was investigated. A bacterial 16S rDNA primer was designed to amplify bacterial sequences directly from maize roots by PCR to the exclusion of eukaryotic and chloroplast DNA. The mitochondrial sequence from maize was easily separated from the PCR-amplified bacterial sequences by size fractionation. The culturable component of the bacterial community was also assessed, reflecting a community composition different from that of the clone library. The phylogenetic overlap between organisms obtained by cultivation and those identified by direct PCR amplification of 16S rDNA was 48%. Only 4 bacterial divisions were found in the culture collection, which represented 27 phylotypes, whereas 6 divisions were identified in the clonal analysis, comprising 74 phylotypes, including a member of the OP10 candidate division originally described as a novel division level lineage in a Yellowstone hot spring. The predominant group in the culture collection was the actinobacteria and within the clone library, the -proteobacteria predominated. The population of maize-associated proteobacteria resembled the proteobacterial population of a typical soil community within which resided a subset of specific plant-associated bacteria, such as Rhizobium- and Herbaspirillum-related phylotypes. The representation of phylotypes within other divisions (OP10 and Acidobacterium) suggests that maize roots support a distinct bacterial community. The diversity within the archaeal domain was low. Of the 50 clones screened, 6 unique sequence types were identified, and 5 of these were highly related to each other (sharing 98% sequence identity). The archaeal sequences clustered with good bootstrap support near Marine group I (crenarchaea) and with Marine group II (euryarchaea) uncultured archaea. The results suggest that maize supports a diverse root-associated microbial community composed of species that for the first time have been described as inhabitants of a plant-root environment. 
25256128|Molecular approaches aimed at detection of a broad-range of prokaryotes in the environment routinely rely on classifying heterogeneous 16S rRNA genes amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers with broad specificity. The general method of sampling and categorizing DNA has been to clone then sequence the PCR products. However, the number of clones required to adequately catalog the majority of taxa in a sample is unwieldy. Alternatively, hybridizing target sequences to a universal 16S rRNA gene microarray may provide a more rapid and comprehensive view of prokaryotic community composition. This study investigated the breadth and accuracy of a microarray in detecting diverse 16S rRNA gene sequence types compared to clone-and-sequencing using three environmental samples: urban aerosol, subsurface soil, and subsurface water. PCR products generated from universal 16S rRNA gene-targeted primers were classified by using either the clone-and-sequence method or by hybridization to a novel high-density microarray of 297,851 probes complementary to 842 prokaryotic subfamilies. The three clone libraries comprised 1391 high-quality sequences. Approximately 8% of the clones could not be placed into a known subfamily and were considered novel. The microarray results confirmed the majority of clone-detected subfamilies and additionally demonstrated greater amplicon diversity extending into phyla not observed by the cloning method. Sequences matching operational taxonomic units within the phyla Nitrospira, Planctomycetes, and TM7, which were uniquely detected by the array, were verified with specific primers and subsequent amplicon sequencing. Subfamily richness detected by the array corresponded well with nonparametric richness predictions extrapolated from clone libraries except in the water community where clone-based richness predictions were greatly exceeded. It was concluded that although the microarray is unreliable in identifying novel prokaryotic taxa, it reveals greater diversity in environmental samples than sequencing a typically sized clone library. Furthermore, the microarray allowed samples to be rapidly evaluated with replication, a significant advantage in studies of microbial ecology.
40605850|Francisella tularensis is associated with water and waterways and infects many species of animals, insects, and protists. The mechanism Francisella utilizes to persist in the environment and in tick vectors is currently unknown. We have demonstrated for the first time that Francisella novicida, a model organism of F tularensis, forms a biofilm in vitro. Selected F novicida transposon mutants were tested for their ability to form biofilm compared to the wildtype F novicida strain. Mutation of the putative qseB gene led to an impairment in the ability to form biofilm with no impairment in bacterial growth. A qseC mutant had impaired growth but demonstrated a marked impairment in biofilm production. Mutation in capC affected both bacterial growth and biofilm formation, but no biofilm production impairment was seen with capB or pilE mutants. A deletion mutant in the orphan response regulator FTN_1465, which we propose is the putative QseB, formed significantly less biofilm than the wildtype. When FTN_1465 was complemented back into the deletion mutant, biofilm formation was restored. Thus, the orphan response regulator FTN1465 is an important factor in biofilm production in vitro in F novicida. These results demonstrate that Francisella species are able to form biofilms in vitro, suggesting that biofilm formation may be important for the lifecycle of this organism.
40605851|"Red snow" refers to red-colored snow, caused by bloom of cold-adapted phototrophs, so-called snow algae. The red snow found in Langhovde, Antarctica, was investigated from several viewpoints. Various sizes of rounded red cells were observed in the red snow samples under microscopy. Pigment analysis demonstrated accumulation of astaxanthin in the red snow. Community structure of microorganisms was analyzed by culture-independent methods. In the analyses of small subunit rRNA genes, several species of green algae, fungus, and various phylotypes of bacteria were detected. The detected bacteria were closely related to psychrophilic or psychrotolerant heterotrophic strains, or sequences detected from lowtemperature environments. As predominant lineage of bacteria, members of the genus Hymenobacter were consistently detected from samples obtained in two different years. Nitrogen isotopie compositions analysis indicated that the red snow was significantly N-enriched. Based on an estimation of trophic level, it was suggested that primary nitrogen sources of the red snow were supplied from fecal pellet of seabirds including a marine top predator of Antarctica.
25153393|Comparative analyses of microbial communities increasingly involve the assay of 16S rRNA (or other gene) sequences from environmental DNA. Determining whether the composition of two or more communities differ in their phylogenetic composition involves testing for covariation between phylogeny and community type. This approach requires estimating the phylogenetic relationships among all sampled sequences and assessing whether the distribution of sequences among communities differs from the null expectation that sequences are randomly distributed. One method developed for implementing the phylogeny-based test of differentiation, referred to as the Phylogenetic test, relies on a single estimate of the phylogeny. However, for most data sets, many alternative phylogenetic trees provide statistically equivalent descriptions of the data. Because the actual phylogeny is unknown, phylogenetic tests of differentiation among microbial communities must account for phylogenetic uncertainty. In this article, we evaluate bootstrapping and Bayesian phylogenetic methods when implementing the Phylogenetic test using parsimony to map character states, and we investigate the effects of character mapping uncertainty by using a Bayesian approach to stochastically map character states on trees. Our approaches incorporate uncertainty into the tests of two closely related null hypotheses: (1) populations are panmictic, and (2) identical communities existed in both environments over the course of evolutionary history. We use two data sets previously implemented in tests for community differentiation: nitrite reductase genes sampled from marsh and upland soils and 16S rDNA sequences sampled from the human mouth and gut. We show that accounting for phylogenetic and mapping uncertainties can drastically affect results when implementing the Phylogenetic test. Accounting for phylogenetic and character mapping uncertainty provides a more conservative and robust test of covariation between phylogeny and environment when comparing microbial communities using DNA sequences.
25256224|The information content and responsiveness of microbial biofilm community structure, as an integrative indicator of water quality, was assessed against short-term changes in oxygen and nutrient loading in an open-water estuarine setting. Biofilms were grown for 7-day periods on artificial substrates in the Pensacola Bay estuary, Florida, in the vicinity of a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) outfall and a nearby reference site. Substrates were deployed floating at the surface and near the benthos in 5.4 m of water. Three sampling events covered a 1-month period coincident with declining seasonal WWTP flow and increasing dissolved oxygen (DO) levels in the bottom waters. Biomass accumulation in benthic biofilms appeared to be controlled by oxygen rather than nutrients. The overriding effect of DO was also seen in DNA fingerprints of community structure by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) of amplified 16S rRNA genes. Ribotype diversity in benthic biofilms at both sites dramatically increased during the transition from hypoxic to normoxic. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism patterns showed pronounced differences between benthic and surface biofilm communities from the same site in terms of signal type, strength, and diversity, but minor differences between sites. Sequencing of 16S rRNA gene clone libraries from benthic biofilms at the WWTP site suggested that low DO levels favored sulfate-reducing prokaryotes (SRP), which decreased with rising oxygen levels and increasing overall diversity. A 91-bp ribotype in the CfoI-restricted 16S rRNA gene T-RFLP profiles, indicative of SRP, tracked the decrease in relative SRP abundance over time.
25153453|The prevalence of selected tetracycline and streptomycin resistance genes and class 1 integrons in Enterobacteriaceae (n=80) isolated from dairy farm soil and nondairy soils was evaluated. Among 56 bacteria isolated from dairy farm soils, 36 (64.3%) were resistant to tetracycline, and 17 (30.4%) were resistant to streptomycin. Lower frequencies of tetracycline (9 of 24 or 37.5%) and streptomycin (1 of 24 or 4.2%) resistance were observed in bacteria isolated from nondairy soils. Bacteria (n=56) isolated from dairy farm soil had a higher frequency of tetracycline resistance genes including tetM (28.6%), tetA (21.4%), tetW (8.9%), tetB (5.4%), tetS (5.4%), tetG (3.6%), and tetO (1.8%). Among 24 bacteria isolated from nondairy soils, four isolates carried tetM, tetO, tetS, and tetW in different combinations; whereas tetA, tetB, and tetG were not detected. Similarly, a higher prevalence of streptomycin resistance genes including strA (12.5%), strB (12.5%), ant(3) (12.5), aph(6)-1c (12.5%), aph(3) (10.8%), and addA (5.4%) was detected in bacteria isolated from dairy farm soils than in nondairy soils. None of the nondairy soil isolates carried aadA gene. Other tetracycline (tetC, tetD, tetE, tetK, tetL, tetQ, and tetT) and streptomycin (aph(6)-1c and ant(6)) resistance genes were not detected in both dairy and nondairy soil isolates. A higher distribution of multiple resistance genes was observed in bacteria isolated from dairy farm soil than in nondairy soil. Among 36 tetracycline-and 17 streptomycin-resistant isolates from dairy farm soils, 11 (30.6%) and 9 (52.9%) isolates carried multiple resistances genes encoding resistance to tetracycline and streptomycin, respectively, which was higher than in bacteria isolated from nondairy soils. One strain each of Citrobacter freundii and C. youngae isolated from dairy farm soils carried class 1 integrons with different inserted gene cassettes. Results of this small study suggest that the presence of multiple resistance genes and class 1 integrons in Enterobacteriaceae in dairy farm soil may act as a reservoir of antimicrobial resistance genes and could play a role in the dissemination of these antimicrobial resistance genes to other commensal and indigenous microbial communities in soil. However, additional longer-term studies conducted in more locations are needed to validate this hypothesis.
27770616|Nitrogen fixation is the primary N source in the highly productive but N-limited North Inlet, SC, USA salt marsh system. The diverse assemblages of nitrogen-fixing (diazotrophic) bacteria associated with the rhizospheres of the short and tall growth forms of Spartina alterniflora were analyzed at two sites, Crab Haul Creek and Goat Island, which are in different tidal creek drainage systems in this marsh. The sites differed in proximity to the main channel for tidal intrusion and in several edaphic parameters. We hypothesized that either the differing abiotic environmental regimes of the two sites or the variation due to seasonal effects result in differences in the diazotroph assemblage. Rhizosphere samples were collected seasonally during 1999 and 2000. DNA was purified and nifH amplified for denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis of diazotroph assemblage composition. Principal components analysis was used to analyze the binary DGGE band position data. Season strongly influenced assemblage composition and biplots were used to identify bands that significantly affected the seasonal and site-specific clustering. The types of organisms that were most responsive to seasonal or site variability were identified on the basis of DGGE band sequences. Seasonally responsive members of the anaerobic diazotrophs were detected during the winter and postsenescence conditions and may have been responsible for elevated pore water sulfide concentrations. Sequences from a diverse assemblage of Gammaproteobacteria were predominant during growth periods of S. alterniflora. Abiotic environmental parameters strongly influenced both the S. alterniflora and the diazotrophic bacterial assemblages associated with this keystone salt marsh plant species.
4250925|A technique for observation of surface microlayer bacteria (bacterioneuston) is described, utilizing direct sampling of the air-water interface with carbon-stabilized electron microscope specimen support grids, followed by negative staining and transmission electron microscopy. The method resulted in excellent preservation of forms of microcolonial association, regular surface arrays, surface appendages, and prosthecae in the bacterioneuston of a freshwater pond.
4250655|A selective medium was used to estimate the numbers of purple pigmented bacteria in the River Wey. Chromobacteria were never isolated from the springs at the source of the river, but they appeared within a short distance and their numbers generally increased over the first 30 km. Counts were always low but were much higher during the winter than during the summer. Records of water temperature and turbidity, as well as daily rainfall, were maintained during the sampling period. An unweighted multiple regression analysis of some of the results has shown that much of the variability in the counts of chromobacteria was correlated with turbidity (r = 0.67, P < 0.001). After turbidity was allowed for, a significant inverse correlation with temperature (r = 0.60, P < 0.001) became apparent and these two factors together accounted for 64.7% of the variation in counts. Allowing for these two factors revealed a significant correlation with rainfall during the previous 4 days (r = 0.27, P < 0.05), and the three factors together accounted for 67.2% of the variability in counts. In an attempt to discover the source of chromobacteria, samples of silt, soil, and storm overflow effluents were studied. In general, chromobacteria were present in highest numbers in soil or silt containing substantial quantities of organic material.
25256100|We examined the abundance of viruses on microorganisms in activated sludge and the dynamics of their community structure. Direct counting with epifluorescence microscopy and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) were applied to 20 samples from 14 full-scale wastewater treatment plants (wwtps) treating municipal, industrial, or animal wastewater. Furthermore, to observe the dynamics of viral community structure over time, a laboratory-scale sequencing batch reactor was operated for 58 days. The concentrations of virus particles in the wwtps, as quantified by epifluorescence microscopy, ranged from 4.2  10 to 3.0  10 mL. PFGE, improved by the introduction of a higher concentration of Tris-EDTA buffer in the DNA extraction step, was successfully used to profile DNA viruses in the activated sludge. Most of the samples from different wwtps commonly had bands in the 40-70 kb range. In the monitoring of viral DNA size distribution in the laboratory-scale reactor, some bands were observed stably throughout the experimental period, some emerged during the operation, and others disappeared. Rapid emergence and disappearance of two intense bands within 6 days was observed. Our data suggest that viruses-especially those associated with microorganisms-are abundant and show dynamic behavior in activated sludge.
4251076| Regular surveys of heterotrophic microflora from seawater were conducted in the subantarctic (Kerguelen archipelago) and Antarctic (Terre Adlie area). Although a predominance of psychrophilic bacteria could be expected for such polar marine environments, there were no significant differences between results obtained after incubation at two different temperatures (4C for 21 days or 18C for 6 days). To investigate this further, four sets of bacterial strains were isolated from the subantarctic area (early fall, late fall, spring, and summer) and one set of Antarctic bacteria was isolated in summer. The growth rates of the 143 strains collected were determined at four different temperatures (4, 7, 20, and 30C). The results clearly indicated that a large majority of the isolated bacteria must be considered psychrotrophic and not truly psychrophilic strains. 
25153081|To address the link between soil microbial community composition and soil processes, we investigated the microbial communities in forest floors of two forest types that differ substantially in nitrogen availability. Cedarhemlock (CH) and hemlock-amabilis fir (HA) forests are both common on northern Vancouver Island, B.C., occurring adjacently across the landscape. CH forest floors have low nitrogen availability and HA high nitrogen availability. Total microbial biomass was assessed using chloroform fumigation-extraction and community composition was assessed using several cultivation-independent approaches: denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of the bacterial communities, ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA) of the bacterial and fungal communities, and phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiles of the whole microbial community. We did not detect differences in the bacterial communities of each forest type using DGGE and RISA, but differences in the fungal communities were detected using RISA. PLFA analysis detected subtle differences in overall composition of the microbial community between the forest types, as well as in particular groups of organisms. Fungal PLFAs were more abundant in the nitrogen-poor CH forests. Bacteria were proportionally more abundant in HA forests than CH in the lower humus layer, and Gram-positive bacteria were proportionally more abundant in HA forests irrespective of layer. Bacterial and fungal communities were distinct in the F, upper humus, and lower humus layers of the forest floor and total biomass decreased in deeper layers. These results indicate that there are distinct patterns in forest floor microbial community composition at the landscape scale, which may be important for understanding nutrient availability to forest vegetation.
23597809|A novel endophyte designated Collophora aceris, was obtained from stem tissues of Douglas Maple (Acer glabrum var. douglasii) in a Pacific Northwest temperate rainforest. Colonies were slow growing, white, creamy, moist, and translucent to opaque on potato dextrose agar and other media with few aerial hyphae. It also produced solid, dark sclerotia (200400 m) on oatmeal agar and no evidence of pseudopycnidia as per other Collophora spp. Conidia were rod-like in the size ranging from 2.28.4  0.81.8 m and produced holoblastically on conidiogenous cells by budding with no collarette at the budding site. Phylogenetic analyses, based on 18S rDNA sequence data, showed that C. aceris possessed 99 % similarity to other Collophora spp. However, ITS-5.8S rDNA sequence data indicated that the organism was potentially related to Allantophomopsis spp. Finally, combined morphological, physiological, and molecular genetics data indicated that this organism is most like Collophora spp. but it is distinctly unique when compared to all other fungi in this group. It is to be noted that this is the first report of any member of this genus existing as an endophyte. This fungus makes a wide spectrum antimycotic agent (Collophorin) with biological activity against such pathogenic fungi as Pythium ultimum, Phytophthora cinnamomi, Phytophthora palmivora, and Rhizoctonia solani. Collophorin was purified to homogeneity and shown to have a unique mass of 120.0639, an empirical formula of C 8 H 8 O 1 , and UV absorption bands at 260 and 378 nm. This work also indicates that C. aceris possesses the biological potential to provide protection of its host against an array of common plant pathogens.
4251569| Microbial biomass, basal respiration, and community level physiological profiles (CLPP) based on substrate utilization were studied during the decomposition of maize litter under different simulated soil management systems. Laboratory experiments were conducted on agricultural soil samples from Denmark, Germany, and Italy. Maize litter was either placed on soil surface (mulched) or mixed into soil (incorporated) to simulate two soil management types: tillage and no-tillage. Control samples lacking maize litter were also investigated. All soil samples were incubated at 14C for 52 weeks. Microbial parameters were assessed after 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 52 weeks of incubation. During incubation, we found a significant decrease in microbial biomass C in the soils amended with litter. For all treatment types, there was a clear shift in the CLPP during decomposition; during incubation, the relative utilization of carbohydrates decreased and the usage of amino acids increased respectively. After 52 weeks of incubation, the CLPP from all treatment types were very similar. 
25256109|Bacterial density and productivity were investigated along four salinity gradients within the estuary Ria de Aveiro. Bacterial variables and environmental parameters were measured at three to four stations spanning the entire salinity gradient of the four channels. The rather high variation in bacterial productivity (0.16-7.6 g C L h) along the profiles of salinity indicates that bacterial activity shows a reactive behavior to environmental changing. Bacterial density (0.5-11.2  10 cells L) with a comparative smaller variation showed a more conservative behavior, mainly reflecting the phytoplankton distribution. Contrary to expectation, minimal values of bacterial productivity were not observed in November-December but in June. In fact, in November-December, the deep zone near the mouth showed the highest values of bacterial activity. At the upper stations, the highest values were observed in October. The relatively high values of bacterial production during the cold rainy season suggest that allochthonous substrates leached out from the surroundings by rain controlled the distribution of bacterial activity in the estuarine system. The substantial decrease in salinity during the rainy season negatively affected bacterial productivity, namely in the marine zone, where water column was highly stratified. Salinity seems to play an indirect role in the regulation of estuarine bacteria because there are different bacterial communities adapted to a wide salinity range.
4251004|An uncontaminated subsurface aquifer sediment contains a sparse microbial community consisting primarily of coccobacillary bacteria of relatively uniform size which can be counted directly with appropriate staining. The morphological simplicity and the relatively decreased cell numbers, when compared with surface soils and sediments, make the subsurface an ideal natural community with which to compare the utility of chemical measures of microbial biomass to direct microscopic counts. The membrane phospholipids (estimated as the polar lipid fatty acids, the lipid phosphate, and phosopholipid glycerol phosphate), lipopolysaccharide lipid A (estimated as the LPS hydroxy fatty acids), cell walls (estimated as the muramic acid), and adenosine triphosphate all give essentially identical estimates of cell numbers and dry weight as the direct counts, using conversion factors determined on subsurface microorganism monocultures. Assays of microbial cell components are thus validated by comparison with the classical direct count in at least one soil/sediment.
40802170|The idea of using constructed wetlands for the treatment and improving of wastewater emerged in the second half of the last century. Despite relatively wide use of this environmentally friendly technology, relatively little is known about the microbial populations involved in biotransformation and removal of contaminants in this system. The aim of the current study was to investigate the assembly and function of microbial populations in vertical-flow constructed wetland microcosms designed to improve the quality of wastewater after activated sludge treatment. Also, the performance of 3-year-old wetland ponds was investigated. Even though the quality of the influent water was relatively high, improvement in water parameters such as coliform level, ammonia concentration, BOD, and TSS was observed. The performance of the wetland ponds was comparable to that of the microcosms. The microbial community composition of the biofilm formed on the surface of gravel particles in vegetated and plant-free microcosms was studied by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and sequencing of 16S rRNA gene fragments. Highly complex bacterial diversity was observed in the biofilm. Cluster analysis of DGGE patterns demonstrated that depth within the wetland microcosm has a stronger effect on microbial community composition of the biofilm formed on wetland matrix than vegetation. Measurements of fluorescein diacetate hydrolysis activity and nitrification potential revealed that hydrolytic activity was affected by both microcosm depth and vegetation presence, whereas nitrification potential was mostly influenced by depth. Resolving the bacterial assemblage of wetland biofilm, which often is considered a black box, will help to understand the interactions involved in the development of diverse and mature biofilm and its function.
25153438|Increased salinization of arable land is expected to have devastating global effects in the coming years. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) have been shown to improve plant tolerance to abiotic environmental factors such as salinity, but they can be themselves negatively affected by salinity. In this study, the first in vitro experiment analyzed the effects of 0, 50, or 100 mM NaCl on the development and sporulation of Glomus intraradices. In the second experiment, the effects of mycorrhization on the expression of key plant genes expected to be affected by salinity was evaluated. Results showed that the assayed isolate G. intraradices DAOM 197198 can be regarded as a moderately salt-tolerant AMF because it did not significantly decrease hyphal development or formation of branching absorbing structures at 50 mM NaCl. Results also showed that plants colonized by G. intraradices grew more than nonmycorrhizal plants. This effect was concomitant with a higher relative water content in AM plants, lower proline content, and expression of Lsp5cs gene (mainly at 50 mM NaCl), lower expression of the stress marker gene Lslea gene, and lower content of abscisic acid in roots of mycorrhizal plants as compared to nonmycorrhizal plants, which suggest that the AM fungus decreased salt stress injury. In addition, under salinity, AM symbiosis enhanced the expression of LsPlPl. Such enhanced gene expression could contribute to regulating root water permeability to better tolerate the osmotic stress generated by salinity.
40343378|We describe the temporal dynamics and spatial distribution of Bartonella in black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) based on a longitudinal study conducted in 20 black-tailed prairie dog (BTPD) colonies in Boulder County, CO from 2003 to 2005. Bartonella infection was widely distributed in all colonies with an overall prevalence of 23.1%, but varied by colony from 4.8% to 42.5% and by year from 9.1 to 39.0%, with a marked increase in Bartonella activity in 2005. Levels of bacteremia varied from 40 to 12,000 colony forming units (CFU) per milliliter of BTPD blood, but were highly skewed with a median of 240 CFU. Bartonella infection rates were unimodal with respect to BTPD body mass, first increasing among growing juveniles, then declining among adults. Infection rates exhibited a sigmoidal response to body mass, such that 700g may prove to be a useful threshold value to evaluate the likelihood of Bartonella infection in BTPDs. Bartonella prevalence increased throughout the testing season for each year, as newly emerged juveniles developed bacteremia. Data from recaptured animals suggest that Bartonella infections did not persist in individual BTPDs, which may explain the relatively low prevalence of Bartonella in BTPDs compared to other rodent species. No association was found between Bartonella prevalence and host population density. Prevalence did not differ between males and females. The spatio-temporal pattern of Bartonella infection among colonies suggests epizootic spread from northern to central and southern portions of the study area. The potential significance of the BTPD-associated Bartonella for public health needs to be further investigated.
4251025|Bacterioplankton from 10 oligotrophic lakes, representing a gradient from clearwater to polyhumic, were grown in dilution cultures of sterile filtered lake water. The bacterial biomass achieved in the stationary phase of the dilution cultures was positively correlated with the amount of both humic matter and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in the lakes. About the same fraction of the total DOC pool was consumed in the dilution cultures of all lakes (average 9.5%, coefficient of variation (CV) 24%), with approximately the same growth efficiency (average 26%, CV 28%). Thus, humic lakes could support a higher bacterial biomass than clearwater lakes due to their larger DOC pools. The relevance of the results to planktonic food webs of humic and clearwater lakes is discussed.
4250611|The effects of several fixed nitrogen compounds on acetylene reduction activity (nitrogen fixation) of surface sediments from a Delaware salt marsh were studied. Ammonia addition caused little decrease in activity early in the summer but resulted in a considerable decrease (85-95%) in activity late in the summer and early in the fall. Nitrate caused a near complete suppression of activity at all times. Other compounds such as glutamate, urea, and yeast extract caused a slight increase in activity in tall Spartina sediments and caused more than a 2.5-fold increase in short Spartina sediments. There was a lag period (1-2 days) before the commencement of in vitro acetylene reduction activity during the spring and early summer, but this lag period was not present in the late summer. The addition of chloramphenicol to samples from a short Spartina zone caused decreases in activity similar to those obtained with ammonia, whereas chlorate amendments yielded results which, when compared on an electron basis, were comparable to those obtained with nitrate. These results indicated that the observed lag period may be the result of a physiological response to the in situ levels of ammonia and/or nitrate. It is suggested here that in situ nitrogenase activity may be controlled by two processes: (a) repression and derepression of nitrogenase synthesis mediated by the levels of ammonia, and (b) competition for reducing power (electrons) and energy (ATP) between the processes of nitrate reduction and nitrogen fixation.
25153003|This study compares three independent methods used for estimating bacterioplankton production in waters from the lagoon (mesotrophic) and the surrounding ocean (oligotrophic) of two atolls from the Tuamotu archipelago (French Polynesia). Thymidine and leucine incorporation were calibrated in dilution cultures and gave consistent results when the first was calibrated against cell multiplication and the second against protein synthesis. This study demonstrates that determining conversion factors strongly depends on the selected calculation method (modified derivative, integrative, and cumulative). These different estimates are reconciled when the very low proportion of active cells is accounted for. Frequency of dividing-divided cells (FDDC) calibrated using the same dilution cultures led to unrealistically high estimates of bacterial production. However, highly significant correlations between FDDC and either thymidine- or leucine-specific incorporation per cell were found in lagoon waters in situ. These correlations became more positive when oceanic data were added. This suggests that the FDDC method is also potentially valid to determine bacterioplankton growth rates after cross calibration with thymidine or leucine methods. If recommended precautions are observed, the three methods tested in the present study would give reliable production estimates.
40926443|Facultative methylotrophic bacteria of the genus Methylobacterium are consistently found in association with plants, particularly in the phyllosphere. To gain a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying the dispersal and occurrence of Methylobacterium on plants, diverse strains were isolated, identified, and studied with regard to their competitiveness on the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. As a basis for this study a comprehensive collection of Methylobacterium isolates was established. Isolates were obtained from five different naturally grown A. thaliana populations and diverse other plant genera at these and further sites. They were classified using automated ribosomal internal spacer analysis (ARISA) and a representative subset was identified based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. A comparison of their ARISA patterns with those generated based on a cultivationindependent approach from the same sampling material confirmed that the isolates were abundant colonizers of the studied plants. In competition experiments, colonization efficiency of the strains was found to be linked to phylogeny, rather than to the geographical origin or plant genus from which they were isolated. The most competitive colonizers were related to the species Methylobacterium tardum and Methylobacterium extorquens. Higher cell numbers were observed in the phyllosphere of A. thaliana when a mixture of different strains was applied relative to inoculation with only one strain, suggesting partial niche heterogeneity. Based on the results of the competition experiments, representative strains with different colonization efficiencies were selected, which will serve as models in future studies aiming at a better understanding of plant colonization by this bacterial genus. Among them is the meanwhile genome-sequenced strain M. extorquens PA1, which represents a competitive species of plant colonizers with a broad dispersal. This strain was characterized in more detail including physiological, morphological, and chemotaxonomical properties.
25153483| The microbial abundance, the percentage of viable bacteria, and the diversity of bacterial isolates from different regions of a 83.45-m ice core from the Puruogangri glacier on the Tibetan Plateau (China) have been investigated. Small subunit 16S rRNA sequences and phylogenetic relationships have been studied for 108 bacterial isolates recovered under aerobic growth conditions from different regions of the ice core. The genomic fingerprints based on ERIC (enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus)-polymerase chain reaction and physiological heterogeneity of the closely evolutionary related bacterial strains isolated from different ice core depths were analyzed as well. The results showed that the total microbial cell, percentages of live cells, and the bacterial CFU ranged from 10 to 10 cell ml (Mean, 9.4710; SD, 5.710, n=20), 25-81%, and 0-760 cfu ml, respectively. The majority of the isolates had 16S rRNA sequences similar to previously determined sequences, ranging from 92 to 99% identical to database sequences. Based on their 16S rRNA sequences, 42.6% of the isolates were high-G+C-content (HGC) gram-positive bacteria, 35.2% were low-G+C (LGC) gram-positive bacteria, 16.6% were Proteobacteria, and 5.6% were CFB group. There were clear differences in the depth distribution of the bacterial isolates. The isolates tested exhibited unique phenotypic properties and high genetic heterogeneity, which showed no clear correlation with depths of bacterial isolation. This layered distribution and high heterogeneity of bacterial isolates presumably reflect the diverse bacterial sources and the differences in bacteria inhabiting the glacier's surface under different past climate conditions. 
4251212|Taxonomic and genetic diversities of microbial communities disturbed by chemical pollutants were lower than in undisturbed reference communities. The dominant populations within the disturbed communities had enhanced physiological tolerances and substrate utilization capabilities, indicating that generalized physiological versatility is an adaptive characteristic of populations that successfully compete within disturbed communities.
4287565| The composition of mercury-reducing communities in two bioreactors retaining Hg(II) from chloralkali electrolysis wastewater for 485 days was analyzed based on effluent community DNA. Packed bed bioreactors with lava chips as carrier of the biofilm were inoculated with nine Hg(II)-resistant isolates that belonged to the alpha and gamma subdivisions of the proteobacteria. A rapid DNA-fingerprinting method was applied, using the intergenic spacer region (ISR) of the 16S-23S rDNA for analysis of the community composition. This allowed discrimination of the inoculum strains down to subspecies level. A merA specific PCR permitted the discrimination of the community's merA genes. During the 485 days of operation, the bioreactors were exposed to various physical stresses (mixing, gas bubbles, temperature increase up to 41C, increased flow velocity) and repeated high mercury inflow concentrations, resulting in reduced bioreactor performance and decreased culturable cell numbers in the reactor effluent. Nevertheless, the composition of the microbial community remained rather stable throughout the investigated time period. Of the inoculum strains, two could be detected throughout, whereas three were sometimes present with varying periods of nondetection. Two inoculum strains were only detected within the first month. Two strains of gamma-proteobacteria that were able to reduce ionic mercury invaded the bioreactor community. They did not outcompete established strains and had no negative effect on the Hg(II)-retention activity of the bioreactors. The community comprised diverse merA genes. The abundance of merA genes matched the abundance of their respective strains as confirmed by ISR community analysis. The continuously high selection pressure for mercury resistance maintained a stable and highly active mercury-reducing microbial community within the bioreactors. 
4250703| A spiroplasma (strain PPS1) isolated from healthy flowers of Calliandra haematocephala in Florida has been found to be a member of a serogroup of the Spiroplasmataceae. It is distinct from Spiroplasma citri and from other described spiroplasmas as determined by growth inhibition, fluorescent antibody, and ELISA serological tests. PPS1 was also distinguished from S. citri and several other spiroplasmas by the guanine + cytosine content of its DNA. PPS1 requires sterol for growth, is inhibited by digitonin, grows at 20-30C, and does not hydrolyze arginine or urea. The ready isolation of this and similar organisms from surfaces of healthy plants emphasizes that caution should be exercised in attempts to isolate cell wall-less prokaryotes from the interior of diseased plants. Although some strains of spiroplasmas are known as insect pathogens in nature, the ecological role(s) of the flower-inhabiting spiroplasmas has yet to be fully determined. 
4251093| The mineralization of 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) and changes in the DNP-mineralizing population over a wide range of DNP concentrations were monitored to evaluate the dynamics of the DNP-mineralizing populations in two soils (soils 1 and 2). Curves of CO
25153262|Burkholderia cenocepacia, Burkholderia ambifaria, and Burkholderia pyrrocinia are the Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) species most frequently associated with roots of crop plants. To investigate the ecophysiological diversity of these species, metabolic profiling of maize rhizosphere isolates was carried out by means of the Biolog system, using GN2 and SFN2 plates and different parameters related to optical density (OD). The metabolic profiles produced by the SFN2 and GN2 plates were identical, but the SFN2's narrower range of OD values and significantly longer reaction times made these plates less suitable for differentiation of isolates. Principal component analysis of maximum OD
4251194|Experiments were done to compare the influence of three aquatic exposure methods on the behavior of pathogenic and nonpathogenic enteric bacteria (Yersinia enterocolitica and Escherichia coli). Bacterial suspensions were exposed to stream water in membrane diffusion chambers in situ as well as in the laboratory using a large vessel of stream water and in enclosed bottles. The persistence of culturability of the bacterial suspensions was dependent upon the method of aquatic exposure. This difference was most apparent during the initial six days of each experiment. A steady decline in colony forming units was seen after a short stationary period in chambers in situ, while there was an abrupt increase in bacteria within chambers exposed in the laboratory. A rapid initial decrease was observed in the experimental variation using bottles, accompanied by higher levels of injury in E. coli and reduced expression of plasmid-borne virulence phenotypes in Y. enterocolitica. However, there were no changes in the plasmid profiles of either organism throughout the 21-day duration of the experiments. In addition, the survival and injury of pathogenic and nonpathogenic strains of both test bacteria was very similar with aquatic exposure. These results suggest that the response of enteric bacteria in aquatic environments is influenced by experimental design as well as other factors and that the comparison of survival data should only be attempted when similar methods are used.
4250709|Feeding, growth, and reproductive responses of the suspension-feeding protozoan Tetrahymena pyriformis to shifts up or down of the density of its bacterial food were observed. The rates of feeding, growth, and reproduction were determined by measuring the rates of uptake of viable bacterial cells, of change of mean volume of the protozoan cells, and of change of number of protozoan cells, respectively. The effects of the nutritional status of the protozoans at the time of shifting were observed also. Results are interpreted in terms of the limited polymorphism exhibited in the life cycle of this organism. Responses in all cases seem to reflect a strategy for exploiting a patchy, transient environment, a conclusion already reached by several earlier investigators.
40926427|A culture-independent molecular phylogenetic approach was used to study prokaryotic diversity in an anoxic activated sludge from a municipal wastewater treatment plant. Two 16S rRNA gene libraries were constructed using total genomic DNA and amplified by polymerase chain reaction using primers specific for archaeal or bacterial domains. Phylogenetic analysis of 132 and 249 almost fulllength 16S rRNA genes for Archaea and Bacteria, respectively, was done using the ARB software package. Phylogenetic groups affiliated with the Archaea belong to Euryarchaeota (93.8% of the operational taxonomie units [OTUs]) and Crenarchaeota (6.2% of the OTUs). Within the bacterial library, 84.8% of the OTUs represent novel putative phylotypes never described before and affiliated with ten divisions. The Proteobacteria phylum is the most abundant and diversified phylogenetic group representing 60.4% of the OTUs, followed by Bacteroidetes (22.1%) and gram-positives (6.1%). Interestingly, we detected a novel Proteobacteria monophyletic group distinct from the five known subclasses, which we named New Lineage of Proteobacteria (NLP) lineage, and it is composed of eight clones representing 4.6% of the Proteobacteria. A new 16S rRNA-targeted hybridization probe was designed and fluorescent in situ hybridization analyses shows representatives of NLP as cocci-shaped microorganisms. The Chloroflexi, Acidobacterium, and Nitrospira phyla and TM7 candidate division are each represented by 3% of clone sequences. A comprehensive set of eight 16S and 23 S rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes was used to quantify these major groups by dot blot hybridization within 12 samples. The Proteobacteria accounted for 82.54.9%, representing the most abundant phyla. The Bacteroidetes and Planctomycetales groups accounted for 4.91.3% and 41.7%, respectively. Firmicutes and Actinobacteria together accounted for only 1.90.5%. The set of probes covers 93.4  14% of the total bacterial population rRNA within the anoxic basin.
4250830|Copper toxicity to the cyanobacterium Plectonema boryanum (UTEX 594) has been investigated in the presence of citrate and nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA) using a copper-saturated culture medium. The copper-citrate complex was biodegradable, and toxicity was dependent on the free ligand concentration. The ratio of citrate to copper also affected the extent of metal toxicity. NTA was not degraded by P. boryanum. Ligand degradation in the cyanobacterial culture increased the ionic copper concentration and caused a concomitant reduction in growth. The ecological implications of these findings are discussed.
4251800|Microbial degradation of organic material in methanogenic ecosystems is a multistep process in which subsequent groups use the products of the first groups of organisms in the chain as substrates. The acetogenic bacteria in these systems produce both H
25153476| Invasive species poses a threat to the world's oceans. Alien sponges account for the majority of introduced marine species in the isolated Hawaiian reef ecosystems. In this study, cultivation-dependent and cultivation-independent techniques were applied to investigate microbial consortia associated with the alien Hawaiian marine sponge Suberites zeteki. Its microbial communities were diverse with representatives of Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, - and -Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chlamydiae, Planctomycetes, and Cyanobacteria. Specifically, the genus Chlamydia was identified for the first time from marine sponges, and two genera (Streptomyces and Rhodococcus) were added to the short list of culturable actinobacteria from sponges. Culturable microbial communities were dominated by Bacillus species (63%) and contained actinobacterial species closely affiliated with those from habitats other than marine sponges. Cyanobacterial clones were clustered with free-living cyanobacteria from water column and other environmental samples; they show no affiliation with other sponge-derived cyanobacteria. The low sequence similarity of Planctomycetes, Chlamydiae, and -Proteobacteria clones to other previously described sequences suggested that S. zeteki may contain new lineages of these bacterial groups. The microbial diversity of S. zeteki was different from that of other studied marine sponges. This is the first report on microbial communities of alien marine invertebrate species. For the first time, it provides an insight into microbial structure within alien marine sponges in the Hawaiian marine ecosystems. 
23469161|The coralline sponge Astrosclera willeyana, considered to be a living representative of the reef-building stromatoporoids of the Mesozoic and the Paleozoic periods, occurs widely throughout the Indo-Pacific oceans. We aimed to examine, for the first time, the phylogenetic diversity of the microbial symbionts associated with A. willeyana using molecular methods and to investigate the spatial variability in the sponge-derived microbial communities of A. willeyana from diverse sites along the Great Barrier Reef (GBR). Both denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analyses of 12 Astrosclera specimens and sequencing of a 16S rRNA gene clone library, constructed using a specimen of A. willeyana from the Yonge Reef (380 clones), revealed the presence of a complex microbial community with high diversity. An assessment of the 16S rRNA gene sequences to the particular phylogenetic groups showed domination of the Chloroflexi (42 %), followed by the Gammaproteobacteria (14 %), Actinobacteria (11 %), Acidobacteria (8 %), and the Deferribacteres (7 %). Of the microbes that were identified, a further 15 % belonged to the Deltaproteobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, and Nitrospirae genera. The minor phylogenetic groups Gemmatimonadetes, Spirochaetes, Cyanobacteria, Poribacteria, and the Archaea composed 3 % of the community. Over 94 % of the sequences obtained from A. willeyana grouped together with other sponge- or coral-derived sequences, and of these, 72 % formed, with nearest relatives, 46 sponge-specific or spongecoral clusters, highlighting the uniqueness of the microbial consortia in sponges. The DGGE results showed clear divisions according to the geographical origin of the samples, indicating closer relationships between the microbial communities with respect to their geographic origin (northern vs. southern GBR).
41692849|Marine fungi are known to originate from a wide variety of habitats within the marine environment. Marine sediment represents one environmental niche, with most fungi occurring in these sediments being facultative marine fungi with terrestrial origins. It has not been proven whether these fungi merely survive the harsh environmental conditions presented by the ocean sediment, as opposed to playing an active role in this ecological niche. During this study, marine sediment was collected from St. Helena Bay, on the west coast of the Western Cape, South Africa. Using dilution, enrichment, and repetitive culturing techniques, 59 fungal isolates were obtained from marine sediments and identified to at least genus level using morphological and molecular methods. Moreover, a series of tests were performed to characterize the physical and physicochemical attributes of the isolates. Results showed that the isolates not only survived but also had the potential to grow in the natural conditions present in this environment. Extracellular cellulase was produced by the filamentous fungal isolates indicating their probable role in detrital decay processes and therefore the carbon cycle on the ocean bed. Also, denitrification patterns were observed when isolates were grown in liquid media amended with NaNO, NaNO , and (NH) SO, implicating that these fungi have the potential to play an active role in denitrification, co-denitrification, and ammonification phases of nitrogen cycles occurring in the marine sediments.
4250506|The effect of thiosulfate on dark assimilation of carbon dioxide in shallow marine environments was investigated in order to explain the recent discovery of bacterial thiosulfate oxidation in aerobic, open ocean seawater. The results demonstrate that the potential exists for microbial thiosulfate oxidation to increase both dark assimilation of carbon dioxide and the utilization of organic compounds in the sea. Thiosulfate-stimulated microbial activity may be caused not only by chemoautotrophic sulfur bacteria, but also by heterotrophic species which oxidize thiosulfate to tetrathionate. Measurements of dark assimilation of carbon dioxide made at different incubation times indicate that great care must be taken both in experimental procedure and in interpretation of results obtained with the dark assimilation technique.
4250752|Five vessels, connected in series, were used for a continuous flow system to model carbon flow in anaerobic microbial communities. Two such 5-vessel systems were constructed, the inflows containing 10 mM sulfate and either 10 mM glucose or benzoate. Dilution was slow (D = 0.0018 h
41489768|Recent studies on the microbial flora of the honeybee gut have revealed an apparently highly specific community of resident bacteria that might play a role in immune defence and food preservation for their hosts. However, at present, very little is known about the diversity and ecology of bacteria occurring in non-domesticated bees like bumblebees, which are of similar importance as honeybees for the pollination of agricultural and wild flowers. To fill this gap in knowledge, we examined six of the most common bumblebee species in Central Europe from three locations in Germany and Switzerland for their bacterial communities. We used a culture-independent molecular approach based on sequencing the 16S rRNA gene from a selection of individuals and examining a larger number of samples by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism profiles. The gut flora was dominated by very few and mostly undescribed groups of bacteria belonging to the Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Actinobacteria. This core set of bacteria was present in all of the examined bumblebee species. These bacteria are similar to, but distinct from, bacteria previously described from the honeybee gut. Significant differences were observed between the communities of bacteria in the different bumblebee species; the effect of sampling location was less strong. A novel group of Betaproteobacteria additionally shows evidence for host species-specific genotypes. The gut flora of bumblebees therefore is apparently composed of relatively few highly specialized bacteria, indicating a strong interaction and possibly important functions with their hosts.
25153159|The pea aphid U-type symbiont (PAUS) was investigated to characterize its microbiological properties. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and electron microscopy revealed that PAUS was a rod-shaped bacterium found in three different locations in the body of the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum: sheath cells, secondary mycetocytes, and hemolymph. Artificial transfer experiments revealed that PAUS could establish stable infection and vertical transmission when introduced into uninfected pea aphids. When 28 aphid species collected in Japan were subjected to a diagnostic PCR assay, four species of the subfamily Aphidinae (Aphis citricola, Aphis nerii, Macrosiphum avenae, and Uroleucon giganteus) and a species of the subfamily Pemphiginae (Colopha kansugei) were identified to be PAUS-positive. The sporadic incidences of PAUS infection without reflecting the aphid phylogeny can be best explained by occasional horizontal transfers of the symbiont across aphid lineages.
41412396|Microbes in supraglacial ecosystems have been proposed to be significant contributors to regional and possibly global carbon cycling, and quantifying the biogeochemical cycling of carbon in glacial ecosystems is of great significance for global carbon flow estimations.Here we present data on microbial abundance and productivity, collected along a transect across the ablation zone of the Greenland ice sheet (GrIS) in summer 2010. We analyse the relationships between the physical, chemical and biological variables using multivariate statistical analysis. Concentrations of debris-bound nutrients increased with distance from the ice sheet margin, as did both cell numbers and activity rates before reaching a peak (photosynthesis) or a plateau (respiration, abundance) between 10 and 20 km from the margin. The results of productivity measurements suggest an overall net autotrophy on the GrIS and support the proposed role of ice sheet ecosystems in carbon cycling as regional sinks of CO 2 and places of production of organic matter that can be a potential source of nutrients for downstream ecosystems. Principal component analysis based on chemical and biological data revealed three clusters of sites, corresponding to three ' glacier ecological zones', confirmed by a redundancy analysis (RDA) using physical data as predictors. RDA using data from the largest ' bare ice zone' showed that glacier surface slope, a proxy for melt water flow, accounted for most of the variation in the data. Variation in the chemical data was fully explainable by the determined physical variables. Abundance of phototrophic microbes and their proportion in the community were identified as significant controls of the carbon cycling-related microbial processes.
40605759|Tropical peat swamp forests are important and endangered ecosystems, although little is known of their microbial diversity and ecology. We used molecular and enzymatic techniques to examine patterns in prokaryotic community structure and overall microbial activity at 0-, 10-, 20-, and 50-cm depths in sediments in a peat swamp forest in Malaysia. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles of amplified 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) gene fragments showed that different depths harbored different bacterial assemblages and that Archaea appeared to be limited to the deeper samples. Cloning and sequencing of longer 16S rRNA gene fragments suggested reduced microbial diversity in the deeper samples compared to the surface. Bacterial clone libraries were largely dominated by ribotypes affiliated with the Acidobacteria, which accounted for at least 27-54% of the sequences obtained. All of the sequenced representatives from the archaeal clone libraries were Crenarchaeota. Activities of microbial extracellular enzymes involved in carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycling declined appreciably with depth, the only exception being peroxidase. These results show that tropical peat swamp forests are unusual systems with microbial assemblages dominated by members of the Acidobacteria and Crenarchaeota. Microbial communities show clear changes with depth, and most microbial activity is likely confined to populations in the upper few centimetres, the site of new leaf litter fall, rather than the deeper, older, peat layers.
4251524| The role of grazing by marine sediment flagellates, ciliates, and meiobenthic animals in controlling production of their bacterial and diatom prey was investigated. Several novel or modified techniques were used to enumerate prey (bacteria and diatoms), measure bacterial production, quantify proto- and micrometazoan predators, and evaluate rates of bacterivory and herbivory. The results indicated that, in a temperate, marine intertidal flat composed of fine sand, colorless nanoflagellates, ciliates, and nematodes were the most important bacterivores. Together, these organisms were responsible for removing up to 53% of bacterial production, by grazing. The observed rates of bacterivory were high enough to hypothesize that periods of grazing control of bacterial production might occur regularly in similar habitats. Colorless microflagellates, ciliates, and nematodes had high rates of diatom consumption. The combined small diatom consumption rate was equivalent to 132% of diatom standing stock per day. Trophic interactions between diatoms and micro- and meiobenthos might be a factor limiting growth of small (around 10 m) diatoms. In coarse sands of an open beach, all micrograzers except pigmented nanoflagellates were rare, whereas bacterial and diatom assemblages were rather abundant and active. In this type of sediment, the micrograzers were able to consume only a marginal percentage of bacterial production (<1%) and diatom standing stock (3.8%), thus playing a minor role in controlling the dynamics of their prey. 
4251526|In order to understand how bacterial communities develop in natural ecosystems, the culturable aerobic-heterotroph bacterial communities of three habitats (rhizosphere, endorhiza, and soil) associated with field-grown cucumber roots were examined for quantitative and qualitative changes in structure, over time. Soil and root samples were taken 0, 7, 14, 21, 35, and 70 days after planting (DAP) in 1994, and 0, 7, 14, 28, 42, and 70 DAP in 1995. Individual bacterial colonies of aerobic-heterotroph bacteria were sampled randomly and characterized using the Sherlock System (Microbial ID, Inc., Newark, Del), for fatty acid methyl ester analysis. More than 6,000 bacterial isolates were identified to the genus level and used in calculating richness, diversity, and similarity indices for the three habitats. Diversity was assessed using Hill's modifications of Shannon's index and Simpson's index (N1 and N2, respectively), while similarity was determined using the coefficient of biotic similarity. The same general trends were observed for the community structures of each habitat in both years. The soil was the least diverse and the rhizosphere was most diverse throughout both growing seasons. Bacillus and Arthrobacter spp. were dominant in soil, while Gram-negative bacteria tended to be more abundant in the rhizosphere and endorhiza. The initial membership of the endorhiza (7-14 DAP) appeared to be a function of the rhizosphere community, since both habitats were composed of similar genera. However, the endorhiza was less diverse than the rhizosphere because one or two genera tended to be dominant in each sample, particularly Agrobacterium and Enterobacter spp. Analysis of community similarity indicated that the soil was a distinct habitat and remained relatively unchanged throughout the study. The rhizosphere and endorhiza were dissimilar from the soil and from each other at particular sampling times. These results indicate that the soil, rhizosphere, and endorhiza communities are structurally distinct (the relative abundance of a particular bacterial genera differs among habitats) but share a common membership. Thus, when examining bacterial communities, both the qualitative (i.e., membership) and quantitative (i.e., abundance) aspects must be examined in order to study shifts in community structure.
4251609| The growth rate of bacteria in 19 soils with pH values ranging from 4 to 8 was determined using the thymidine (TdR) and leucine (Leu) incorporation techniques. The variation in isotope dilution and unspecific incorporation was also studied. The mean Leu incorporation into protein was 45% of the incorporation into total macromolecules, and was not affected by soil pH. TdR incorporation into DNA varied between 5 and 20% of that into total macromolecules, with the lowest values in the low-pH soils. Isotope dilution plots for Leu incorporation were linear. This was not the case for TdR incorporation, indicating non-Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The degree of participation (DP) of the added labeled compound in Leu incorporation varied between 0.4 (in low-pH soils) and 0.7 and was directly affected by pH. DP for TdR incorporation varied more (from 0.1 to 1), with the lowest values in the low-pH soils. The variation in DP in TdR incorporation was, however, not directly affected by pH. Calculated bacterial turnover times at 20C varied between 2.3 and 33 days (mean 9.3 days) using TdR incorporation data, and between 2.1 and 13.1 days (mean 5.9 days) using Leu incorporation data. Turnover times were longer for bacteria in low-pH soils, calculated using the Leu incroporation data, while no effect from pH was found using the TdR incorporation data. Comparing data from aquatic habitats indicated that bacterial growth rates in soil were lower. 
4251001|Bacterial cell numbers obtained from 103 water and sediment samples from a Pleistocene sandy aquifer in the Lower Rhine region (Bocholt, FRG) were determinated on P-agar and by direct count. Below 5 m under the surface, colony-forming unit (cfu) numbers in water samples were less than 100/ml, and in many cases less than 50/ml. In sediment samples, they were 10- to 100-fold higher (10
25153084| The bacterial populations of anoxic sediments in a eutrophic lake (Aydat, Puy-de-Dme-France) were studied by phospholipid fatty acid analysis (PLFA) and also by culturing heterotrophic bacteria under strictly anaerobic conditions. The mean PLFA concentrations of prokaryotes and microeukaryotes were 5.7  2.9 mgC g DS and 9.6  6.7 mgC g DS, respectively. The analysis of bacterial PLFA markers was used to determine the dynamics of the Gram-positive and Gram-negative species of anaerobic bacteria, Clostridiae, and sulfate-reducing bacteria. Throughout the sampling period the concentrations of i15:0 (from 20 nmol g DS to 130 nmol g DS), markers of Gram-positive bacteria, were higher than those for Gram-negative bacteria. The dynamics of Clostridiae (Cy15:0) paralleled those of sulfate-reducing bacteria that were marked by i17:17. Partial 16S rDNA sequencing and the physiological study of the various fermenting strains, whose abundance in the superficial sediment layer was 1.1  0.4  10 cells mL, showed that all the isolates belonged to the Clostridiae and related taxa (Lactosphaera pasteurii, Clostridium vincentii, C. butyricum, C. algidixylanolyticum, C. puniceum, C. lituseburense, and C. gasigenes). All the isolates were capable of metabolizing a wide range of organic substrates. 
23597850|Industrial units, manufacturing dyes, chemicals, solvents, and xenobiotic compounds, produce liquid and solid wastes, which upon conventional treatment are released in the nearby environment and thus are the major cause of pollution. Soil collected from contaminated Kharicut Canal bank (N 2257.878; E 07238.478), Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India was used for metagenomic DNA preparation to study the capabilities of intrinsic microbial community in dealing with xenobiotics. Sequencing of metagenomic DNA on the Genome Sequencer FLX System using titanium chemistry resulted in 409,782 reads accounting for 133,529,997 bases of sequence information. Taxonomic analyses and gene annotations were carried out using the bioinformatics platform Sequence Analysis and Management System for Metagenomic Datasets. Taxonomic profiling was carried out by three different complementary approaches: (a) 16S rDNA, (b) environmental gene tags, and (c) lowest common ancestor. The most abundant phylum and genus were found to be "Proteobacteria" and "Pseudomonas," respectively. Metagenome reads were mapped on sequenced microbial genomes and the highest numbers of reads were allocated to Pseudomonas stutzeri A1501. Assignment of obtained metagenome reads to Gene Ontology terms, Clusters of Orthologous Groups of protein categories, protein family numbers, and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes hits revealed genomic potential of indigenous microbial community. In total, 157,024 reads corresponded to 37,028 different KEGG hits, and amongst them, 11,574 reads corresponded to 131 different enzymes potentially involved in xenobiotic biodegradation. These enzymes were mapped on biodegradation pathways of xenobiotics to elucidate their roles in possible catalytic reactions. Consequently, information obtained from the present study will act as a baseline which, subsequently along with other "-omic" studies, will help in designing future bioremediation strategies in effluent treatment plants and environmental clean-up projects.
4250937| The microflora of a shallow anoxic aquifer underlying a municipal landfill in Oklahoma was characterized by direct light microscopy, most probable number determinations of sulfate reducers and methanogens, and measurements of methanogenesis in aquifer samples containing either endogenous or exogenous electron donors and various sulfate concentrations. Acridine orange direct counts of bacteria did not vary significantly with time or between 2 major sampling areas (1.70  0.16  10
25153212|Exopolysaccharides (EPS) may have an important role in the Antarctic marine environment, possibly acting as ligands for trace metal nutrients such as iron or providing cryoprotection for growth at low temperature and high salinity. Ten bacterial strains, isolated from Southern Ocean particulate materials or from sea ice, were characterized. Whole cell fatty acid profiles and 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the isolates included representatives of the genera Pseudoalteromonas, Shewanella, Polaribacter, and Flavobacterium as well as one strain, which constituted a new bacterial genus in the family Flavobacteriaceae. The isolates are, therefore, members of the "Gammaproteobacteria" and Cytophaga-Flexibacter-Bacteroides, the taxonomic groups that have been shown to dominate polar sea ice and seawater microbial communities. Exopolysaccharides produced by Antarctic isolates were characterized. Chemical composition and molecular weight data revealed that these EPS were very diverse, even among six closely related Pseudoalteromonas isolates. Most of the EPS contained charged uronic acid residues; several also contained sulfate groups. Some strain produced unusually large polymers (molecular weight up to 5.7 MDa) including one strain in which EPS synthesis is stimulated by low temperature. This study represents a first step in the understanding of the role of bacterial EPS in the Antarctic marine environment.
4251404| Indigenous soil bacteria were released from a clay loam soil by repeated washing and centrifugation followed by density gradient centrifugation to remove enough soil particles to allow a flow cytometric (FC) study of cell numbers, cell sizes, and DNA content in single cells. The bacteria were suspended in liquid soil extract medium and incubated at 15C for 60 h, during which direct fluorescence microscopic counts (acridine orange direct counts, AODC) were done along with the FC measurements. Cells of Escherichia coli with a known number of whole genomes per cell (rifampicin treated) were used as a calibration standard both for the DNA measurements (mitramycin-ethidium bromide stain) and cell volumes (light scatter). In response to the nutrients in the soil extract medium, the indigenous soil bacteria increased in numbers and respiration rate after a lag period of about 17 h. The onset of growth was seen first as an increase in respiration rate, numbers of large cells, and the amounts of DNA per cell in the large cells. Respiration and direct microscopical determination of biovolume was used to calculate the average growth yield on the basis of cell carbon, which was found to be 20-30% during the period of active growth. For separate volume groups of the indigenous cells, the DNA content ranged from 1.5 to 15 fg DNA per cell, the majority being below 4 fg DNA. During growth in soil extract medium, the numbers of large cells (volume > 0.18  m
4251119| The effect of carbon: nitrogen: phosphorus (C:N:P) ratio of organic substrates on the regeneration of ammonium and phosphate was investigated by growing natural assemblages of freshwater bacteria in mineral media supplemented with the simple organic C, N, and P sources (glucose, asparagine, and sodium glycerophosphate, respectively) to give 25 different substrate C:N:P ratios. Both ammonium and phosphate were regenerated when C:N and N:P atomic ratios of organic substrates were 10:1 and 16:1, respectively. Only ammonium was regenerated when C:N and N:P ratios were 10:1 and 10-20:1, respectively. On the other hand, neither ammonium nor phosphate was regenerated when C:N and N:P ratios were 15:1 and 5:1, respectively. In no case was phosphate alone regenerated. As bacteria were able to alter widely the C:N:P ratio of their biomass, the growth yield of bacteria appeared primarily dependent on the substrate carbon concentration, irrespective of a wide variation in the substrate C:N:P ratio. 
41693864|Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) are common components of the rhizosphere, but their role in adaptation of plants to extreme environments is not yet understood. Here, we examined rhizobacteria associated with ancient clones of Larrea tridentata in the Mohave desert, including the 11,700-year-old King Clone, which is oldest known specimen of this species. Analysis of unculturable and culturable bacterial community by PCR-DGGE revealed taxa that have previously been described on agricultural plants. These taxa included species of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Firmicutes that commonly carry traits associated with plant growth promotion, including genes encoding aminocyclopropane carboxylate deaminase and -propeller phytase. The PGPR activities of three representative isolates from L. tridentata were further confirmed using cucumber plants to screen for plant growth promotion. This study provides an intriguing first view of the mutualistic bacteria that are associated with some of the world's oldest living plants and suggests that PGPR likely contribute to the adaptation of L. tridentata and other plant species to harsh environmental conditions in desert habitats.
4251683|Burkholderia cepacia populations associated with the Zea mays root system were investigated to assess the influence of soil type, maize cultivar, and root localization on the degree of their genetic diversity. A total of 180 B. cepacia isolates were identified by restriction analysis of the amplified 16S rDNA (ARDRA technique). The genetic diversity among B. cepacia isolates was analyzed by the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technique, using the 10-mer primer AP5. The analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) method was applied to estimate the variance components for the RAPD patterns. The results indicated that, among the factors studied, the soil was clearly the dominant one in affecting the genetic diversity of maize root-associated B. cepacia populations. In fact, the percentage of variation among populations was significantly higher between B. cepacia populations recovered from maize planted in different soils than between B. cepacia populations isolated from different maize cultivars and from distinct root compartments such as rhizoplane and rhizosphere. The analysis of the genetic relationships among B. cepacia isolates resulted in dendrograms showing bacterial populations with frequent recombinations and a nonclonal genetic structure. The dendrograms were also in agreement with the AMOVA results. We were able to group strains obtained from distinct soils on the basis of their origin, confirming that soil type had the major effect on the degree of genetic diversity of the maize root-associated B. cepacia populations analyzed. On the other hand, strains isolated from distinct root compartments exhibited a random distribution which confirmed that the rhizosphere and rhizoplane populations analyzed did not significantly differ in their genetic structure.
41693735|Mycosphaerella fijiensis is the etiological agent of Black Sigatoka, a fungal disease that affects production of banana and plantain crops in tropical regions. The sizes of cultivable epiphytic and endophytic bacterial populations, aerobic endospore forming bacteria (AEFB), and antagonist bacteria against M. fijiensis isolated from three Musa spp. cultivars from Urab (Colombia) were studied, in order to find a suitable screening strategy to isolate antagonistic bacteria. Most of the variability found in the epiphytic and endophytic bacterial community sizes among fruit trees was explained by the cultivar differences. We found population sizes ranging from 1.25x10 to 9.64x 10 CFU/g of fresh leaf and found that 44 % of total cultivable bacteria belong to the AEFB group. We isolated 648 AEFB from three different cultivars and assessed their antagonistic activity against M. fijiensis using the cell-free supernatant obtained from bacterial liquid cultures in three different in vitro assays. Five percent of those bacteria showed higher percent inhibition than the positive control Bacillus subtilis UA321 has (percent inhibition=845) in the screening phase. Therefore, they were selected as antagonistic bacteria against the pathogen. The strains with the highest percentage of antagonism were found in older leaves for the three cultivars, given support to recommend this group of leaves for future samplings. Some of these isolated bacteria affected the mycelium and ascospores morphology of the fungus. They also presented in vitro characteristics related to a successful colonization of the phylloplane such as indolic compounds, surfactant production, and biofilm formation, which makes them possible, potential candidates as biological control agents.
4251227|Nematodes recovered from the hindgut of zebras were examined with scanning and transmission electron microscopy for microorganisms. Microorganisms were observed attached to the posterior extremities of two groups of nematodes, atractids and cyathostomes. Novel techniques were used to culture the microorganisms, and these included rinses to reduce contamination from hindgut flora and the design of the culture media. Electron microscopy revealed a flat bacterium not previously observed, as well as small rods and segmented filamentous bacteria. Culturing techniques resulted in isolation of a Propionibacterium species.
4251323|Endophytes were frequently isolated from mountain birch (Betula pubescens var. tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman) leaves at a subarctic site where natural air pollution is low. We tested whether simulated acid rain had any influence on the occurrence of endophytes. Dry controls with only ambient rain and irrigated controls treated with spring water of pH 6 were compared with acid treatments at pH 3 and pH 4, prepared by adding both sulphuric and nitric acids. Treatments began in 1985 and leaf samples were taken twice during the summer of 1992. Leaves were surface sterilized, five leaf disks from each leaf placed on malt extract agar, and growing colonies were counted and identified. The most frequently isolated endophyte from birch leaves was a Fusicladium anamorph of Venturia sp. (88% of all the isolates in July and 75% of all the isolates in August), followed by a sterile mycelium and Melanconium sp. The number of endophytes isolated and the species number increased from July to August. Endophytes were most frequently isolated from the basal part of the midrib. The percentage of colonization by endophytes was similar in short and long shoots. More endophytes were isolated from leaves of branches taken at 1 m height than at 2 m height. The stronger acid rain treatment (pH 3) reduced by approximately 25% the number of isolated endophytes in August. Treatments did not have any effect on species composition of endophyte assemblages in birch leaves.
25153214|Lichen-forming fungi have been assumed to be more or less restricted to the surface of the substrate on which they grow, Conclusive identification of hyphae or an assessment of the fungal diversity inside lichen-covered rock has not been possible using methods based on direct observation. We circumvented this problem by using a DNA sequencing approach. Cores were drilled from a Devonian arcosic sandstone rock harboring the crustose lichen Ophioparma ventosa (L.) Norman on the surface. The cores were cut vertically, and DNA was extracted from the pulverized rock slices. A series of polymerase chain reactions using fungal-specific primers as well as Ophioparma ventosa specific primers were employed to amplify the internal transcribed spacer region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA. The results show that hyphae of O. ventosa penetrate approximately 10-12 mm into the rock. Consequently, the hyphal layer formed by the lichen fungus inside the rock could be 7-12 times as thick as the symbiotic thallus at the surface of the rock. In addition, eight non-lichenized fungal taxa and five that could not be identified to species were encountered. One fungal species in the order Helotiales occurs in six of the eight cores. The significance of these results to the colonization and weathering of rock by lichenized fungi is discussed.
25153041|Recent environmental microbial sampling of the ultraclean Spacecraft Assembly Facility at NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL-SAF) identified spores of Bacillus pumilus as major culturable bacterial contaminants found on and around spacecraft. As part of an effort to assess the efficacy of various spacecraft sterilants, purified spores of 10 JPL-SAF B. pumilus isolates were subjected to 254-nm UV and their UV resistance was compared to spores of standard B. subtilis biodosimetry strains. Spores of six of the 10 JPL-SAF isolates were significantly more resistant to UV than the B. subtilis biodosimetry strain, and one of the JPL-SAF isolates, B. pumilus SAFR-032, exhibited the highest degree of spore UV resistance observed by any Bacillus spp. encountered to date.
40343358|The existence and preliminary characterization of bacteriophages active against the Gram-negative human pathogen Legionella pneumophila, the causative agent of a very severe form of pneumonia, are reported. Four phages belonging to the family of the Myoviridae were isolated from various fresh water environments, and preliminary characterization showed that these crude preparations infect exclusively bacteria belonging to the genus Legionella. Standard phage amplification, purification, and characterization procedures were, however, not efficiently applicable making more research into these novel phages and their mechanism of infection necessary. The existence of Legionella bacteriophages is very promising for future applications such as the development of novel molecular tools, the design of new detection and typing methods, and the bioremediation of this environmental pathogen.
4251166|Mesophilic heterotrophic, aerobic or facultatively anaerobic bacteria that grow on yeast tryptone glucose extract agar were isolated from the surface of olive leaves of 3 or 4 different ages in January, April, July, and October from 1984 to 1989. Unweighted average linkage cluster analysis on either the Jaccard coefficient or the simple matching coefficient recovered 1,701 representative strains in 32 phena defined at the 70% and 80% similarity level, respectively. Of these, 25 were identified to genus or lower level. From the identity of the representative strains, the frequency of occurrence among the phylloplane bacteria over the 6-year period was estimated at 51% for Pseudomonas syringae, followed by Xanthomonas campestris (6.7%), Erwinia herbicola (6%), Acetobacter aceti (4.7%), Gluconobacter oxydans (4.3%), Pseudomonas fluorescens (3.9%), Bacillus megaterium (3.8%), Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. dextranicum (3.1%), Lactobacillus plantarum (2.8%), Curtobacterium plantarum (2.2%), Micrococcus luteus (2.2%), Arthrobacter globiformis (1.4%), Klebsiella planticola (1.2%), Streptococcus faecium (1.2%), Clavibacter sp. (0.98%), Micrococcus sp. (0.82%), Serratia marcescens (0.81%), Bacillus subtilis (0.57%), Cellulomonas flavigena (0.4%), Erwinia sp. (0.37%), Zymomonas mobilis (0.3%), Bacillus sp. (0.29%), Alcaligenes faecalis (0.27%), Erwinia carotovora (0.08%), and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (0.04%). Bacterial communities on leaves of a given age at a given time during any one year displayed a very similar structure but differed significantly from those on the leaves of the same age at a different time or on the leaves of a different age at any time during any one year. Communities on the leaves of a given age at a given time of the year were invariably dominated by one or another of only 9 taxa, which accounted for 22 to 98.5% of the isolates from those leaves. The communities on 10- and 13-month-old leaves were invariably made up of fewer taxa than those on younger leaves at the same time of the year.
4287700|Experiments were performed to evaluate short-term changes in sediment extracellular carbohydrates for a multispecific assemblage of benthic diatoms in relation to physiological status, endogenous migratory rhythms, and environmental conditions. For this purpose, a mesocosm was used, which simulated both tidal and dark: light alternating cycles under controlled conditions. Scanning electronic microscopy in combination with picture analyses indicated that natural diatom migration patterns were reproduced in the mesocosm. Two EPS fractions were operationally separated in colloidal carbohydrate measurements: alcohol-soluble EPS (termed "soluble EPS") and alcohol-insoluble EPS (termed "bound EPS"). Microphytobenthic biomass followed a logistic-type curve and converged toward a maximal value termed the "biotic capacity of the local environment." Both EPS fractions showed oscillations with production during photosynthetic periods and sharp decreases during night immersion periods. Productions of both EPS fractions increased with Chl a production during light periods suggesting a light dependence in relation to migratory patterns. The decreases in both EPS fractions, which occurred during night immersion periods suggest that carbohydrate hydrolysis and/or washaway affected both EPS fractions similarly in benthic environments. Our results confirm the theory according to which the two distinct fractions are under different metabolic controls. No change in soluble EPS release was obtained during the transition from logarithmic to stationary phase. On the other hand, a metabolism modification of microalgae, probably related to ammonium depletion, occurred when cells entered the stationary phase, since there was a high enhancement in bound EPS production. Mesocosm results can serve as a system of reference useful to characterize biofilm development in field investigations and to revisit the effective implication of each EPS fraction in sediment stability.
4250459|The transmission and scanning electron microscopes were employed to visualize the sequence of the biofilm development in the trickling wastewater filter. After the deposit of a small amount of debris upon a hard surface, the bacterial cells attach and develop the matrix on which the biofilm is formed. Protozoa invade the basic layer where they feed on the bacteria. The algae are seeded upon the bacterial matrix and grow so profusely that the bacteria must develop aerial colonies in the competition for food and oxygen. Destruction of the bacteria in the matrix and the weight and hydraulic pressure cause detachment of the biofilm and a new matrix must be developed.
40605673|The monoculture of melon in Guatemala has caused the massive appearance of plants with an analogous syndrome for the well-known disease commonly called melon collapse, or vine decline, causing significant losses in crops. Methyl bromide is commonly used to sterilize soil prior to planting in Guatemala, but it must be phased out by 2015. The objective of this study was to evaluate the technique of grafting melon onto hybrids of Cucurbita (Cucurbita maxima  Cucurbita moschata), as an alternative to using soil disinfectants (such as Metam sodium, 1,3-dichloropropene, and methyl bromide) for the control of collapse. The results suggested that both soil disinfection and grafting were not necessary in these locations, since there were no statistical differences in terms of yields between the treatments and the untreated control. Furthermore, these results demonstrate that decisions to disinfect the soil must be based on the firm identification of the causal agents, in addition to preliminary assessments of yield losses.
40605694|The interaction between a common soil yeast, Cryptococcus laurentii, and a slow-growing medicinal plant adapted to low-nutrient soils, Agathosma betulina (Berg.) Pillans, was studied. C. laurentii CAB 578 was isolated from the rhizosphere of wild A. betulina, and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) analysis revealed that the yeast was capable of producing polyamines, such as cadaverine and spermine, while growing in vitro in a chemically defined medium. Since the exogenous application of polyamines are known to impact on root growth, these findings supported the results obtained when axenic cultures of A. betulina seedlings were inoculated with C. laurentii CAB 578 and cultivated for 5 months under glasshouse conditions. The presence of the yeast increased root growth by 51%. Using soil dilution plates, it was demonstrated that yeast numbers were greater in the vicinity of the roots than in the bulk soil. In addition, fluoromicroscopy, in combination with the fluorescent probes Fungolight and Calcofluor white, revealed the presence of metabolic active yeast colonies on the rhizoplane 5 months after initiation of the experimentation. The study provided evidence for a symbiosis between C. laurentii and A. betulina.
25153231|Ability to degrade high molecular weight polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) has been found in diverse species of fast-growing mycobacteria. This study included several PAH-degrading mycobacteria from heavily contaminated sites and an uncontaminated humus soil in the Natural Park, Schwbische Alb, Germany. The numerical analysis with a total of 131 tests showed that isolates from humus soil and contaminated sites had similar substrate utilization patterns for primary alcohols from ethanol to pentanol, 1,4-butanediol, benzyl alcohol, hexadecane, ethyl acetate, fluoranthene, phenanthrene, and pyrene as the sole carbon and energy (C/E) sources. Significant differences between the two subgroups isolated from humus soil and contaminated sites were observed in the utilization of polyalcoholic sugars, including adonitol, D-arabitol, L-arabitol, erythritol, inositol, rhamnose, sorbitol, and xylitol. Among isolates from humus soil, strain PYR100 showed high similarity in 16S rDNA sequence with M. vanbaalenii strain PYR-1 (=DSM 7251, 100%) and M. austroafricanum ATCC 33464 (99.9%). In addition to the numerical analysis, the 16S-23S intergenic spacer sequence was useful for discriminating between the closely related strains PYR100 and PYR-1 (98% similarity). The patterns of the variable V2 and V3 regions in the ribosomal RNA gene corresponding to Escherichia coli positions 179 to 197 and 1006 to 1023, respectively, were useful for dividing fast-growing and thermosensitive PAH-degrading mycobacteria into ten subgroups consistent with the phylogenetic positions.
41489188|Compost has been widely used in order to promote vegetation growth in post-harvested and burned soils. The effects on soil microorganisms were scarcely known, so we performed the microbial analyses in a wildfire area of the Taebaek Mountains, Korea, during field surveys from May to September 2007. Using culturedependent and -independent methods, we found that compost used in burned soils influenced a greater impact on soil fungi than bacteria. Compost-treated soils contained higher levels of antifungal strains in the genera Bacillus and Burkholderia than non-treated soils. When the antifungal activity of Burkholderia sp. strain Ola_RA002, which had been isolated from a compost-treated soil, was tested for the growth inhibition of bacteria and fungi isolated from burned soils, the membrane-filtered culture supernatant inhibited 19/37 fungal strains including soil fungi, Eupenicillium spp. and Devriesia americana; plant pathogens, Polyschema larviformis and Massaria platani; an animal pathogen, Mortierella verticillata; and an unidentified Ascomycota. However, this organism only inhibited 11/151 bacterial strains tested. These patterns were compatible with the culture-independent DGGE results, suggesting that the compost used in burned soils had a greater impact on soil fungi than bacteria through the promotion of the growth of antifiingal bacteria. Our findings indicate that compost used in burned soils is effective in restoring soil conditions to a state closer to those of nearby unburned forest soils at the early stage of secondary succession.
25153386| We carried out enclosure experiments in an unproductive lake in northern Sweden and studied the effects of enrichment with different dissolved organic carbon (glucose)/inorganic phosphorous (DOC/Pi) ratios on bacterioplankton production (BP), growth efficiency (BGE), nutrient use efficiency (BNUE), growth rate, and specific respiration. We found considerable variation in BP, BGE, and BNUE along the tested DOC/Pi gradient. BGE varied between 0.87 and 0.24, with the highest values at low DOC/Pi ratios. BNUE varied between 40 and 9 g C g P, with high values at high DOC/Pi ratios. More DOC was thus allocated to growth when bacteria tended to be C-limited, and to respiration when bacteria were P-limited. Specific respiration was positively correlated with bacterial growth rate throughout the gradient. It is therefore possible that respiration was used to support growth in P-limited bacteria. The results indicated that BP can be limited by Pi when BNUE is at its maximum, by organic C when BGE is at its maximum, and by dual organic C and Pi limitation when BNUE and BGE have suboptimal values. 
25153381|The green marine macroalga, Ulva linza, adopts an "atypical" form when grown in the absence of bacteria. Twenty unique strains of periphytic bacteria, isolated from three species of Ulva, were identified by 16S rDNA sequencing. These isolates were assessed for their effect on the growth and morphological development of axenic plantlets of U. linza. Results showed that the effect of bacterial strains was strain- but not taxon-specific. Thirteen isolates returned the aberrant morphology to normal and of these, five also significantly increased growth rate. One isolate increased growth, but had no effect on morphology. Biofilms of some of these isolates stimulated the settlement of Ulva zoospores but there was no correlation between bacterial isolates that stimulated zoospore settlement and those that initiated changes in morphology and/or growth of the cultured alga.
41412419|In two surveys conducted from March 1999 to March 2001 and from January 2004 to December 2006, a total of 3,950 ticks (belonging to ten different species) were collected from seven domestic and wild animals (goat, sheep, cattle, dog, fox, hare, and mouflon) from different localities throughout Cyprus. In order to establish their infection rate with Spotted Fever Rickettsiae (SFG), ticks were pooled and tested by polymerase chain reaction targeting gltA and ompA genes, followed by sequencing analysis. When tick pools tested positive, individual ticks were then tested one by one, and of the 3,950 ticks screened, rickettsial DNA was identified in 315 ticks (infection rate, 8%). Five SFG Rickettsiae were identified: Rickettsia aeschlimannii in Hyalomma marginatum marginaturn, Rickettsia massiliae in Rhipicephalus turanicus and Rhipicephalus sanguineus, Rickettsia sibirica mongolotimonae in Hyalomma anatolicum excavatum, and a Rickettsia endosymbiont of Haemaphysalis sulcata (later described as Rickettsia hoogstraalii) in Haemaphysalis punctata. Two additional genes, 17 kDa and ompB, were targeted to characterize a new genotype of "Candidatos Rickettsia barbariae" genotype in R. turanicus, designated here as "Candidatus Rickettsia barbariae" Cretocypriensis. These results confirm the presence of a spectrum of SFG Rickettsiai on the island. Further studies are necessary to gain better knowledge on the epidemiology of SFG Rickettsiae in Cyprus
40926488|The analysis of housekeeping recA gene sequences from 138 strains from 13 species or genomic species of Agrobacterium, nine being biovar 1 genomospecies, and the others Agrobacterium larrymoorei, Agrobacterium rubi, Agrobacterium sp. NCPPB 1650, and Agrobacterium vitis and one "former" Agrobacterium species, Rhizobium rhizogenes, led to the identification of 50 different recA alleles and to a clear delineation of the 14 species or genomospecies entirely consistent with that obtained by amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis. The relevance of a recA sequencing approach for epidemiological analyses was next assessed on agrobacterial Tunisian isolates. All Tunisian isolates were found to belong to the Agrobacterium tumefaciensl biovar 1 species complex by both biochemical tests and rrs sequencing. recA sequence analysis further permitted their unambiguous assignment to A. tumefaciens genomospecies G4, G6, G7, and G8 in total agreement with the results of an AFLP-based analysis. At subspecific level, several Tunisian recA alleles were novel, indicating the power and accuracy of recA-based typing for studies of Agrobacterium spp.
23468252|The purpose of this study was to examine the variations in the microbial community structure of soil actinomycetes in fields with continuous cropping of cotton in Xinjiang Autonomous Region, China. Soil samples were collected from four depths in fields with 7-year continuous cotton cropping. The community structure of soil actinomycetes was examined using the 16S rRNA-based polymerase chain reactiondensity gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) techniques. The microbial diversity indices of the soil samples from different depths generally decreased along with the period of continuous cotton cropping. When the period of continuous cropping of cotton reached 5 years, the diversity indices rose again and gradually stabilized at a level slightly lower than that of soils with original ecology (i.e., 0-year cotton cropping). Cluster analysis showed that at the 120-cm depth, the actinomycete community structure of the soil subjected to 1-year cotton cropping was similar to that of soil subjected to 0-year cotton cropping, whereas that of soils after 3-year continuous cotton cropping showed high similarity. At the 2140-cm depth, the actinomycete community structure showed various changes but generally recovered to its original pattern after repeated fluctuations. Principal component analysis showed that at the 130-cm depth, the actinomycete community structure varied similarly regardless of the period of continuous cotton cropping. In contrast, there were no clear actinomycete community structure variation trends at the 3140-cm soil depth. Homology comparison of sequences recovered from the DGGE bands showed that the obtained sequences shared similarities >88 %. Alignment with the known homologous sequences indicated a lack of microorganisms related to soil-borne cotton diseases. Continuous cotton cropping exerted significant influences on the community structure of soil actinomycetes in Xinjiang Autonomous Region, which were largely determined by the soil depth and the period of continuous cotton cropping. The microbial diversity of soil actinomycete communities gradually recovered after 5-year continuous cropping. Thereafter, a new actinomycete community structure that was beneficial for continuous cropping of cotton was formed and stabilized each year.
41489206|The allelopathic effects of Alexandrium minutum, a toxic dinoflagellate, on the diatom Chaetoceros neogracile were evaluated using unialgal cultures evaluated by flow cytometry (FCM) and photosynthetic-performance analysis. Using FCM, we demonstrated that red chlorophyll fluorescence, relative cell size (Forward scatter of blue laser light, FSC) and cell complexity (Side scatter, 90 -angle scatter of blue laser light, SSC) significantly and rapidly decreased in C. neogracile cells exposed to A. minutum. Cells of C. neogracile exposed to A. minutum had fewer active photosynthetic reaction centers and sharply decreased photosynthetic efficiency. These effects were intensified with advancing A. minutum batch culture age and cell density. The supernatant of A. minutum contained the majority of the putative allelopathic compounds, and the biological activity of these compounds remained active less than 9 h after release. This paper describes for the first time specific effects of allelochemicals produced by A. minutum on the photosynthetic apparatus of microalgal target cells. The biochemical composition of A. minutum allelopathic agents, however, remains unknown and still needs to be investigated.
41489173|Marine Crenarchaeota represent a widespread and abundant microbial group in marine ecosystems. Here, we investigated the abundance, diversity, and distribution of planktonic Crenarchaeota in the epi-, meso-, and bathypelagic zones at three stations in the South China Sea (SCS) by analysis of crenarchaeal 16S rRNA gene, ammonia monooxygenase gene amoA involved in ammonia oxidation, and biotin carboxylase gene accA putatively involved in archaeal CO fixation. Quantitative PCR analyses indicated that crenarchaeal amoA and accA gene abundances varied similarly with archaeal and crenarchaeal 16S rRNA gene abundances at all stations, except that crenarchaeal accA genes were almost absent in the epipelagic zone. Ratios of the crenarchaeal amoA gene to 16S rRNA gene abundances decreased ~2.6 times from the epi-to bathypelagic zones, whereas the ratios of crenarchaeal accA gene to marine group I crenarchaeal 16S rRNA gene or to crenarchaeal amoA gene abundances increased with depth, suggesting that the metabolism of Crenarchaeota may change from the epi- to meso- or bathypelagic zones. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiling of the 16S rRNA genes revealed depth partitioning in archaeal community structures. Clone libraries of crenarchaeal amo A and accA genes showed two clusters: the "shallow" cluster was exclusively derived from epipelagic water and the "deep" cluster was from meso-and/or bathypelagic waters, suggesting that niche partitioning may take place between the shallow and deep marine Crenarchaeota. Overall, our results show strong depth partitioning of crenarchaeal populations in the SCS and suggest a shift in their community structure and ecological function with increasing depth.
25153295| Saline lakes at high altitudes represent an important and extreme microbial ecosystem, yet little is known about microbial diversity in such environments. The objective of this study was to examine the change of microbial diversity from the bottom of the lake to sediments of 40 cm in depth in a core from Qinghai Lake. The lake is saline (12.5 g/L salinity) and alkaline (pH 9.4) and is located on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau at an altitude of 3196 m above sea level. Pore water chemistry of the core revealed low concentrations of sulfate and iron (&lt;1 mM), but high concentrations of acetate (40-70 mM) and dissolved organic carbon (1596-5443 mg/L). Total organic carbon and total nitrogen contents in the sediments were 2 and &lt;0.5%, respectively. Acridine orange direct count data indicated that cell numbers decreased from 4  10 cells/g at the water-sediment interface to 6  10 cells/g wet sediment at the 40-cm depth. This change in biomass was positively correlated with acetate concentration in pore water. Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) community structure analyses determined decrease in the proportion of the Proteobacteria and increase in the Firmicutes with increased depth. Characterization of small subunit (SSU) rRNA genes amplified from the sediments indicated a shift in the bacterial community with depth. Whereas the -, -, and - Proteobacteria and the Cytophaga/Flavobacterium/Bacteroides (CFB) were dominant at the water-sediment interface, low G + C gram-positive bacteria (a subgroup of Firmicutes) became the predominant group in the anoxic sediments. Both PLFA and the sequence data showed similar trend. The Proteobacteria, CFB, and gram-positive bacteria are present in other saline lakes, but the presence of Actinobacteria and Acidobacteria/Holophaga in significant proportions in the Qinghai Lake sediments appears to be unique. The archaeal diversity was much lower, and clone sequences could be grouped in the Euryarchaeota and Crenarchaeota domains. The archaeal clones were not related to any known cultures but to sequences previously found in methane-rich sediments. Acetate-utilizing methanogens were isolated from sediment incubations, and - and -proteobacterial isolates were obtained from a water sample from the lake bottom (23 m). Our data collectively showed that the observed diversity and shift in the community structure with depth was correlated with geochemical parameters (the redox state and availability of electron acceptor and donor). Heterotrophic methanogenesis is possibly a dominant metabolic process in the Qinghai Lake sediments. These results reinforce the importance of geochemical controls on microbial ecology in saline and alkaline lake environments. 
25153344| Dissolved microcystins (MCs) are regularly present in water dominated by microcystin-producing, bloom-forming cyanobacteria. In vitro experiments with environmentally feasible concentrations (5  10 M) of the three most common microcystins, MC-LR, MC-RR, and MC-YR, revealed that they influence the metabolism of different representative phytoplanktons. At light intensities that are close to the cyanobacterial bloom environment (50 mol m s), they produce morphological and physiological changes in both microcystin-producing and -nonproducing Microcystis aeruginosa strains and also have similar effects on the green alga Scenedesmus quadricauda that is frequently present in cyanobacterial blooms. All three microcystin variants tested induce cell aggregation, increase in cell volume, and overproduction of photosynthetic pigments. All three effects appear to be related to each other but are not necessarily caused by the same mechanism. The biological activity of microcystins toward the light-harvesting complex of photobionts can be interpreted as a signal announcing the worsening of light conditions due to the massive proliferation of cyanobacteria. Although the function of microcystins is still unknown, it is evident that they have numerous effects on phytoplankton in nature. These effects depend on the individual organism as well as on the various intracellular and extracellular signaling pathways. The fact that dissolved microcystins also influence the physiology of microcystin-producing cyanobacteria leads us to the conclusion that the role of microcystins in the producing cells differs from the role in the water environment. 
4251406|The occurrence and distribution of Azorhizobium and Rhizobium strains that induce stem nodulation of Sesbania rostrata were determined in four vegetation zones in Senegal. Based on tests with 16 Rhizobium and 10 Azorhizobium strains nodulating S. rostrata, a method was devised to distinguish among the strains. In all vegetation zones, members of both genera were more abundant in rhizosphere than nonrhizosphere soil under S. rostrata, Cassia obtusifolia, Acacia senegal, and Hystic suaveolens, and Rhizobium was present at higher densities than Azorhizobium. Azorhizobium was more abundant on the leaves and stems than Rhizobium in three of the vegetation zones, and the density of Azorhizobium but not Rhizobium was far greater on the leaves of S. rostrata than the three nonhost species in all four zones. Approximately 90% of the stem nodules and 39-48% of the root nodules on S. rostrata in all four zones were formed by Azorhizobium.
4250888| Nitrate reduction in a non-polluted, coastal marine sediment was measured with an open flow-through system. The recorded rates depended upon nitrate concentration but were largely independent of the weight of sediment (14-35 g) and the dilution rate (0.7-5 h
41692865|Bacterial surface structures called pili have been studied extensively for their role as possible colonization factors. Most sequenced Vibrio genomes predict a variety of pili genes in these organisms, including several types of type IV pili. In particular, the mannose-sensitive hemagglutinin (MSHA) and the PilA pili, also known as the chitin-regulated pilus (ChiRP), are type FVa pili commonly found in Vibrio genomes and have been shown to play a role in the colonization of Vibrio species in the environment and/or host tissue. Here, we report sequence comparisons of two type IVa pilin subunit genes, mshA andpilA, and their corresponding amino acid sequences, for several strains from the three main human pathogenic Vibrio species, V cholerae, V. parahaemolyticus, and V vulnificus. We identified specific groupings of these two genes in V cholerae, whereas V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus strains had no apparent allelic clusters, and these genes were strikingly divergent. These results were compared with other genes from the MSHA and PilA operons as well as another Vibrio pili from the type IVb group, the toxin co-regulated pilus (TCP) from V cholerae. Our data suggest that a selective pressure exists to cause these strains to vary their MSHA and PilA pilin subunits. Interestingly, V cholerae strains possessing TCP have the same allele for both mshA and pilA. In contrast, V. cholerae isolates without TCP have polymorphisms in their mshA and pilA sequences similar to what was observed for both V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus. This data suggests a possible linkage between host interactions and maintaining a highly conserved type IV pili sequence in V. cholerae. Although the mechanism underlying this intriguing diversity has yet to be elucidated, our analyses are an important first step towards gaining insights into the various aspects of Vibrio ecology.
25256092|Algivorous ciliates represent an important link in freshwater food webs, as they transfer energy and biochemical matter from their algal prey to mesozooplankton predators. However, it is still unknown how dietary composition influences the biochemical composition of ciliates. We analyzed the sterol composition of the algivorous ciliates Balanion planctonicum and Urotricha farcta and compared it to the sterol composition of their diet-the cryptomonad Cryptomonas phaseolus. The sterol composition of the ciliates did not resemble that of their algal diet. Ergosterol [(22E)-ergosta-5,7,22-trien-3-ol] was the sterol in highest concentration in C. phaseolus, whereas stigmasterol [(24S)-24-ethylcholesta-5,22E-dien-3-ol] was dominant in both B. planctonicum and U. farcta. Moreover, the occasionally higher sterol concentrations in the ciliates than in their algal diet suggest sterol accumulation by the ciliates. We conclude that dietary sterol composition influences the composition of the two algivorous ciliates studied, but species-specific differences in metabolism probably determine the ultimate sterol composition of the ciliates.
4251535|The application of molecular biological methods to study the diversity and ecology of microorganisms in natural environments has been practiced since the mid-1980s. Since that time many new insights into the composition of uncultivated microbial communities have been gained. Whole groups of organisms that are only known from molecular sequences are now believed to be quantitatively significant in many environments. Molecular methods have also allowed characterization of many long-recognized but poorly understood organisms. These organisms have eluded laboratory cultivation and, hence, have remained enigmatic. This review provides an outline of the main methods used in molecular microbial ecology, and their limitations. Some discoveries, made through the application of molecular biological methods, are highlighted, with reference to morphologically distinctive, uncultivated bacteria; an important biotechnological process (wastewater treatment); and symbiotic relationships between Bacteria, Archaea and Eukarya.
4251241| Fluorescently-labelled bacteria (FLB) were used to study the feeding strategies of a natural assemblage of estuarine protozoans and to examine whether the protozoan grazing could account for the in situ size structure of the bacterioplankton. The FLB, DTAF-stained enterococci, ranging in volume from 0.01 to 0.30 
23361674|In recent years, new actinobacterial species have been isolated as endophytes of plants and shrubs and are sought after both for their role as potential producers of new drug candidates for the pharmaceutical industry and as biocontrol inoculants for sustainable agriculture. Molecular-based approaches to the study of microbial ecology generally reveal a broader microbial diversity than can be obtained by cultivation methods. This study aimed to improve the success of isolating individual members of the actinobacterial population as pure cultures as well as improving the ability to characterise the large numbers obtained in pure culture. To achieve this objective, our study successfully employed rational and holistic approaches including the use of isolation media with low concentrations of nutrients normally available to the microorganism in the plant, plating larger quantities of plant sample, incubating isolation plates for up to 16 weeks, excising colonies when they are visible and choosing Australian endemic trees as the source of the actinobacteria. A hierarchy of polyphasic methods based on culture morphology, amplified 16S rRNA gene restriction analysis and limited sequencing was used to classify all 576 actinobacterial isolates from leaf, stem and root samples of two eucalypts: a Grey Box and Red Gum, a native apricot tree and a native pine tree. The classification revealed that, in addition to 413 Streptomyces spp., isolates belonged to 16 other actinobacterial genera: Actinomadura (two strains), Actinomycetospora (six), Actinopolymorpha (two), Amycolatopsis (six), Gordonia (one), Kribbella (25), Micromonospora (six), Nocardia (ten), Nocardioides (11), Nocardiopsis (one), Nonomuraea (one), Polymorphospora (two), Promicromonospora (51), Pseudonocardia (36), Williamsia (two) and a novel genus Flindersiella (one). In order to prove novelty, 12 strains were characterised fully to the species level based on polyphasic taxonomy. One strain represented a novel genus in the family Nocardioides, and the other 11 strains were accepted as novel species. In summary, the holistic isolation strategies were successful in obtaining significant culturable actinobacterial diversity within Australian native trees that includes rare and novel species.
41693867|Mine wastes have been considered as a source of heavy metal (HM) contamination in the environment and negatively impact many important ecosystem services provided by soils. Plants like Miscanthus, which tolerate high HM concentrations in soil, are often used for phytoremediation and provide the possibility to use these soils at least for the production of energy crops. However, it is not clear if plant growth at these sites is limited by the availability of nutrients, mainly nitrogen, as microbes in soil might be affected by the contaminant. Therefore, in this study, we investigated in a greenhouse experiment the response of ammonia-oxidizing microbes in the root-rhizosphere complex of Miscanthus  giganteus grown in soils with different levels of long-term arsenic (As) and lead (Pb) contamination. Quantitative PCR of the ammonia monooxigenease gene (amoA) was performed to assess the abundance of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA) at two different points of plant growth. Furthermore, bulk soil samples before planting were analyzed. In addition, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis was used to investigate the diversity of archaeal amo A amplicons. Whereas high concentrations of As and Pb in soil (83 and 15 g/kg, respectively) resulted independent from plant growth in a clear reduction of AOA and AOB compared to the control soils with lower HM contents, in soils with contamination levels of 10 g/kg As and 0.2 g/kg Pb, only AOB were negatively affected in bulk soil samples. Diversity analysis of archaeal amoA genes revealed clear differences in T-RFLP patterns in response to the degree of HM contamination. Therefore, our results could clearly prove the different response patterns of AOA and AOB in HM-contaminated soils and the development of archaeal amoA phylotypes which are more tolerant towards HMs in soil samples from the areas that were impacted the most by mining waste, which could contribute to functional redundancy of ammonia-oxidizing microbes in soils and stability of nitrification pattern.
4287584|Intra- and interspecific chemical signals allow bacteria to respond to environmental conditions by regulating gene transcription. In cyanobacteria, gene products and the presence of fixed nitrogen regulate heterocyst frequency. In this paper, we describe a chemical made by a green alga, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, that suppresses heterocyst formation in the co-occurring cyanobacterium, Anabaena flos-aquae. Cyanobacterial heterocyst frequencies were reduced in the presence of water-soluble, proteinase- and heat-resistant molecules greater than 15 kDa in molecular size. Green algal cells in all phases of growth made the suppressor. Ammonium and nitrate concentrations in the medium did not correlate with this change in phenotype. In addition, growth rate was not enhanced by the extracellular products. Therefore, C. reinhardtii extracellular products acted as a heterocyst inhibitor, not as a fixed nitrogen source. Chemical interactions between green algae and cyanobacteria influence heterocyst formation, an important consideration in understanding the outcome of competition between these organisms and the dynamics of phytoplankton communities.
4251443|A procedure has been developed for preparing living bacteria, quantitatively labeled with
4250940|Pseudomonas pseudoflava and palmitic acid were used to investigate the role of bacterial colonization in the degradation of water-insoluble organic compounds. Mineralization was measured by trapping the
41412404|The main goal of this work was to study the dynamics and biochemical composition of extracellular polysaccharides (ECPS), a fraction of the extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) produced during the development of a microphytobenthic biofilm in a European intertidal mudflat (Marennes-Olron Bay, France) during winter. Microphytobenthic biomass was surveyed during four consecutive emersion periods to confirm the biofilm growth. Bacteria abundance was also checked considering the importance of heterotrophic bacteria observed by various authors in the dynamics of EPS. Various colorimetric assays, coupled to biochemical Chromatographie analysis, were used to characterize the three main fractions of extracted EPS: colloidal, bound, and residual. The monosaccharide distribution of colloidal ECPS highlighted their role of carbon source for bacteria (> 50% of glucose) even if no increase of colloidal carbohydrate amounts was observed during the tidal exposure. Bound ECPS were composed of deoxy or specific sugars (30% rhamnose) and uronic acids (18% galacturonic acid). Their levels and dynamics could be correlated to the development of the microphytobenthic biofilm, enhancing the stabilization of the sediment or increasing binding forces accordingly. Residual fractions, containing refractory bound ECPS and other internal polymeric substances, were composed of various carbohydrates. The high ratio of glucose in these fractions (18% to 43%) was interesting, as it was once attributed to colloidal sugars due to poor extraction procedures. Finally, the presence of inositol (15%) was significant since no author has highlighted it before, knowing that inositol is a major growth factor for heterotrophic bacteria.
25153029| The culture of opine-producing transgenic Lotus plants induces the increase in the rhizosphere of bacterial communities that are able to utilize these molecules as sole carbon source. We used transgenic Lotus plants producing two opines, namely mannopine and nopaline, to characterize the microbial communities directly influenced by the modification of root exudation. We showed that opine-utilizers represent a large community in the rhizosphere of opine-producing transgenic Lotus. This community is composed of at least 12 different bacterial species, one third of which are able to utilize the opine mannopine and two thirds the opine nopaline. Opine utilizers are diverse, belonging to the Gram-positive and -negative bacteria. We described two novel mannopine-utilizing species, Rhizobium and Duganella spp., and five novel nopaline-utilizing species, Duganella, Afipia, Phyllobacterium, Arthrobacter, and Bosea spp. Although opine utilizers mostly belong to the -Proteo-bacteria, Rhizobiaceae family, there is little overlap between the populations able to utilize each of the two opines produced by the plants. Noticeably, in the rhizosphere of transgenic Lotus, only the opine mannopine favors the growth of Agrobacterium tumefaciens, the bacterium from which opines have been characterized. The diversity of opine utilizers from the rhizosphere of Lotus plants is greater than that observed from any other environment. Therefore, transgenic plants with engineered exudation constitute an excellent tool to isolate and characterize specific microbial populations. 
4250774|A method for measuring rates of nitrification in intact marine sediment cores has been modified and adapted for use in freshwater sediments. The technique involves subsampling a sediment core into mini-cores. Half of these cores are treated with an inhibitor of chemolithotrophic nitrification and, after incubation, differences in ammonia and nitrate concentration between inhibited and uninhibited systems are calculated. The within-treatment variability of ammonia and nitrate concentrations could be reduced by storing the cores overnight prior to subsampling. Estimates of the nitrification rate using the difference in ammonia concentrations between the inhibited and uninhibited mini-cores were always greater than the rate estimate using the difference in nitrate concentrations. Comparison between the results using the nitrification inhibitors allylthiourea (ATU) and nitrapyrin (N-Serve) indicated that the former appeared to give larger values for the nitrification rate than did the latter. Differences in the efficiency of these inhibitors in the control of nitrification under the conditions used partly explain these results. Data are also presented on the effect of N-Serve and ATU on some other nitrogen transformations affecting ammonia and nitrate concentrations.
23468253|Biological soil crusts (BSCs) perform vital ecosystem services, but the difference in biological components or developmental level still affects the rate and type of these services. In order to differentiate crust successional stages in quantity and analyze the relationship between crust developmental level and successional stages, this work determined several biological indicators in a series of different developmental BSCs in the Shapotou region of China. The results showed that crust developmental level (level of development index) can be well indicated by crust biological indicators. Photosynthetic biomass was the most appropriate to differentiate crust successional stages, although both photosynthetic biomass and respiration intensity increased with the development and succession of BSCs. Based on of the different biological compositions, BSCs were quantificationally categorized into different successional stages including cyanobacterial crusts (lichen and moss coverages <20 %), lichen crusts (lichen coverage >20 % but moss coverage <20 %), semi-moss crusts (moss coverage >20 % but <75 %), and moss crusts (moss coverage >75 %). In addition, it was found that cyanobacterial and microalgal biomass first increased as cyanobacterial crusts formed, then decreased when lots of mosses emerged on the crust surface; however nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria and heterotrophic microbes increased in the later developmental BSCs. The structural adjustment of biological components in the different developmental BSCs may reflect the requirement of crust survival and material transition.
25153484| The possibility of quantifying in situ levels of transcripts for dissimilatory (bi)sulfite reductase (dsr) genes to track the activity of sulfate-reducing microorganisms in petroleum-contaminated marine harbor sediments was evaluated. Phylogenetic analysis of the cDNA generated from mRNA for a ca. 1.4 kbp portion of the contiguous dsrA and dsrB genes suggested that Desulfosarcina species, closely related to cultures known to anaerobically oxidize aromatic hydrocarbons, were active sulfate reducers in the sediments. The levels of dsrA transcripts (per g total mRNA) were quantified in sediments incubated anaerobically at the in situ temperature as well as in sediments incubated at higher temperatures and/or with added acetate to increase the rate of sulfate reduction. Levels of dsrA transcripts were low when there was no sulfate reduction because the sediments were depleted of sulfate or if sulfate reduction was inhibited with added molybdate. There was a direct correlation between dsrA transcript levels and rates of sulfate reduction when sulfate was at ca. 10 mM in the various sediment treatments, but it was also apparent that within a given sediment, dsrA levels increased over time as long as sulfate was available, even when sulfate reduction rates did not increase. These results suggest that phylogenetic analysis of dsr transcript sequences may provide insight into the active sulfate reducers in marine sediments and that quantifying levels of dsrA transcripts can indicate whether sulfate reducers are active in particular sediment. Furthermore, it may only be possible to use dsrA transcript levels to compare the relative rates of sulfate reduction in sediments when sulfate concentrations, and possibly other environmental conditions, are comparable. 
40605731|Larvae of the eastern tree hole mosquito, Ochlerotatus triseriatus (Say), and related container-breeding species are known to feed upon substrate-associated microorganisms. Although the importance of these microbial resources to larval growth has been established, almost nothing is known about the taxonomic composition and dynamics of these critical microbial food sources. We examined bacterial and fungal community compositional changes on oak leaves tethered in natural tree hole habitats of O. triseriatus. We eliminated larvae experimentally in a subset of the tree holes and examined 16S rDNA gene sequences for bacteria and ergosterol concentrations and 18S rRNA gene sequences for fungi collected from leaf material subsamples. Leaf ergosterol content varied significantly with time, but not treatment. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to compare microbial taxonomic patterns found in leaves incubated with or without larvae present, and we found that larval presence affected both bacterial and fungal groups, either from loosely attached or strongly adherent categories. Bacterial communities generally grouped more tightly when larvae were present, and class level taxa proportions changed when larvae were present, suggesting selection by larval feeding or activities for particular taxa such as members of the Bacteroidetes, Alphaproteobacteria, and Betaproteobacteria classes. Fungal taxa composite scores also separated along PC axes related to the presence of larvae and indicated larval feeding effects on several higher taxonomic groups, including Saccharomycetes, Dothideomycetes, and Chytridiomycota. These results support the hypothesis that larval mosquito feeding and activities altered microbial communities associated with substrate surfaces, potentially leading to decreased food value of the resource and affecting decomposition of particulate matter in the system.
25256195|An enrichment of strictly anaerobic bacteria from ovine rumen fluid, which has previously been named L4M2, is known to detoxify animal hepatotoxins from the pyrrolizidine alkaloid family. These toxins are present in the tansy ragwort plant (Senecio jacobaea). These plants have been described in livestock animals' range forages in regions of the world such as the Northwest United States and South Africa. The bacterial enrichment was characterized by molecular cloning techniques and by the molecular fingerprinting technique of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Phylogenetic analysis of the enrichment revealed that the consortium is composed of no more than five putative bacterial species which associated to the Anaerovibrio, Desulfovibrio, Megasphaera, Prevotella, and Synergistes generas. These are all known to exist in the upper gastrointestinal tract of ruminant animals. This work improved upon previous attempts to characterize the consortium by obtaining nearly full-length ribosomal 16S rDNA sequences through cloning. The DGGE results were directly compared to the cloning data by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifying eight phylogenetically representative clones and analyzing them by DGGE. Direct DGGE analysis of the enrichment displayed greater 16S diversity than the clone library used in this study, suggesting that at least one of the organisms present in the enrichment comprises less than 1% of the total cell population. These data will be used to further refine the enrichment in hopes of future use as a probiotic, which could be administered to animals challenged by the presence of tansy ragwort in their forage.
40605849|In order to estimate how pollution affects the bacterial community structure and composition of sediments, chemical and molecular approaches were combined to investigate eight stations around the Bizerte lagoon. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes revealed that each station was characterized by a specific bacterial community structure. The combination of this data with those of chemical analysis showed a correlation between the bacterial fingerprint and the pollutant content, principally with hydrocarbon pollution. The composition of the bacterial community of two contrasted stations related to the pollution revealed sequences affiliated to , , , ,  subclass of the Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, and Acidobacteria in both stations although in different extent. Gamma and delta subclass of the Proteobacteria were dominant and represent 70% of clones in the heavy-metalcontaminated station and 47% in the polyaromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-contaminated. Nevertheless, most of the sequences found were unaffiliated to cultured bacteria. The adaptation of the bacterial community mainly to PAH compounds demonstrated here and the fact that these bacterial communities are mainly unknown suggest that the Bizerte lagoon is an interesting environment to understand the capacity of bacteria to cope with some pollutants.
4251054| The mortality of Escherichia coli in seawater was assessed by viable counts, electron transport system activity, and cellular
4251210| The influence of Brownian motion on marine bacteria was examined. Due to their small size, marine bacteria rotate up to 1,400 degrees in one second. This rapid rotation makes directional swimming difficult or impossible, as a bacterium may point in a particular direction for only a few tens of milliseconds on average. Some directional movement, however, was found to be possible if swimming speed is sufficiently great, over approximately 100 m sec
23469181|The Vjetrenica cave in the Dinaric Karst hosts a worldwide extraordinarily high cave biodiversity. Beside a diverse and specialized cave fauna, sprout-like formations attached to the bed of the cave stream were observed and described, but not further characterized, almost a century ago. Here we investigated these sprout-like microbial aggregates by the rRNA approach and detailed microscopy. Based on fluorescence in situ hybridization and ultrastructural analysis, the sprout-like formations are morphologically highly organized, and their core consists of a member of a novel deep-branching lineage in the bacterial phylum Nitrospirae. This organism displays an interesting cellular ultrastructure with different kinds of cytoplasmic inclusions and is embedded in a thick extracellular matrix, which contributes to the stability and shape of the aggregates. This novel bacterium has been provisionally classified as "Candidatus Troglogloea absoloni." The surface of the sprout-like aggregates is more diverse than the core. It is colonized by a bacterial biofilm consisting primarily of filamentous Betaproteobacteria, whereas other microbial populations present in the crust include members of the Bacteriodetes, Gammaproteobacteria, Actinombacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, and Planctomycetes, which are intermingled with mineral inclusions. This study represents the first thorough molecular and ultrastructural characterization of the elusive sprout-like bacterial aggregates, which are also found in other cave systems of the Dinaric Karst. The discovery of Ca. Troglogloea absoloni contributes to the known biodiversity of subterranean ecosystems and especially of macroscopic structures formed in caves by microorganisms, whose composition and ecological function often remain enigmatic.
25153282|Recent studies have shown that the cyanobacterium Microcoleus chthonoplastes forms a consortium with heterotrophic bacteria present within the cyanobacterial sheath. These studies also show that this consortium is able to grow in the presence of crude oil, degrading aliphatic heterocyclic organo-sulfur compounds as well as alkylated monocyclic and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. In this work, we characterize this oil-degrading consortium through the analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences. We performed the study in cultures of Microcoleus grown in mineral medium and in cultures of the cyanobacterium grown in mineral medium supplemented with crude oil. The results indicate that most of the clones found in the polluted culture correspond to well-known oil-degrading and nitrogen-fixing microorganisms, and belong to different phylogenetic groups, such as the Alpha, Beta, and Gamma subclasses of Proteobacteria, and the Cytophaga/Flavobacteria/Bacteroides group. The control is dominated by one predominant organism (88% of the clones) closely affiliated to Pseudoxanthomonas mexicana (similarity of 99.8%). The presence of organisms closely related to well-known nitrogen fixers such as Rhizobium and Agrobacterium suggests that at least some of the cyanobacteria-associated heterotrophic bacteria are responsible for nitrogen fixation and degradation of hydrocarbon compounds inside the polysaccharidic sheath, whereas Microcoleus provides a habitat and a source of oxygen and organic matter.
4287738|Obligate root-parasitic nematodes can affect soil microbes positively by enhancing C and nutrient leakage from roots but negatively by restricting total root growth. However, it is unclear how the resulting changes in C availability affect soil microbial activities and N cycling. In a microplot experiment, effects of root-parasitic reniform nematodes (Rotylenchulus reniformis) on soil microbial biomass and activities were examined in six different soils planted with cotton. Rotylenchulus reniformis was introduced at 900 nematodes kg
4287504|The aim of this study was to characterize the impact of heavy metals on phenotypical markers of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Twenty-two isolates of P. aeruginosa, either clinical (20) or secondary treated wastewater (2), were used to inoculate micro-ecosystems of sterile distilled water or secondary waste effluent in the presence of subminimal inhibitory concentrations of a variety of heavy metals commonly encountered in the aquatic naturally habitat ( Ca
25256217|Guanabara Bay is an eutrophic estuarine system located in a humid tropical region surrounded by the second largest metropolitan area of Brazil. This study explores the contrasting environmental chemistry and microbiological parameters that influence the archaeaplankton diversity in a pollution gradient in Guanabara Bay ecosystem. The environments sampled ranged from completely anoxic waters in a polluted inner channel to the adjacent, relatively pristine, coastal Atlantic Ocean. Partial archaeal 16S rDNA sequences in water samples were retrieved by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and analyzed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), cloning, and sequencing. Sequences were subjected to phylogenetic and diversity analyses. Community structure of the free-living archaeal assemblages was different from that of the particle-attached archaea according to DGGE. Gene libraries revealed that phylotype identification was consistent with environmental setting. Archaeal phylotypes found in polluted anoxic waters and in more pristine waters were closely related to organisms that have previously been found in these environments. However, inner bay archaea were related to organisms found in oil, industrial wastes, and sewage, implying that water pollution controls archaea communities in this system. The detection of a substantial number of uncultured phylotypes suggests that Guanabara Bay harbors a pool of novel archaeaplankton taxa.
41489789|This study presents an original depth-related survey of virioplankton lytic activity in relation to prokaryotic production and potential protistan bacterivory in the deep (Z max = 92 m) meromictic volcanic Lake Pavin (Massif Central, France). The sampling strategy was designed to be representative of the physico-chemical gradients of the water column of the lake, and of the seasonal variability as well, i.e. 12 different depths sampled in triplicates from April to December 2005. In the space, viral lytic activity estimated from the frequency of visibly infected prokaryotic cells and from burst size over the study period generally decreased with depth. This was viewed as a paradox compared to the abundances of viruses and prokaryotes and to the prokaryotic production which increased with depth. The seasonal variability in viral lytic activity was correlated with prokaryotic variables (abundance and production) in the deepest waters, i.e. from the hypolimnion downwards. Compared to previous studies known from the mixolimnion, we conclude that the deep waters in Lake Pavin represent an exclusive environment for heterotrophic prokaryotes whose seasonal activity offers an optimal and unique resource for thriving viral communities, some of which may be typical, endemic to the ambient dark, cold and stable deep water masses. Overall, the main findings in the present study get well around a previous statement that the ecology of the deepest waters of Lake Pavin is essentially driven by the dark viral loop (dissolved organic matter-prokaryotesviruses) processes, which can sequester organic matters and nutrients for a long-lived turnover time. This is in agreement with recent demonstrations from marine systems that meso-and bathypelagic waters are optimal environments for viral survival and proliferation.
40605696|The environmental airborne bacterial population in relation to human confinement was investigated over a period of 1 year in the Concordia Research Station, which is located on the Eastern Antarctic plateau. The unique location of the station makes it suitable for different research domains such as glaciology, atmospheric sciences, astronomy, etc. Furthermore, it is used as a test bed for long-duration spaceflights to study the physiologic and psychological adaptation to isolated environments. A total of 96 samples were collected at eight different locations in the station at regular intervals. The airborne bacterial contamination was for 90% of the samples lower than 10.010 colony-forming units per cubic meter of air (CFU/m) and the total bacterial contamination increased over time during confinement but diminished after reopening of the base. Viable airborne bacteria with different morphology were identified by biochemical analyses. The predominant microflora was identified as Staphylococcus sp. (24.9% of total) and Bacillus sp. (11.6% of total) and was associated with human activity, but also environmental species such as Sphingomonas paucimobilis (belonging to the cx-Proteobacteria) could establish themselves in the airborne population. A few opportunistic pathogens (6%) were also identified.
25153205| Enzymatic activity was measured on two beaches of the Ligurian Sea (NW Mediterranean) during late spring and summer 2003. The detected activities (leucine aminopeptidase, -glucosidase, -glucosidase, and -N-acetylglucosaminidase) were related to the available organic substrates (proteins and carbohydrates) and to the bacterial community (expressed in terms of abundance, biomass, and frequency of cell division). The very low chlorophyll a concentrations (never higher than 40 ng g) suggested that heterotrophic microorganisms play a major role in the beach ecosystem. Enzymatic activities devoted to organic matter degradation were lower in the emerged part of the beaches and higher in the sites covered, permanently or temporarily, by seawater, suggesting that sea action enlivens the degradation processes. Leucine aminopeptidase ranged from 0.26 to 13.02 nmol gh, and -glucosidase (the most expressed glycolytic enzyme) from 0.03 to 4.51 nmol gh. Strong changes in the proteolytic/glycolytic activity ratio were observed, with a sudden rise in glycolysis during summer, leading to ratio values from about 30 down to 1. Thus, beaches were identified as preferential degradation sites, where very refractory compounds such as cellulose may also be efficiently processed. 
40343495|The house fly (Musca domestica L.) alimentary canal was evaluated for the potential of horizontal transfer of tetM on plasmid pCF10 among Enterococcus faecalis. Two sets of experiments were conducted: (1) house flies without surface sterilization and (2) surface-sterilized flies. Both sets of flies were exposed to E. faecalis OG1RF: pCF10 as donor for 12 h and then E. faecalis OG1SSp as recipient for 1 h. Another group of flies received the recipient first for 12 h followed by exposure to the donor strain for 1 h. House flies were screened daily to determine the donor, recipient, and transconjugant bacterial load for up to 5 days. In addition, the sponge-like mouth parts used for food uptake (labellum) of surface-sterilized house flies were removed and analyzed for donors, recipients, and transconjugants, separately. In both groups of flies (n = 90 flies/group), transfer occurred within 24 h after exposure with a transconjugant/donor rate from 8.6x10 to 4.5 x 10. Transconjugants were also isolated from the house fly labellum. Our data suggest that the house fly digestive tract provides a suitable environment for horizontal transfer of conjugative plasmids and antibiotic resistance genes among enterococci. Our results emphasize the importance of this insect as a potential vector of antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains.
41489101|Bacterial communities associated with the surfaces of several Mediterranean sponge species (Agelas oroides, Chondrosia reniformis, Petrosia ficiformis, Geodia sp., Tethya sp., Axinella polypoides, Dysidea avara, and Oscarella lobularis) were compared to those associated with the mesohyl of sponges and other animate or inanimate reference surfaces as well as with those from bulk seawater. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis of PCR-amplified bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA genes obtained from the surfaces and tissues of these sponges demonstrated that the bacterial communities were generally different from each other. The bacterial communities from sponges were different from those on reference surfaces or from bulk seawater. Additionally, clear distinctions in 16S rDNA fingerprint patterns between the bacterial communities from mesohyl samples of "highmicrobial abundance (HMA) sponges" and "low-microbial abundance sponges" were revealed by DGGE and cluster analysis. A dominant occurrence of particularly GC-rich 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) fragments was found only in the DGGE banding pattern obtained from the mesohyl of HMA sponges. Furthermore, sequencing analysis of 16S rDNA fragments obtained from mesohyl samples of HMA sponges revealed a dominant occurrence of spongeassociated bacteria. The bacterial communities within the mesohyl of HMA sponges showed a close relationship to each other and seem to be sponge-specific.
4250608| The mineral salt requirements of 27 strains of Bacillus firmus were determined. Twenty-six of these strains were of marine origin and one terrestrial strain was used as a reference. Three strains demonstrated strictly halophilic behavior, i.e., they showed no growth in media prepared without sodium chloride. Seven strains were nonhalophilic. The growth of 17 strains was stimulated by the addition of sodium chloride, but the cells were able to grow without it. These results were compared with the DNA base compositions of the strains. In contrast to literature data, relationships between the DNA base ratios and the halophilic or nonhalophilic behavior of the cells could not be detected. But strains with guanine plus cytosine values above 41 mol% did grow well at 44C, and those strains showing poor growth at this temperature had lower guanine plus cytosine percentages. 
4287485|Many bacteria are now known to enter into a "viable but nonculturable" (VBNC) state in response to various environmental stresses. In this state, the cells are no longer culturable on routine media, but retain viability and in many cases have been shown to be capable of resuscitating to the metabolically active and culturable state. There have been no simple means of measuring the metabolic activity of cells in the VBNC state. The use of green fluorescent protein (GFP) variants with short half-lives was examined in cells intended for environmental release to examine the potential of GFP as a reporter of metabolic activity. Unlike strains with the native (stable) GFP, Pseudomonas putida strains tagged with unstable GFP rapidly lost GFP fluorescence following exposure to starvation and VBNC-inducing conditions. Our results suggest that tagging cells with the modified GFP provides a method for determining metabolic activity in these cells.
41489057|Potentially valuable sources of DNA have been extracted from human colonic tissues and are retained in biobanks throughout the world, and might be re-examined to better understand host-microbe interactions in health and disease. However, the published protocols for DNA extraction typically used by gastroenterologists have not been systematically compared in terms of their recovery of the microbial fraction associated with colonie tissue. For this reason, we examined how three different tissue DNA extraction methods (the QIAGEN AllPrep DNA/RNA kit, salting out and high molecular weight (HMW) methods of DNA extraction) employed in past clinical trials, and the repeated bead beating and column (RBB+C) method might impact the recovery of microbial DNA from colonic tissue, using a custom designed phylogenetic microarray for gut bacteria and archaea. All four methods produced very similar profiles of the microbial diversity, but there were some differences in probe signal intensities, with the HMW method producing stronger probe intensities for a subset of the Firmicutes probes including Clostridium and Streptococcus spp. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that the HMW and RBB+C extracted DNA contained significantly more DNA of Firmicutes origin and that the different DNA extraction methods also gave variable results in terms of host DNA recovery. All of the methods tested recovered DNA from the archaeal community although there were some differences in probe signal intensity. Based on these findings, we conclude that while all four methods are efficacious at releasing microbial DNA from biopsy tissue samples, the HMW and RBB+C methods of DNA extraction may release more DNA from some of the Firmicutes bacteria associated with colonic tissue. Thus, DNA archived in biobanks could be suitable for retrospective profiling analyses, provided the caveats with respect to the DNA extraction method(s) used are taken into account.
23469202|Pathogenic and protective roles have been attributed to gut commensal microbiota (GCM) in gastrointestinal inflammatory and functional disorders. We have shown that the adaptation to a new environment implies specific changes in the composition of GCM. Here we assessed if environment-related adaptive changes of GCM modulate the expression of colonic Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and sensory-related systems in rats. Adult male SD rats were maintained under different environmental conditions: barrier-breed-and-maintained, barrier-breed adapted to conventional conditions or conventional-breed-and-maintained. Fluorescent in situ hybridization and real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) were used to characterize luminal ceco-colonic microbiota. Colonic expression of TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, and TLR7, cannabinoid receptors (CB1/CB2), -opioid receptor (MOR), transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV1, TRPV3, and TRPV4), protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2), and calcitonin gene-related peptide were quantified by RT-qPCR. CB1, CB2 and MOR expression, was evaluated also by immunohistochemistry. In rats, housing-related environmental conditions induce specific changes of GCM, without impact on the expression of TLR-dependent bacterial recognition systems. Expression of sensory-related markers (MOR, TRPV3, PAR-2, and CB2) decreased with the adaptation to a conventional environment, correlating with changes in Bacteroides spp., Lactobacillus spp., and Bifidobacterium spp. counts. This suggests an interaction between GCM and visceral sensory mechanisms, which might be part of the mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of some bacterial groups on functional and inflammatory gastrointestinal disorders.
4287563| To determine the effects of nutrients on growth and toxin production of Nodularia strain GR8b, several nutrient concentrations were tested in batch and chemostat cultures. In batch cultures, phosphate (55-5,500 g L
25153163| Bacteria and phytoplankton dynamics are thought to be closely linked in coastal marine environments, with correlations frequently observed between bacterial and phytoplankton biomass. In contrast, little is known about how these communities interact with each other at the species composition level. The purpose of the current study was to analyze bacterial community dynamics in a productive, coastal ecosystem and to determine whether they were related to phytoplankton community dynamics. Near-surface seawater samples were collected in February, May, July, and September 2000 from several stations in the Bay of Fundy. Savin et al. (M.C. Savin et al., Microb Ecol 48: 51-65) analyzed the phytoplankton community in simultaneously collected samples. The attached and free-living bacterial communities were collected by successive filtration onto 5 m and 0.22 m pore-size filters, respectively. DNA was extracted from filters and bacterial 16S rRNA gene fragments were amplified and analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). DGGE revealed that diversity and temporal variability were lower in the free-living than the attached bacterial community. Both attached and free-living communities were dominated by members of the Roseobacter and Cytophaga groups. Correspondence analysis (CA) ordination diagrams showed similar patterns for the phytoplankton and attached bacterial communities, indicating that shifts in the species composition of these communities were linked. Similarly, canonical CA revealed that the diversity, abundance, and percentage of diatoms in the phytoplankton community accounted for a significant amount of the variability in the attached bacterial community composition. In contrast, ordination analyses did not reveal an association between free-living bacteria and phytoplankton. These results suggest that there are specific interactions between phytoplankton and the bacteria attached to them, and that these interactions influence the composition of both communities. 
4251761|The growth of microorganisms from marine sponge samples was studied on various low to high nutrient solid media using media supplements. The supplements utilized were catalase, sodium pyruvate, and a combination of the two. Medium composition was found to influence the growth response on the supplemented media. Microorganisms on low nutrient media responded more favorably to the media additions than on high nutrient media. Thirty-five percent of the supplemented media demonstrated colony forming unit (CFU) recoveries that were 50% or greater than those of the unamended control plates. Twenty-one percent showed recoveries of more than 100% of the control values, with sodium pyruvate additions providing for the greatest overall increase in recovery, whether alone or in conjunction with catalase. These findings suggest that addition of catalase or sodium pyruvate to solid growth and isolation media may improve recoverability of microorganisms from natural samples.
25256154|In the present study, the species composition and potential metabolic activities of bacterial communities of reed Phragmites australis (Cav.) (Trin. ex Steudel) periphyton from Lake Velencei were studied by cultivation-based and metabolic fingerprinting methods. Serially diluted spring biofilm samples were used to test the community-level physiological profiling (CLPP) using BIOLOG microplates, and for plating onto different media. On the basis of their morphological, biochemical, and physiological test results, 173 strains were clustered by numerical analysis. Representatives of amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) groups were identified by their 16S rDNA sequence comparison. Based on the results of the CLPP investigations, regional differences were detected among the utilized substrate numbers and types, parallel with the increase in incubation time. The phenotypic test results of the strains showed considerable variability with respect to the sampling sites and the media used for cultivation. The most frequently isolated strains were identified as members of genera Agrobacterium, Pseudomonas (P. anguilliseptica, P. marginalis, P. alcaligenes, P. fragi) with aerobic or facultative anaerobic respiratory metabolism, and the species Aeromonas sobria and A. veronii with strong facultative fermentative metabolism. Other strains were identified as Gram-positive Arthrobacter, Bacillus, and Kocuria species. The rarely isolated strains were members of -Proteobacteria (Acidovorax, Delftia, Hydrogenophaga, and Rhodoferax), -Proteobacteria (Psychrobacter and Shewanella), low G + C Gram-positives (Brevibacillus, Paenibacillus, and Exiguobacterium) and high G + C Gram-positives (Aureobacterium and Microbacterium).
25153051|The filamentous fungi have dynamic and variable hyphal structures within which cytoplasm can be moved, synthesized, and degraded, in response to changes in environmental conditions, resource availability, and resource distribution. Their study has gone through several phases. In the first phase, direct observation was emphasized without undue concern for interior structures or in the presence of cytoplasm. By the mid-1970s, single biochemical proxies (ergosterol, marker fatty acids, chitin derivatives, etc.) were being used increasingly. The use of these surrogate single measurements continues, in spite of their inability to provide information on the physical structure of the filamentous fungi. Molecular approaches also are being used, primarily through the use of bulk nucleic acid extraction and cloning. Because the sources of the nucleic acids used in such studies usually are not known, taxonomic and phylogenetic information derived by this approach cannot be linked to specific fungal structures. Recently, a greater emphasis has been placed on assessing physical aspects of indeterminate fungal growth, involving the assessment of cytoplasm-filled and evacuated (empty) hyphae. Both of these parameters are important for describing filamentous fungal growth and function. The use of phase contrast microscopy and varied general stains, as well as fluorogenic substrates with observation by epifluorescence microscopy, has made it possible to provide estimates of cytoplasm-filled hyphal lengths. Using this approach, it has been possible to evaluate the responses of the indeterminate fungal community to changes in environmental conditions, including soil management. It is now possible to obtain molecular information from individual bacteria and fungal structures (hyphae, spores, fruiting bodies) recovered from environments, making it possible to link individual fungal structures with their taxonomic and phylogenetic information. In addition, this information can be considered in the context of the indeterminate filamentous fungal lifestyle, involving the dynamics of resource allocation to hyphal structural development and synthesis of cytoplasm. Use of this approach should make it possible to gain a greater appreciation of the indeterminate filamentous fungal lifestyle, particularly in the context of microbial ecology.
23469588|The relationship of the marine heterokont stramenopilan protists, the aplanochytrids, with the zooplankton was studied in coastal waters. The aplanochytrids were fed to the zooplankton specimens and observed for grazing by two different approaches: [1] using fluorescently-labeled prey approach and [2] using internal transcribed spacer-based molecular probe and in situ hybridization approach. The aplanochytrid cells were detected in the guts as well as fecal pellets of the zooplankton, thus serving as prey to them. Aplanochytrids were consistently isolated from zooplankton specimens. The isolates did not produce a wide array of enzymes, implicating that they may not play a major role in degradation of zooplankton exoskeleton. They were found to produce only protease considerably and sometimes lipase too. The amplified rDNA restriction analysis showed similar patterns, suggesting that most of the isolates might be same strains of Aplanochytrium spp. The existence of aplanochytrids with the zooplankton in marine waters points towards their probable association either as predatorprey or as commensalistic rather than saprophytic type of association.
40343353|Seedlings of clover (Triflorium hybridum) were colonized by Bacillus thuringiensis when spores and seeds were co-inoculated into soil. Both a strain isolated in the vegetative form from the phylloplane of clover, 2810-S-4, and a laboratory strain, HD-1, were able to colonize clover to a density of about 1000 CFU/g leaf when seeds were sown in sterile soil and to a density of about 300 CFU/g leaf in nonsterile soil. A strain lacking the characteristic insecticidal crystal proteins produced a similar level of colonization over a 5-week period as the wild type strain, indicating that crystal production was not a mitigating factor during colonization. A small plasmid, pBC16, was transferred between strains of B. thuringiensis when donor and recipient strains were sprayed in vegetative form onto leaves of clover and pak choi (Brassica campestris var. chinensis). The rate of transfer was about 0.1 transconjugants/recipient and was dependent on the plant species. The levels of B. thuringiensis that naturally colonized leaves of pak choi produced negligible levels of mortality in third instar larvae of Pieris brassicae feeding on the plants. Considerable multiplication occurred in the excreted frass but not in the guts of living insects. Spores in the frass could be a source of recolonization from the soil and be transferred to other plants. These findings illustrate a possible cycle, not dependent on insect pathology, by which B. thuringiensis diversifies and maintains itself in nature.
25153195| Bacteria of the family Rickettsiaceae (order Rickettsiales, -Proteobacteria) are mainly known to be endosymbionts of arthropods with the capability to infect also vertebrate cells. Recently, they have also been found as leech endocytobionts. In the present paper, we report the first finding of a bacterium belonging to the family Rickettsiaceae in a natural population of a marine ciliate protozoan, namely Diophrys appendiculata, collected in the Baltic Sea. Bacteria were unambiguously identified through morphological characterization and the "full-cycle rRNA approach" (i.e., 16S rRNA gene characterization and use of specifically designed oligonucleotide probes for in situ detection). Symbionts are rod-shaped bacteria that grow freely in the cytoplasm of the host cell. They present two different morphotypes, similar in size, but different in cytoplasmic density. These are typical morphological features of members of the family Rickettsiaceae. 16S rRNA gene sequence showed that Diophrys symbionts share a high similarity value (&gt;92%) with bacteria belonging to the genus Rickettsia. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that these new endosymbionts are clearly included in the clade of the family Rickettsiaceae, but they occupy an independent phylogenetic position with respect to members of the genus Rickettsia. This is the first report of a member of this family from a host protozoan and from a marine habitat. This result shows that this bacterial group is more diversified and widespread than supposed so far, and that its ecological relevance could until now have been underestimated. In light of these considerations, the two 16S rRNA oligonucleotide probes here presented, specific for members of the Rickettsiaceae, can represent useful tools for further researches on the presence and the spread of these microorganisms in the natural environment. 
4250865|Several ecological factors of the marine environment were used in developing a strategy for discovering useful bioactive agents from marine microorganisms. By consideration of sea water requirements, production and degradation of marine polymers, and plasmid content, several novel anti-malarial antibiotics, anti-tumor polysaccharides, glucan-degrading enzymes, and aminoglycoside antibiotics were found.
25256145|Microbial maintenance is an important concept in microbiology. Its quantification, however, is a subject of continuous debate, which seems to be caused by (1) its definition, which includes nongrowth components other than maintenance; (2) the existence of partly overlapping concepts; (3) the evolution of variables as constants; and (4) the neglect of cell death in microbial dynamics. The two historically most important parameters describing maintenance, the specific maintenance rate and the maintenance coefficient, are based on partly different nongrowth components. There is thus no constant relation between these parameters and previous equations on this subject are wrong. In addition, the partial overlap between these parameters does not allow the use of a simple combination of these parameters. This also applies for combinations of a threshold concentration with one of the other estimates of maintenance. Maintenance estimates should ideally explicitly describe each nongrowth component. A conceptual model is introduced that describes their relative importance and reconciles the various concepts and definitions. The sensitivity of maintenance on underlying components was analyzed and indicated that overall maintenance depends nonlinearly on relative death rates, relative growth rates, growth yield, and endogenous metabolism. This quantitative sensitivity analysis explains the felt need to develop growth-dependent adaptations of existing maintenance parameters, and indicates the importance of distinguishing the various nongrowth components. Future experiments should verify the sensitivity of maintenance components under cellular and environmental conditions.
4251332| Enclosure experiments in the mesotrophic Schhsee in northern Germany were designed to study the impact of metazooplankton on components of the microbial food web (bacteria, flagellates, ciliates). Zooplankton was manipulated in 500-liter epilimnetic mesocosms so that either Daphnia or copepods were dominating, or metazooplankton was virtually absent. The bacterial community responded immediately to changes in zooplankton composition. Biomass, productivity, and especially the morphology of the bacteria changed drastically in the different treatments. Cascading predation effects on the bacterioplankton were transmitted mainly by phagotrophic protozoans which had changed in species composition and biomass. When Daphnia dominated, protozoans were largely suppressed and the original morphological structure of the bacteria (mainly small rods and cocci) remained throughout the experiment. Dominance of copepods or the absence of metazoan predators resulted in a mass appearance of bacterivorous protists (flagellates and ciliates). They promoted a fast decline of bacterial abundance and a shift to the predominance of morphologically inedible forms, mainly long filaments. After 3 days they formed 80-90% of the bacterial biomass. The results indicate that metazooplankton predation on phagotrophic protozoans is a key mechanism for the regulation of bacterioplankton density and community structure. 
4251316| The distribution of aerobic chemoheterotrophic microorganisms within a 21 m
4251580| The bacterial colonization and development of the ectoenzymatic glucosidase activity and glucose uptake were followed together with bacterial growth (measured as thymidine incorporation) in laboratory experiments, using phytoplankton-derived particles incubated in rolling tanks. Bacterial colonization of the particles was rapid. In the particles, bacterial turnover rates (production/biomass) were low (0.02 to 0.14 d
25153215|Microbialites are organosedimentary deposits that have built up as a result of the growth and binding of detrital sediment by a benthic microbial community. This study focuses on microbialites built by monospecific populations of cyanobacteria in the south-west lagoon of New Caledonia, where they have been observed down to 20-25 m depth. The aim was to study their photosynthetic and respiratory responses to various light intensities. The Phormidium sp. TK1 microbialite was collected at 19 m depth and the P. crosbyanum (Tilden) microbialite was collected at 0.5 and 13 m depth. Phormidium sp. TK1 showed all the characteristic features of a low-light adapted species. The initial slope of the Photosynthesis versus Irradiance curve for this microbialite was close to the maximum quantum yield indicating an efficient light absorption and utilization at low light. The photosynthesis maximum was located 0.2-0.4 mm below the surface and did not shift with changing light intensity. Respiration rates were low and not enhanced by light; photoinhibition was observed at higher light intensities. In Phormidium crosbyanum (Tilden) microbialites, the photosynthesis maximum shifted downward to lower depths with increasing light, probably as a result of phototactic migration of cyanobacterial filaments, and light-enhanced respiration was observed at light intensities above light saturation. The photosynthetic parameters measured in P. crosbyanum indicate that P. crosbyanum is capable of photo-acclimation at high light intensities. The gross productivity of the different microbialites was comparable to values measured in cyanobacterial stromatolites observed in other shallow environments. However, the microbialites studied here were characterized by a lower respiration / production ratio which indicates a higher growth efficiency.
4251123| Biofilm formation on metallic surfaces in marine and freshwater environments often precedes corrosion and other biofouling conditions. Attachment is mediated by such environmental factors as the presence of surface conditioning films, fluid dynamics, bulk-phase nutrient levels, and surface chemistry. In this study, we utilized a Fowler Cell Adhesion Measurement Module to demonstrate that the changes in cellular concentration and composition of a monoculture of Pseudomonas atlantica biofilms on stainless steel were a function of the applied shear force. At shear forces in the range of 3-10 dynes cm
4250567|Cu
4251724|The phylogenetic diversity of bacteria and cyanobacteria colonizing sediment particles in the permanent ice cover of an Antarctic lake was characterized by analyses of 16S rRNA genes amplified from environmental DNA. Samples of mineral particles were collected from a depth of 2.5 m in the 4-m-thick ice cover of Lake Bonney, McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica. A rRNA gene clone library of 198 clones was made and characterized by sequencing and oligonucleotide probe hybridization. The library was dominated by representatives of the cyanobacteria, proteobacteria, and Planctomycetales, but also contained diverse clones representing many other microbial groups, including the Acidobacterium/Holophaga division, the Green Non-Sulfur division, and the Actinobacteria. Six oligonucleotide probes were made for the most abundant clades recovered in the library. To determine whether the ice microbial community might originate from wind dispersal of the algal mats found elsewhere in Taylor Valley, the probes were hybridized to 16S rDNAs amplified from three samples of terrestrial cyanobacterial mats collected at nearby sites, as well as to bacterial 16S rDNAs from the lake ice community. The results demonstrate the presence of a diverse microbial community dominated by cyanobacteria in the lake ice, and also show that the dominant members of the lake ice microbial community are found in terrestrial mats elsewhere in the area. The lake ice microbial community appears to be dominated by organisms that are not uniquely adapted to the lake ice ecosystem, but instead are species that originate elsewhere in the surrounding region and opportunistically colonize the unusual habitat provided by the sediments suspended in lake ice.
4250604|The source of combined nitrogen in endolithic microbial communities was studied in samples from desert localities in North and South America, the Middle East, South Africa, and Antarctica. Nitrogen fixation (acetylene reduction) seems to occur only exceptionally. Evidence suggests that, in general, the nitrogen source for endolithic microorganisms in deserts is abiotically fixed nitrogen produced by atmospheric electric discharges (lightning or aurorae), conveyed to the rock by atmospheric precipitation. Nitrogen is apparently not a limiting factor in these low-productivity communities. An incomplete nitrogen cycle seems to be present which includes the following pathways: supply of nitrates and ammonia from the atmosphere; decomposition of organic matter to ammonia; reassimilation of ammonia; ammonia volatilization; loss of organic matter through weathering (only in certain Antarctic rocks); biological nitrogen fixation (exceptional).
40926458|In the Gulf of Bothnia, northern Baltic Sea, a large freshwater inflow creates north-southerly gradients in physico-chemical and biological factors across the two subbasins, the Bothnian Bay (BB) and the Bothnian Sea. In particular, the sub-basins differ in nutrient limitation (nitrogen vs. phosphorus; P). Since viruses are rich in P, and virus production is commonly connected with bacterial abundance and growth, we hypothesized that the role of viral lysis differs between the sub-basins. Thus, we examined virus production and the potential importance of lysate recycling in surface waters along a transect in the Gulf of Bothnia. Surprisingly, virus production and total P were negatively correlated. In the BB, virus production rates were double those elsewhere in the system, although bacterial abundance and production were the lowest. In the BB, virus-mediated cell lysates could account for 70-180% and 100-250% of the bacterial carbon and P demand, respectively, while only 4-15% and 8-21% at the other stations. Low concentrations of dissolved DNA (D-DNA) with a high proportion of encapsulated DNA (viruses) in the BB suggested rapid turnover and high uptake of free DNA. The correlation of D-DNA and total P indicates that D-DNA is a particularly important nutrient source in the P-limited BB. Our study demonstrates large and counterintuitive differences in virus-mediated recycling of carbon and nutrients in two basins of the Gulf of Bothnia, which differ in microbial community composition and nutrient limitation.
4251639| We investigated possible effects of the hydrodynamics at the water/sediment interface on river bed biofilms within the reservoir Freudenau (Vienna, Austria) of the Danube River during the period 1996/97. Two study sites (OBB and SSF) that differed in the magnitude of surface/subsurface water exchange were selected and intersite comparisons revealed higher organic matter, bacterial cell numbers, and esterase activity in SSF with lower horizontal outflow. Concentrations of colloidal carbohydrates and uronic acids were unaffected by hydrodynamics. The relative contribution of uronic acids to bulk colloidal carbohydrates was higher in the low-flow site SSF. The distribution patterns of this relative contribution generally matched the subsurface flow pattern. Shortly after impoundment in March 1996 and along with decreased surface flow velocity, maximal biofilm carbohydrate exopolymers concurred with minimal esterase activity in OBB. We hypothesize that this inverse relationship is due to increased diffusional resistance within the exopolymer biofilm matrix that reduces mass transfer and hydrolytic activity. These results, to our knowledge, are the first evidence for microbial participation in the clogging of a large river bed. Biofilm-associated organic carbon increased significantly by a factor of 3.3 to 4.4 with progressive clogging as determined by the sediment leakage coefficient, which increased 3.8 times. Concomitantly, with ongoing clogging, esterase activity exhibited increasingly higher values at the interface relatively to deeper sediment layers, which translates into steeper depth gradients. Furthermore, minimal inflow from the surface water into the river bed along with steepest esterase gradients concurred with a senescent benthic algal bloom. This suggests an important role for algae in clogging. Either algae obstruct voids mechanically, or their exudates fuel heterotrophic bacteria that in turn are involved in clogging processes. However, our data do not allow unequivocal differentiation between biogenic and physical clogging mechanisms. 
25153123|Endospore-forming bacteria, Paenibacillus spp., have recently been isolated in association with insect pathogenic nematodes Heterorhabditis spp. Sporangia adhere to nematode infective juveniles (J3) and are carried with them into insects. Paenibacillus proliferates in the killed insect along with Heterorhabditis and its obligate bacterial symbiont, Photorhabdus, despite the antibiotic production of the latter. Nematode infective juveniles leave the insect cadaver with Paenibacillus sporangia attached. The specificity of the relationship between Paenibacillus and Heterorhabditis was investigated. Sporangia of nematode-associated Paenibacillus adhered to infective juveniles (but not other stages) of all Heterorhabditis species tested, and to infective juveniles of vertebrate parasitic Strongylida species, but not to a variety of other soil nematodes tested. Paenibacillus species that were not isolated from nematodes, but were phylogenetically close to the nematode-associated strains, did not adhere to Heterorhabditis, and they were also sensitive to Photorhabdus antibiotics in vitro, whereas the nematode-associated strains were not. Unusual longevity of the sporangium and resistance to Photorhabdus antibiotics may represent specific adaptations of the nematode-associated Paenibacillus strains to allow them to coexist with and be transported by Heterorhabditis. Adaptation to specific Heterorhabditis-Photorhabdus strains is evident among the three nematode-associated Paenibacillus strains (each from a different nematode strain). Paenibacillus NEM1a and NEM3 each developed best in cadavers with the nematode from which it was isolated and not at all with the nematode associate of the other strain. Differences between nematode-associated Paenibacillus strains in cross-compatibility with the various Heterorhabditis strains in cadavers could not be explained by differential sensitivity to antibiotics produced by the nematodes' Photorhabdus symbionts in vitro.
4250949|Activity was found for chitinase and chitobiase in the crystalline styles of American oysters (Crassostrea virginica Gmelin) collected from the Chesapeake Bay (Maryland, USA). The oysters were maintained in tanks on natural food from a constant flow of unfiltered estuarine water. Chitinase and chitobiase specific activities were compared with total, viable, and chitinoclastic bacterial counts and Cristispira counts. Regression analyses revealed that one correlation, chitobiase vs Cristispira, was significant (P < 0.05). Several oysters were fed chitin in the presence or absence of chloramphenicol. Although no chitinoclasts were present in the antibiotic-treated oysters, the treatment means did not differ significantly (P > 0.05) for either chitinase or chitobiase activity. In several cases with both chitin-fed and naturally fed oysters, enzyme activity was found when no Cristispira were present. The results of the investigations suggest that the oyster produces chitinase and chitobiase endogenously.
4250676|Myxococcus virescens is able to produce extracellular bacteriolytic enzymes that are rapidly adsorbed on montmorillonite. These adsorbed enzymes are active and can be assayed by measuring the release of UV-absorbing materials in mixtures containing Micrococcus luteus cells. The activity of the clay-adsorbed enzymes is, however, considerably lower than that of the unadsorbed enzymes. Both unadsorbed and adsorbed enzymes have their maximum activity at approximately the same pH. At lower clay-enzyme concentrations, the activity is proportional to the concentration. If, however, increasing amounts of clay are added to a fixed volume of clay-enzyme suspension, the activity remains almost unchanged until a definite limit is reached, then the activity decreases rapidly. This limit was dependent only on the ratio of the amounts of enzyme and clay and not on the absolute concentration of the enzyme. The montmorillonite-adsorbed bacteriolytic enzymes from M. virescens were not active against gram-negative bacteria, and no activity against purified cell walls from M. luteus could be measured. Montmorillonite-adsorbed egg white lysozyme was not active on M. luteus cells.
40605734|Rhizospheric soil samples were taken from Puna native grasses along an altitudinal gradient. Biodiversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and associated bacteria was analyzed considering altitude and grasses photosynthetic pathways (metabolic type C, C). Cultivation-dependent approaches were applied to obtain further information about the phylogeny of the dominating cultivable aerobic-heterotrophic bacteria communities present in rhizospheric soil samples. In average, the bacterial count ranged between 1.3010 and 8.6610 CFU g of dry weight of soil. Individual bacterial colonies of aerobic heterotrophic bacteria grown on R2A medium were morphologically grouped and identified as typical soil bacteria belonging to the genera Bacillus, Pseudomonas, and Arthrobacter. Ten AMF taxa were found: Acaulospora sp., A. laevis, A. spinosa, Gigaspora sp., Gi. ramisporophora, Glomus sp., Gl aggregatimi, Gl ambisporum, Gl sinuosum, and Scutellospora biornata. AMF diversity decreased with altitude.
41489170|Extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) produced by a toxic dinoflagellate Amphidinium carterae Hulburt 1957 was isolated and characterized. Molecular masses of the EPS were about 233 and 1,354 kDa. Spectral analyses by H nuclear magnetic resonance and Fourier Transformed-Infrared Spectroscopy revealed the characteristic of the functional groups viz. primary amine, carboxyl, halide, and sulfate groups present in the EPS. However, five elements (C, O, Na, S, and Ca) were detected by scanning electron microscopy - energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (SEM-EDX) analysis. X-ray diffraction and differential scanning calorimetrie analysis confirmed the amorphous nature of EPS, which was comprised of an average particle size of 13.969 m (d 0.5) with 181 nm average roughness. Two monosaccharide constituents, galactose (73.13%) and glucose (26.87%) were detected by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy analysis. Thermal gravimetric analysis revealed that degradation of EPS obtained from A. carterae takes place in three steps. The EPS produced by A. carterae was found to be beneficial for the growth of both A. carterae and Bacillus pumilus. The potential heterogeneous properties of EPS may play an important role in harmful algal bloom.
40926482|Using the archaeal 16S rRNA gene, we determined the community structures of archaea of subseafloor sediments (~9-11 m below seafloor) from two geographically distant cores (MD05-2896, south, water depth 1,657 m; MD05-2902, north, water depth 3,697 m) in the South China Sea. Euryarchaeota accounted for 61.4% of total archaeal clone libraries at MD05-2896 and 56.2% at MD05-2902. At both locations, the Euryarchaeota-related sequences were dominated by Marine Benthic Group D, Terrestrial Miscellaneous Eryarchaeotal Group, and South African GoldMine Euryarchaeotal Group; the Crenarchaeota-related sequences were dominated by Marine Benthic Group B, Marine Group I, pSL12, and C3. The community structure showed no significant difference with depth at each location, suggesting the lack of stratification of archaeal populations in the deepsea marine sediments in the South China Sea. On the other hand, the community structure is significantly different between the two sites, which may be related to geographical difference in the South China Sea.
25153304|Changes in bacterioplankton community composition were followed in mesocosms set up in the littoral of Lake Vesijrvi, southern Finland, over two summers. Increasing nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations in the mesocosms represented different trophic states, from mesotrophic to hypertrophic. In 1998, the mesocosms were in a turbid state with a high biomass of phytoplankton, whereas in 1999, macrophytes proliferated and a clear-water state prevailed. The bacterial communities in the mesocosms also developed differently, as shown by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiling of partial 16S rRNA gene fragments and by nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis. In 1998, nutrient treatments affected the diversity and clustering of bacterial communities strongly, but in 1999, the bacterial communities were less diversified and not clearly affected by treatments. Canonical correspondence analysis indicated that bacterioplankton communities in the mesocosms were influenced by environmental physicochemical variables linked to the increasing level of eutrophication. Nitrogen concentration correlated directly with the bacterioplankton composition. In addition, the high nutrient levels had indirect effects through changes in the biomass and composition of phyto- and zooplankton. Sequencing analysis showed that the dominant bacterial divisions remained the same, but the dominant phylotypes changed during the 2-year period. The occurrence of Verrucomicrobia correlated with more eutrophic conditions, whereas the occurrence of Actinobacteria correlated with less eutrophic conditions.
40343404|The survival of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts in a waste stabilization pond system in northwestern Spain and the effects of sunlight and the depth and type of pond on oocyst viability were evaluated using an assay based on the exclusion or inclusion of two fluorogenic vital dyes, 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) and propidium iodide (PI). All tested factors had significant effects (P<0.01) over time on C. parvum oocyst viability. Sunlight exposure was the most influential factor for oocyst inactivation. A 40% reduction was observed after 4 days exposure to sunlight conditions compared with dark conditions. The type of pond also caused a significant reduction in C. parvum oocyst viability (P<0.01). Inactivation rates reflected that the facultative pond was the most aggressive environment for oocysts placed both at the surface (presence of sunlight) and at the bottom (absence of sunlight) of the pond, followed by the maturation pond and the anaerobic pond. The mean inactivation rates of oocysts in the ponds ranged from 0.0159 to 0.3025 day.
40605705|Cool-season grasses establish symbioses with vertically transmitted Neotyphodium endophytes widespread in nature. The frequency of endophyte-infected plants in closed populations (i.e., without migrations) depends on both the differential fitness between infected and non-infected plants, and the endophyte-transmission efficiency. Most studies have been focused on the first mechanism ignoring the second. Infection frequency and endophyte transmission from vegetative tissues to seeds were surveyed in two grasses growing in vegetation units that differ in flood and grazing regimes, and soil salinity. Transmission efficiency and infection frequency for tall fescue did not vary significantly and were 0.98 and 1.00, respectively. For Italian ryegrass, transmission efficiency and infection frequency were 0.88 and 0.57 in humid prairies, and 0.96 and 0.96 in the other vegetation units. Only in humid mesophytic meadows, the observed pattern was irrespective of the presence or absence of grazers. Our results suggest that selection forces for endophyte infection are different for both species. Imperfect transmission was only compensated in tall fescue through an increased fitness of infected plants. Interpreting variations of infection frequency only in terms of differential fitness can be misleading, considering that endophyte transmission can be imperfect and variable in nature. Therefore, this study highlights the importance of measuring transmission efficiency.
23469196|Little is known of the responsiveness of soil bacterial community structure to disturbance. In this study, we subjected a soil microcosm to physical disturbance, sterilizing 90 % of the soil volume each time, at a range of frequencies. We analysed the bacterial community structure using 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. Bacterial diversity was found to decline with the increasing disturbance frequencies. Total bacterial abundance was, however, higher at intermediate and high disturbance frequencies, compared to low and no-disturbance treatments. Changing disturbance frequency also led to changes in community composition, with changes in overall species composition and some groups becoming abundant at the expense of others. Some phylogenetic groups were found to be relatively more disturbance-sensitive or tolerant than others. With increasing disturbance frequency, phylogenetic species variability (an index of community composition) itself became more variable from one sample to another, suggesting a greater role of chance in community composition. Compared to the tightly clustered community of the original undisturbed soil, in all the aged disturbed soils the lists of most abundant operational taxonomic units (OTUs) in each replicate were very different, suggesting a possible role of stochasticity in resource colonization and exploitation in the aged and disturbed soils. For example, colonization may be affected by whichever localized concentrations of bacterial populations happen to survive the last disturbance and be reincorporated in abundance into each pot. Overall, it appears that the soil bacterial community is very sensitive to physical disturbance, losing diversity, and that certain groups have identifiable 'high disturbance' vs. 'low disturbance' niches.
4251222|Relatively high most probable number (MPN) counts of chemolithotrophic nitrite oxidizers were present in water-saturated soils compared with MPNs and activity of ammonia oxidizers. These high numbers of nitrite oxidizers were confirmed by fluorescent antibody counts and potential activity measurements. Application of different nitrite concentrations in the MPN procedure discriminated within the community of nitrite oxidizers and revealed a large number of nitrite-sensitive nitrite oxidizers and a subcommunity of nitrite-insensitive nitrite oxidizers. The size of this subcommunity was small but corresponded with the low numbers of ammonium oxidizers. Numbers of nitrite-sensitive nitrite oxidizers outnumbered the ammonia oxidizing bacteria by 2-4 orders of magnitude in these soils. The possibility is discussed that the fraction of the nitrite-insensitive cells was active as aerobic nitrite oxidizers, whereas the nitrite-sensitive cells represented an inactive group of nitrite oxidizers growing as heterotrophs or as anaerobes reducing nitrite. In this situation, both MPN enumerations at a low nitrite concentration and activity measurements could give false information about the size of the in situ nitrite-oxidizing community.
4250693|The yeast flora associated with the surface of grapes during ripening was studied with regard to different sectors of the grape skin and the position in the bunch by means of traditional as well as more vigorous preisolation and precounting treatments. The yeast number per square centimeter of skin increases with ripening and is highest in the area immediately surrounding the stem. The cluster sector closer to the peduncle seems to constitute a favorable substrate for yeasts, hosting a resident flora about 10 and 100 times higher than the central and lower parts of the bunch, respectively. Kloeckera apiculata was the normal resident species of grapes regardless of the sector or the ripening period, and constitutes the fermenting flora of mature grapes. The ecological implications of the results of this survey are discussed.
4250976|Thiosulfate was oxidized stoichiometrically to tetrathionate during growth on glucose by Klebsiella aerogenes, Bacillus globigii, B. megaterium, Pseudomonas putida, two strains each of P. fluorescens and P. aeruginosa, and an Aeromonas sp. A gram-negative, rod-shaped soil isolate, Pseudomonad
4251819| Small inocula of one of the flagellates Paraphysomonas imperforata, Pteridomonas danica, and Cafeteria roenbergensis were added to suspensions of the bacterium Vibrio natriegens at each of three concentrations between 10
25153382|This study evaluates changes in the microbial community structure and function of a pilot-scale denitrifying fluidized bed reactor during periods of constant operating conditions and periods of perturbation. The perturbations consisted of a shutdown period without feed, two disturbances in which biofilms were mechanically sheared from carrier particles, and a twofold step increase in feed nitrate concentration. In the absence of perturbations, nitrate removal was stable and consistently greater than 99%. The structure and dynamics of the microbial community were studied using cloning and sequencing techniques and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) of the SSU rRNA gene. Under unperturbed operating conditions, stable function was accompanied by high constancy and low variability of community structure with the majority of terminal restriction fragments (T-RFs) appearing throughout operation at consistent relative abundances. Several of the consistently present T-RFs correlated with clone sequences closely related to Acidovorax (98% similarity), Dechloromonas (99% similarity), and Zoogloea (98% similarity), genera recently identified by molecular analyses of similar systems. Significant changes in community structure and function were not observed after the shutdown period. In contrast, following the increase in loading rate and the mechanical disturbances, new T-RFs appeared. After both mechanical disturbances, function and community structure recovered. However, function was much more resilient than community structure. The similarity of response to the mechanical disturbances despite differences in community structure and operating conditions suggests that flexible community structure and potentially the activity of minor members under nonperturbation conditions promotes system recovery.
4287686|Abundances of different compartments of the microbial loop (i.e., viruses, heterotrophic bacteria, nonpigmented nanoflagellates, and pigmented nanoflagellates), bacterial heterotrophic production (BHP), viral lysis, and potential flagellate grazing impacts on the bacterial assemblages were estimated during a short-term study (24 h) conducted in June 1998 in the epilimnion (5 m) and metalimnion (10 m) of a moderate-altitude oligomesotrophic lake (Lake Pavin, France). Viral and bacterial abundances were higher in the metalimnion than in the epilimnion, whereas pigmented and nonpigmented nanoflagellates were more numerous in the epilimnion. The control of the BHP due to viral lysis (determined by examination of viral-containing bacteria using a transmission electron microscope) was significantly higher in the meta- (range = 6.0-33.7%, mean = 15.6%) than in the epilimnion (3.5-10.3%, 6.4%). The same was for the losses of BHP from the potential predation by nanoflagellates which ranged from 0.5 to 115.4% (mean = 38.7%) in the epilimnion, and from 0.7 to 97.5% (mean = 66.7%) in the metalimnion. Finally, estimated viral mediated mortality rates from the percentage of visibly infected cells and potential nanoflagellate grazing rates based on assumed clearance rates suggest that flagellates consumed a larger proportion of bacterial production than was lost to viral lysis.
25153222|The relationship between microorganisms and birds has received increased attention recently. The state of knowledge of this relationship, however, is based largely on examination of sick or dead birds, and knowledge of the prevalence and community structure and function of microbes in healthy wild populations is limited. Using carbon substrate utilization profiles, microbial communities were examined in 91 cloacal samples from 14 species within apparently healthy summer and winter passerine populations. Within each season, gradient lengths and eigenvalues from ordination analyses suggested that many samples differed in their carbon substrate utilization and several had very different communities. Cloacal microbe carbon utilization profiles were distinguishable among host species, season-specific diet, and study site in the ordination analyses. However, these patterns were only observed for the analysis of the summer data set. The results of this study support the idea that the avian host's microbial community, relative to carbon substrate utilization, is related to host diet. Previously, this pattern had only been reported for potential pathogens isolated from the avian cloaca. Study site-specific patterns in the ordination analysis suggest that environmental conditions at a particular study site may influence cloacal microbial communities in birds. Results of this study indicate that examination of community-level physiological profiles may be a useful technique for distinguishing among avian cloacal samples, similar to that already established for discriminating aqueous and soil samples. Future studies that correlate microbe physiological profiles to condition-based indices of avian hosts may be most useful for eventually using the profile as an indicator of environmental conditions experienced by hosts.
41693850|Corals harbor diverse and abundant prokaryotic populations. Bacterial communities residing in the coral mucus layer may be either pathogenic or symbiotic. Some species may produce antibiotics as a method of controlling populations of competing microbial species. The present study characterizes cultivable Pseudoalteromonas sp. isolated from the mucus layer of different coral species from the northern Gulf of Eilat, Red Sea, Israel. Six mucusassociated Pseudoalteromonas spp. obtained from different coral species were screened for antibacterial activity against 23 tester strains. Five of the six Pseudoalteromonas strains demonstrated extracellular antibacterial activity against Gram-positivebut not Gram-negativetester strains. Active substances secreted into the cell-free supernatant are heat-tolerant and inhibit growth of Bacillus cereus, Staphylococcus aureus, and of ten endogenous Gram-positive marine bacteria isolated from corals. The Pseudoalteromonas spp. isolated from Red sea corals aligned in a phylogenetic tree with previously isolated Pseudoalteromonas spp. of marine origin that demonstrated antimicrobial activity. These results suggest that coral mucus-associated Pseudoalteromonas may play a protective role in the coral holobiont's defense against potential Gram-positive coral pathogens.
41489765|Testate amoebae are a group of moisture-sensitive, shell-producing protozoa that have been widely used as indicators of changes in mean water-table depth within oligotrophic peatlands. However, short-term environmental variability (i.e., sub-annual) also probably influences community composition. The objective of this study was to assess the potential influence of short-term environmental variability on the composition of testate amoeba communities in Sphagnum-dominated peatlands. Testate amoebae and environmental conditions, including hourly measurements of relative humidity within the upper centimeter of the peatland surface, were examined throughout the 2008 growing season at 72 microsites within 11 peatlands of Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, USA. Relationships among testate amoeba communities, vegetation, depth to water table, pH, and an index of short-term environmental variability (EVI), were examined using nonmetric multidimensional scaling and correlation analysis. Results suggest that EVI influences testate amoeba communities, with some taxa more abundant under highly variable conditions (e.g., Arcella discoides, Difflugia pulex, and Hyalosphenia subflava) and others more abundant when environmental conditions at the peatland surface were relatively stable (e.g., Archerella flavum and Bullinularia indica). The magnitude of environmental variability experienced at the peatland surface appears to be primarily controlled by vegetation composition and density. In particular, sites with dense Sphagnum cover had lower EVI values than sites with loose-growing Sphagnum or vegetation dominated by vascular plants and/or non-Sphagnum bryophytes. Our results suggest that more environmental information may be inferred from testate amoebae than previously recognized. Knowledge of relationships between testate amoebae and short-term environmental variability should lead to more detailed and refined environmental inferences.
4250798| A transect along the axis of the headwaters of a tidal estuary was sampled for microbial, nutrient, and physical parameters. Chlorophyll a averaged 42 g l
27770627|Soil function may be affected by cropping practices impacting the soil microbial community. The effect of different phosphorus (P) fertilization rates (0, 20, or 40 kg P 2 O 5 ha 1 ) on soil microbial diversity was studied in 8-year-old alfalfa monocultures. The hypothesis that P fertilization modifies soil microbial community was tested using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and phospholipids fatty acid (PLFA) profiling to describe soil bacteria, fungi, and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi diversity. Soil parameters related to fertility (soil phosphate flux, soluble P, moisture, phosphatase and dehydrogenase assays, and carbon and nitrogen content of the light fraction of soil organic matter) were also monitored and related to soil microbial ribotype profiles. Change in soil P fertility with the application of fertilizer had no effect on crop yield in 8 years, but on the year of this study was associated with shifts in the composition of fungal and bacterial communities without affecting their richness, as evidenced by the absence of effect on the average number of ribotypes detected. However, variation in soil P level created by a history of differential fertilization did not significantly influence AM fungi ribotype assemblages nor AM fungi biomass measured with the PLFA 16:15. Fertilization increased P flux and soil soluble P level but reduced soil moisture and soil microbial activity, as revealed by dehydrogenase assay. Results suggest that soil P fertility management could influence soil processes involving soil microorganisms. Seasonal variations were also recorded in microbial activity, soil soluble P level as well as in the abundance of specific bacterial and fungal PLFA indicators of soil microbial biomass.
40343406|Leafcutter ants (Formicidae: tribe Attini) are wellknown insects that cultivate basidiomycete fungi (Agaricales: Lepiotaceae) as their principal food. Fungus gardens are monocultures of a single cultivar strain, but they also harbor a diverse assemblage of additional microbes with largely unknown roles in the symbiosis. Cultivar-attacking microfungi in the genus Escovopsis are specialized parasites found only in association with attine gardens. Evolutionary theory predicts that the low genetic diversity in monocultures should render ant gardens susceptible to a wide range of diseases, and additional parasites with roles similar to that of Escovopsis are expected to exist. We profiled the diversity of cultivable microfungi found in 37 nests from ten Acromyrmex species from Southern Brazil and compared this diversity to published surveys. Our study revealed a total of 85 microfungal strains. Fusarium oxysporum and Escovopsis were the predominant species in the surveyed gardens, infecting 40.5% and 27% of the nests, respectively. No specific relationship existed regarding microfungal species and ant-host species, ant substrate preference (dicot versus grass) or nesting habit. Molecular data indicated high genetic diversity among Escovopsis isolates. In contrast to the garden parasite, F oxysporum strains are not specific parasites of the cultivated fungus because strains isolated from attine gardens have similar counterparts found in the environment. Overall, the survey indicates that saprophytic microfungi are prevalent in South American leafcutter ants. We discuss the antagonistic potential of these microorganisms as "weeds" in the ant-fungus symbiosis.
4250505| Preparations of the dissolved organic compounds released by photosynthesizing marine phytoplankton have been obtained with
23469159|Biodiversity estimates based on ribosomal operon sequence diversity rely on the premise that a sequence is characteristic of a single specific taxon or operational taxonomic unit (OTU). Here, we have studied the sequence diversity of 14 ribosomal RNA operons (rrn) contained in the genomes of two isolates (five operons in each genome) and four metagenomic fosmids, all from the same seawater sample. Complete sequencing of the isolate genomes and the fosmids establish that they represent strains of the same species, Alteromonas macleodii, with average nucleotide identity (ANI) values >97 %. Nonetheless, we observed high levels of intragenomic heterogeneity (i.e., variability between operons of a single genome) affecting multiple regions of the 16S and 23S rRNA genes as well as the internally transcribed spacer 1 (ITS-1) region. Furthermore, the ribosomal operons exhibited intergenomic heterogeneity (i.e., variability between operons located in separate genomes) in each of these regions, compounding the variability. Our data reveal the extensive heterogeneity observed in natural populations of A. macleodii at a single point in time and support the idea that distinct lineages of A. macleodii exist in the deep Mediterranean. These findings highlight the potential of rRNA fingerprinting methods to misrepresent species diversity while simultaneously failing to recognize the ecological significance of individual strains.
4287594| The behavior of Aeromonas hydrophila stored at 4C and 25C in nutrient-poor filtered sterilized distilled water was investigated. At 4C, the A. hydrophila population declined below the detection level (0.1 cell mL
23468240|Bacterial disease is a significant issue for larviculture of several species of shellfish, including oysters. One source of bacteria is the seawater used throughout the hatchery. In this study carried out at a commercial oyster hatchery in Tasmania, Australia, the diversity of the bacterial community and its relationship with larval production outcomes were studied over a 2-year period using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and tag-encoded pyrosequencing. The bacterial communities were very diverse, dominated by the Alphaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, Flavobacteria and Cyanobacteria. The communities were highly variable on scales of days, weeks and seasons. The difference between the intake seawater and treated clean seawater used in the hatchery was smaller than the observed temporal differences in the seawater throughout the year. No clear correlation was observed between production outcomes and the overall bacterial community structure. However, one group of Cyanobacterial sequences was more abundant when mass mortality events occurred than when healthy spat were produced although they were always present.
4250594| The quantitative uptake of latex beads of different sizes and of live cells by 14 species of ciliates was studied. The functional response (uptake rate as function of food particle concentration) can be fitted to a hyperbolic function and this can be explained in terms of the function of the mouth apparatus. Each species shows a distinct size spectrum of particles which are retained and ingested. These size spectra may be explained by mouth morphology, and particle size selection may play a role for niche separation of coexisting ciliates. Most bacterivorous holotrich ciliates retain particles down to 0.2 m and in one case down to 0.1 m; they retain particles between 0.3 and 1 m most efficiently. The spirotrich ciliates investigated do not retain particles smaller than 1-2 m. 
4251795| With the continuing increase of ultraviolet-B radiation (UVBR: 280-320 nm) fluxes toward the Earth's surface, there is concern regarding a possible negative impact on heterotrophic bacterioplankton. The effects of enhanced UVBR on a natural bacterioplankton community were studied during a 7-day experiment conducted in mesocosms (1500 L). Four light regimes were tested: natural light, 280 to 313 nm excluded UVBR, and two levels of UVBR enhancement. During the first 3 days of the experiment characterized by high inorganic nutrient concentrations (nitrates > 1 mol L
4251137|Four strains of Azospirillum were ranked according to numbers of cells adsorbed on the roots of seedlings in liquid medium, and the rankings were evaluated for their usefulness in predicting success of colonization of the roots of pot-grown plants. Different rankings were observed on different parts of the roots and on different host plants. Rhizophere colonization results for rice were similar to those for clover and showed little difference between bacterial strains. The population densities were approximately equal to those of the most dense strains in the wheat rhizosphere, whereas the highest concentrations in the root interior of clover and rice were only about one-tenth of those in wheat. Rankings of initial adsorptive ability on various parts of the roots showed potential for predicting the best strains for colonizing the root interiors of wheat and clover. On wheat, the two strains (Cd and SpBr14) which showed best initial adsorption to the root cap were best at colonizing the endorhizosphere of pot-grown plants. For rice, strains Cd and SpBr14 gave lowest and highest values, respectively, both for adsorption to the terminal 2 cm of roots and for subsequent colonization of the root interior. Data on initial adsorption were of no value in predicting the relative success of strains in colonizing the root surface of any host plants or the interior of clover roots.
25153208| Bacteria and fungi provide critical links between leaf detritus and higher trophic levels in forested headwater food webs, but these links in tropical streams are not well understood. We compared the roles of bacteria and fungi in the leaf decomposition process and determining feeding preference for two species of freshwater shrimp found in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico, using experimental microcosms. We first tested the effects of four treatments on decomposition rates for leaves from two common riparian species, Cecropia scheberiana (Moraceae) and Dacryodes excelsa (Burseraceae), in laboratory microcosms. Treatments were designed to alter the microbial community by minimizing the presence of bacteria or fungi. The fastest decay rate was the control treatment for D. excelsa where both bacteria and fungi were present (k = -0.0073 day) compared to the next fastest rate of k = -0.0063 day for the bacterial-conditioned D. excelsa leaves. The fastest decay rate for C. scheberiana was also the control treatment (k = -0.0035 day), while the next fastest rate was for fungal-conditioned leaves (k = -0.0029 day). The nonadditive effect for leaf decomposition rates observed in the control treatments where both fungi and bacteria were present indicate that bacteria and fungi perform different functions in processing leaf litter. Additionally, leaf types differed in microbial colonization patterns. We next tested feeding preference for leaf type and microbe treatment in microcosms using two species of freshwater shrimp: Xiphocaris elongata, a shredder, and Atya lanipes, a scraper/filterer. To estimate feeding preferences of individual shrimp, we measured change in leaf surface area and the amount of particles generated during 5-day trials in 16 different two-choice combinations. X. elongata preferred D. excelsa over C. scheberiana, and leaves with microbial conditioning over leaves without conditioning. There was no clear preference for fungal-conditioned leaves over bacterial-conditioned leaves. This lack of preference for which microbes were responsible for the conditioning demonstrates the importance of both bacterial and fungal resources in these tropical stream food web studies. 
4251058| One hundred six strains of aerobic bacteria were isolated from the Fiora River which drains an area of cinnabar deposits in southern Tuscany, Italy. Thirty-seven of the strains grew on an agar medium containing 10 g/ml Hg (as HgCl
4250562| Microbial populations associated with the major substrates of the canopy of a single 70 m old-growth Douglas fir were studied to determine potential activities. Seasonal samples from bark, foliage, epiphytic moss, lichens, and litter accumulations were collected to: (a) obtain population data, (b) isolate the major groups of microorganisms present, (c) measure enzymatic activities associated with cellulose and xylan degradation, and (d) examine the potential for nitrogen fixation. We tested 562 bacterial isolates for utilization of 25 compounds associated with the canopy substrates, and for activities in nitrogen and sulfur cycle transformations. Total bacterial populations, reflecting seasonal temperature and moisture conditions, were lowest on bark and foliage [21-266  10
4250679|We have evaluated a method for enumerating surface slick bacteria by combining a membrane adsorption procedure with epifluorescence microscopy. Various chemicals were investigated for their ability to enhance bacterial elution from the membrane filters. The results of the elution-epifluorescence method were compared to plate counts and to direct epifluorescence counts of the sampling membrane filters. In all tests, the elution-epifluorescence technique yielded significantly higher bacterial concentrations.
40605671|We demonstrated previously that Cr(VI) is readily reduced to oxoCr(V)-diols at the surface of Arthrobacter oxydansa Gram-positive aerobic bacteria isolated from Columbia basalt rocks originated from a highly contaminated site in the USA. Here, we report an electron spin resonance (ESR) study of Cr(III) hydroxide formation from Cr(V)-diols by this bacterial strain as cells were exposed to 35, 200, and 400 mg/L of Cr(VI) under aerobic conditions as a batch culture and as lyophilized cells. The time-dependent ESR measurements show that the half-time of Cr(III) formation is almost equal to that of Cr (V) decomposition, which is in the range of 3-6 days for all cases. This rate is at least 300 times slower than that of Cr (V) formation. Additionally, atomic absorption spectrometry was also employed to examine the time course of total chromium in bacterial cells. This is the first time the kinetics of Cr(III) complexes formation in bacteria is evaluated.
4251274|The qualitative and quantitative composition of bacterial flora occurring inside the leaf spots of field grown soybeans was studied during the growing seasons (June to October) of 1989 and 1990. As a rule these leaf spots (necrotic lesions with chlorotic haloes) were caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. glycinea. This pathogenic bacterium was predominantly found during the whole season in the symptomatic leaf tissue. Other species, mainly Erwinia herbicola, were also found in the same habitat. The population sizes of P. s. pv. glycinea increased from the beginning of symptom occurrence until July, stabilized until September, and then decreased a little. In general, the size of saprophytic populations was orders of magnitude lower than that of the pathogenic populations. The number of different bacterial genera per sample increased up to four genera per leaf spot by the end of the season. No significant influence of the occurring saprophytes on the population dynamics of the pathogen in planta could be observed.
25153368|Microarray technology has the unparalleled potential to simultaneously determine the dynamics and/or activities of most, if not all, of the microbial populations in complex environments such as soils and sediments. Researchers have developed several types of arrays that characterize the microbial populations in these samples based on their phylogenetic relatedness or functional genomic content. Several recent studies have used these microarrays to investigate ecological issues; however, most have only analyzed a limited number of samples with relatively few experiments utilizing the full high-throughput potential of microarray analysis. This is due in part to the unique analytical challenges that these samples present with regard to sensitivity, specificity, quantitation, and data analysis. This review discusses specific applications of microarrays to microbial ecology research along with some of the latest studies addressing the difficulties encountered during analysis of complex microbial communities within environmental samples. With continued development, microarray technology may ultimately achieve its potential for comprehensive, high-throughput characterization of microbial populations in near real time.
27770598|Microbial diversity was characterized in mining-impacted soils collected from two abandoned uranium mine sites, the Edgemont and the North Cave Hills, South Dakota, using a high-density 16S microarray (PhyloChip) and clone libraries. Characterization of the elemental compositions of soils by X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy revealed higher metal contamination including uranium at the Edgemont than at the North Cave Hills mine site. Microarray data demonstrated extensive phylogenetic diversity in soils and confirmed nearly all clone-detected taxonomic levels. Additionally, the microarray exhibited greater diversity than clone libraries at each taxonomic level at both the mine sites. Interestingly, the PhyloChip detected the largest number of taxa in Proteobacteria phylum for both the mine sites. However, clone libraries detected Acidobacteria and Bacteroidetes as the most numerically abundant phyla in the Edgemont and North Cave Hills mine sites, respectively. Several 16S rDNA signatures found in both the microarrays and clone libraries displayed sequence similarities with yet-uncultured bacteria representing a hitherto unidentified diversity. Results from this study demonstrated that highly diverse microbial populations were present in these uranium mine sites. Diversity indices indicated that microbial communities at the North Cave Hills mine site were much more diverse than those at the Edgemont mine site.
25256205|Nitrogen fixation (nitrogenase activity, NA) of a microbial mat and a living stromatolite from Cuatro Cienegas, Mexico, was examined over spring, summer, and winter of 2004. The goal of the study was to characterize the diazotrophic community through molecular analysis of the nifH gene and using inhibitors of sulfate reduction and oxygenic and anoxygenic photosynthesis. We also evaluated the role of ultraviolet radiation on the diazotrophic activity of the microbial communities. Both microbial communities showed patterns of NA with maximum rates during the day that decreased significantly with 3-3,4-dichlorophenyl-1',1'-dimethylurea, suggesting the potential importance of heterocystous cyanobacteria. There is also evidence of NA by sulfur-reducing bacteria in both microbial communities suggested by the negative effect exerted by the addition of sodium molybdate. Elimination of infrared and ultraviolet radiation had no effect on NA. Both microbial communities had nifH sequences that related to group I, including cyanobacteria and purple sulfur and nonsulfur bacteria, as well as group II nitrogenases, including sulfur reducing and green sulfur bacteria.
40605758|The genetic heterogeneity of neutral metalloprotease (npr) gene fragments from soil proteolytic bacteria was investigated at a cultivated field site with four different soil types and at three different depths in April, July, and October. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analyses of polymerase chain reactionamplified npr gene fragments were applied to study the dynamic of the npr gene pool with regard to environmental conditions. The aim of this study was to relate differences in npr community structure and richness to the vertical, site, and seasonal variations naturally occurring at the field site under investigation. T-RFLP analysis revealed a noticeable seasonal variability in the community structure of npr containing bacteria. The data suggest that the composition of the npr proteolytic bacterial population in July differed from those at the other dates. Additionally, the diversity of npr genes decreased with increasing soil depth revealing the highest values in upper layers. The reasons behind the observed patterns in the community structure might be mainly seasonal and vertical variation of the quantity and heterogeneity of available substrates as well as spatial isolation caused by a varying water amount and the connectivity of soil particles among the soil profile. Sequencing and phylogenetical analysis of 120 npr clones from the top soils collected in July revealed that most of the clones exhibit only poor homology to npr genes of isolates previously obtained from various environments, indicating the presence of until now uncharacterized npr coding proteolytic bacteria at the study site.
4251326|The acquisition of the human oral bacterial flora follows a relatively well known sequence of succession that can be influenced by various host factors. These factors have not been studied in the mouse. In the present work, we followed the bacterial colonization of the oral cavity of mice from birth, and tested our mouse model for its suitability in studying the influence of weaning and puberty on the indigenous oral bacterial flora. We observed that the first colonizers were staphylococci, followed by lactobacilli. The proportions of these two predominant bacteria fluctuated for a period of 30-50 days, but evolved towards the proportions previously observed among the indigenous bacterial species of 6-8 week-old BALB/c male mice (predominantly Lactobacillus murinus and Staphylococcus aureus). The weaning period significantly altered the equilibrium among the oral bacterial flora. This equilibrium was not significantly modified during puberty.
25256242|To examine bacterial community composition in rhizosphere of plants colonizing on mine tailings and phylogenetic differences between subcommunities resistant to different metals, we constructed four clone libraries of 16S rDNA sequences. One was amplified directly from tailing microbial DNA (named as Ci library) and three from cultures on the plates containing of 0.5 mM CdCl (Cd library), 2 mM Pb (NO) (Pb library), and without any metals (Cw library). In total, nine bacterial divisions and two unclassified groups were identified from 352 clones of these libraries. Ci clones covered eight divisions, whereas all cultivable clones only covered four divisions. Thus, Ci library provided more phylogenetic diversity than cultivable libraries. However, the microbes represented by the cultivable clones were more similar to previously described bacteria than those represented by Ci clones. All Ci clones were not found in three cultivable libraries. Cd library were exclusively Gram-negative bacteria of Acinetobacter, Ralstonia, Comamonas, and Chryseobacterium. Meanwhile, dominant Gram-positive bacteria in Pb library, Paenibacillus and Bacillus, were also not found in Cd library. Our data indicate that phylogenetic structure was very different from those in acid mine drainage. Meanwhile, tailings harbored phylogenetically distinct subcommunities resistant to Pb and Cd.
41693859|Ammonia oxidation in marine and terrestrial ecosystems plays a pivotal role in the cycling of nitrogen and carbon. Recent discoveries have shown that ammoniaoxidizing archaea (AOA) are both abundant and diverse in these systems, yet very little is known about their physiology. Here we report a physiological analysis of a novel low-salinitytype AOA enriched from the San Francisco Bay estuary, Candidatus Nitrosoarchaeum limnia strain SFB1. N. limnia has a slower growth rate than Nitrosopumilus maritimus and Nitrososphaera viennensis EN76, the only pure AOA isolates described to date, but the growth rate is comparable to the growth of marine AOA enrichment cultures. The growth rate only slightly decreased when N. limnia was grown under lower-oxygen conditions (5.5 % oxygen in the headspace). Although N. limnia was capable of growth at 75 % of seawater salinity, there was a longer lag time, incomplete oxidation of ammonia to nitrite, and slower overall growth rate. Allylthiourea (ATU) only partially inhibited growth and ammonia oxidation by N. limnia at concentrations known to completely inhibit bacterial ammonia oxidation. Using electron microscopy, we confirmed the presence of flagella as suggested by various flagellar biosynthesis genes in the N. limnia genome. We demonstrate that N. limnia is representative of a low-salinity estuarine AOA ecotype and that more than 85 % of its proteins have highest identity to other coastal and estuarine metagenomic sequences. Our findings further highlight the physiology of N. limnia and help explain its ecological adaptation to low-salinity niches.
4251779|To investigate the distribution of microbial biomass, populations and activities within a clay-rich, low hydraulic conductivity (10
4251680|Phototrophic microbial communities present in the Roman Catacombs were characterized and different species of terrestrial epilithic cyanobacteria were found to occur as dominant organisms. Eucapsis, Leptolyngbya, Scytonema, and Fischerella were the most frequently encountered cyanobacterial taxa, while a few species of green algae and the diatom Diadesmis gallica occurred in minor amounts. Streptomyces strains, a few genera of eubacteria, and to a lesser extent fungi were always present in the same microhabitats and contributed to the deterioration of stone surfaces. The combined use of light and electron microscopy evidenced the structural relationships among rodshaped or filamentous bacteria and cyanobacterial cells, as well as the presence of polysaccharide capsules and sheaths, and of mineral precipitates on S. julianum filaments. The significance of the intimate association among the microorganisms was discussed in relation to the damage caused by the growth of biological patinas on stone surfaces.
4287542| Time-depth distribution of the microbial anaerobic assemblage of Lake Cis was analyzed by microscopy, pigment composition, and electrophoretic analysis of 5S rRNAs. Purple (Amoebobacter-like and Thiocystis minor-like cells) and green (Chlorobium-like) sulfur bacteria were very abundant. Both groups coexisted in depth and in time despite the fact that they compete for the same natural resources (e.g., light and sulfide). Cell abundance, group-specific pigment content, and group-specific 5S rRNA content did not change in parallel with depth. This was due to variations in the specific content of both RNA and pigments. Specific content of RNA was systematically higher in purple than in green sulfur bacteria. The latter, in turn, displayed a much higher pigment content. Specific content of both RNA and pigments changed with depth and time. Analysis of tRNA band patterns indicated no changes in the populations forming the assemblage. Changes in specific contents, therefore, were the result of physiological adaptations of the populations already present in the system. We concluded that each group of bacteria showed differential adaptations in both RNA and pigment content, and that the specific contents measured were good indicators of the physiological status of these bacteria in situ. The higher content of RNA in purple sulfur bacteria indicates that these organisms are the main contributors to anaerobic carbon fixation and sulfide oxidation processes in Lake Cis. 
4251363|Curvularia eragrostidis yam leaf spot is a serious concern among the northeast Brazilian yam growing areas. In order to study its biocontrol, bacterial isolates from the yam phylloplane were tested against the pathogen. They were evaluated with respect to the following parameters: (1) inhibition of C. eragrostidis mycelial growth by using paired culture and cellophane membrane methods, (2) inhibition of conidium germination by using a paired suspension test, (3) reduction of disease severity and, (4) persistence of antagonistic action, on plants under greenhouse conditions. From a total of 162 bacterial isolates, 39 showed antagonism to the pathogen in paired culture. The bacteria produced extracellular, nonvolatile, and diffusible metabolites in the membrane cellophane test. Seventeen isolates resulted in more than 75% inhibition of C. eragrostidis mycelial growth. Among them, IF-26 showed the greatest antagonism. The isolates IF-82, IF-88, and IF-109 inhibited pathogen conidial germination, with average inhibition levels of 99.2, 98.2 and 96.2%, respectively. Under greenhouse conditions the antagonists were applied at three different time intervals relative to C. eragrostidis inoculation: 3 days before, at the same time, and 3 days after. IF-82 and IF-88 applied at the same time as pathogen inoculation both reduced disease severity 75%. IF-82 showed the best persistence of antagonistic action, with an average of 96.3%. IF-82, identified as Bacillus subtilis, was the best biocontrol agent for the yam leaf spot disease in this study.
4251549| Phytoplankton-derived model particles were created in laboratory from a mixture of autoclaved diatom cultures. These particles were colonized by a marine bacterial community and incubated in rolling tanks in order to examine the relationship between aminopeptidase activity and leucine uptake. Bacteria inhabiting particles and ambient water were characterized for abundance, biovolume, aminopeptidase activity, leucine uptake, and growth rate. Particles were a less favorable habitat than ambient water for bacterial growth since growth rates of particle-attached bacteria were similar or even lower than those of free-living bacteria. During the first 100 h of the particle decomposition process, there were not statistically significant differences in the aminopeptidase activity:leucine uptake ratio between attached and free-living bacteria. From 100 h to 200 h, this ratio was higher for attached bacteria than for free-living bacteria. This indicates an uncoupling of amino-peptidase activity and leucine uptake. During this period, attached and free-living bacteria showed similar hydrolytic activities on a cell-specific basis. In the free-living bacterial community, variations in aminopeptidase activity per cell were associated with variations in leucine uptake per cell and growth rates. However, in the attached bacterial community, when leucine uptake and growth rates decreased, aminopeptidase activity remained constant. Thus, after 100 h, particle-attached bacteria were not taking advantage of their high aminopeptidase activity; consequently the hydrolysed amino acids were released into the ambient water, supporting the growth of free-living bacteria. These results demonstrate that over the particle decomposition process, the relationship between hydrolysis and uptake of the protein fraction shows different patterns of variation for attached and free-living bacterial communities. However, in our experiments, this uncoupling was not based on a hyperproduction of enzymes by attached bacteria, but on lower uptake rates when compared to the free-living bacteria. 
25153426|Soil microbial communities mediate critical ecosystem carbon and nutrient cycles. How microbial communities will respond to changes in vegetation and climate, however, are not well understood. We reciprocally transplanted soil cores from under oak canopies and adjacent open grasslands in a California oak-grassland ecosystem to determine how microbial communities respond to changes in the soil environment and the potential consequences for the cycling of carbon. Every 3 months for up to 2 years, we monitored microbial community composition using phospholipid fatty acid analysis (PLFA), microbial biomass, respiration rates, microbial enzyme activities, and the activity of microbial groups by quantifying C uptake from a universal substrate (pyruvate) into PLFA biomarkers. Soil in the open grassland experienced higher maximum temperatures and lower soil water content than soil under the oak canopies. Soil microbial communities in soil under oak canopies were more sensitive to environmental change than those in adjacent soil from the open grassland. Oak canopy soil communities changed rapidly when cores were transplanted into the open grassland soil environment, but grassland soil communities did not change when transplanted into the oak canopy environment. Similarly, microbial biomass, enzyme activities, and microbial respiration decreased when microbial communities were transplanted from the oak canopy soils to the grassland environment, but not when the grassland communities were transplanted to the oak canopy environment. These data support the hypothesis that microbial community composition and function is altered when microbes are exposed to new extremes in environmental conditions; that is, environmental conditions outside of their "life history" envelopes.
4287513|The influence of prey characteristics such as motility and size as well as of predator characteristics such as satiation and preculturing diet on the feeding process of interception feeding heterotrophic nanoflagellates was investigated. Three species of gram-negative bacteria, one species of grampositive bacteria, two species of cyanobacteria (Synechococcus) and inert latex particles were fed as prey particles for three species of heterotrophic nanoflagellates (Spumella, Ochromonas, Cafeteria). Ingestion rates depended on the satiation of the flagellates and especially on the filling status of the food vacuoles. In addition, the ingestion rates depended on the characteristics of the food particle and were modified by pre-culturing the flagellates on either Pseudomonas putida or Bacillus subtilis. Digestion was found to be particle-specific. Cyanobacteria were excreted a few minutes after ingestion whereas heterotrophic bacteria were stored and digested in the food vacuoles. The spectrum of ingested particles is not identical to that of digested particles and thus neither the diet of the flagellates nor their impact on bacterial communities can be calculated simply from food vacuole content. "Selective digestion" could be shown to be an important selection mechanism concerning natural food particles. The digestion strategies of Cafeteria on the one hand and Spumella and Ochromonas on the other hand may be an important factor to explain protozoan species composition and succession in the field. In addition to bacterial abundance and grazing pressure by metazooplankton, the bacterial speciescomposition as well as biochemical variations within bacterial species may influence protozoan species composition and abundance.
25153292| Nitrification was measured within a sand and gravel aquifer on Cape Cod, MA, using a series of single-well injection tests. The aquifer contained a wastewater-derived contaminant plume, the core of which was anoxic and contained ammonium. The study was conducted near the downgradient end of the ammonium zone, which was characterized by inversely trending vertical gradients of oxygen (270 to 0 M) and ammonium (19 to 625 M) and appeared to be a potentially active zone for nitrification. The tests were conducted by injecting a tracer solution (ambient ground water + added constituents) into selected locations within the gradients using multilevel samplers. After injection, the tracers moved by natural ground water flow and were sampled with time from the injection port. Rates of nitrification were determined from changes in nitrate and nitrite concentration relative to bromide. Initial tests were conducted with N-enriched ammonium; subsequent tests examined the effect of adding ammonium, nitrite, or oxygen above background concentrations and of adding difluoromethane, a nitrification inhibitor. In situ net nitrate production exceeded net nitrite production by 3- to 6- fold and production rates of both decreased in the presence of difluoromethane. Nitrification rates were 0.02-0.28 mol (L aquifer) h with in situ oxygen concentrations and up to 0.81 mol (L aquifer) h with non-limiting substrate concentrations. Geochemical considerations indicate that the rates derived from single-well injection tests yielded overestimates of in situ rates, possibly because the injections promoted small-scale mixing within a transport-limited reaction zone. Nonetheless, these tests were useful for characterizing ground water nitrification in situ and for comparing potential rates of activity when the tracer cloud included non-limiting ammonium and oxygen concentrations. 
4287752| To reveal the process of degradation of hepatotoxic microcystin produced in Microcystis cells during the Microcystis bloom period, we used fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to analyze the population dynamics of microcystin-degrading bacteria in Microcystis mucilage. We designed and applied an oligonucleotide probe targeted to the 16S rRNA sequence of strain Y2 of a microcystin-degrading bacterium (MCD-bacterium), which was isolated from Lake Suwa, Japan. In both the 1998 and 1999 tests, FISH clearly showed that MCD-bacteria existed in the mucilage and that, when a high concentration of cell-bound microcystin was detected, MCD-bacteria exceeded 10% of the sum of bacteria hybridized with group-specific probes. The concentration of MCD-bacteria was highest in summer 1998, when a toxic species, M. viridis, was dominant. There was a high correlation between the number of MCD-bacteria in the mucilage and the concentration of cell-bound microcystin in the lake. Our results suggest that MCD-bacteria responded to changes in the concentration of microcystin and degraded the microcystin when it was released from Microcystis cells. We also analyzed changes in the bacterial community structure associated with the Microcystis colonies by using domain- and group-specific oligonucleotide probes. Changes in the concentrations of the Cytophaga/Flavobacterium group and -Proteobacteria, which can degrade macromolecules derived from Microcystis cells, were synchronized with changes in the concentration of Microcystis. The results not only suggest the significant role of MCD-bacteria in detoxification, but also demonstrate a possible sequence of degradation from Microcystis cells to microcystin maintained in the cell, which is then carried out by bacterial consortia in the mucilage. 
27770629|Quantitative microscopy and digital image analysis are underutilized in microbial ecology largely because of the laborious task to segment foreground object pixels from background, especially in complex color micrographs of environmental samples. In this paper, we describe an improved computing technology developed to alleviate this limitation. The system's uniqueness is its ability to edit digital images accurately when presented with the difficult yet commonplace challenge of removing background pixels whose three-dimensional color space overlaps the range that defines foreground objects. Image segmentation is accomplished by utilizing algorithms that address color and spatial relationships of user-selected foreground object pixels. Performance of the color segmentation algorithm evaluated on 26 complex micrographs at single pixel resolution had an overall pixel classification accuracy of 99+%. Several applications illustrate how this improved computing technology can successfully resolve numerous challenges of complex color segmentation in order to produce images from which quantitative information can be accurately extracted, thereby gain new perspectives on the in situ ecology of microorganisms. Examples include improvements in the quantitative analysis of (1) microbial abundance and phylotype diversity of single cells classified by their discriminating color within heterogeneous communities, (2) cell viability, (3) spatial relationships and intensity of bacterial gene expression involved in cellular communication between individual cells within rhizoplane biofilms, and (4) biofilm ecophysiology based on ribotype-differentiated radioactive substrate utilization. The stand-alone executable file plus user manual and tutorial images for this color segmentation computing application are freely available at http://cme.msu.edu/cmeias/. This improved computing technology opens new opportunities of imaging applications where discriminating colors really matter most, thereby strengthening quantitative microscopy-based approaches to advance microbial ecology in situ at individual single-cell resolution.
4251726|Subsurface sediments were recovered from two aquifers contaminated with petroleum hydrocarbons in order to isolate and characterize indigenous microorganisms capable of biodegrading fuel-related compounds. These sediments had been previously studied using catabolic gene probes providing putative demonstration of significant biodegradation potential. Based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis, the isolates were phylogenetically similar to common soil microorganisms, including members of the genera Pseudomonas, Ralstonia, Burkholderia, Sphingomonas, Flavobacterium, and Bacillus. A total of 26 isolates were obtained using a vapor-plate enrichment technique with the volatile aromatic hydrocarbons toluene, ethylbenzene, p-xylene, naphthalene, and JP-4 jet fuel. JP-4, toluene, and ethylbenzene served as growth substrates for more than 80% of the isolates, while less than 10% of the organisms grew on the aromatic compounds benzene and o-xylene. Subsequent assays monitoring the evolution of
25256180|In this report, four Bacillus strains were tested for effects on plant fitness and disease protection of oilseed rape (Brassica napus). The strains belonged to newly discovered plant-associated Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and a recently proposed species, Bacillus endophyticus. The fungal pathogens tested represented different infection strategies and included Alternaria brassicae, Botrytis cinerea, Leptosphaeria maculans, and Verticillium longisporum. The B. amyloliquefaciens strains showed no or a weak plant growth promoting activity, whereas the B. endophyticus strain had negative effects on the plant as revealed by phenological analysis. On the other hand, two of the B. amyloliquefaciens strains conferred protection of oilseed rape toward all pathogens tested. In vitro experiments studying the effects of Bacillus exudates on fungal growth showed clear growth inhibition in several but not all cases. The protective effects of Bacillus can therefore, at least in part, be explained by production of antibiotic substances, but other mechanisms must also be involved probably as a result of intricate plant-bacteria interaction. The protective effects observed for certain Bacillus strains make them highly interesting for further studies as biocontrol agents in Brassica cultivation.
4251315|Characterization of microorganisms associated with alfalfa leafcutter bee (Megachile rotundata) nectar, pollen, provisions, larval guts, and frass (excreta) in Alberta demonstrated a varied aerobic microflora. Yeasts were isolated frequently from nectar, pollen, and provisions but rarely from guts or frass. The most prevalent yeast taxa were: Candida bombicola, Cryptococcus albidus, Metschnikowia reukaufii, and Rhodotorula glutinis. Although few filamentous fungi were found in nectar, they were frequently isolated from pollen and provisions; the predominant taxa were Alternaria alternata, Cladosporium cladosporioides, C. herbarum, Epicoccum nigrum, and Penicillium chrysogenum. Bacteria, including species of Bacillus, Corynebacterium, Micrococcus, and the actinomycete Streptomyces, also were prevalent in provisions and/or on pollen. In general, the diversity of microorganisms isolated from alimentary canals and frass was lower than from nectar, pollen, and provisions. Bacillus firmus, B. licheniformis, B. megaterium, B. pumilus, and Streptomyces spp. were the most frequently isolated bacteria, whereas Trichosporonoides megachiliensis was the most common filamentous fungus isolated from larval guts and/or frass. These taxa may be part of the resident microflora of the alimentary canal. Populations of bacteria and filamentous fungi, but not yeasts, were larger from Ascosphaera aggregata-infected larvae than from healthy larvae. However, with the exception of Aspergillus niger and T. megachiliensis in frass from healthy larvae, no taxon of filamentous fungi was conspicuously present or absent in infected larvae, healthy larvae, or their frass.
4251486| Viable bacteria were found in permafrost core samples from the Kolyma-Indigirka lowland of northeast Siberia. The samples were obtained at different depths; the deepest was about 3 million years old. The average temperature of the permafrost is -10C. Twenty-nine bacterial isolates were characterized by 16S rDNA sequencing and phylogenetic analysis, cell morphology, Gram staining, endospore formation, and growth at 30C. The majority of the bacterial isolates were rod shaped and grew well at 30C; but two of them did not grow at or above 28C, and had optimum growth temperatures around 20C. Thirty percent of the isolates could form endospores. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolates fell into four categories: high-GC Gram-positive bacteria, -proteobacteria, -proteobacteria, and low-GC Gram-positive bacteria. Most high-GC Gram-positive bacteria and -proteobacteria, and all -proteobacteria, came from samples with an estimated age of 1.8-3.0 million years (Olyor suite). Most low-GC Gram-positive bacteria came from samples with an estimated age of 5,000-8,000 years (Alas suite). 
41489036|Bartonella infections from wild mice and voles (Apodemus flavicollis, Mi. oeconomus, Microtus arvalis and Myodes glareolus) were sampled from a forest and old-field habitats of eastern Poland; a complex network of Bartonella isolates, referrable to B. taylorii, B. grahamii, B. birtlesii and B. doshiae, was identified by the sequencing of a gltA fragment, comparable to previous studies of Bartonella diversity in rodents. Nested clade analysis showed that isolates could be assigned to zero-and one-step clades which correlated with host identity and were probably the result of clonal expansion; however, sequencing of other housekeeping genes (rpoB, ribC, ftsZ, groEl) and the 16S RNA gene revealed a more complex situation with clear evidence of numerous recombinant events in which one or both Bartonella parents could be identified. Recombination within gltA was found to have generated two distinct variant clades, one a hybrid between B. taylorii and B. doshiae, the other between B. taylorii and B. grahamii. These recombinant events characterised the differences between the two-step and higher clades within the total nested cladogram, involved all four species of Bartonella identified in this work and appear to have played a dominant role in the evolution of Bartonella diversity. It is clear, therefore, that housekeeping gene phylogenies are not robust indicators of Bartonella diversity, especially when only a single gene (gltA or 16S RNA) is used. Bartonella clades infecting Microtus were most frequently involved in recombination and were most frequently tip clades within the cladogram. The role of Microtus in influencing the frequency of Bartonella recombination remains unknown.
25153390|Past studies have suggested that the concentration and quality of dissolved organic matter (DOM) may influence microbial community structure. In this study, we cross-inoculated the bacterial communities from two streams and a dystrophic lake that varied in DOM concentration and chemistry, to yield nine fully crossed treatments. We measured dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentration and heterotrophic microbial community productivity throughout a 72-h incubation period, characterized DOM quality by molecular weight, and determined microbial community structure at the initial and final time points. Our results indicate that all bacterial inoculate sources had similar effects upon DOC concentration and DOM quality, regardless of the DOM source. These effects included an overall decrease in DOM
4251100| Estimates of bacterial production based on total trichloroacetic acid (TCA)-precipitable [methyl-
25256248|The bacterial community structure of a diuron-degrading enrichment culture from lotic surface water samples was analyzed and the diuron-degrading strains were selected using a series of techniques combining temporal temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TTGE) of 16 S rDNA gene V1-V3 variable regions, isolation of strains on agar plates, colony hybridization methods, and biodegradation assays. The TTGE fingerprints revealed that diuron had a strong impact on bacterial community structure and highlighted both diuron-sensitive and diuron-adapted bacterial strains. Two bacterial strains, designated IB78 and IB93 and identified as belonging to Pseudomonas sp. and Stenotrophomonas sp., were isolated and shown to degrade diuron in pure resting cells in a first-order kinetic reaction during the first 24 h of incubation with no 3,4-DCA detected. The percentages of degradation varied from 25% to 60% for IB78 and 20% to 65% for IB93 and for a diuron concentration range from 20 mg/L to 2 mg/L, respectively. It is interesting to note that diuron was less degraded by single isolates than by mixed resting cells, thereby underlining a cumulative effect between these two strains. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of diuron-degrading strains isolated from lotic surface water.
4250840| The bacterial biota associated with the cuticle surface of healthy benthic samples of crustose nonarticulated coralline algae from the east coast of Tasmania (Australia) was examined by bacteriological cultivation and electron microscopy. In 32 samples studied, the viable count on Zobell's marine agar (supplemented with vitamins) was 3.3  10
23361671|Four Cupriavidus metallidurans and eight Ralstonia pickettii isolates from the space industry and the International Space Station (ISS) were characterized in detail. Nine of the 12 isolates were able to form a biofilm on plastics and all were resistant to several antibiotics. R. pickettii isolates from the surface of the Mars Orbiter prior to flight were 2.5 times more resistant to UV-C 254nm radiation compared to the R. pickettii type strain. All isolates showed moderate to high tolerance against at least seven different metal ions. They were tolerant to medium to high silver concentrations (0.54 M), which are higher than the ionic silver disinfectant concentrations measured regularly in the drinking water aboard the ISS. Furthermore, all isolates survived a 23-month exposure to 2 M AgNO 3 in drinking water. These resistance properties are putatively encoded by their endogenous megaplasmids. This study demonstrated that extreme resistance is not required to withstand the disinfection and sterilization procedures implemented in the ISS and space industry. All isolates acquired moderate to high tolerance against several stressors and can grow in oligotrophic conditions, enabling them to persist in these environments.
4251504|Ten bacterial strains isolated from water and sediment samples taken from geothermal areas of Deception Island, in the South Shetland archipelago, were found to represent six distinct types of thermophilic, Gram-positive, aerobic, catalase positive, endospore-forming rods, identified as Bacillus sp. Six representative strains were subjected to routine phenotypic characterization, numerical taxonomic, and chemotaxonomic analyses. Two isolates were identified as thermophilic strains of B. licheniformis and B. megaterium, but the four other strains could not be identified as known species of Bacillus and, hence, may represent new ones.
41489044|Anaerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria can be found in the suboxic waters of shallow stratified coastal systems, and may play important roles in the total primary production of subtropical stratified coastal lagoons. We investigated the spatiotemporal variability of light CO fixation and net oxygen production in the stratified Con- ceio Lagoon (Brazil) in summer and fall of 2007, as well as the contribution of bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl a)-containing bacteria to photosynthetically driven electron transfer. Both chlorophyll a (Chi a) and BChl a varied in space, while only BChl a varied in time (three-fold increase from summer to fall). In summer, net oxygen production and light CO fixation were correlated, with both having higher rates with higher Chi a concentrations in the enclosed region of the lagoon. In fall, CO fixation was decoupled from oxygen production. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis revealed that bacterial communities of oxic site 12 and suboxic site 33 formed one cluster, different from other oxic samples within the lagoon. In addition, BChl a/Chl a ratios at these sites were high, 40% and 45%, respectively. Light acted as the main factor controlling the BChl a concentration and CO fixation rates. High turbidity within the enclosed area of the lagoon explained high BChl a and decoupling between CO fixation and oxygen production in oxygenated waters. Contribution of purple sulfur bacteria to total bacterial density in suboxic waters was 1.2%, and their biomass contributed to a much higher percentage (12.2%) due to their large biovolume. Our results indicate a significant contribution of anaerobic anoxygenic bacteria to the primary production of the "dead zone" of Conceio Lagoon.
4250981|The addition of ciliated protozoa to aquatic microcosms and bench-scale sewage treatment plants increases decomposition rates. This is surprising, inasmuch as protozoa consume bacteria, which are the primary decomposers. One possible mechanism of the increase in decomposition rate is the direct consumption of dissolved organic matter by protozoa that are feeding primarily on bacteria. This possibility was explored experimentally in two-stage continuous cultures, with glucose limiting Escherichia coli in the first stage and E. coli limiting Tetrahymena pyriformis in the second. Glycine and histidine were the test nutrients. The results of adding them to the second stages suggested that direct uptake by ciliates does not affect the dynamics of dissolved amino acids in pelagic environments or activated sludge plants. Ciliates might, however, affect the dynamics of amino acid pools in environments high in nutrients and ciliates, perhaps including some microenvironments near decomposing material or in benthic sediments. Direct uptake of dissolved amino acids by ciliates probably does not affect ciliate or bacterial populations substantially.
4251079|The ability of strains of the genus Rhodococcus to transform chlorinated phenolic compounds was studied. Noninduced cells of several strains of Rhodococcus, covering at least eight species, were found to attack mono-, di-, and trichlorophenols by hydroxylation at the ortho position to chlorocatechols. 3-chlorophenol and 4-chlorophenol were converted to 4-chlorocatechol, 2,3-dichlorophenol to 3,4-dichlorocatechol, and 3,4-dichlorophenol to 4,5-dichlorocatechol. The chlorocatechols accumulated to nearly stoichiometric amounts. Other mono- and dichlorophenols were not transformed. The ability of the strains to hydroxylate chlorophenols correlated with the ability to grow on unsubstituted phenol as the sole source of carbon and energy. Several Rhodococcus strains attacked chlorophenolic compounds by both hydroxylation and O-methylation. 2,3,4-, 2,3,5- and 3,4,5-trichlorophenol were hydroxylated to trichlorocatechol and then sequentially O-methylated to chloroguaiacol and chloroveratrole. Tetrachlorohydroquinone was O-methylated sequentially to tetrachloro-4-methoxyphenol and tetrachloro-1,4-dimethoxybenzene. Several of the active strains had no known history of exposure to any chloroaromatic compound. Rhodococci are widely distributed in soil and sludge and these results suggest that this genus may play an important role in transformation of chlorinated phenolic compounds in the environment.
41412440|-Proteobacteria that can oxidize iodide (I) to molecular iodine (I) have only been isolated from iodiderich natural and artificial environments, i.e., natural gas brine waters and seawaters supplemented with iodide, respectively. To understand the growth characteristics of such iodide-oxidizing bacteria (IOB) under iodide-rich environments, microcosms comprising natural seawater and 1 mM iodide were prepared, and the succession of microbial communities was monitored by cultureindependent techniques. PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis showed that bacteria closely related with known IOB were predominant in the microcosms after several weeks of incubation. Quantitative PCR analysis targeting specific 16S rRNA gene regions of IOB showed that the relative abundance of IOB in the microcosms was 6-76% of the total bacterial population, whereas that in natural seawater was less than 1%. When 10 cells mL of IOB were inoculated into natural seawater supplemented with 0.1-1 mM iodide, significant growth (cell densities, 10- cells mL) and I production (6-32 M) were observed. Interestingly, similar growth stimulation occurred when 12-44 M of I was added to seawater, instead of iodide. IOB were found to be more I tolerant than the other heterotrophic bacteria in seawater. These results suggest that I plays a key role in the growth stimulation of IOB in seawater. IOB could potentially attack other bacteria with I to occupy their ecological niche in iodide-rich environments.
4250951|Yeast communities growing in the decaying tissues (cladodes and fruits) of Opuntia stricta (prickly pear cactus) and associated yeast vectors (Drosophila species) were compared in two geographic regions (Caribbean and eastern Australia). The Australian yeast community provides an interesting comparison to the Caribbean community, because the host plant O. stricta was introduced to Australia over 100 years ago. Many of the yeasts found in the Australian system also were introduced during a period of biological control (1926-1935) when they accompanied rotting prickly pear cladodes and insects shipped to Australia from the Americas. The yeast community composition (proportion of each species) is compared at several levels of organization: (1) within and between regions, (2) across seasons and years, and (3) within and between tissue types. The yeast species composition of the cladode communities are similar from locality to locality, season to season, and year to year, with the region-to-region similarity slightly less. The composition of the fruit-yeast communities are distinct from region to region and only show some overlap with the cladodes within regions when collected simultaneously in the same locality. It is suggested that the cladode-microorganism-Drosophila system is relatively closed (little extrinsic influence) whereas the fruit-microorganism-Drosophila system is open (large extrinsic influence).
4251223|The temporal variability of the abundance and the incorporation of
4251000|In this paper we present a method of isolation and morphological and physiological characterization of groundwater bacteria based on numerical taxonomy and cluster analysis, and using a miniaturized test system (microtiter plates). Bacteria were isolated randomly on P-agar, and each strain was characterized in regard to 155 features. The media for biochemical differentiation are listed as well as methods of morphological discrimination. 246 strains of heterotrophic and oligotrophic bacteria, isolated from five water samples from different depths of the saturated groundwater area, were used for optimizing media and test reactions.
25153172| A microbial culture capable of actively oxidizing ammonium to dinitrogen gas in the absence of oxygen, using nitrite as the electron acceptor, was enriched from local activated sludge (Western Australia) in &lt;14 weeks. The maximum anaerobic ammonium oxidation (i.e., anammox) activity achieved by the anaerobic culture was 0.26 mmol
41489091|To unravel the profile of intestinal microecological parameters in Chinese patients with asymptomatic carriage of hepatitis virus (HBV), chronic hepatitis B, decompensated HBV cirrhosis, and health controls and to establish their correlation with liver disease progression, we performed quantitative PCR and immunological techniques to investigate fecal parameters, including population of fecal predominant bacteria and the abundance of some virulence genes derived from Escherichia coli, Bacteroides fragilis, Clostridium difficile, and Clostridium perfringens in fecal crude DNA and some immunological parameters in extracts of all fecal samples. Data analysis indicated that 16S rRNA gene copy numbers for Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Enterococcus faecalis, Enterobacteriaceae, bifidobacteria, and lactic acid bacteria (Lactobacillus, Pediococcus, Leuconostoc, and Weissella) showed marked variation in the intestine of HBV cirrhotic patients. The Bifidobacteria/Enterobacteriaceae (B/E) ratio, which may indicate microbial colonization resistance of the bowel, was decreased significantly in turn from 1.15  0.11 in healthy controls, 0.99  0.09 in asymptomatic carriers, and 0.76  0.08 in patients with chronic hepatitis B to 0.64  0.09 in patients with decompensated HBV cirrhosis (for all, P< 0.01). This suggests that B/E ratio is useful for following the level of intestinal microecological disorder in the course of liver disease progression. The data for virulence gene abundance suggested increased diversity of virulence factors during liver disease progression. Fecal secretory IgA and tumor necrosis factor- in decompensated HBV cirrhotic patients were present at higher levels than in other groups, which indicates that a complicated autoregulatory system tries to achieve a new intestinal microecological balance.
23469584|The networking and collaborative opportunities afforded to the attendees of the Ocean and Human Health Gordon Research Seminar (GRS) and the Gordon Research Conference (GRC) are vast and great. The GRS/GRC, in particular, has the capability of facilitating interlaboratory and interdisciplinary collaborations. The following article highlights the benefits associated with attending the GRS/GRC as a graduate student and first time attendee.
41489024|Selective nucleic acid intercalating dyesethidium monoazide (EMA) and propidium monoazide (PMA)represent one of the most successful recent approaches to detect viable cells (as defined by an intact cell membrane) by PCR and have been effectively evaluated in different microorganisms. However, some practical limitations were found, especially in environmental samples. The aim of this work was to show that in the application of viable real-time PCR, there may be significant biases and to propose a strategy for overcoming some of these problems. We present an approach based on the combination of three real-time PCR amplifications for each sample that should provide an improved estimation of the number of viable cells. This approach could be useful especially when it is difficult to determine a priori how to optimize methods using PMA or EMA. Although further studies are required to improve viable real-time PCR methods, the concept as outlined here presents an interesting future research direction.
41489792|Marine sponges are host to numerically vast and phylogenetically diverse bacterial communities, with 26 major phyla to date having been found in close association with sponge species worldwide. Analyses of these microbial communities have revealed many sponge-specific novel genera and species. These endosymbiotic microbes are believed to play significant roles in sponge physiology including the production of an array of bioactive secondary metabolites. Here, we report on the use of culture-based and cultureindependent (pyrosequencing) techniques to elucidate the bacterial community profiles associated with the marine sponges Raspailia ramosa and Stelligera stuposa sampled from a single geographical location in Irish waters and with ambient seawater. To date, little is known about the microbial ecology of sponges of these genera. Culture isolation grossly underestimated sponge-associated bacterial diversity. Four bacterial phyla (Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Proteobacteria) were represented amongst ~200 isolates, compared with ten phyla found using pyrosequencing. Long average read lengths of ~430 bp (V1-V3 region of 16S rRNA gene) allowed for robust resolution of sequences to genus level. Bacterial OTUs (2,109 total), at 95% sequence similarity, from ten bacterial phyla were recovered from R. ramosa, 349 OTUs were identified in S. stuposa representing eight phyla, while 533 OTUs from six phyla were found in surrounding seawater. Bacterial communities differed significantly between sponge species and the seawater. Analysis of the data for sponge-specific taxa revealed that 2.8% of classified reads from the sponge R. ramosa can be defined as sponge-specific, while 26% of S. stuposa sequences represent sponge-specific bacteria. Novel sponge-specific clusters were identified, whereas the majority of previously reported sponge-specific clusters (e.g. Poribacteria) were absent from these sponge species. This deep and robust analysis provides further evidence that the microbial communities associated with marine sponge species are highly diverse and divergent from one another and appear to be host-selected through as yet unknown processes.
40343366|Biological treatment has become increasingly popular as a remediation method for soils and groundwater contaminated with petroleum hydrocarbon, chlorinated solvents, and pesticides. Bioremediation has been considered for application in cold regions such as Arctic and sub-Arctic climates and Antarctica. Studies to date suggest that indigenous microbes suitable for bioremediation exist in soils in these regions. This paper reports on two case studies at the sub-Antarctic Kerguelen Island in which indigenous bacteria were found that were capable of mineralizing petroleum hydrocarbons in soil contaminated with crude oil and diesel fuel. All results demonstrate a serious influence of the soil properties on the biostimulation efficiency. Both temperature elevation and fertilizer addition have a more significant impact on the microbial assemblages in the mineral soil than in the organic one. Analysis of the hydrocarbons remaining at the end of the experiments confirmed the bacterial observations. Optimum temperature seems to be around 10C in organic soil, whereas it was higher in mineral soil. The benefit of adding nutrients was much stronger in mineral than in the organic soil. Overall, this study suggests that biostimulation treatments were driven by soil properties and that ex situ bioremediation for treatment of cold contaminated soils will allow greater control over soil temperature, a limiting factor in cold climates.
40343413|Mats of coenocytic "snow molds" are commonly observed covering the soil and litter of alpine and subalpine areas immediately following snow melt. Here, we describe the phylogenetic placement, growth rates, and metabolic potential of cold-adapted fungi from under-snow mats in the subalpine forests of Colorado. SSU rDNA sequencing revealed that these fungi belong to the zygomycete orders Mucorales and Mortierellales. All of the isolates could grow at temperatures observed under the snow at our sites (0C and -2C) but were unable to grow at temperatures above 25C and were unable to grow anaerobically. Growth rates for these fungi were very high at -2C, approximately an order of magnitude faster than previously studied coldtolerant fungi from Antarctic soils. Given the rapid aerobic growth of these fungi at low temperatures, we propose that they are uniquely adapted to take advantage of the flush of nutrient that occurs at the soil-snow interface beneath late winter snow packs. In addition, extracellular enzyme production was relatively high for the Mucorales, but quite low for the Mortierellales, perhaps indicating some niche separation between these fungi beneath the late winter snow pack.
40605879|The prokaryotic diversity associated with highly metal-contaminated sediment samples collected from the Coeur d'Alene River (CdAR) was investigated using a cultivation-independent approach. Bacterial community structure was studied by constructing an RNA polymerase beta subunit (rpoB) gene library. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that 75.8% of the rpoB clones were associated with -Proteobacteria while the remaining 24.2% were with -Proteobacteria. All phylotypes showed close similarity to previously reported cultivable lineages from metal or organic contaminant-rich environments. In an archaeal 16S rRNA gene library, 70% of the clones were affiliated to Crenarchaeota, while 30% belonged to Euryarchaeota. Most of the Euryarchaeota sequences were related to acetoclastic lineages belonging to Methanosarcinales. A single phylotype within the Euryarchaeota showed no association with cultivable euryarchaeotal lineages and might represent novel taxon. Diversity indices demonstrated greater diversity of Bacteria compared to Archaea in CdAR sediments. Sediment characterization by the X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy revealed high amount of toxic metals. To our knowledge, this is the first culture-independent survey on the prokaryotic diversity present in mining-impacted sediments of CdAR.
41489051|A total of 17 culturable nitrogen-fixing bacterial strains associated with the roots of wheat growing in different regions of Greece were isolated and characterized for plant-growth-promoting traits such as auxin production and phosphate solubilization. The phylogenetic position of the isolates was first assessed by the analysis of the PCRamplified 16S rRNA gene. The comparative sequence analysis and phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences show that the isolates recovered in this study are grouped with Azospirillum brasilense, Azospirillum zeae, and Pseudomonas stutzen. The diazotrophic nature of all isolates was confirmed by amplification of partial nifli gene sequences. The phylogenetic tree based on nifti gene sequences is consistent with 16S rRNA gene phylogeny. The isolates belonging to Azospirillum species were further characterized by examining the partial dnaK gene phylogenetic tree. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that the ipdC gene was present in all Azospirillum isolates, suggesting that auxin is mainly synthesized via the indole-3-pyruvate pathway. Although members of R stutzen and A. zeae are known diazotrophic bacteria, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of isolation and characterization of strains belonging to these bacterial genera associated with wheat.
40802179|The contribution of human activities to environmental reservoirs of antibiotic resistance is poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to determine if oxytetracycline (OTC) use in aquaculture facilities increased the detection frequency (i. e., prevalence) of tetracycline resistance (tet R ) genes relative to facilities with no recent OTC treatment. We used polymerase chain reaction to screen water and sediment from four noncommercial fish farms in northwestern Wisconsin for the presence of ten tet R determinants: tet(A) 9 tet(B), tet(D), tet (E), tet(G), tet(M), tet(O), tet(Q), tet(S), and tet(W). Water from farms with recent OTC use had significantly higher tet R detection frequencies than did water from farms without recent OTC use, with prevalence in raceways and rearing ponds of farms with recent OTC use exceeding by more than twofold that of farms not using OTC. Effluent from all farms, regardless of treatment regime, had higher tet R detection frequencies than their corresponding influent for all genes, but the specific combinations of tet R genes detected in a sample were not different from their corresponding influent. Although OTC use was associated with the increased occurrence and diversity of tet R genes in water samples, it was not found to relate to tet R gene occurrence in sediment samples. Sediment samples from facilities with no recent OTC use had significantly higher frequencies of tet R gene detection than did samples from facilities with recent OTC use. All of the tet R genes were detected in both the medicated and nonmedicated feed samples analyzed in this study. These findings suggest that both OTC treatment in aquaculture facilities and the farms themselves may be sources of tet R gene introduction to the environment. To our knowledge, this is the first study to use genotypic and cultivation-independent methods to examine ter R gene occurrence associated with OTC use in aquaculture.
25153099|Biological soil crusts cover hundreds of hectares of sand dunes at the northern tip of Cape Cod National Seashore (Massachusetts, USA). Although the presence of crusts in this habitat has long been recognized, neither the organisms nor their ecological roles have been described. In this study, we report on the microbial community composition of crusts from this region and describe several of their physical and chemical attributes that bear on their environmental role. Microscopic and molecular analyses revealed that eukaryotic green algae belonging to the genera Klebsormidium or Geminella formed the bulk of the material sampled. Phylogenetic reconstruction of partial 16S rDNA sequences obtained from denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) fingerprints also revealed the presence of bacterial populations related to the subclass of the Proteobacteria, the newly described phylum Geothrix/Holophaga/Acidobacterium, the Cytophaga/Flavobacterium/Bacteroides group, and spirochetes. The presence of these crusts had significant effects on the hydric properties and nutrient status of the natural substrate. Although biological soil crusts are known to occur in dune environments around the world, this study enhances our knowledge of their geographic distribution and suggests a potential ecological role for crust communities in this landscape.
4287645| The effects of age, breed, and diet on fecal chemistry, enzyme activity, and bacterial populations of dogs were studied. Eighteen dogs from two age groups (young: 2.5  0.5 years, old: 10.9  0.7 years) and three different breeds (German shepherds, miniature schnauzers, and English setters) were rotated through a Latin Square design such that every dog was fed each of the diets. The test diets included a low-fiber (control) diet and a 10% fiber diet which contained 5% soybean hulls and 5% beet pulp. Inclusion of 10% fiber in the diet decreased the fecal concentration of ammonia, sulfide, and indole. Fiber inclusion significantly increased acetic, propionic, and butyric acid concentrations, while fecal pH decreased by 0.4 units. Fresh fecal samples were plated on selected aerobic and anaerobic culture media and DNA extracted for denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis of PCR-amplified 16S ribosomal DNA fragments. Plate counts showed significant effects of breed (p  0.05) and age (p  0.01) on selected aerobic and anaerobic bacterial counts, while no significant effect of diet was found. Analysis of PCR-DGGE banding patterns showed there was a tendency for individual dogs to cluster together according to age (young or old dogs) and also for size (large or small dogs). However, the outstanding conclusion obtained from the DGGE analysis of fecal bacterial profiles was that individual dogs had their own characteristic banding pattern which was unique and stable. The relative stability and individuality of the patterns indicates that each individual harbored a characteristic fecal bacterial community which was independent of diet. 
4250844|Progression in the understanding of the microecology of ambrosia beetles and their associated microorganisms is briefly reviewed. Between the 1840s and the early 1960s the concept of one ambrosial fungus per ambrosia beetle was emphasized. Some subsequent research has supported the view that each ambrosia beetle plus several associated microorganisms constitute a highly co-evolved symbiotic community. It was hypothesized in this study that such a community of symbiotic microbial species, not just one ambrosial fungus, is actively cultivated and perpetuated by the ambrosia beetle Xyloterinus politus. Experimental results indicated that bacteria, yeasts, a yeastlike fungus, and ambrosial fungi compose such a symbiotic microbial complex in association with X. politus. The microecology of the ectosymbiotic microorganisms in relation to this insect is discussed.
4251256|The role of microbial consortia on the removal of manganese (Mn) was examined on sand from three different Belgian rapid sand filters for the treatment of ground water. Microorganisms closely associated with deposits of Fe and amorphous Mn precipitates were observed by SEM and EDAX techniques on sand from the filters able to remove Mn efficiently. Bacterial counts were performed. Of the CFU enumerated on PYM-medium, 25-33% displayed Mn-oxidizing activity. Batch cultures were set up by inoculating a Mn-containing, low organic medium with sand from one of the filters. Microbial growth resulted in the formation of Mn-removing bacterial flocs and a pH increase. Suppression of microbial growth by addition of azide, kanamycin, or by autoclaving reduced removal of Mn
4250831|A survey of antibiotic-producing bacteria from the microbial flora attached to seaweeds and the study of their antibiotic capacities were carried out. From 5 species of green and brown marine algae, 224 bacterial strains were isolated and tested for antibiotic production. A total of 38 strains displayed antibiotic activity, with Enteromorpha intestinalis being the source of the highest number of producer strains. All epiphytic bacteria with antibiotic activity were assigned to the Pseudomonas-Alteromonas group. Antagonism assays among the isolates demonstrated that each producer strain inhibits the growth of the other producers, as well as of some nonproducer strains also isolated from seaweeds. Likewise, an autoinhibitory effect was observed in all antibiotic-producing strains. Antibacterial spectra of all the strains include activity against Staphylococcus, Alcaligenes, Pseudomonas, Vibrio, Pasteurella, and Achromobacter. A preliminary characterization of the antibiotic substances produced by these epiphytic bacteria demonstrated that they are low molecular weight compounds, thermolabile, and anionic and are not affected by proteolytic enzymes. The role that these inhibitory substances can play in the natural environment is discussed.
40605767|Various natural environments have been examined for the presence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and/or novel resistance mechanisms, but little is known about resistance in the terrestrial deep subsurface. This study examined two deep environments that differ in their known period of isolation from surface environments and the bacteria therein. One hundred fifty-four strains of bacteria were isolated from sediments located 170-259 m below land surface at the US Department of Energy Savannah River Site (SRS) in South Carolina and Hanford Site (HS) in Washington. Analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that both sets of strains were phylogenetically diverse and could be assigned to several genera in three to four phyla. All of the strains were screened for resistance to 13 antibiotics by plating on selective media and 90% were resistant to at least one antibiotic. Eighty-six percent of the SRS and 62% of the HS strains were resistant to more than one antibiotic. Resistance to nalidixic acid, mupirocin, or ampicillin was noted most frequently. The results indicate that antibiotic resistance is common among subsurface bacteria. The somewhat higher frequencies of resistance and multiple resistance at the SRS may, in part, be due to recent surface influence, such as exposure to antibiotics used in agriculture. However, the HS strains have never been exposed to anthropogenic antibiotics but still had a reasonably high frequency of resistance. Given their long period of isolation from surface influences, it is possible that they possess some novel antibiotic resistance genes and/or resistance mechanisms.
4287515|The host specificity of yeast-yeast interactions was investigated for two yeast types, represented by six pairs of Pichia membranifaciens clade yeasts (Pichia membranifaciens or Issatchenkia occidentalis) with apiculate yeasts (Kloeckera apis, Kloeckera africana, or Saccharomycodes ludwigii), commonly found in fruits. Competitive interactions between the two types were detected in both ripe tomato and guava fruit pulp. The differences in growth rates and carrying capacities depended on fruit type (host) and culture conditions (monocultures versus bicultures). These differences were probably due to nutrient composition of each fruit. Pichia membranifaciens did not show host dependent responses, but the apiculate yeasts and Issatchenkia occidentalis did. Depending on yeast strain and culture conditions (i.e., monoculture or biculture), carbon, nitrogen, and vitamins were investigated as potential limiting growth factors in guava fruit. Both singular and multiple limiting nutrients were implicated.
4251125|Cyanobacteria separated from symbiosis with several species of the angiosperm Gunnera were comparatively characterized and correlated with the locales and taxonomy of their host plants. All were identified as strains of Nostoc. Protein profiles and DNA restriction fragment length polymorphisms (from hybridizations with heterologous nifH and glnA probes) determined that three of the four cyanobacteria from Gunnera grown at one site in Sweden, each from a different host species, were very similar or identical. Plants of one species, G. manicata, grown in a second location at the site were infected with a different cyanobiont. Among five isolates from two species of Gunnera, collected in the same locale in New Zealand, three subgroups were documented. Isolates from three different Gunnera species grown in separate locations in the United States were each uniquely different. None of the cyanobacteria differed in the molecular weights of their glutamine synthetase and Fe-nitrogenase proteins. The diversity and accessibility of compatible Nostoc populations present in the soil micro-environment, not a critical selective factor required by Gunnera, were concluded to be a major determinant in symbiont selection.
40343397|With more than 160 years of contrasting fertilizer regimes, the Broadbalk winter wheat experiment represents a unique experimental resource for studying the effects of long-term fertilizer application on microbial population diversity. Using DGGE and clone library analysis, we report here on eubacterial species diversity (16S rRNA gene) and diversity within two sets of gene products associated with microbial  acquisition: NifH (nitrogen fixation) and AmtB (ammonium transport). Comparisons were made within and between soils treated with mineral  fertilizer, farmyard manure or receiving no fertilizer. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene DGGE profiles showed no clear patterns to qualitatively distinguish bacterial community structure between the three different treatments (P>0.05), with all samples containing a range of eubacterial taxa similar to those that are characteristic of soil bacteria reported elsewhere. Intra-plot heterogeneity was high and of a similar magnitude to that between treatments. This lack of qualitative between plot differences was echoed in the representative sequences of 16S rRNA, nifH, and amtB genes in the various samples. Taken together, both phylogenetic and functional gene analyses showed bacterial communities in the Broadbalk-trial soil were very stable and relatively non-responsive to long-term management of balanced fertilizer inputs.
4251090|Marine nitrogen-fixing bacteria distributed in the eelgrass bed and seawater of Aburatsubo Inlet, Kanagawa, Japan were investigated using anaerobic and microaerobic enrichment culture methods. The present enrichment culture methods are simple and efficient for enumeration and isolation of nitrogen-fixing bacteria from marine environments. Most-probable-number (MPN) values obtained for nitrogen-fixing bacteria ranged from
41489085|We mapped filamentous fungal association with mechanically "hard" and "soft" woody litter naturally deposited in a stream of the Western Ghats of India. Using a durometer (rubber hardness tester), the toughness of surface of wood collected from stream was determined by considering durometer reading from 60-72 to 30-37 as hardwood and softwood, respectively. From each wood (1.5 cm diameter), two segments each of 3 cm length were excised and vertically cut into nine sections comprising eight marginal and one central section. From three stream locations, hardwood and softwood sections were assessed for the occurrence of lignicolous and Ingoldian fungi. A first set of wood sections was incubated in damp chambers up to 4 months with periodical screening (every 2 weeks) for lignicolous fungi. Another set was incubated in bubble chambers up to 72 h to ascertain colonization of Ingoldian fungi. In hardwood sections, 17 lignicolous fungi (ascomycetes, four; mitosporic fungi, 13; mean, 6.8; range, 6-8/section) and ten Ingoldian fungi (mean, 2; range, 0-4/section) comprising nine lignicolous (11.1-40.7%) and three Ingoldian (11.1-14.8%) fungi as core-group taxa were recovered. In softwood, ten lignicolous fungi (ascomycetes, 0; mitosporic fungi, ten; mean, 3.8; range, 2-5/section) and 26 Ingoldian fungi (mean, 8.1; range, 5-10/section) comprising six lignicolous (11.1-85.2%) and 12 Ingoldian (11.1-88.9%) fungi as core-group taxa were recovered. The ratio of lignicolous fungi/Ingoldian fungi was higher in hardwood than softwood (1.7 vs. 0.4). The spore output of Ingoldian fungi was higher in softwood (mean, 901 g; range, 80-2546 g;) than hardwood (mean, 21 g;; range, 0-140 g;). The Shannon diversity of lignicolous fungi was higher in hardwood than softwood (3.604 vs. 2.665), whereas it was opposite for Ingoldian fungi (3.116 vs. 3.918). The overall fungal diversity was higher in softwood than hardwood (4.413 vs. 4.219). The range of Jaccard's index of similarity among wood sections was higher in lignicolous fungi (8-71% and 13-75%) than Ingoldian fungi (0-50% and 8-55%) in hardwood and softwood. The rarefaction indices of expected number of taxa against hardwood sections revealed higher and persistent lignicolous fungi than the Ingoldian fungi, while the Ingoldian fungi were persistent in softwood sections, although they were lower than lignicolous fungi. Our study demonstrated the dominance of lignicolous fungi and Ingoldian fungi in hardwood and softwood, respectively.
25153425|Eight bimonthly sediment core samples (n = 6) were collected, to a depth of 64 cm, from the hyporheic zone of a springbrook in southern Ontario, Canada. Sediment cores were divided into three to four sections, and organic matter was subdivided into six different categories. Twigs were the most common substrate, followed by roots, cedar leaves, wood, grass, and deciduous leaves. The contributions of deciduous and cedar leaves declined with depth, whereas that of wood increased. On each sampling date and from each section, three randomly chosen substrates &gt;3 cm were examined for conidia of aquatic hyphomycetes. The number of identified species significantly decreased with depth, and was highest on deciduous leaves and lowest on wood. Season had no significant effect on species numbers. DNA from substrates was extracted, amplified with fungal primers, and differentiated into phylotypes with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Absence/presence patterns of phylotype were significantly affected by season but not by section level. Both season and section level significantly affected relative densities of the bands of the 10 most common phylotypes. Our data suggest that aquatic hyphomycetes and other fungi readily disperse within the hyporheic zone, and that their relative scarcity in this habitat is due to a lack of suitable substrates.
41489073|Vibrio cholerae is a human pathogen and natural inhabitant of aquatic environments. Serogroups O1/O139 have been associated with epidemic cholera, while non-O1/non-O139 serogroups usually cause human disease other than classical cholera. V. cholerae non-O1/non-O139 from the Neusiedler See, a large Central European lake, have caused ear and wound infections, including one case of fatal septicaemia. Recent investigations demonstrated rapid planktonic growth of V. cholerae non-O1 /non-O139 and correlation with zoplankton biomass. The aim of this study was to elucidate the interaction of autochthonous V. cholerae with two dominant crustacean zoplankton species in the lake and investigate the influence of the natural bacterial community on this interaction. An existing data set was evaluated for statistical relationships between zooplankton species and V. cholerae and co-culture experiments were performed in the laboratory. A new fluorescence in situ hybridisation protocol was applied for quantification of V. cholerae non-O1/non-O139 cells, which significantly reduced analysis time. The experiments clearly demonstrated a significant relationship of autochthonous V cholerae non-O1/non-O139 with cladocerans by promoting growth of V. cholerae non-O1/non-O139 in the water and on the surfaces of the cladocerans. In contrast, copepods had a negative effect on the growth of V. cholerae non-O1/non-O139 via competing bacteria from their surfaces. Thus, beside other known factors, biofilm formation by V. cholerae on crustacean zooplankton appears to be zooplankton taxon specific and may be controlled by the natural bacterial community.
4250673|Experiments with a Warburg respirometer showed that a sediment slurry consumed hydrogen from a hydrogen atmosphere, and this consumption was not due to the activity of methanogenic bacteria. The hydrogren uptake was inhibited by the addition of 20 mM molybdate. Further experiments with sediment slurry held in conical flasks under an atmosphere of nitrogen showed that hydrogen accumulated in the headspace when bacterial sulfate reduction was inhibited either by the addition of 20 mM molybdate or by low (<5 mM) sulfate concentrations in the slurry. Methanogensis was stimulated in the presence of a hydrogen atmosphere or by the addition of 20 mM molybdate. The results confirmed that hydrogren was an important electron donor for sulfate-reducing bacteria present in the sediment. The stimulation of methanogenesis by molybdate could be explained in part by a competition for hydrogen between sulfate-reducing bacteria and hydrogen-metabolizing methanogenic bacteria, but competition for another common substrate, possibly acetate, could also be significant.
4250617| The flux of newly photosynthetically fixed, dissolved organic carbon (PDOC) from phototrophs to microheterotrophs in Lake Kinneret was examined by differential (3 and 0.4 m) filtration after samples were incubated with
25256097|Primary succession is a fundamental process in macro-ecosystems; however, if and how soil development influences microbial community structure is poorly understood. Thus, we investigated changes in the bacterial community along a chronosequence of three unvegetated, early successional soils (20-year age gradient) from a receding glacier in southeastern Peru using molecular phylogenetic techniques. We found that evenness, phylogenetic diversity, and the number of phylotypes were lowest in the youngest soils, increased in the intermediate aged soils, and plateaued in the oldest soils. This increase in diversity was commensurate with an increase in the number of sequences related to common soil bacteria in the older soils, including members of the divisions Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Verrucomicrobia. Sequences related to the Comamonadaceae clade of the Betaproteobacteria were dominant in the youngest soil, decreased in abundance in the intermediate age soil, and were not detected in the oldest soil. These sequences are closely related to culturable heterotrophs from rock and ice environments, suggesting that they originated from organisms living within or below the glacier. Sequences related to a variety of nitrogen (N)-fixing clades within the Cyanobacteria were abundant along the chronosequence, comprising 6-40% of phylotypes along the age gradient. Although there was no obvious change in the overall abundance of cyanobacterial sequences along the chronosequence, there was a dramatic shift in the abundance of specific cyanobacterial phylotypes, with the intermediate aged soils containing the greatest diversity of these sequences. Most soil biogeochemical characteristics showed little change along this 20-year soil age gradient; however, soil N pools significantly increased with soil age, perhaps as a result of the activity of the N-fixing Cyanobacteria. Our results suggest that, like macrobial communities, soil microbial communities are structured by substrate age, and that they, too, undergo predictable changes through time.
4250755|Desert varnish is a coating of ferromanganese oxides and clays that develops on rock surfaces in arid to semi-arid regions. Active respiration but not photosynthesis was detected on varnished rock surfaces from the Sonoran Desert. Light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) observations, and cultivation experiments indicate that both fungi, primarily dematiaceous hyphomycetes, and bacteria are found on and within desert varnish coatings from the arid regions studied. Some fungi grow as microcolonial fungi (MCF) on rocks, and microscopic observations suggest MCF become incorporated in the varnish coating. SEM-EDAX (energy dispersive X-ray systems) analyses indicate the MCF contain 3 of the characteristic elements of varnish: iron, aluminum, and silicon. In some locations, MCF are also enriched in manganese relative to the rock substratum. Furthermore, some of the dematiaceous hyphomycetes that have been cultivated are able to oxidize manganese under laboratory conditions. It is possible that manganese-oxidizing bacteria, which are found in varnish, also play an important role in varnish formation.
41489157|Coastal zones encompass a complex spectrum of environmental gradients that each impact the composition of bacterioplankton communities. Few studies have attempted to address these gradients comprehensively. We generated a synoptic, 16S rRNA gene-based bacterioplankton community profile of a coastal zone by applying the fingerprinting technique denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis to water samples collected from the Columbia River, estuary, and plume, and along coastal transects covering 360 km of the Oregon and Washington coasts and extending to the deep ocean (>2,000 m). Communities were found to cluster into five distinct groups based on location in the system (ANOSIM, p<0.003): estuary, plume, epipelagic, shelf bottom (depth<150 m), and slope bottom (depth>650 m). Across all environments, abiotic factors (salinity, temperature, depth) explained most of the community variability (= 0.734). But within each coastal environment, biotic factors explained most of the variability. Thus, structuring physical factors in coastal zones, such as salinity and temperature, define the boundaries of many distinct microbial habitats, but within these habitats variability in microbial communities is explained by biological gradients in primaiy and secondary productivity.
40605768|The muramic acid (MurA) assay is a powerful tool for the detection and quantification of bacteria with no need to enrich samples by culturing. However, the analysis of MurA in mixed biological and environmental matrices is potentially more complex than analysis in isolated bacterial cells. In this study, we employed one commonly used procedure for extraction of MurA from environmental samples and found that the presence of streptomycin interfered with the determination of MurA by creating chemical species that coeluted with the aldononitrile derivative of MurA prepared in this method. On a molar basis, streptomycin yields a signal that is approximately 0.67 times that of MurA. Mass spectrometry analysis confirmed that the interference from hydrolyzed streptomycin is not actually by MurA, but rather is likely to be TVmethyl glucosamine. Because streptomycin is widely applied for selective growth of eukaryotes both in situ and in vitro, our findings may have implications for the significance of results from MurA assays. We conclude that MurA remains an effectual bacterial biomarker due to its unique bacterial origin, but care must be applied in interpreting results from the assay when performed in the presence of streptomycin.
40802274|This case study shows the application of nontraditional diagnostic methods to investigate the microbial consortia inhabiting an ancient manuscript. The manuscript was suspected to be biologically deteriorated and SEM observations showed the presence of fungal spores attached to fibers, but classic culturing methods did not succeed in isolating microbial contaminants. Therefore, molecular methods, including PCR, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), and clone libraries, were used as a sensitive alternative to conventional cultivation techniques. DGGE fingerprints revealed a high biodiversity of both bacteria and fungi inhabiting the manuscript. DNA sequence analysis confirmed the existence of fungi and bacteria in manuscript samples. A number of fungal clones identified on the manuscript showed similarity to fungal species inhabiting dry or saline environments, suggesting that the manuscript environment selects for osmophilic or xerophilic fungal species. Most of the bacterial sequences retrieved from the manuscript belong to phylotypes with cellulolytic activities.
4251707|The relative role of components of solar radiation (UV-B, UV-A, and photosynthetically active radiation) as well as the effect of simulated sunlight upon the physiological state of Escherichia coli in fresh water were evaluated. Simulated solar radiation had a sublethal effect on E. coli populations in a short-time exposure by provoking loss of culturability and the formation of viable but nonculturable cells. Prolonged exposure increased the damage to cells but cellular integrity was never affected. However, important differences between the way the sunlight components acted were detected. After photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) exposure, cells remained metabolically active but only 10% of the cells were culturable. When cells were exposed to UV-A, the culturable fraction was similar to the one obtained after PAR irradiation, although formation of viable but nonculturable cells was not observed. For UV-B radiation short-time exposures (6 h) were enough to provoke loss of culturability and a reduction in activity similar to that of simulated sunlight exposed cells. The effect of simulated solar radiation on E. coli cells was mainly attributable to shorter wavelengths, but a synergistic interaction of the UV-B, UV-A and PAR components was detected.
40343342|Among 106 filamentous fungi isolated from poultry farm waste, 13 species belonging to seven genera (Aspergillus, Acremonium, Alternaria, Beauvaria, Curvularia, Paecilomyces, and Penicillium) were able to grow and produce keratinase in stationary cultures using poultry feather powder as the only substrate. The four most efficient keratinase producers were selected for a comparative study of keratinase production in submerged and stationary conditions. The highest keratinolytic activities were produced after 46 days of cultivation in submerged conditions: 53.86.1 U/mL (Alternaria tenuissima), 51.25.4 U/mL (Acremonium hyalinulum), 55.45.2 U/mL (Curvularia brachyspora), and 62.84.8 U/mL (Beauveria bassiana). These novel nondermatophytic keratinolytic fungi have potential use in biotechnological processes involving keratin hydrolysis. The results of this work contribute to show that keratinolytic activity is relatively widespread among common filamentous fungi and may have an important rule in feather decomposition in natural settings.
25153372| Fungi have been only rarely isolated from glacial ice in extremely cold polar regions and were in these cases considered as random, long-term preserved Aeolian deposits. Fungal presence has so far not been investigated in polar subglacial ice, a recently discovered extreme habitat reported to be inhabited exclusively by heterotrophic bacteria. In this study we report on the very high occurrence (up to 9000 CFU L) and diversity of filamentous Penicillium spp. in the sediment-rich subglacial ice of three different polythermal Arctic glaciers (Svalbard, Norway). The dominant species was P. crustosum, representing on the average half of all isolated strains from all three glaciers. The other most frequently isolated species were P. bialowiezense, P. chrysogenum, P. thomii, P. solitum, P. palitans, P. echinulatum, P. polonicum, P. commune, P. discolor, P. expansum, and new Penicillium species (sp. 1). Twelve more Penicillium species were occasionally isolated. The fungi isolated produced consistent profiles of secondary metabolites, not different from the same Penicillium species from other habitats. This is the first report on the presence of large populations of Penicillium spp. in subglacial sediment-rich ice. 
23361664|Ocean acidification, resulting from rising atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations, is a pervasive stressor that can affect many marine organisms and their symbionts. Studies which examine the host physiology and microbial communities have shown a variety of responses to the ocean acidification process. Recently, several studies were conducted based on field experiments, which take place in natural CO 2 vents, exposing the host to natural environmental conditions of varying pH. This study examines the sea anemone Anemonia viridis which is found naturally along the pH gradient in Ischia, Italy, with an aim to characterize whether exposure to pH impacts the holobiont. The physiological parameters of A. viridis (Symbiodinium density, protein, and chlorophyll a+c concentration) and its microbial community were monitored. Although reduction in pH was seen to have had an impact on composition and diversity of associated microbial communities, no significant changes were observed in A. viridis physiology, and no microbial stress indicators (i.e., pathogens, antibacterial activity, etc.) were detected. In light of these results, it appears that elevated CO 2 does not have a negative influence on A. viridis that live naturally in the site. This suggests that natural long-term exposure and dynamic diverse microbial communities may contribute to the acclimation process of the host in a changing pH environment.
40605864|Planktonic picocyanobacteria abundance and diversity were investigated in nine lakes on the East Tibetan Plateau spanning a salinity gradient of 0.4-22.6 g 1. The investigation was conducted using epifluorescence microscopy (EFM) and terminal restriction fragment polymorphism analysis of 16S-23S rRNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) PCR amplicons followed by sequence analyses of large ITS clone libraries of seven selected samples. EFM showed that picocyanobacteria comprised 7-19% of the total prokaryotic cells found in surface water. Most of the clones were classified into six clusters and grouped within the "picocyanobacterial clade", which consists exclusively of freshwater Synechococcus. Four new phylogenetic clusters and one new subcluster of Synechococcus spp. were found, none of which are members of any known picocyanobacterial clusters. The new clusters and subcluster were the most abundant picocyanobacteria (about 96% of the sequences) in the samples collected. Sequence analyses indicated that members of the four new Synechococcus groups were only found in freshwater lakes (< 1.0 g 1 of total dissolved solid), while members of the new subcluster were found in all the investigated Tibetan lakes, over a large salinity gradient of 0.4-22.6 g 1. This suggests that there is ecologically significant microdiversity within the observed Synechococcus group as defined by ITS sequences. Collectively our study demonstrated abundant and potentially novel Synechococcus in East Tibetan lakes that are likely the result of evolutionary adaptations to regional conditions.
25153236|The effect of arrival of wood resources, precolonized by Coriolus versicolor, Phlebia radiata, Stereum hirsutum, and Vuilleminia comedens, on mycelial systems of Phanerochaete velutina was studied in trays of nonsterile soil in the laboratory over 5 months. Morphological responses were quantified nondestructively using image analysis. In a parallel series of experiments, nutrient movement was also quantified nondestructively using P monitoring with a scintillation probe and subsequently by destructively harvesting after 155 days. The presence of a fungus occupying a newly arriving resource had major effects on deployment of biomass and on the uptake and allocation of phosphorus in the established Pha. velutina system. The effects varied depending on the species occupying the new resource. Hyphal coverage was greater in the half of the system to which new resources were added. Following addition of new resources, there was massive redeployment of biomass away from regions with no new resource when the new resource was (1) uncolonized, (2) colonized by V. comedens, or (3) colonized by S. hirsutum (although to a lesser extent with the latter), but not with others. P was taken up by Pha. velutina both in the vicinity of the inoculum and the new resource and was translocated to the new resource from both sites of uptake; however, the local supply contributed most. Bidirectional translocation also occurred. The results are discussed in relation to mycelial foraging strategies, nutrient translocation, and partitioning within mycelial cord systems.
4250850|Sulfate reduction activity (SRA) was measured via the radio-active tracer (
25256162|A dual approach consisting of cultivation and molecular retrieval of actinobacterial 16S rRNA genes was used to characterize the diversity of actinobacterial community inhabiting interior of rice stems and roots. Streptomyces is the most frequently isolated genus from rice stems and roots. Forty-five clones chosen randomly among 250 clones in the 16S rRNA gene clone library from roots were affiliated with nine genera of actinobacteria and uncultured actinobacteria (Mycobacterium, Streptomyces, Micromonospora, Actinoplanes, Frankia, Dactylosporangium, Amycolatopsis, Corynebacterium, Rhodococcus, and uncultured actinobacterium). However, 33 clones from stems were affiliated with four genera and uncultured actinobacteria (Streptomyces, Mycobacterium, Nocardiodies, Janibacter, uncultured earthworm cast bacterium, uncultured earthworm intestine bacterium, and uncultured actinobacterium). Species similar to S. cyaneus were isolated from surface-sterilized roots and stems of rice and detected inside rice roots by culture-independent methods. Species similar to S. caviscabies, S. scabies, and S. turgidiscabies were simultaneously detected from the interior of rice stems by the culture-dependent and culture-independent methods. S. galilaeus was detected from the interior of rice stems and roots. These results indicated that some actinobacterial populations in rice stems were correlated with those in roots.
4250599|The bacterial communities of three aquatic systems were analyzed in order to compare the influence of heavy metals. The first system was a sedimentation pond in a zinc-copper factory. The second was the bank of the Belgian river Meuse covered by the moss Platyhypnidium riparioides (Hedw.) Dix. contaminated with heavy metals. The third was the bank of the same river covered by the same uncontaminated moss. The study was focused mainly on cadmium. The reciprocal averaging method showed that some bacterial strains could develop in very high concentrations of cadmium, but their physiological characteristics were not the same as those of the sensitive strains. In addition, the characteristics of the resistant strains depended on the environment. Correlation between resistance to heavy metals and to antibiotics was observed but was not the same in all communities. The density of resistant strains was roughly related to the level of toxicity in the environment.
25256194|Sediments contain an abundance of microorganisms. However, the diversity and distribution of microorganisms associated with sediments are poorly understood, particularly in lacustrine environments. We used banding patterns from denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and 16S rDNA sequences to assess the structure of bacterial communities in the Holocene sediments of a meromictic lake in Minnesota. Cluster analysis of the DGGE banding patterns indicates that the early- and middle-Holocene samples group separately from the late-Holocene samples. About 79% of the recovered bacterial sequences cluster with the -, -, -, -, and - Proteobacteriaceae and Firmicutes. The remaining 21% lack cultured representatives. The taxonomic lineages of bacteria differ statistically among the early-, middle-, and late-Holocene samples, although the difference is smallest between early- and middle-Holocene samples. Early- and middle-Holocene samples are dominated by -Proteobacteriaceae, and late-Holocene samples are dominated by sequences from uncultured subphyla. We only recovered -Proteobacteriaceae in late-Holocene sediments and - and - Proteobacteriaceae in late- and middle-Holocene sediments. Diversity estimates derived from early-, middle-, and late-Holocene clone libraries indicate that the youngest (late-Holocene) samples had significantly greater bacterial diversity than the oldest (early-Holocene) samples, and the middle-Holocene samples contained intermediate levels of diversity. The observed patterns of diversity may be caused by increased bacterial niche-partitioning in younger sediments that contain a greater abundance of labile organic matter than older sediments.
41489083|Selective isolation, molecular identification and AFLP were used to investigate the distribution of the various species of endophytic and epiphytic Trichoderma associated with banana roots and to compare and contrast their genetic structure. Three specific groups of Trichoderma were observed in the roots of banana. Group one, which made up the largest population, comprised T. asperellum, T. virens, and Hypocrea lixii, which were isolated from both inside and on the surface of the banana roots, while group two, made up of T. atroviride and T. koningiopsis, existed on the surface only. Group three, comprising only T. brevicompactum was isolated from the inside of the roots. The AFLP analysis revealed Nei's diversity indices of 0.15 and 0.26 for epiphytic T. asperellum and T. virens, respectively. The index values of 0.11 and 0.11 were obtained for endophytic T. asperellum and T. virens, respectively. The genetic diversity within endophytic T. asperellum and T. virens was lower than that within the epiphytes. This suggests that endophytic Trichoderma has a higher genetic conservation and is compatible with the relatively stable microenvironments inside roots.
4251455|Three techniques for estimating nitrification rates in flooded soils were evaluated in short-term incubation experiments using three soils. The techniques were based on inhibition of either ammonium or nitrite oxidation and
4250468|Mixed populations of bacteria, fungi, and actinomycetes in a leaf compost pile were examined over a 100-day test period for their ability to produce extracellular proteolytic, lipolytic, amylolytic, cellulolytic, pectolytic, and ureolytic enzymes and ability to utilize alkanes. Urea was added to the leaves to adjust the carbon to nitrogen ratio but was of little value in maintaining the proper ratio since it was degraded within the first few days. The degradative enzymes excreted by microorganisms was dependent on the temperature of the pile. In many cases organisms able to produce specific extracellular enzymes at medium temperatures were able to grow at high temperatures, but either did not excrete the specific enzymes or the enzymes were inactivated by the high temperature.
4287507| We developed and tested a set of primers for amplification of a region of the 24S -subunit rRNA genes (24S rDNA) specific to Kinetoplastida (Protozoa). The reverse primer was supplied with a GC rich region in the 5 end in order to make the PCR product suitable for analysis by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). PCR product was obtained from all the kinetoplastids tested and no PCR product was obtained from any other Eukaryotes or Prokaryotes tested. It was possible to distinguish between all pure cultures of kinetoplastids by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis in gels ranging from 20% to 60% denaturants. PCR-DGGE analysis of DNA purified from lake sediment revealed approximately 20 bands indicating high kinetoplastid diversity. Direct cloning and sequencing of 24S rDNA sequences retrieved from the lake sediment by PCR also showed high kinetoplastid diversity. Of 43 clones, 27 different sequences were found. Alignments and phylogenetic analysis showed that a majority of the sequences were most closely related to the Bodonidae. Four sequences were closer to the Trypanosomatidae, whereas three sequences fell outside both groups. The PCR-DGGE procedure developed in this study has been shown to be useful for distinguishing between different kinetoplastid species. Thus, it may be a useful tool for evaluating the genetic diversity of this group in environmental samples, e.g., as a result of perturbation. Another possible application of this method is in fast and accurate screening for the presence and identification of pathological parasitic Kinetoplastida from environmental samples and for diagnostics of human and animal infections. 
40802283|The aim of this study was to understand if two species of salt marsh plants, widely distributed in European estuaries (Spartina martima and Halimione portulacoides) differently influence the distribution, activity, and metabolic physiology of sediment bacterial communities in monospecific banks, in comparison with uncolonized sediment (control). Microbiological descriptors of abundance and activity were assessed along vertical profiles of sediments.Rates of activity of the extracellular enzymes -glucosidase, -glucosidase, aminopeptidase, arylsulfatase, and phosphatase were generally higher in the vegetation banks in relation to control sediments where they were also less variable with depth. This is interpreted as an indirect effect related to supply of plant-derived polymeric substrates for bacterial growth. Parameters related to sediment texture (grain size, percent of fines or water content) showed significant relations with cell abundance or maximum hydrolysis rates, pointing to an indirect effect of plant colonization exerted through the modification of sediment physical properties.The profiles of utilization of sole-carbon-source (Biolog Ecoplates) showed that only the communities from the upper sediment layer of the S. martima and the H. portulacoides banks exhibit consistent differences in terms of physiological profiles. Bacterial communities in control sediments exhibited the lowest physiological variability between surface and sub-surface communities. The results indicate that microbial colonization and organic matter decomposition are enhanced under the influence of salt marsh plants and confirm that plant coverage is a major determinant of the processes of organic matter recycling in intertidal estuarine sediments.
4250767| The microbial decomposition of leaves (both fresh and autumn-shed) at 0C using stream sediment-water was investigated. The maximum rates of loss of leaf carbohydrate and protein at 0C were considerable, being about 40% of those at 20C. These rates were only slightly affected by the type of leaf material present being 1.3-fold higher with fresh leaves as compared with autumn-shed leaves. In addition, an epifluorescence microscopic counting technique was developed and utilized to enumerate the microbial populations colonizing the decomposing leaves. The average microbial densities on fresh and autumn-shed leaves after 35 days of incubation were 1.3  10
4251207|The general mathematical theory of the gradostat is presented for two competitors. The gradostat provides a mechanism for studying competition along a nutrient gradient. In the two vessel case, the results are complete and the conditions are testable. In the n-vessel case, the relevant conditions are stated in terms of the stability modulii of certain matrices and are testable for any specific case.
25153058|Yersinia pestis, the causative agent of bubonic plague, evolved from closely related Yersinia pseudotuberculosis within the past 20,000 years, an event that corresponds to the end of the last ice age and distribution of Homo sapiens throughout the world. Y. pseudotuberculosis causes chronic but generally mild enteropathogenic infections whereas plague is the most devastating acute disease experienced by mankind. The very recent evolution of plague from its progenitor assures close genomic homogeneity between the two species and thus high probability that disparities in DNA sequence mediate dramatic differences in symptoms of infection. The purpose of this minireview is to define salient distinctions between the genomes of Y. pestis and Y. pseudotuberculosis and to equate unique functions to respective acute and chronic mechanisms of virulence. The significance of these processes is then related to the procedures the organisms use to survive when between hosts (i.e., the flea vector colonized by Y. pestis and natural environments including soil and water in the case of Y. pseudotuberculosis). Next, an attempt is made to order the various mutational events that caused the recent emergence of Y. pestis as a distinct species. Finally, selective pressures such as predatory soil nematodes are considered that possibly influenced the early evolution of those yersiniae now pathogenic to humans.
25153245| Partitioning of CO incorporation into oxygenic phototrophic, anoxygenic phototrophic, and chemolithoautotrophic guilds was determined in a freshwater lake (Lake Cis, Banyoles, Spain). CO incorporation into the different types of microorganisms was studied at different depths, during diel cycles, and throughout the year. During winter holomixis, the whole lake became anoxic and both the anoxygenic and chemolithoautotrophic guilds were more active at the surface of the lake, whereas the activity of the oxygenic guild was negligible. During stratification, the latter guild was more active in the upper metalimnion, whereas the anoxygenic guild was more active in the lower metalimnion. Specific growth rates and doubling times were estimated for the most conspicuous phototrophic microorganisms. Doubling times for Cryptomonas phaseolus ranged between 0.5 and 192 days, whereas purple sulfur bacteria (Chromatiaceae-like) ranged between 1.5 and 238 days. These growth rates were similar to those calculated with a different approach in previous papers and indicate slow-growing populations with very large biomass. Overall, the annual total CO incorporation, in Lake Cis was 220g C m. Most of the CO incorporation, however, was due to the chemolithoautotrophic guild (61% during holomixis and 56% during stratification), followed by the anoxygenic phototrophic guild (35 and 19%, respectively) and the oxygenic phototrophs (4 and 25%, respectively), making dark carbon fixation the key process in the autotrophic metabolism of the lake. 
23469143|Two picocyanobacterial strains related to Acaryochloris were isolated from the Arabian Gulf, 3 m below the water surface, one from the north shore and the other from the south shore of Kuwait. Both strains were morphologically, ultrastructurally, and albeit to a less extend, phylogenetically similar to Acaryochloris. However, both isolates lacked chlorophyll d and produced instead chlorophyll a, as the major photosynthetic pigment. Both picocyanobacterial isolates were associated with oil-utilizing bacteria in the magnitude of 10 5 cells g -1 . According to their 16S rRNA gene sequences, bacteria associated with the isolate from the north were affiliated to Paenibacillus sp., Bacillus pumilus, and Marinobacter aquaeolei, but those associated with the isolate from the south were affiliated to Bacillus asahii and Alcanivorax jadensis. These bacterial differences were probably due to environmental variations. In batch cultures, the bacterial consortia in the nonaxenic biomass as well as the pure bacterial isolates effectively consumed crude oil and pure aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons, including very high-molecular-weight compounds. Water and diethylether extracts from the phototrophic biomass enhanced growth of individual bacterial isolates and their hydrocarbon-consumption potential in batch cultures. It was concluded that these consortia could be promising in bioremediation of hydrocarbon pollutants, especially heavy sediments in the marine ecosystem.
40343411|Non-symbiotic microorganisms engineered or expensively selected to degrade xenobiotic hydrocarbons or modify heavy-metal uptake of plants in soil remediations die back after their introduction into the target soils. Mycelia of saprobic basidiomycetes were therefore inoculated into soil samples of 11 in glass vessels to record mycelial growth and reproduction in the immediate rhizosphere of up to 11 herbaceous plant species, or to study their responses to the separate volatiles from whole plant swards or their root balls whose emanations had been collected in 1.5-1 plastic bags fixed to the glass vessels. Excess CO was controlled with NaOH solution. Volatiles from root balls of parsley and pea but not wheat, from implanted soils, from the funguspermeated, implanted substrate soil itself, and from the rooting soil of whole wheat sward increased mycelial densities in Clitocybe sp. more than in Agaricus macrocarpus and indicated thus a higher nutrient state of the mycelia. Organic volatiles proved therefore to be a significant carbon source for certain basidiomycetes in poor natural soils. The contemporary decline in the number of basidiocarp initials to 0 to 36% in both fungi relative to the unplanted and aerated controls was caused by volatiles from rooted and unplanted soil and pointed thus to their ecological role as antibiotics, fumigants, toxins, and hormonal compounds. Aqueous extracts from root balls of wheat stimulated mycelial density and fruiting in A. macrocarpus contemporarily because of their contents in soil-derived macronutrients. They suppressed once more fruiting in the more sensitive Clitocybe sp. by active agents in the aqueous phase. Within plant rhizospheres, densities of Clitocybe sp. mycelia were stimulated in the presence of alfalfa, carrot, red clover, ryegrass, and spinach, whereas those of A. macrocarpus were halved by 7 of 10 plant species including alfalfa, red clover, ryegrass, and spinach. Mycelia of A. macrocarpus may thereby have responded to differences in concentration and composition of volatile compounds. The contemporary repression of fruiting in both fungi and in nearly all treatments was not due to plant competition for macronutrients. Mycelia of basidiomycetes over-compensated for losses in macronutrients to the plant by decomposing soil matrix constituents. It is concluded that organic volatiles emitted by several plant oigans and natural soils improved the nutritional state of A. macrocarpus and Clitocybe sp. but not o Agaricus bisporus mycelia and could therefore help establish certain ground fungi in the field. The contemporary and general suppression of fruiting by constituents of the gaseous (and liquid) phase in all fungi examined suggests interference with basic physiological processes and recommends an urgent re-examination of the degradative ability of basidiomycetes in the presence of volatiles.
41489168|Salmonella enterica is divided into four subspecies containing a large number of different serovars, several of which are important zoonotic pathogens and some show a high degree of host specificity or host preference. We compare 45 sequenced S. enterica genomes that are publicly available (22 complete and 23 draft genome sequences). Of these, 35 were found to be of sufficiently good quality to allow a detailed analysis, along with two Escherichia coli strains (K-12 substr. DH10B and the avian pathogenic E. coli (APEC O1) strain). All genomes were subjected to standardized gene finding, and the core and pan-genome of Salmonella were estimated to be around 2,800 and 10,000 gene families, respectively. The constructed pan-genomic dendrograms suggest that gene content is often, but not uniformly correlated to serotype. Any given Salmonella strain has a large stable core, whilst there is an abundance of accessory genes, including the Salmonella pathogenicity islands (SPIs), transposable elements, phages, and plasmid DNA. We visualize conservation in the genomes in relation to chromosomal location and DNA structural features and find that variation in gene content is localized in a selection of variable genomic regions or islands. These include the SPIs but also encompass phage insertion sites and transposable elements. The islands were typically well conserved in several, but not all, isolatesa difference which may have implications in, e.g., host specificity.
4250490|The surfaces of urban woody vegetation are contaminated with varying amounts of numerous metallic compounds, including Cd, Cu, Mn, Al, Cr, Ni, Fe, Pb, Na, and Zn. To examine the possibility that these metals may affect phylloplane fungi, the above cations were tested in vitro for their ability to influence the growth of numerous saprophytic and parasitic fungi isolated from the leaves of London plane trees. Considerable variation in growth inhibition by the metals was observed. Generally Aureobasidium pullulans, Epicoccum sp., and Phialophora verrucosa were relatively tolerant; Gnomonia platani, Cladsporium sp., and Pleurophomella sp. were intermediate; and Pestalotiopsis and Chaetomium sp. were relatively sensitive to the incorporation of certain metals into solid and liquid media. If similar growth inhibitions occur in nature, competitive abilities or population structures of plant surface microbes may be altered by surface metal contamination. Metals causing the greatest and broadest spectrum growth suppression included Ni, Zn, Pb, Al, Fe, and Mn.
41489061|Because of conflicting results in previous studies, it is unclear whether litter diversity has a predictable impact on microbial communities or ecosystem processes. We examined whether effects of litter diversity depend on factors that could confound comparisons among previous studies, including leaf type, habitat type, identity of other leaves in the mixture, and spatial covariance at two scales within habitats. We also examined how litter diversity affects the saprotrophic microbial community using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism to profile bacterial and fungal community composition, direct microscopy to quantify bacterial biomass, and ergosterol extraction to quantify fungal biomass. We found that leaf mixture diversity was rarely significant as a main effect (only for fungal biomass), but was often significant as an interaction with leaf type (for ash-free dry mass recovered, carbon-to-nitrogen ratio, fungal biomass, and bacterial community composition). Leaf type and habitat were significant as main effects for all response variables. The majority of variance in leaf ash-free dry mass and C/N ratio was explained after accounting for treatment effects and spatial covariation at the meter (block) and centimeter (litterbag) scales. However, a substantial amount of variability in microbial communities was left unexplained and must be driven by factors at other spatial scales or more complex spatiotemporal dynamics. We conclude that litter diversity effects are primarily dependent on leaf type, rather than habitat type or identity of surrounding leaves, which can guide the search for mechanisms underlying effects of litter diversity on ecosystem processes.
25256147|The structure and summertime production of planktonic communities and the role of nondiatom planktonic cells were studied in coastal ponds, which are areas traditionally used for fattening and greening table-sized oysters. The abundance and biomass of nano-microplanktonic protists were determined at weekly intervals between February 1998 and February 1999 in a coastal pond without oysters in the French Atlantic coast near La Rochelle. The production of these microbiotas was determined in the summer period. The structure of plankton communities revealed the following observations: (1) microphytoplanktonic cells were mostly diatoms and dinoflagellates, (2) microzooplanktonic cells were mainly ciliates, and (3) nanoplanktonic cells were represented by pigmented (80-90% of the nanoplankton biomass) and colorless nanoflagellates. Diatoms were dominated by Naviculiineae. Dinoflagellates were dominated by Peridiniales. Oligotrichida were predominant in the ciliate community. Protist biomass levels were nine times higher from April to August (summer period 1033 g C L) than from September to March (winter period 114 g C L). Whatever the season, nanoflagellates were dominant in the water column (66 and 53% of the entire protist biomass in the summer and winter periods, respectively). Nanoflagellates represented the highest production of nano-microplanktonic communities (76% of carbon protist production) in the coastal pond in summer and showed the shortest generation time (7.1 h). Dinoflagellates came after nanoflagellates in production (19.5% of carbon protist production). Diatoms represented only a supplementary carbon resource available for higher trophic levels, whereas, until now, they were considered as the principal food of oysters in coastal ponds. Ciliates were a small source of carbon, but their growth rate was high. We suggest, first, that nanoflagellates represented the primary resource available in the pond and could constitute an important food resource for higher trophic levels, such as oysters, farmed in this type of pond. Overall, the system appeared to be more autotrophic than heterotrophic. Because inorganic nutrients are quickly exhausted in a semiclosed pond, pigmented flagellates dominated the carbon biomass, production and biomass of bacteria were high (thus, the microbial food web appeared to be active in this pond), and mixotrophy seemed to be an important trophic mode there.
40802287|Although deep subterranean crystalline rocks are known to harbor microbial ecosystems, geochemical factors that constrain the biomass, diversity, and metabolic activities of microorganisms remain to be clearly defined. To better understand the geochemical and microbiological relationships, we characterized granitic groundwater collected from a 1,148-to 1,169-m-deep borehole interval at the Mizunami Underground Research Laboratory site, Japan, in 2005 and 2008. Geochemical analyses of the groundwater samples indicated that major electron acceptors, such as NO and SO, were not abundant, while dissolved organic carbon (not including organic acids), CH and H, was moderately rich in the groundwater sample collected in 2008. The total number of acridine orange-stained cells in groundwater samples collected in 2005 and 2008 were 1110 and 5.210 cells/mL, respectively. In 2005 and 2008, the most common phylotypes determined by 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis were both related to Thauera spp., the cultivated members of which can utilize minor electron donors, such as aromatic and aliphatic hydrocarbons.After a 3-5-week incubation period with potential electron donors (organic acids or CH+H) and with/without electron acceptors (O or NO), dominant microbial populations shifted to Brevundimonas spp. These geomicrobiological results suggest that deep granitic groundwater has been stably colonized by Thauera spp. probably owing to the limitation of O, NO, and organic acids.
4250880|The effects of soil moisture changes on bacteria, fungi, protozoa, and nematodes and changes in oxygen consumption were studied in a field experiment. In one plot the soil was drip-irrigated daily for 10 days, while an adjacent plot experienced one rainfall and was then allowed to dry out. Oxygen consumption was the parameter measured which responded most rapidly to changes in soil moisture content. Lengths of fluorescein diacetate-active hyphae paralleled oxygen consumption in both plots. Total hyphal length was not affected by one rainfall but increased from 700 mg
4250871|All naturally occurring molecules are continuously being recycled in nature, constantly being synthesized, and constantly being degraded. Synthetic molecules on the other hand, often are unable to enter nature's recycling scheme because organisms that have an ability to degrade these xenobiotic compounds simply do not exist. Moreover, many synthetic chemicals are not only recalcitrant to biodegradation, but also are toxic and therefore can cause significant pollution problems even at very low concentrations. The chemical industry will continue to produce an evergrowing number of molecules, even though severe environmental problems have resulted from synthetic molecules already produced. We must find a means of bringing synthetic molecules back into nature's recycling systems if we are to preserve the environment. Biotechnology, through the genetic manipulation of microorganisms, provides a means of accomplishing this goal.
25256146|Culturable leaf-associated bacteria inhabiting a plant have been considered as promising biological control agent (BCA) candidates because they can survive on the plant. We investigated the relationship between bacterial groups of culturable leaf-associated bacteria on greenhouse- and field-grown tomato leaves and their antifungal activities against tomato diseases in vitro and in vivo. In addition, the isolated bacteria were analyzed for N-acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) production, which have been reported to associate with bacterial colonization, and resistance to a tomato alkaloid (-tomatine). Leaf washings and subsequent leaf macerates were used to estimate the population size of epiphytic and more internal bacteria. Bacterial population sizes on leaves at the same position increased as the leaves aged under both greenhouse and field conditions. Field-grown tomatoes had significantly larger population sizes than greenhouse-grown tomatoes. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene (rDNA) sequencing using 887 culturable leaf-associated bacteria revealed a predominance of the Bacillus and Pseudomonas culturable leaf-associated bacterial groups on greenhouse- and field-grown tomatoes, respectively. Curtobacterium and Sphingomonas were frequently recovered from both locations. From the 2138 bacterial strains tested, we selected several strains having in vitro antifungal activity against three fungal pathogens of tomato: Botrytis cinerea, Fulvia fulva, and Alternaria solani. Among bacterial strains with strong in vitro antifungal activities, Bacillus and Pantoea tended to show strong antifungal activities, whereas Curtobacterium and Sphingomonas were not effective. The results indicated the differences in antifungal activity among predominant bacterial groups. Analysis of -tomatine resistance revealed that most bacterial strains in the dominant groups exhibited moderate or high resistance to -tomatine in growth medium. Furthermore, some Sphingomonas and Pantoea strains showed AHL and IAA production activities. Strain 125NP12 (Pantoea ananatis) showed particular -tomatine resistance, and AHL and IAA production had the highest protective value (91.7) against gray mold. Thus, the differences of these physiological properties among dominant bacteria may be associated with the disease suppression ability of BCAs on tomato plants.
4251147|In the present study, mineralization of an aromatic N-heterocyclic molecule, indole, by microorganisms present in anaerobically digested sewage sludge was examined. The first step in indole mineralization was the formation of a hydroxylated intermediate, oxindole. The rate of transformation of indole to oxindole and its subsequent disappearance was dependent on the concentration of inoculum and indole and the incubation temperature. Methanogenesis appeared to be the dominant process in the mineralization of indole in 10% digested sludge even in the presence of high concentrations of sulfate. Enrichment of the digested sludge with sulfate as an electron acceptor allowed the isolation of a metabolically stable mixed culture of anaerobic bacteria which transformed indole to oxindole and acetate, and ultimately to methane and carbon dioxide. This mixed culture exhibited a predominance of sulfate-reducers over methanogens with more than 75% of the substrate mineralized to carbon dioxide. The investigation demonstrates that indole can be transformed by both methanogenic and sulfate-reducing microbial populations.
25153203|Microcystins, toxins produced by cyanobacteria, may play a role in fish kills, although their specific contribution remains unclear. A better understanding of the ecotoxicological effects of microcystins is hampered by a lack of analyses at different trophic levels in lake foodwebs. We present 3 years of monitoring data, and directly compare the transfer of microcystin in the foodweb starting with the uptake of (toxic) cyanobacteria by two different filter feeders: the cladoceran Daphnia galeata and the zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha. Furthermore foodwebs are compared in years in which the colonia cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa or the filamentous cyanobacterium Planktothrix agardhii dominated; there are implications in terms of the type and amount of microcystins produced and in the ingestion of cyanobacteria. Microcystin concentrations in the seston commonly reached levels where harmful effects on zooplankton are to be expected. Likewise, concentrations in zooplankton reached levels where intoxication of fish is likely. The food chain starting with Dreissena (consumed by roach and diving ducks) remained relatively free from microcystins. Liver damage, typical for exposure to microcystins, was observed in a large fraction of the populations of different fish species, although no relation with the amount of microcystin could be established. Microcystin levels were especially high in the livers of planktivorous fish, mainly smelt. This puts piscivorous birds at risk. We found no evidence for biomagnification of microcystins. Concentrations in filter feeders were always much below those in the seston, and yet vectorial transport to higher trophic levels took place. Concentrations of microcystin in smelt liver exceeded those in the diet of these fish, but it is incorrect to compare levels in a selected organ to those in a whole organism (zooplankton). The discussion focuses on the implications of detoxication and covalent binding of microcystin for the transfer of the toxin in the foodweb. It seems likely that microcystins are one, but not the sole, factor involved in fish kills during blooms of cyanobacteria.
4250946| The abundance of ultramicrobacteria (i.e., bacteria that pass through a 0.2 m filter) in a subtropical Alabama estuary was determined during a 1-year period. Although phenotypic and molecular characterization indicated that the population of ultramicrobacteria was dominated by Vibrio species, species of Listonella and Pseudomonas were also abundant. Vibrios occurred with the greatest frequency in waters whose salinities were less than 14, and were the most abundant species of the total ultramicrobacterial population year-round, while Pseudomonas species were absent or considerably reduced during the winter months. The total number of ultramicrobacteria showed an inverse relationship to total heterotrophic bacteria as measured by colony-forming units (CFU)/ml and to water quality as measured by several parameters. Analysis by generic composition indicated that both salinity and temperature significantly affected the distribution of these organisms. Laboratory studies revealed that strains of vibrios under starvation in both static and continuous-flow microcosms could be induced to form cells that passed through 0.2 and/or 0.4 m filters. Cells exposed to low nutrients became very small; some grew on both oligotrophic (5.5 mg carbon/liter) and eutrophic (5.5 g carbon/liter) media; and some few cells grew only on oligotrophic media. By passing selected vibrio strains on progressively diluted nutrient media, cells were also obtained that were small, that passed through 0.4 m filters, and that could grow in oligotrophic media. These results suggest that ultramicrobacteria in estuaries (at least some portion of the population) may be nutrient-starved or low nutrient-induced forms of certain heterotrophic, eutrophic, autochthonous, estuarine bacteria. 
4251434| Lake Kinneret, Israel, is a warm (13-30C) monomictic lake that stratifies in April and turns over in December. Between January and June each year, a heavy bloom (up to 250 g wet weight m
4250690| The respiration rates of axenically cultured Acanthamoeba castellanii (Gymnamoebia) and of the test organism Tetrahymena pyriformis (Ciliophora) were compared using both Warburg and cartesian diver respirometer techniques at 20C. Furthermore, the latter procedure was employed to measure the oxygen consumption of the amoebae, Polychaos fasciculatum, Saccamoeba limax, and Amoeba sp. The linear relationship between respiration rate and mean cell volume in amoebae was reassessed in view of these additional estimates. The importance of this regression in ecological studies is discussed. 
4251756| The formation of cyanobacterial mats (originally induced by incubation of sediment cores in which metazoans and most other eukaryotes had been removed) was followed over approximately 2.6 years. The thickness of the mats increased at a rate of 2-3 mm per year because of accumulation of empty cyanobacterial sheaths and as a result of carbonate deposition; the fraction of living biomass remained relatively constant over at least 2 years, but there was a slow accumulation of nonliving organic C ( 1 mmol yr
4251213|In controlled environments, plants inoculated with Azospirillum brasilense caused the contamination of noninoculated plants via air transmission. This was detected up to 6 m from the inoculation source. In the temperate agricultural zone studied in field experiments, local Azospirillum strains were detected year-round. Other diazotrophs showed a similar distribution pattern. It is proposed that (1) contamination from Azospirillum-inoculated plants may occur via airborne bacteria, (2) local azospirilla and other diazotrophs have an airborne phase in temperate agricultural zones, and (3) because of the existence of an airborne phase for Gram-negative rhizosphere bacteria, inoculation presents a risk of uncontrolled airborne contamination.
40343502|Protease-producing bacteria are known to play an important role in degrading sedimentary particular organic nitrogen, and yet, their diversity and extracellular proteases remain largely unknown. In this paper, the diversity of the cultivable protease-producing bacteria and their extracellular proteases in the sediments of the South China Sea was investigated. The richness of the cultivable protease-producing bacteria reached 10 cells/g in all sediment samples. Analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that the predominant cultivated protease-producing bacteria are Gammaproteobacteria affiliated with the genera Pseudoalteromonas, Alteromonas, Marinobacter, Idiomarina, Halomonas, Vibrio, Shewanella, Pseudomonas, and Rheinheimera, with Alteromonas (34,6%) and Pseudoalteromonas (28.2%) as the predominant groups. Inhibitor analysis showed that nearly all the extracellular proteases from the bacteria are serine proteases or metalloproteases. Moreover, these proteases have different hydrolytic ability to different proteins, reflecting they may belong to different kinds of serine proteases or metalloproteases. To our knowledge, this study represents the first report of the diversity of bacterial proteases in deep-sea sediments.
41489066|Recent studies have shown the microbial biofilms adherent to plant biomass in the gastrointestinal tracts of humans and other herbivores are quite different to planktonic populations. If these biofilm communities are to be properly characterized by metagenomics methods, then the microbial desorption methods used must ensure the phylogenetic diversity and genetic potential recovered is biologically valid. To that end, we describe here two different methods for desorbing microbes tightly adherent to plant biomass; and used PCR-DGGE analyses of the Bacteria and Archaea rrs genes to show both these desorption methods were effective in recovering the adherent microbial biofilm with no apparent biases in microbe recovery. We also present a derivation of the "repeated bead beating and column (RBB+C) purification" method of DNA extraction that results in the recovery of high molecular weight DNA. These DNA samples can be fragmented and size fractionated by sucrose density gradient centrifugation, bypassing the use of gel-plug lysis and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis separation of DNA for metagenomic library constructions.
23469575|Vibrios are Gram-negative curved bacilli that occur naturally in marine, estuarine, and freshwater systems. Some species include human and animal pathogens, and some vibrios are necessary for natural systems, including the carbon cycle and osmoregulation. Countless in vivo and in vitro studies have examined the interactions between vibrios and their environment, including molecules, cells, whole animals, and abiotic substrates. Many studies have characterized virulence factors, attachment factors, regulatory factors, and antimicrobial resistance factors, and most of these factors impact the organism's fitness regardless of its external environment. This review aims to identify common attributes among factors that increase fitness in various environments, regardless of whether the environment is an oyster, a rabbit, a flask of immortalized mammalian cells, or a planktonic chitin particle. This review aims to summarize findings published thus far to encapsulate some of the basic similarities among the many vibrio fitness factors and how they frame our understanding of vibrio ecology. Factors representing these similarities include hemolysins, capsular polysaccharides, flagella, proteases, attachment factors, type III secretion systems, chitin binding proteins, iron acquisition systems, and colonization factors.
27770570|We carried out a 16-month in situ study to investigate the ecology of Vibrio spp. and pathogenic Vibrio species in coastal sediments of the Mediterranean Sea, employing multiple-regression analysis to reveal the major environmental factors controlling their occurrence in the benthic environment. In addition, association between vibrios and sediment-inhabiting meiofauna, which is a major component of benthic ecosystems, was investigated. Culturable and total Vibrio spp. estimates by most-probable-number technique coupled with standard polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and real-time PCR methods, respectively, were at least one order of magnitude higher in sediment than in seawater. In addition, potential human pathogenic species Vibrio cholerae, Vibrio vulnificus and Vibrio parahaemolyticus occurred in the sediment with V. parahaemolyticus being the most frequently found. In the pelagic environment, 60% of total variance in culturable Vibrio data was explained by sea surface temperature (40%), salinity (13%) and organic matter concentration (7%). In the benthic environment, sea surface temperature was the only factor that significantly affected culturable Vibrio occurrence although it explained only 25% of total variance, suggesting that additional unexplored factors may play a role as well. No correlation was found between culturable Vibrio spp. concentrations and the abundance of harpacticoid copepods in the sediment whilst a negative correlation was found between Vibrio spp. and nematode abundance which accounted for almost 90% of the total meiofaunal density. Taxonomic analysis revealed that selective bacterial feeders accounted for nearly 50% of the total nematode community and included genera such as Terschellingia, Molgolaimus and Halalaimus, suggesting that top-down control by nematode grazing may be an important factor affecting Vibrio occurrence in these sediments. It is concluded that the benthic marine environment may function as a reservoir of Vibrio spp. and potential pathogenic vibrios whose ecological features appeared substantially different from the ones recognised in the pelagic environment.
25153308|The relationship between groundwater geochemistry and microbial community structure can be complex and difficult to assess. We applied nonlinear and generalized linear data analysis methods to relate microbial biomarkers (phospholipids fatty acids, PLFA) to groundwater geochemical characteristics at the Shiprock uranium mill tailings disposal site that is primarily contaminated by uranium, sulfate, and nitrate. First, predictive models were constructed using feedforward artificial neural networks (NN) to predict PLFA classes from geochemistry. To reduce the danger of overfitting, parsimonious NN architectures were selected based on pruning of hidden nodes and elimination of redundant predictor (geochemical) variables. The resulting NN models greatly outperformed the generalized linear models. Sensitivity analysis indicated that tritium, which was indicative of riverine influences, and uranium were important in predicting the distributions of the PLFA classes. In contrast, nitrate concentration and inorganic carbon were least important, and total ionic strength was of intermediate importance. Second, nonlinear principal components (NPC) were extracted from the PLFA data using a variant of the feedforward NN. The NPC grouped the samples according to similar geochemistry. PLFA indicators of Gram-negative bacteria and eukaryotes were associated with the groups of wells with lower levels of contamination. The more contaminated samples contained microbial communities that were predominated by terminally branched saturates and branched monounsaturates that are indicative of metal reducers, actinomycetes, and Gram-positive bacteria. These results indicate that the microbial community at the site is coupled to the geochemistry and knowledge of the geochemistry allows prediction of the community composition.
4250711|Predacity, the ability of nematophagous fungi to destroy nematodes, was investigated for eight species of fungi by a method using sterilized soil and the nematode Panagrellus redivivus. In addition, the ability of the fungi to attract nematodes was investigated using an agar plate technique. Predacity and attraction were highly correlated (r = 0.98) in these tests. The presence of traps in cultures of Arthrobotrys oligospora increased the ability to attract nematodes by a factor of 2.
4251362| The microbial ecology of karstic ground water is largely unknown. The density, activity, and diversity of bacteria indigenous to subsurface karstic material in Mammoth Cave National Park, Mammoth Cave, Kentucky were studied using minimally disruptive, on-site procedures. Two sites, located 100 m below the surface and consisting of saturated fine to coarse sand in pooled water, were examined. Samples were taken aseptically using modified, sterile 60-cc syringes. Total cell and total respiring cell densities were determined using an acridine orange/p-iodonitrotetrazolium violet (AO/INT) staining procedure. Cells in selected cores were stained with INT and incubated in the cave for 4 h prior to fixing with glutaraldehyde and subsequent transport to the laboratory. Cells were stained with AO in the laboratory. Low- and high-nutrient media were used to determine viable cell counts. Plates were incubated in the cave for 1 day at ambient temperature prior to transportation to the laboratory in an insulated cooler. Viable cell counts ranged from 1.0  10
41489047|This paper reports the use of molecular methods to characterize the coprophilous fungal communities (CFC) that inhabit the dung of four species of mammalian herbivores at two sites, Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge (SNWR) in New Mexico and Wind Cave National Park (WCNP) in South Dakota. Results reveal that CFC from domesticated cattle (Bos taurus) at SNWR, and bison (Bison bison) and black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) at WCNP were diverse but dominated primarily by members within eight taxonomic orders, including the rarely cultured and anaerobic order Neocallimastigales. In addition, 7.7% (138 of 1,788) of the sequences obtained from all dung samples were at least 97% similar to root-associated fungal (RAF) sequences previously described from blue grama (Bouteloua gracilis), a common forage grass found throughout North America and growing at both study sites. In contrast, 95.8% (295 of 308) of the sequences and four of the total seven operational taxonomic units obtained from pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra americana) dung belonged to the Pleosporalean order. We hypothesize that some herbivore vectors disperse non-systemic (non-clavicipitaceous) fungal endophytes. These dispersal events, it is argued, are most likely to occur via herbivores that occasionally forage and masticate root tissue, especially in arid regions where aboveground vegetation is sparse. The results of this study suggest that some (possibly many) members of the RAF community can expand their ecological role to include colonizing dung.
4251120|One year after introduction into agricultural drainage water Pseudomonas fluorescens R2f (RP4), Pseudomonas putida CYM318 (pRK2501), and Klebsiella aerogenes NCTC418 (pBR322) could be recovered on agar media. Survival of the introduced strains depended on competition with the indigenous microflora, the presence of nutrients, and the availability of air. In contrast to K. aerogenes NCTC418 (pBR322), both Pseudomonas species lost their plasmids, as indicated by the consistently lower colony counts on selective medium compared with the counts on nonselective medium. The plasmid loss did not depend on nutrient status and oxygen supply. P. fluorescens R2f cells could be detected with the immunofluorescence (IF) technique. Total cell counts determined by IF were consistently higher than corresponding colony counts. Even in samples where no colonies were recovered, R2f cells could be detected by IF. This indicated the occurrence of nonculturable R2f cells in drainage water. Homology with
40605857|The epilithic algae distribution along a pH gradient and the relationship between the chemical gradient and biomass development were studied in Ro Agrio, a naturally acidic river located in Patagonia (Argentina). The epilithic community was monitored during the summer of three consecutive years in sites located above and below the entrance of tributaries. The epilithic community showed differences between sites based on the chemical composition of the water and the precipitates that appear on the streambed of the river. The lowest biomass, diversity, and number of species were found at the most extreme part of the river in terms of pH (ca. 2) and element concentrations. Euglena mutabils was the dominant species in this section of the river. As pH increased (ca. 3), the community changed to be dominated by filamentous green algae (Ulothrix spp., Mougeotia sp., Klebsormidium sp.) showing luxuriant growths in terms of biomass. With the inflow of a neutral tributary, the pH of Ro Agrio increased above 3, and the precipitates of orange-red iron hydroxides appeared. The algal community was not affected by these precipitates or the low  concentrations, along the next 30 km of river downstream from this site. The apparent physical stress that the precipitates impose on algae is in fact a dynamic reservoir of  because diel cycle of Fe could be promoting precipitation and redissolution processes that binds and releases  from these precipitates. Where the pH increased above 6, precipitates of aluminum hydroxides appeared. At this site, the epilithic biomass and density decreased, some algae species changed, but the diversity and the number of species in general remained consistent with the upstream values. The physical stress of the A1 precipitates on the algae is added to the chemical stress that represents the sequestering of P in these precipitates that are not redissolved, resulting P a limiting nutrient for algae growth.
4250573|Bacteria adhering to newly emerged and decomposing leaves of Potamogeton pectinatus L. were examined using scanning electron microscopy. Bacteria obtained from mature leaves were isolated, grown in pure culture, and allowed to infect bacteria-free leaves. Infected leaves and individual isolates were examined by scanning electron microscopy. The method provided detail of the forms of bacterial attachment to leaf surfaces. Supernatants from isolate cultures were assayed for cellulase activity. Six out of eight isolates produced extracellular cellulase in medium containing carboxymethyl cellulose. In one isolate cellulase was produced at discrete intervals, at the beginning and end of the growth cycle. The adhesion of the isolates to P. pectinatus leaves, as well as their possession of cellulase, are considered as evidence of an active role of bacteria in the degradation of P. pectinatus foliage. The system is unusual in that bacteria, as opposed to fungi, are primary colonizers of the leaves.
4250714|Four strains of Streptomyces aureofaciens capable of producing different amounts of tetracycline have been grown in continuous culture with either of two strains of Escherichia coli or Bacillus pumillus. Each of the bacteria had faster specific growth rates than any of the streptomycetes. E. coli NTCT 5993 had a higher affinity for sucrose than did S. aureofaciens SR 11. In mixed culture experiments, the bacteria displaced the streptomycete under the following conditions: (a) when the streptomycete produced no tetracycline; (b) in tetracycline-producing cultures after a fraction of the bacteria had died - the bacterial population that subsequently developed was resistant to the drug; and (c) when using tetracycline-resistant bacteria. Under nutrient conditions leading to high antibiotic levels, it was possible to kill all the bacteria, and the streptomycete survived after a transient fall in mycelium and tetracycline levels. No stable mixed population was ever seen. Once tetracycline-resistant bacteria had displaced the streptomycete, and tetracycline concentrations had fallen, a sensitive bacterial population reappeared. Competition between sensitive and resistant E. coli NCTC 5993 in the chemostat confirmed the selective advantage of the sensitive strain. Results were discussed in terms of the role of antibiotics in nature.
25152956| Dissolved carbohydrates comprise one of the largest pools of labile organic matter readily available for bacterial use in pelagic ecosystems. Despite this fact, very little is known about use of dissolved carbohydrates by planktonic bacteria. We studied use of total dissolved carbohydrates (TDCHO) by planktonic bacteria in mesotrophic Lake Constance, Germany, from April until August 1992. We examined the decrease of TDCHO over time together with the increase of bacterial numbers in 1-m filtered lake water incubated at in situ temperature in the dark. TDCHO analyses were done after hydrolysis by sulfuric acid as free monosaccharides and oxidation by periodate to formaldehyde with 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone-hydrazon-hypochloride (MBTH). Preliminary tests showed that hydrolysis by sulfuric acid gave higher yields than hydrolysis by HCl. Our results show that TDCHO are readily used by bacteria and compose substantial fractions of the C requirements for their growth. Concentrations of TDCHO varied between 1.7 and 5.5 M (glucose equivalents), and use rates varied between 0.47 and 3.43 g C liter h. Highest rates of TDCHO use occurred during the phytoplankton spring bloom, during the clear-water phase in June, and during a phytoplankton bloom in August. Ratios of use of TDCHO/bacterial biomass production varied between 0.17 and 3.05. During the spring bloom, TDCHO and total dissolved amino acids (TDAA) were used in equal amounts. During the clear-water phase at chlorophyll a concentrations &lt;3 g liter, however, bacteria only consumed TDCHO and excreted amino acids. The growth efficiency based on the consumption of TDCHO and TDAA varied between 16 and 21% during the phytoplankton spring bloom and was 35% during the clear-water phase. 
4250643|Spoils samples collected from a coal strip mine in southeastern Montana were examined for populations and activities of iron- and sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. Spoils examined were of three types: (a) acidic pyrite-rich waste coal, (b) oxidation halo material, and (c) alkaline material, which was the most widespread type. Bacterial numbers, sulfur oxidation, and
23597814|The genetic diversity of a collection of 336 sporeforming isolates recovered from five salt-saturated brines and soils (Chott and Sebkhas) mainly located in the hyper-arid regions of the southern Tunisian Sahara has been assessed. Requirements and abilities for growth at a wide range of salinities\ showed that 44.3 % of the isolates were extremely halotolerant, 23 % were moderate halotolerant, and 32.7 % were strict halophiles, indicating that they are adapted to thrive in these saline ecosystems. A wide genetic diversity was documented based on 16S23S rRNA internal transcribed spacer fingerprinting profiles (ITS) and 16S rRNA gene sequences that clustered the strains into seven genera: Bacillus, Gracilibacillus, Halobacillus, Oceanobacillus, Paenibacillus, Pontibacillus, and Virgibacillus. Halobacillus trueperi was the most encountered species in all the sites and presented a large intraspecific diversity with a multiplicity of ITS types. The most frequent ITS type included 42 isolates that were chosen for assessing of the intraspecific diversity by BOX-PCR fingerprinting. A high intraspecific microdiversity was documented by 14 BOX-PCR genotypes whose distribution correlated with the strain geographic origin. Interestingly, H. trueperi isolates presented an uneven geographic distribution among sites with the highest frequency of isolation from the coastal sites, suggesting a marine rather than terrestrial origin of the strains. The high frequency and diversity of H. trueperi suggest that it is a major ecosystem-adapted microbial component of the Tunisian Sahara harsh saline systems of marine origin.
41489205|Blooms of the toxin-producing cyanobacterium, Microcystis spp., are an increasingly prevalent water quality problem and health hazard worldwide. China's third largest lake, Lake Taihu, has been experiencing progressively more severe Microcystis blooms over the past three decades. In 2009 and 2010, individual Microcystis colonies, consisting of four different morphospecies, were isolated and genotyped using a whole-cell multiplex PCR assay. The 16S-23S rDNA-ITS sequences were aligned based on Bayesian inference and indicated that one morphospecies was genetically unique (Microcystis wesenbergii) and three were indistinguishable (Microcystis aeruginosa, Microcystis flos-aquae, and Microcystis ichthyoblabe). Microcystin (mcyB) genes were detected intermittently in two of the morphospecies while the other two morphospecies lacked the mcyB gene in all samples. Water temperature was found to influence bloom formation and morphotype prevalence, and chlorophyll a and temperature were positively and significantly correlated with microcystin concentration. Cooler water temperatures promoted toxigenic strains of Microcystis. Wind appeared to influence the distribution of morphotypes across the lake, with M. aeruginosa and M. ichthyoblabe being more susceptible to wind stress than M. wesenbergii and M. flos-aquae. The results of this study indicated that the blooms were composed of a variety of Microcystis morphospecies, with more genotypes observed than can be attributed to individual morphotypes. We conclude that morphology is not a reliable indicator of toxigenicity in Lake Taihu, and caution should be exercised when the M. aeruginosa morphotype is present because it is capable of producing MC-LR, the most toxic microcystin isoform.
23597849|Pseudomonas stutzeri is a widely distributed species with very high genetic diversity and metabolic capacities, occupying many diverse ecological niches. A collection of 229 P. stutzeri strains isolated from different habitats and geographical locations has been previously characterised phylogenetically by rpoD gene sequencing analysis and in the present study 172 of them phenotypically by whole-cell MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. Fifty-five strains were further analysed by multilocus sequencing analysis to determine the phylogenetic population structure. Both methods showed coherence in strain grouping; 226 strains were allocated in the 18 genomovars known presently. The remaining three strains are proposed as references for three novel genomovars in the species. The correlation and usefulness of sequence-based phylogenetic analysis and whole-cell MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, which are essential for autoecological studies in microbial ecology, is discussed for the differentiation of P. stutzeri populations.
4251831|Different experiments have estimated that the contribution of biological nitrogen fixation (BNF) is largely variable among sugarcane cultivars. Which bacteria are the most important in sugarcane-associated BNF is unknown. However, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus has been suggested as a strong candidate responsible for the BNF observed. In the present study, bacteria-free micropropagated plantlets of five sugarcane cultivars were inoculated with three G. diazotrophicus strains belonging to different genotypes. Bacterial colonization was monitored under different nitrogen fertilization levels and at different stages of plant growth. Analysis of the population dynamics of G. diazotrophicus strains in the different sugarcane varieties showed that the bacterial populations decreased drastically in relation to plant age, regardless of the nitrogen fertilization level, bacterial genotype or sugarcane cultivars. However, the persistence of the three strains was significantly longer in some cultivars (e.g., MEX 57-473) than in others (e.g., MY 55-14). In addition, some strains (e.g., PAl
25153362|We investigated the community structure of ectomycorrhizal fungi under varying overstory tree compositions in the southern mixed-wood boreal forest of Quebec. Sampling took place at two locations of differing postfire ages and nine 100-m plots were sampled per location. The dominant overstory tree species in the plots were trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.), white birch (Betula papyrifera Marsh.) or white spruce [Picea glauca (Moench) Voss], and balsam fir [Abies balsamea (L.) Mill.]. Mycorrhizae were analyzed using morphological as well as molecular methods, employing fungal-specific primers to amplify ribosomal DNA for subsequent cloning and sequencing. A total of 1800 mycorrhizal root tips collected from the 18 plots were morphologically classified into 26 morphotypes, with Cenococcum geophilum dominating (36% of root tips). A second set of root tips, selected from the same 18 samples on which the morphological analysis was based, were analyzed using molecular methods. From this analysis, 576 cloned polymerase chain reaction products were screened by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and a total of 207 unique types were found. No one type dominated the system and 159 occurred only once. Sequence analysis of the types that occurred more than once revealed that Piloderma sp., Russula sp., Cortinarius sp., and Lactarius sp. were the most common mycorrhizae. The ectomycorrhizal fungal community structure revealed by the rDNA analysis differed from that observed using morphological methods. Canonical correspondence analyses of the sequenced restriction types and % overstory composition indicate that the distributions of ectomycorrhizal fungi are influenced by the relative proportions of host tree species. The distinct fungal assemblages found in the different plots supported by the different combinations of host tree species provides further support for the need to conserve stand diversity in the southern boreal forest.
41489043|In 2006, after a visual inspection of the Leonardo da Vinci's Atlantic Codex by a scholar, active molds were reported to have been present on Codex pages showing areas of staining. In the present paper, molecular methods were used to assess the current microbiological risk to stained pages of the manuscript. Bacterial and fungal communities were sampled by a non-invasive technique employing nitrocellulose membranes. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of 16 S rRNA gene and internal transcribed space regions were carried out to study the structure of the bacterial and fungal communities and band patterns were analyzed by the multivariate technique of principal component analysis. Any relationship between the presence of an active microbial community and staining was excluded. The presence of potential biodeteriogens was evaluated by constructing bacterial and fungal clone libraries, analyzing them by an operational taxonomic unit (OTU) approach. Among the bacteria, some OTUs were associated with species found on floors in clean room while others were identified with human skin contamination. Some fungal OTU representatives were potential biodeteriogens that, under proper thermo-hygrometric conditions, could grow. The retrieval of these potential biodeteriogens and microorganisms related to human skin suggests the need for a continuous and rigorous monitoring of the environmental conditions, and the need to improve handling procedures.
4251677| The objective of the present study was to determine whether cultivation of a degradative community on substrates with varying degrees of chlorination and complexity in chemical structure, as well as cultivation in batch and flow cell culture, would alter the community's functional capability. The community was isolated from oil-contaminated soil and maintained in the laboratory on 2,4,6-trichlorobenzoic acid for 5 months before its ability to grow on 15 different chemicals as sole carbon source was evaluated in batch and flow cell systems. While the community could grow and develop biofilms in flow cells on all the substrates, only 11 of the 15 substrates could support growth in batch culture. Although biofilm development was less extensive on chemicals such as pentachlorophenol (2.09% average area covered by biofilm; average biofilm depth = 3 m) than on 2,4,6-trichlorobenzoic acid (50.84% area covered; biofilm depth = 6.4 m), no correlation was observed between the degree of chlorination, or number of rings, and the number of planktonic cells or biofilm biomass. In contrast, physicochemical characteristics such as the octanol/water partition coefficient had a significant effect on the development of biofilm biomass. In the case of planktonic communities, the degree of chlorination and ring number also had no effect on the BIOLOG carbon utilization profiles of the resulting communities. Although the sessile communities generally clustered separately from their planktonic counterparts, principal component analysis of carbon utilization profiles of the sessile communities showed different grouping between growth on chlorinated and nonchlorinated substrates. Analysis of the degradative community maintained on 2,4,6-trichlorobenzoic acid over an extended period further showed that adaptation to a new chemical environment is a rather slow process, since the substrate utilization profiles did not stabilize even after 12 months. These results demonstrate the flexibility in metabolic ability and community structure found in microbial communities. 
4251600|The McMurdo Dry Valley lakes, Antarctica, one of the Earth's southernmost ecosystems containing liquid water, harbor some of the most environmentally extreme (cold, nutrient-deprived) conditions on the planet. Lake Bonney has a permanent ice cover that supports a unique microbial habitat, provided by soil particles blown onto the lake surface from the surrounding, ice-free valley floor. During continuous sunlight summers (Nov.-Feb.), the dark soil particles are heated by solar radiation and melt their way into the ice matrix. Layers and patches of aggregates and liquid water are formed. Aggregates contain a complex cyanobacterial-bacterial community, concurrently conducting photosynthesis ( CO
25256086|Endophytic streptomycetes have been isolated and characterized from several species of Nothofagus and other plants growing in the southern reaches of Patagonia. No endophytic streptomycete was obtained from any plant species studied in Northern Patagonia. However, from Southern Patagonia, biologically active Streptomyces spp. from several plant species were isolated. Each isolate, as studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), has small hyphae, some produce typical barrel-shaped spores in culture and each has some unique hyphal surface structures. Interestingly, although none has any detectable antibacterial killing properties, each has demonstrable killing activity against one or more pathogenic fungi including representative plant pathogenic organisms such as Phytophthora erythroseptica, Pythium ultimum, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Mycosphaerella fijiensis, and Rhizoctonia solani. The 16S rDNA sequences of the isolates were distinct from all other genetic accessions of Streptomyces in GenBank. However, isolate C-2 from Chiliotrichum diffusum (Compositae) is identical, in all respects, to isolate C-4 obtained from Misodendrum punctulatum (Loranthaceae). These results confirm that endophytic streptomycetes represent a novel source of biologically active microorganisms.
4251104| Two cryptoendolithic microbial communities, lichens in the Ross Desert of Antarctica and cyanobacteria in the Negev Desert, inhabit porous sandstone rocks of similar physical structure. Both rock types adsorb water vapor by physical mechanisms unrelated to biological processes. Yet the two microbial communities respond differently to water stress: cryptoendolithic lichens begin to photosynthesize at a matric water potential of -46.4 megaPascals (MPa) [70% relative humidity (RH) at 8C], resembling thallose desert lichens. Cryptoendolithic cyanobacteria, like other prokaryotes, photosynthesize only at very high matric water potentials [> -6.9 MPa, 90% RH at 20C]. 
4250838|Regeneration of nutrients in aquatic ecosystems may be affected by autolysis, bacterial degradation, and activities of phagotrophic organisms. To examine the relative importance of these processes, mineralization of carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus was studied in a two-stage continuous culture system. In the first stage (production compartment), a Chlorella sp. was grown either axenically or in the presence of bacteria under P-limited conditions. In the presence of bacteria, the biomass of algae decreased due to efficient competition for P by bacteria. In the second stage (remineralization compartment), which was kept continuously in the dark, the nutrients incorporated by the organisms in the first stage were remineralized only slightly (0-25%) irrespective of the presence or absence of bacteria. However, remineralization of all nutrients tested was strongly increased (60-80%) after addition of zooflagellates, which grazed on algae and bacteria. These observations suggest that a net regeneration of nutrients was provided by phagotrophic organisms, whereas nutrients were trapped rather than released by bacteria. It is concluded that nutrient cycling could probably not proceed at the high velocities observed in the field without the participation of phagotrophic organisms.
4251371|Emerging methodologies can be used to provide a strong basic understanding of the diversity of microbial behavior and interactions. However, these new methods should be thoroughly and rigorously validated under controlled conditions before being extended to uncontrolled field conditions. Data based on novel approaches are likely to provide insights that are not easily related to existing information based on conventional methodologies. As an example, measurements of the ribosomal RNA (rRNA) content of bacteria show similar spatial patterns as measurements of thymidine incorporation into DNA and leucine incorporation into protein. However, the spatial patterns are not identical, and these parameters are not equally intercorrelated nor equally predictable from basic oceanographic data. Therefore, rRNA content measurements provide a new dimension of information that can be used to explore the relationship of bacteria to their environment, complementing the information obtained from conventional methods.
25153423|We compared the size, culturability, diversity, and dominant species similarity of the bacterial communities of Leucanthemopsis alpina (L.) Heywood rhizosphere and adjacent bare soil (interspace) along a chronosequence of soil development time (5, 50, and 70 years) in the forefield of the Dammaglacier (Switzerland). We found no evidence that the size of the bacterial community was significantly affected by either soil age or the presence of L. alpina. In contrast, the proportion of the bacterial community that could be cultured on nonselective agars, and which was taken as an indication of the proportion of r-selected populations, was significantly higher in the 50- and 70-year-old soils than in the 5-year-old soil, and was also significantly higher in the rhizosphere of L. alpina at all time points. RDA indicated significant correlations between the increased culturability of the bacterial community over time and increasing concentrations of labile N, and between the increased culturability in the rhizosphere and increased concentrations of labile C and N. HaeIII-amplified ribosomal DNA (rDNA) restriction analysis of a library of 120 clones of 16S rDNA revealed 85 distinct phylotypes. Hurlbert's probability of interspecific encounter (PIE) values derived from this library ranged from 0.95 to 1.0, indicating a very high genetic diversity. There was no significant difference in the PIE values of rhizosphere and interspace communities. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) of 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) community profiles clearly distinguished the rhizosphere from the interspace community in the 5-year-old soils and also clearly distinguished between these communities and the rhizosphere and interspace communities of the 50- and 70-year-old soils. However, 16S rRNA DGGE revealed little difference between rhizosphere and interspace communities in the 50- and 70-year-old soils. The relative similarity of the 16S rRNA profiles strongly reflected labile carbon and nitrogen availability. Overall, our results suggest that improved C and N availability in the rhizosphere of L. alpina increases the size of r-selected bacterial species populations, but that the influence of L. alpina depends on soil age, being maximal in the youngest soils and minimal in the oldest. The reduced influence of L. alpina in the older soils may reflect a feedback between improved nutrient availability and reduced rhizodeposition.
4251405|[
4250979| Experiments were performed to evaluate the comparative growth and physiology of Klebsiella oxytoca grown attached to granular activated carbon particles (GAC) and in liquid medium. Laboratory studies showed that when this organism attached to GAC, the growth rate was enhanced more than 10 times in the presence of glutamate, a substrate that adsorbed to the surface. No differences were observed if the substrate was glucose, which did not adsorb to GAC. Cellular [
4287733| A characterization of the Shiprock, NM, uranium mill tailing site focused on the geochemical and microbiological factors governing in-situ uranium-redox reactions. Groundwater and aqueous extracts of sediment samples contained a wide concentration range of sulfate, nitrate, and U(VI) with median values of 21.2 mM, 16.1 M, and 2.7 M, respectively. Iron(III) was not detected in groundwater, but a median value of 0.3 mM in sediment extracts was measured. Bacterial diversity down gradient from the disposal pile reflected the predominant geochemistry with relatively high numbers of sulfate- and nitrate-reducing microorganisms, and smaller numbers of acetogenic, methanogenic, nitrate-dependent Fe(II)-oxidizing, Fe(III)-reducing, and sulfide-oxidizing bacteria. In aquifer slurry incubations, nitrate reduction was always preferred and had a negative impact on sulfate-, Fe(III)-, and U-reduction rates. We also found that sulfate-reduction rates decreased sharply in the presence of clay, while Fe(III)-reduction increased with no clear impact on U reduction. In the absence of clay, iron and sulfate reduction correlated with concentrations of Fe(III) and sulfate, respectively. Rates of U(VI) loss did not correlate with the concentration of any electron acceptor. With the exception of Fe(III), electron donor amendment was largely unsuccessful in stimulating electron acceptor loss over a 2-week incubation period, suggesting that endogenous forms of organic matter were sufficient to support microbial activity. Our findings suggest that efforts to accelerate biological U reduction should initially focus on stimulating nitrate removal. 
25256153|Although fungi are known to colonize and decompose plant tissues in various environments, there is scanty information on fungal communities on wetland plants, their relation to microhabitat conditions, and their link to plant litter decomposition. We examined fungal diversity and succession on Phragmites australis leaves both attached to standing shoots and decaying in the litter layer of a brackish tidal marsh. Additionally, we followed changes in fungal biomass (ergosterol), leaf nitrogen dynamics, and litter mass loss on the sediment surface of the marsh. Thirty-five fungal taxa were recorded by direct observation of sporulation structures. Detrended correspondence analysis and cluster analysis revealed distinct communities of fungi sporulating in the three microhabitats examined (middle canopy, top canopy, and litter layer), and indicator species analysis identified a total of seven taxa characteristic of the identified subcommunities. High fungal biomass developed in decaying leaf blades attached to standing shoots, with a maximum ergosterol concentration of 548  83 g g ash-free dry mass (AFDM; mean  SD). When dead leaves were incorporated in the litter layer on the marsh surface, fungi experienced a sharp decline in biomass (to 191  60 g ergosterol g AFDM) and in the number of sporulation structures. Following a lag phase, species not previously detected began to sporulate. Leaves placed in litter bags on the sediment surface lost 50% of their initial AFDM within 7 months (k = -0.0035 day) and only 21% of the original AFDM was left after 11 months. Fungal biomass accounted for up to 34  7% of the total N in dead leaf blades on standing shoots, but to only 10  4% in the litter layer. These data suggest that fungi are instrumental in N retention and leaf mass loss during leaf senescence and early aerial decay. However, during decomposition on the marsh surface, the importance of living fungal mass appears to diminish, particularly in N retention, although a significant fraction of total detrital N may remain associated with dead hyphae.
4287545|Conjugal transfer of a derivative of the RP4 plasmid between Pseudomonas fluorescens AS12 and Serratia plymuthica RF7 was compared in the rhizosphere of pea, wheat, and barley and related to the metabolic activity of the bacteria. To obtain a reliable measure of transfer, which allowed comparison of results between experiments, mathematical mass-action models were used to determine plasmid intrinsic kinetic coefficients. The data showed that not only were the rhizospheres highly conducive of transfer, with rates up to six orders of magnitude higher than in bulk soil, but differences between rhizospheres were also observed. Highest intrinsic kinetic coefficients were found in the pea rhizosphere (
4250641|Bacteria isolated from symptomatic oat leaves included pseudomonads, Erwinia herbicola, and others. Pseudomonas coronafaciens was isolated predominantly from leaves with halo blight symptoms or necrotic spots. Leaves with red leaf symptoms yielded many types of bacteria, including saprophytic pseudomonads, P. syringae, E. herbicola, Bacillus sp., Micrococcus sp., Corynebacterium sp., a yeast, and other unidentified species. Only isolates of P. coronafaciens were pathogenic on the plant hosts tested. The bacteria associated with red leaf symptoms exist as saprophytes and/or epiphytes on leaves with those symptoms. It is concluded that bacteria do not contribute to red leaf symptom development in oats, but symptomatic leaves provide an environment for their growth.
25256204|Most soil bacteria are likely to be organized in biofilms on roots, litter, or soil particles. Studies of such biofilms are complicated by the many nonculturable species present in soil, as well as the interspecific bacterial interactions affecting biofilm biology. We in this study describe the development of a biofilm flow model and use this system to establish an early (days 1-7) flow biofilm of soil bacteria from agricultural soil. It was possible to follow the succession in the early flow biofilm by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis, and it was demonstrated that the majority of strains present in the biofilm were culturable. We isolated and identified nine strains, all associated with unique DGGE profiles, and related their intrinsic phenotypes regarding monospecies biofilm formation in microtiter plates and planktonic growth characteristics to the appearance of the strains in the flow biofilm. The ability of the strains to attach to and establish biofilm in microtiter plates was reflected in their flow biofilm appearance, whereas no such reflection of the planktonic growth characteristics in the flow biofilm appearance was observed. One strain-specific synergistic interaction, strongly promoting biofilm formation of two strains when cultured together in a dual-species biofilm, was observed, indicating that some strains promote biofilm formation of others. Thus, the biofilm flow model proved useful for investigations of how intrinsic phenotypic traits of individual species affect the succession in an early soil biofilm consortium.
4287523|Although molecular techniques are considered to provide a more comprehensive view of species diversity of natural microbial populations, few studies have compared diversity assessed by molecular and cultivation-based approaches using the same samples. To achieve this, the diversity of natural populations of ammonia oxidising bacteria in arable soil and marine sediments was determined by analysis of 16S rDNA sequences from enrichment cultures, prepared using standard methods for this group, and from 16S rDNA cloned from DNA extracted directly from the same environmental samples. Soil and marine samples yielded 31 and 18 enrichment cultures, respectively, which were compared with 50 and 40 environmental clones. There was no evidence for selection for particular ammonia oxidizer clusters by different procedures employed for enrichment from soil samples, although no culture was obtained in medium at acid pH. In soil enrichment cultures, Nitrosospira cluster 3 sequences were most abundant, whereas clones were distributed more evenly between Nitrosospira clusters 2, 3, and 4. In marine samples, the majority of enrichment cultures contained Nitrosomonas, whereas Nitrosospira sequences were most abundant among environmental clones. Soil enrichments contained a higher proportion of identical sequences than clones, suggesting laboratory selection for particular strains, but the converse was found in marine samples. In addition, 16% of soil enrichment culture sequences were identical to those in environmental clones, but only 1 of 40 marine enrichments was found among clones, indicating poorer culturability of marine strains represented in the clone library, under the conditions employed. The study demonstrates significant differences in species composition assessed by molecular and culture-based approaches but indicates also that, employing only a limited range of cultivation conditions, 7% of the observed sequence diversity in clones of ammonia oxidizers from these environments could be obtained in laboratory enrichment culture. Further studies and experimental approaches are required to determine which approach provides better representation of the natural community.
23597855|The Brazilian Savanna, also known as "Cerrado", is the richest and most diverse savanna in the world and has been ranked as one of the main hotspots of biodiversity. The Cerrado is a representative biome in Central Brazil and the second largest biome in species diversity of South America. Nevertheless, large areas of native vegetation have been converted to agricultural land including grain production, livestock, and forestry. In this view, understanding how land use affects microbial communities is fundamental for the sustainable management of agricultural ecosystems. The aim of this work was to analyze and compare the soil bacterial communities from the Brazilian Cerrado associated with different land use systems using high throughput pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes. Relevant differences were observed in the abundance and structure of bacterial communities in soils under different land use systems. On the other hand, the diversity of bacterial communities was not relevantly changed among the sites studied. Land use systems had also an important impact on specific bacterial groups in soil, which might change the soil function and the ecological processes. Acidobacteria, Proteobacteria, and Actinobacteria were the most abundant groups in the Brazilian Cerrado. These findings suggest that more important than analyzing the general diversity is to analyze the composition of the communities. Since soil type was the same among the sites, we might assume that land use was the main factor defining the abundance and structure of bacterial communities.
4287502|Toxin production is an adaptation that allows cyanobacteria in resource-limiting environments to ameliorate the effects of herbivory and competition with other phototrophs. We demonstrate that the cyanobacterial toxins anatoxin-a and microcystin-LR paralyze the motile green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. In addition, both purified toxins and cyanobacterial extracellular products containing these toxins cause the alga to settle faster than in nontoxic media. In microcosm experiments, the presence of either the cyanobacterium or its extracellular products induce settling in the alga, similar to the response observed with the addition of both anatoxin-a and microcystin-LR. The cyanobacterial production of paralyzing toxins represents a novel mechanism for phytoplankton settling. This prokaryotic/eukaryotic chemical interaction may create a competitor-free zone for cyanobacteria in lake environments, predicating optimal conditions for a toxic cyanobacterial bloom.
25152973| Surface-associated algivorous ciliated protozoa are common in the benthos of streams, but little is known about the feeding ecology of these organisms. We compared the functional responses of two algivorous ciliated protozoa, Oxytricha fallax (a filter feeder) and Trithigmostoma cucullulus (an encounter feeder). The ciliates were fed C-labeled Navicula cryptocephala in laboratory feeding experiments to determine their potential to consume significant amounts of algal prey. Logistic regression, and plots of the proportion of N. cryptocephala ingested vs. the total number offered, indicated functional responses of a typical rectangular hyperbolic (type II) form for both ciliates. Ingestion rates were estimated from regressions of the number of C-labeled N. cryptocephala cells ingested per ciliate vs. time. Maximum feeding rates and half-saturation concentrations were estimated by fitting the observed ingestion rates and experimental algal densities to a function of the Michaelis-Menten enzyme kinetics form using nonlinear regression. For O. fallax, the maximum feeding rate was estimated to be 1.07 N. cryptocephala cells per minute, and the half-saturation concentration was 3.9  10 N. cryptocephala per square centimeter. For T. cucullulus the maximum feeding rate was estimated to be 0.2 N. cryptocephala per minute, and the half-saturation concentration was 5.4  10 N. cryptocephala per square centimeter. The data were also fitted using only the number of cells ingested at 60 and 120 min, by converting the endpoint consumption to rates. For O. fallax, the estimated maximum feeding rates were 1.3 and 1.0 N. cryptocephala per minute for 60 and 120 min, respectively, and estimated half-saturation concentrations were 5.1  10 and 3.5  10 N. cryptocephala per square centimeter. For T. cucullulus, estimated maximum feeding rates were 0.6 and 0.4 N. cryptocephala per minute for 60 and 120 min, respectively, and estimated half-saturation concentrations were 1.5  10 and 1.1  10 N. cryptocephala per square centimeter. These results suggest that kinetic methods for estimating ingestion rates are more accurate than endpoint determinations. Based on field observations of periphyton densities, these ciliates potentially are consuming 4.8% of the total available standing crop of diatom biomass per day and this could represent up to 16% of total available daily primary production. 
4251806|The efficacy of a bacterial strain as a biocontrol agent in the field may be related to the ecological similarity between the biocontrol agent and the target pathogen. Therefore, a number of different Pseudomonas syringae strains were evaluated for their antagonistic activities in vitro (agar-diffusion assay) and in planta (greenhouse assay) against the target pathogen, Pseudomonas syringae pv. glycinea. Six strains of five different pathovars were found to be antagonistic in vitro as well as in planta. The epiphytic fitness of the antagonistic Pseudomonas syringae strain 22d/93 and its two antibiotic-resistant mutants were examined on soybean plants in the fields. After adaptation the parental strain and its mutants had the ability to establish and maintain large epiphytic populations (about 10
4251182| Short-term and spatial fluctuations in specific biovolumes (volume 
4251464|The effect of dissolved organic matter (DOM) and temperature on bacterial production was examined in the equatorial Pacific Ocean. Addition of glucose, glucose plus ammonium, or free amino acids stimulated bacterial production ([
25153070|Fungal community structure and diversity in two types of agricultural grassland soil were investigated by amplified 18S ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) and 18S ribosomal DNA sequence analysis. These two grassland sites represent a species-rich old hay meadow and an agriculturally improved site with low floristic diversity. Two primer sets were used in combination to amplify approximately 550 bp of rDNA from three major fungal groups, the zygomycetes, basidiomycetes, and ascomycetes, and clone libraries were created for each site. 18S ARDRA was used to analyze 170 rDNA clones, and three diversity indices were calculated. A small-scale culturing analysis was also carried out and the most common isolates analyzed using ARDRA and sequence analysis. The soil fungal community revealed by the rDNA approaches was significantly different from that produced by this limited culture-based analysis. Twenty-eight soilderived clones were sequenced, and many represented fungal taxa rarely reported in culture-based studies. The PCR-based techniques detected differences in diversity between the two fungal communities and changes in patterns of dominance that paralleled higher plant diversity. The results suggest that 18S rDNA-based approaches are a useful tool for initial screening of fungal communities, and that they represent a more comprehensive picture of the community than plate culturing.
25153055| Aufwuchs chamber slides were constructed by attaching a silicone rubber gasket to a glass slide with epoxy cement. For biofilm growth, the slides were suspended in Cayuga Lake near Ithaca, NY, for 27 days. Biofilms in the chamber were stained with 0.05% acridine orange. After rinsing, the chamber was filled with molten 1% agarose to stabilize filaments and delicate polymer structures at the biofilm surface. Areas of biofilm 0.5 mm thick on the inner face of the wall of the chamber were selected for side-on optical sectioning in a confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM). Stacks of high-resolution optical images captured by the CLSM z-sectioning software, were used to create left-right stereo image pairs. At low magnification the stereo pairs showed 3-D details of the microbial landscape in the mature biofilms. Channels, pores, and other structural features of the biofilm matrix were observed in peripheral regions. Higher magnification images revealed the 3-D distribution of specific biofilm components such as filaments of sheathed bacteria projecting outward into the liquid milieu, and organic coatings, including bacterial cells on the surfaces of mineral particles. 
40926475|The Prevotellas comprise a diverse group of bacteria that has received surprisingly limited attention at the whole genome-sequencing level. In this communication, we present the comparative analysis of the genomes of Prevotella ruminicola 23 (GenBank: CP002006) and Prevotella bryantii B4 (GenBank: ADWO00000000), two gastrointestinal isolates. Both P. ruminicola and P. bryantii have acquired an extensive repertoire of glycoside hydrolases that are targeted towards non-cellulosic polysaccharides, especially GH43 bifunctional enzymes. Our analysis demonstrates the diversity of this genus. The results from these analyses highlight their role in the gastrointestinal tract, and provide a template for additional work on genetic characterization of these species.
4250739| The distribution of Vibrio cholerae was examined in 2 Florida estuaries, Apalachicola and Tampa Bay. Vibrio cholerae serotype non-01 was the most abundant serotype, being isolated from 45% of the oyster samples, 30% of the sediments, 50% of the waters, and 75% of the blue crabs. Vibrio cholerae serotype 01 was isolated from only one oyster sample. Strong linear correlations between V. cholerae and temperature, salinity, or the other physical/chemical parameters measured, Escherichia coli, or fecal coliforms were not observed, but a range of temperatures and salinities appeared relevant to the distribution of the organism. The organism was present in the highest concentrations when salinities were 10-25 and temperatures were 20C-35C. In vitro growth curves of 95 V. cholerae environmental isolates further supported that 10-25 was an ideal salinity range for the organisms. The results suggest that V. cholerae is a widely distributed organism in the nutrient-rich warm waters of the Gulf Coast estuaries. 
41693748|Spiroplasma endosymbionts are maternally transmitted bacteria that may kill infected sons resulting in the production of female-biased broods. The prevalence of male killers varies considerably both between and within species. Here, we evaluate the spatial and temporal status of male-killing and non-male-killing Spiroplasma infection in three Brazilian populations of Drosophila melanogaster, nearly a decade after the first occurrence report for this species. The incidence of the male-killing Spiroplasma ranged from close to 0 to 17.7 % (so far the highest estimate for a Drosophila species) with a suggestion of temporal decline in a population. We also found non-male-killing Spiroplasma coexisting in one population at lower prevalence (3-5 %), and we did not detect it in the other two. This may be taken as a suggestion of a spreading advantage conferred by the male-killing strategy. Sequencing two loci, we identified the phylogenetic position of Spiroplasma strains from the three localities, showing that all strains group closely in the poulsonii clade. Due to intensive sampling effort, we were able to test the association between Spiroplasma infections and another widespread endosymbiont, Wolbachia, whose prevalence ranged from 81.8 to 100 %. The prevalence of Wolbachia did not differ between Spiroplasma-infectcd and uninfected strains in our largest sample nor were the prevalences of the two endosymbionts associated across localities.
4250626|Azospirillum brasilense was attracted to capillaries containing either phosphate buffer, distilled water, or saline. The number of bacteria in these capillaries was 3-4 10
23361596|Ultraviolet (UV) radiation has become an important stress factor in polar regions due to anthropogenically induced ozone depletion. Although extensive research has been conducted on adaptations of polar organisms to this stress factor, few studies have focused on semi-terrestrial algae so far, in spite of their apparent vulnerability. This study investigates the effect of UV on two semi-terrestrial arctic strains (B, G) and one Antarctic strain (E) of the green alga Zygnema, isolated from Arctic and Antarctic habitats. Isolates of Zygnema were exposed to experimentally enhanced UV A and B (predominant UV A) to photosynthetic active radiation (PAR) ratio. The pigment content, photosynthetic performance and ultrastructure were studied by means of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), chlorophyll a fluorescence and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). In addition, phylogenetic relationships of the investigated strains were characterised using rbcL sequences, which determined that the Antarctic isolate (E) and one of the Arctic isolates (B) were closely related, while G is a distinct lineage. The production of protective phenolic compounds was confirmed in all of the tested strains by HPLC analysis for both controls and UV-exposed samples. Moreover, in strain E, the content of phenolics increased significantly (p=0.001) after UV treatment. Simultaneously, the maximum quantum yield of photosystem II photochemistry significantly decreased in UV-exposed strains E and G (p<0.001), showing a clear stress response. The phenolics were most probably stored at the cell periphery in vacuoles and cytoplasmic bodies that appear as electrondense particles when observed by TEM after high-pressure freeze fixation. While two strains reacted moderately on UV exposure in their ultrastructure, in strain G, damage was found in chloroplasts and mitochondria. Plastidal pigments and xanthophyll cycle pigments were investigated by HPLC analysis; UV A- and UV B-exposed samples had a higher deepoxidation state as controls, particularly evident in strain B. The results indicate that phenolics are involved in UV protection of Zygnema and also revealed different responses to UV stress across the three strains, suggesting that other protection mechanisms may be involved in these organisms.
40802278|The biological colonization of rocks in the Cave of Bats (Cueva de Los Murcilagos, Zuheros, Spain) was studied in order to reveal the diversity of microorganisms involved in the biofilm formation. The culturable, metabolically active fraction of biodeteriogens present on surfaces was investigated focusing on morphological, ultrastructural, and genetic features, and their presence related to the peculiar environmental conditions of the underground site. PCR-ITS analysis and 16S rDNA sequences were used to clusterize and characterize the isolated strains. The presence of bacterial taxa associated to the photosynthetic microflora and fungi within the biofilm contributed to clarify the relationships inside the microbial community and to explain the alteration observed at the different sites. These results will contribute to the application of more successful strategies for the preventive conservation of subterranean archaeological sites.
40926483|Ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) play important roles in nitrification in various environments. They may also be key communities for ammonia oxidation in composting systems, although few studies have discussed their presence. We investigated the relative diversity and abundance of AOB and AOA using cloning procedures, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis, and real-time PCR during several stages in the process of cattle manure composting. Our results revealed that the AOB community structure changed during the process. At the high-temperature stage (> 60C), a member of the Nitrosomonas europaea/eutropha cluster dominated while the uncultured Nitrosomonas spp. cluster appeared after the temperature decreased. Additionally, our analysis indicated that AOA sequences, which were classified into a soil/sediment cluster, were present after the temperature decreased during the composting process. At these stages, the number of the archaeal amoA gene copies (3.2 or 3.910 copies per gram freeze-dried compost) was significantly higher than that of bacterial amo A gene copies (2.2-7.210 copies per gram freeze-dried compost). Our results suggest that both AOB and AOA are actively involved in nitrification of composting systems.
4287711|Polluted groundwater wells located in a former copper shale mining district (11 sites; Mansfelder Land, Central Germany) and in meadows of the Mulde and Elbe rivers (2 sites) were assessed for occurrence and species richness of aquatic hyphomycetes. Water temperatures at all sites were relatively low and fluctuated less than in surface waters. Oxygen concentrations were always below saturation, whereas sulfate, nitrate, and phosphate levels reached extremely high values in several of the wells. Relatively high levels of Pb, Mn, and Fe were found in some of the wells, but overall few concentrations of individual metals and metalloids exceeded European guidelines for drinking water. Pollen tube growth inhibition, used to assess cytotoxicity of the water, ranged between 4 and 50%. Between 1 and 10 distinct species of aquatic hyphomycetes colonized sterile Alnus glutinosa leaves exposed at the Mansfelder Land sites; for the meadow sites, 8-20 species were found. Heliscus lugdunensis and Anguillospora sp. were the two most widespread species. Fungal colonization occurred much more slowly than in surface water, as demonstrated by scanning electron microscopy and the release of conidia from recovered leaves. The conidial output from exposed alder leaves ranged from 0.2 to 95 conidia mg
41412408|The bacterial community inhabiting the water column at Terra Nova Bay (Ross Sea, Antarctica) was examined by the fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) technique and the genotypic and phenotypic characterization of 606 bacterial isolates. Overall, the FISH analysis revealed a bacterioplankton composition that was typical of Antarctic marine environments with the Cytophaga/Flavobacter (CF) group of Bacteroidetes that was equally dominant with the Actinobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria. As sampling was performed during the decay of sea-ice, it is plausible to assume the origin of Bacteroidetes from the sea-ice compartment where they probably thrive in high concentration of DOM which is efficiently remineralized to inorganic nutrients. This finding was supported by the isolation of Gelidibacter, Polaribacter, and Psychroflexus members (generally well represented in Antarctic sea-ice) which showed the ability to hydrolyze macromolecules, probably through the production of extracellular enzymes. A consistently pronounced abundance of the Gammaproteobacteria (67.8%) was also detected within the cultivable fraction. Altogether, the genera Psychromonas and Pseudoalteromonas accounted for 65.4% of total isolates and were ubiquitous, thus suggesting that they may play a key role within the analyzed bacterioplankton community. In particular, Pseudoalteromonas isolates possessed nitrate reducase and were able to hydrolyze substrates for protease, esterase, and -galactosidase, thus indicating their involvement in the carbon and nitrogen cycling. Finally, the obtained results highlight the ability of the Actinobacteria to survive and proliferate in the Terra Nova Bay seawater as they generally showed a wide range of salt tolerance and appeared to be particularly competitive with strictly marine bacteria by better utilizing supplied carbon sources.
25153479| Three different green manures were added to the tea garden soils separately and incubated for 40 days. After, incubation, acetanilide herbicides alachlor and metolachlor were spiked into the soils, separately, followed by the isolation of bacteria in each soil at designed intervals. Several bacterial strains were isolated from the soils and identified as Bacillus silvestris, B. niacini, B. pseudomycoides, B. cereus, B. thuringiensis, B. simplex, B. megaterium, and two other Bacillus sp. (Met1 and Met2). Three unique strains with different morphologies were chosen for further investigation. They were B. megaterium, B. niacini, and B. silvestris. The isolated herbicide-degrading bacteria showed optimal performance among three incubation temperatures of 30C and the best activity in the 10 to 50 g/ml concentration of the herbicide. Each bacterial strain was able to degrade more than one kind of test herbicides. After incubation for 119 days, B. cereus showed the highest activity to degrade alachlor and propachlor, and B. thuringiensis to degrade metolachlor. 
41412402|Microbial community structure in the subtropical north-east Atlantic Ocean was compared between 2 years and variation attributed to environmental variables. Surface seawater communities were analysed by flow cytometry and fluorescence in situ hybridisation. Probes specific to Alphaproteobacteria, Cyanobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes identified 67-100% of cells. Due to natural variation in the study region due to the occurrence of major currents and islands, data could not be pooled but were instead divided between distinct water masses. Community structure did not differ greatly around the Cape Verde Islands between sampling periods but varied substantially in the open ocean, suggesting different environmental perturbations favour specific bacterial groups. Wind speed varied significantly between years, with moderate to strong breeze in winter 2008 and gales in winter 2006 (8.9  0.2 ms and 16.0  0.4 ms, respectively). Enhanced wind-driven turbulence was associated with domination by the SAR1l clade of Alphaproteobacteria, which were present at 2.4-fold in the abundance of Prochlorococcus (41.8  1.6% cells, compared to 17.7  7.1%). Conversely, the calmer conditions of 2008 seemed to favour Prochlorococcus (40.0  1.2% cells). Prochlorococcus high-light adapted clade HLI were only numerous during wind-driven turbulence, whereas oligotrophic-adapted clade HLII dominated under calm conditions. Bacteroidetes were most prominent in turbulent conditions (9.5  1.3% cells as opposed to 4.7  0.3%), as were Synechococcus. In 2008, a considerable dust deposition event occurred in the region, which may have led to the substantial Gammaproteobacteria population (22.5  4.0% cells compared to 4.6  0.6% in 2006). Wind-driven turbulence may have a significant impact on microbial community structure in the surface ocean. Therefore, community change following dust storm events may be linked to associated wind in addition to dust-derived nutrients.
4251601|Nitrogen (N) availability is a key nutritional factor controlling microbial production in Antarctic freshwater and soil habitats. Since there are no significant sources of biologically available N entering these ecosystems, nitrogen fixation may be a major source of "new" N supporting primary and secondary production. The role of N
25153360|Yeast isolates from soil samples collected from a latitudinal gradient (&gt;77S to &gt;64N) were subjected to multivariate analysis to produce a statistical foundation for observed relationships between habitat characteristics and the distribution of yeast taxa (at various systematic levels) in soil microbial communities. Combinations of temperature, rainfall (highly correlated with net primary productivity), and electrical conductivity (EC) could explain up to ca. 44% of the distribution of the predominant yeast species, rainfall and pH could explain ca. 32% of the distribution of clades in the most common orders (Filobasidiales and Tremellales), whereas vegetation type (trees, forbs, and grass) played the same role for orders. Cryptococcus species with appropriate maximum temperatures for growth predominated in most soils. Cryptococcus species in the Albidus clade of the Filobasidiales predominated in desert soils; Cryptococcus species of other clades in the Filobasidiales and Tremellales predominated in wetter and more-vegetated soils, with Tremellalean species favored in soils of lower pH or higher EC. The predominance of Cryptococcus species in soils has been attributed to their polysaccharide capsules, particularly important when competing with bacteria in arid soils.
4251377|The heterotrophic bacterial community of oceanic aggregates which mediates particle solubilization, displays features (low carbon demand and low turnover) that are difficult to reconcile with the observed high enzyme activities and cell numbers. Hypotheses are proposed to explain this discrepancy. Furthermore, production of both free and attached bacteria may have been underestimated by neglecting the ultramicrobacteria (UMB). Production of UMB may represent up to 28% of the total bacterial production.
40926477|The diversity of microbial communities inhabiting two terrestrial volcanic glasses of contrasting mineralogy and age was characterised. Basaltic glass from a < 0.8 Mahyaloclastite deposit (Valafell) harboured a more diverse Bacteria community than the younger rhyolitic glass from ~150-300 AD (Dmadalshraun lava flow). Actinobacteria dominated 16S rRNA gene clone libraries from both sites, however, Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria and Cyanobacteria were also numerically abundant in each. A significant proportion (15-34%) of the sequenced clones displayed < 85% sequence similarities with current database sequences, thus suggesting the presence of novel microbial diversity in each volcanic glass. The majority of clone sequences shared the greatest similarity to uncultured organisms, mainly from soil environments, among these clones from Antarctic environments and Hawaiian and Andean volcanic deposits. Additionally, a large number of clones within the Cyanobacteria and Proteobacteria were more similar to sequences from other lithic environments, included among these Icelandic clones from crystalline basalt and rhyolite, however, no similarities to sequences reported from marine volcanic glasses were observed. PhyloChip analysis detected substantially greater numbers of phylotypes at both sites than the corresponding clone libraries, but nonetheless also identified the basaltic glass community as the richer, containing approximately 29% unique phylotypes compared to rhyolitic glass.
23597866|Members of the ant tribe Camponotini have coevolved with Blochmannia, an obligate intracellular bacterial mutualist. This endosymbiont lives within host bacteriocyte cells that line the ant midgut, undergoes maternal transmission from host queens to offspring, and contributes to host nutrition via nitrogen recycling and nutrient biosynthesis. While elevated temperature has been shown to disrupt obligate bacterial mutualists of some insects, its impact on the ant-Blochmannia partnership is less clear. Here, we test the effect of heat on the density of Blochmannia in two related Camponotus species in the lab. Transcriptionally active Blochmannia were quantified using RT-qPCR as the ratio of Blochmannia 16S rRNA to ant host elongation factor 1- transcripts. Our results showed that 4 weeks of heat treatment depleted active Blochmannia by >99 % in minor workers and unmated queens. However, complete elimination of Blochmannia transcripts rarely occurred, even after 16 weeks of heat treatment. Possible mechanisms of observed thermal sensitivity may include extreme AT-richness and related features of Blochmannia genomes, as well as host stress responses. Broadly, the observed depletion of an essential microbial mutualist in heat-treated ants is analogous to the loss of zooanthellae during coral bleaching. While the ecological relevance of Blochmannia's thermal sensitivity is uncertain, our results argue that symbiont dynamics should be part of models predicting how ants and other animals will respond and adapt to a warming climate.
4250879| A soil sample from the Ap horizon of an arable brown soil was fractionated by wet sieving, and seven size fractions of organic and mineral soil particles were separated. The organic fractions formed only 2.2% of the soil dry mass, but contained 41.5 and 29.12% of the total soil content of carbon and nitrogen, respectively, and thus represented an important reservoir of readily utilizable nutrients. Organic particles also accumulated most of the soil enzyme activities, determined as -glucosidase, -acetyl-glucosaminidase, and proteinase activity. The highest counts of bacteria, actinomycetes, and fungi per gram of the soil fractions were obtained with the organic particles, but for the most part microorganisms accumulated in the silt-clay fraction. All soil fractions except the coarsest organic particles contained higher counts of oligotrophic bacteria than copiotrophic ones. Microbial counts, ATP contents, and enzyme activities decreased significantly with decrease in size of the organic soil particles, and increased with decrease in size of the mineral soil particles. Thus, the coarse organic particles >5 mm and the silt-clay fraction <0.05 mm represent the sites with the highest concentrations of microorganisms, ATP contents, and enzyme activities in the arable brown soil under test. 
25153117|The antibiotic 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (Phl) is produced by a range of naturally occurring fluorescent pseudomonads. One isolate, Pseudomonas fluorescens F113, protects pea plants from the pathogenic fungus Pythium ultimum by reducing the number of pathogenic lesions on plant roots, but with a concurrent reduction in the emergence of plants such as pea. The genes responsible for Phl production have been shown to be functionally conserved between the wild-type (wt) P. fluorescens strains F113 and Q2-87. In this study the genes from F113 were isolated using an optimized long PCR method and a 6.7-kb gene cluster inserted into the chromosome of the non-Phl-producing P. fluorescens strain SBW25 EeZY6KX. This strain is a lacZY,
4251021| The ability of bacteria to attach to surfaces has been recognized as an important phenomenon, particularly for pathogenic organisms that utilize this capacity to initiate disease. The present investigation was undertaken to determine whether indigenous urogenital bacteria, lactobacilli, colonized prosthetic devices in vivo and in vitro and attached to specific polymer surfaces in vitro. Polyethylene intrauterine devices (IUDs) in place for 2 years were removed from six women who were asymptomatic and free of signs of cervical or uterine infection. Lactobacilli were found attached to the IUDs, as determined by culture, and fluorescent antibody and acridine orange staining techniques. This demonstrated that bacterial biofilms consisting of indigenous bacteria can occur on prosthetic devices without inducing a symptomatic infection. In vitro studies were then undertaken with well-documented lactobacilli strains L. acidophilus T-13, L. casei GR-1, GR-2, and RC-17, and L. fermentum A-60. These organisms were found to adhere to IUDs and urinary catheters within 24 hours. A quantitative assay was designed to examine the mechanisms of adhesion of L. acidophilus T-13 to specific polymer surfaces that are commonly used as prosthetic devices. The lactobacilli adhered optimally to fluorinated ethylene propylene when 10
40343491|A total of 88 bacterial strains were isolated from six Andean lakes situated at altitudes ranging from 3,400 to 4,600 m above sea level: L. Aparejos (4,200 m), L. Negra (4,400 m), L. Verde (4,460 m), L. Azul (4,400 m), L. Vilama (4,600 m), and Salina Grande (3,400 m). Salinity ranged from 0.4 to 117 ppm. General diversity was determined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis. From the excised DGGE bands, 182 bacterial sequences of good quality were obtained. Gammaproteobacteria and Cytophaga/Flavobacterium/Bacteroides (CFB) were the most abundant phylogenetic groups with 42% and 18% of identified bands, respectively. The isolated strains were identified by sequence analysis. Isolated bacteria were subjected to five different UV-B exposure times: 0.5, 3, 6, 12, and 24 h. Afterwards, growth of each isolate was monitored and resistance was classified according to the growth pattern. A wide interspecific variation among the 88 isolates was observed. Medium and highly resistant strains accounted for 43.2% and 28.4% of the isolates, respectively, and only 28.4% was sensitive. Resistance to solar radiation was equally distributed among the isolates from the different lakes regardless of the salinity of the lakes and pigmentation of isolates. Of the highly resistant isolates, 44.5% belonged to gammaproteobacteria, 33.3% to betaproteobacteria, 40% to alphaproteobacteria, 50% to CFB, and among gram-positive organisms, 33.3% were HGC and 44.5% were Firmicutes. Most resistant strains belonged to genera like Exiguobaceterium sp., Acinetobacter sp., Bacillus sp., Micrococcus sp., Pseudomonas sp., Sphyngomonas sp., Staphylococcus sp., and Stenotrophomonas sp. The current study provides further evidence that gammaproteobacteria are the most abundant and the most UV-B-resistant phylogenetic group in Andean lakes and that UV resistance in bacteria isolated from these environments do not depend on pigmentation and tolerance to salinity.
4287609| A dialysis cultivation system was used to enrich slow-growing moderately thermophilic anaerobic bacteria at high cell densities. Bicarbonate buffered mineral salts medium with 5 mM glutamate as the sole carbon and energy source was used and the incubation temperature was 55C. The reactor inoculum originated from anaerobic methanogenic granular sludge bed reactors. The microbial population was monitored over a period of 2 years using the most probable number (MPN) technique. In the reactor glutamate was readily degraded to ammonium, methane, and carbon dioxide. Cell numbers of glutamate-degrading organisms increased 400-fold over the first year. In medium supplemented with bromoethane sulfonic acid (BES, an inhibitor of methanogenesis), tenfold lower cell numbers were counted, indicating the syntrophic nature of glutamate degradation. After 2 years of reactor operation the predominant organisms were isolated and characterized. Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum (strain R43) and a Methanosaeta thermophila strain (strain A) were the predominant hydrogenotrophic and acetoclastic methanogens, respectively. The numbers in which the organisms were present in the reactor after 24 months of incubation were
25153220|Plants harbor diverse communities of fungi and other microorganisms. Fungi are known to occur both on plant surfaces (epiphytes) and inside plant tissues (endophytes), but the two communities have rarely been compared. We compared epiphytic and endophytic fungal communities associated with leaves of coffee (Coffea arabica) in Puerto Rico. We asked whether the dominant fungi are the same in both communities, whether endophyte and epiphyte communities are equally diverse, and whether epiphytes and endophytes exhibit similar patterns of spatial heterogeneity among sites. Leaves of naturalized coffee plants were collected from six sites in Puerto Rico. Epiphytic and endophytic fungi were isolated by placing leaf pieces on potato dextrose agar without and with surface sterilization, respectively. A total of 821 colonies were isolated and grouped into 131 morphospecies. The taxonomic affinities of the four most common nonsporulating fungi were determined by sequencing the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region: two grouped with Xylaria and one each with Botryosphaeria and Guignardia. Of the most common genera, Pestalotia and Botryosphaeria were significantly more common as epiphytes; Colletotrichum, Xylaria, and Guignardia were significantly more common as endophytes. Suprisingly, more morphospecies occurred as endophytes than as epiphytes. Differences among sites in number of fungi per plant were significant. Thus epiphytic and endophytic communities differed greatly on a single leaf, despite living only millimeters apart, and both communities differed from site to site. Significant correlations between occurrence of fungal morphospecies suggested that fungi may have positive or negative effects on their neighbors. This is the first quantitative comparison of epiphytic and endophytic fungal floras in any plant, and the first to examine endophytic fungi or epiphytic fungi in leaves of coffee, one of the world's most valuable crops.
25153399| Discula umbrinella, a fungal endophyte of oak species, colonizes and reproduces on leaves of Quercus alba and Q. rubra in forest ecosystems. Twenty-nine isolates collected from leaves of both oak species (16 from Q. alba and 13 from Q. rubra) were assayed for oak species preference and genetic variation based on primer-specific polymerase chain reactions for the intergenic spacer region (IGS) of ribosomal DNA. DNA sequencing of the polymerase chain reaction products revealed a 10-bp insertion (237-247 bp) at the 3 end of the IGS region present in nine isolates and absent in 20 of the isolates. Phylogenetic analysis of the IGS region using the neighbor-joining method identified IGS groups (groups I-V) based on single nucleotide sequence differences. Host selectivity and geographic origin of isolates were correlated in some instances with the IGS groups. Isolates within each IGS group were further analyzed for nucleotide polymorphisms to confirm genotype identity and genotype diversity. Ten different genotypes
4251284| The mixotrophic (bacterivorous), freshwater chrysophyte Dinobryon cylindricum was cultured under a variety of light regimes and in bacterized and axenic cultures to investigate the role of phototrophy and phagotrophy for the growth of this alga. D. cylindricum was found to be an obligate phototroph. The alga was unable to survive in continuous darkness even when cultures were supplemented with high concentrations of bacteria, and bacterivory ceased in cultures placed in the dark for a period longer than one day. Axenic growth of the alga was poor even in an optimal light regime. Live bacteria were required for sustained, vigorous growth of the alga in the light. Carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P) budgets determined for the alga during growth in bacterized cultures indicated that bacterial biomass ingested by the alga may have contributed up to 25% of the organic carbon budget of the alga. Photosynthesis was the source of most (75%) of the organic carbon of the alga. D. cylindricum populations survived but did not grow when cultured in a continuous low light intensity (30 E
4251061|In a survey of Azospirillum spp. on the roots and associated soil of wheat grown in eastern Australia, azospirilla were isolated from approximately 40% of samples from areas of soil pH between 5.0 and 6.6. However, azospirilla isolates were rare in soil between pH 4.5 and 5.0 and absent below pH 4.5. Of 25 independent isolates, 17 were A. brasiliense and eight were A. lipoferum. No selection for A. brasiliense
41489028|Bacteria of the Salmonella 048 somatic antigen group are clinically important strains causing intestinal dysfunction and diarrhoea, especially in children. The susceptibility of Salmonella 048 strains containing sialic acid (N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuAc)) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to the bactericidal action of normal cord serum (NCS) was determined. The authors' previous results published in Microbial Ecology in 2010 indicated that neither the presence of NeuAc in LPS nor the length of the O-specific part of LPS containing NeuAc plays a decisive role in determining bacterial resistance to the bactericidal activity of normal human serum (NHS), and that the presence of NeuAc in the LPS structure is not sufficient to block the activation of the alternative pathway of complement in NHS. The current results showed that the tested strains showed various sensitivities also to the bactericidal action of NCS. The authors postulate that the presence of certain outer membrane proteins (OMPs) are characteristic of the resistant and sensitive phenotypes of Salmonella 048 strains. To establish a possible relationship between resistance to NCS and OMPs band patterns, ten Salmonella 048 strains were studied as follows: susceptibility to the bactericidal effect of NCS, the mechanisms of NCS activation and OMP band patterns obtained by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
25153321|Phylogenetic studies have implicated frequent horizontal transmission of Wolbachia among arthropod host lineages. However, the ecological routes for such lateral transfer are poorly known. We surveyed the species of two arthropod communities, one on pumpkin and the other on loofah plants, for Wolbachia, constructed wsp gene phylogenies of those Wolbachia strains found to infect community members, and established ecological links among infected members. Four taxonomically diverse insects in the pumpkin arthropod community contained very closely related Wolbachia wsp sequences (&lt;1.5% divergence by Kimura-2-parameter distances). These insects, namely, the whitefly Bemisia tabaci, the planthopper Nisia nervosa, the flea beetle Phyllotreta sp., and the fleahopper Halticus minutus, were all collected from pumpkin leaves. They were ecologically linked through feeding on the same leaf substrate. Unlike other infected leaf insects, the whitefly population appeared to have a permanent breeding relationship with pumpkin plants, and high and stable, but not fixed, monthly Wolbachia infection rates. Our findings suggest potential roles for the plant in Wolbachia transmission and for whiteflies in being an infection source for other pumpkin leaf-feeding insects.
4287558| Bacteria play a major role in the decomposition of organic matter arriving at the deep-sea floor, and hence there is a need to determine accurate rates of bacterial production associated with sediment particles. However, sediment-based procedures are not well defined and sampling deep-sea sediments is technically difficult, time consuming, and expensive, often only producing relatively small amounts of undisturbed sediment for analysis. We describe and test a small-scale method (requiring 0.25 ml sediment) for the examination of bacterial production in deep-sea calcium carbonate rich sediments. Time course experiments showed variation in the period of linear [
4251637|Herein we assess the importance of leaf cuticle, polyphenolic, and essential oils contents of Eucalyptus globulus leaves to hyphomycete colonization and shredder consumption. Optical and electron microscopy revealed that, at least during the first 5 weeks of conditioning, the cuticle remains virtually intact. Stomata provide the main access for hyphae to internal leaf tissues and, eventually, for spore release. We suggest that in E. globulus leaves, fungal decomposition progresses predominantly in and from the eucalyptus leaf mesophyll to the outside. Malt extract agar media supplemented with either eucalyptus essential oils or tannic acid completely inhibited (Articulospora tetracladia, Lemonniera aquatica, and Tricladium gracile) or depressed (Heliscus lugdunensis, Lunulospora curvula, and Tricladium angulatum) aquatic hyphomycetes growth. The transference of both secondary compounds to alder leaves induced similar and significant reduction in Tipula lateralis larval consumption. Results consistently indicate that eucalyptus oils are stronger deterrents than polyphenols. The waxy cuticle of E. globulus appears to be a key physical factor delaying fungal colonization during decomposition. We hypothesize that the relative influence of leaf phenols and essential oils to aquatic hyphomycetes and shredders may be related to three main factors: (a) initial distribution of such compounds in the leaves; (b) possibility of their decrease through decomposition; and (c) consumption strategies of detritivores.
40926470|Gut microbiota has been suggested as a key component of gut homeostasis, affecting immune responses within the gut. We determined changes in intestinal commensal bacteria and expression of toll-like receptors (TLR) 2 and 4 in rats bred under microbiologically controlled conditions (barrier), under standard conditions (conventional), and in barrier animals adapted to standard conditions (barrier/conventional). Cecal microbiota was analyzed by plate culture, and fluorescence in situ hybridization and microbial profiles were assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. Cecal expression of TLR-2 and TLR-4 was determined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Total number of cecal bacteria was similar in the three groups. However, the barrier group showed a higher number of strict anaerobic bacteria (Bacteroides spp. and Clostndium spp.) while Bifidobacterium spp. were scarce. Re-housing the barrier-bred rats into conventional conditions led to a microbiota with intermediate characteristics between the barrier and conventional groups. Richness of the cecal microbial ecosystem was similar in the three groups, although a relative time-dependent variation, with highest homogeneity in the barrier group, was observed. Expression levels of TLR-2 and TLR-4 had no clear correlation with the microbiota. These results show that the relative composition of the cecal microbiota in rats varies spontaneously with changes in the environmental conditions, with minor impact in the expression of TLR-2 and TLR-4. These observations might be important in the understanding of variability in animal responses, particularly to immune-related stimuli, when assessed in the context of the environmental/microbiological conditions.
25153095|The role of disturbance in structuring natural microbial communities has been largely unexplored. Disturbance associated with invertebrate ingestion can reduce bacterial biomass and alter metabolic activities and compositions of bacterial assemblages in marine sediments. The primary objectives of the research presented here were to test whether ingestion by a taxonomically diverse group of deposit feeders constituted a disturbance, and to determine the mechanisms by which bacterial assemblages recover following deposit-feeder ingestion. To test the question of disturbance, we compared fresh egesta vs surficial sediments with respect to bacterial assemblage structure. In emersed intertidal sediments, microbial recovery could be due to regrowth of bacterial populations surviving gut passage or to immigration from adjacent sediments. To differentiate between these modes of recolonization we used field manipulative experiments to exclude migration by isolating freshly extruded fecal coils of three deposit-feeding species from surrounding sediments. We then followed the quantitative and qualitative recovery in egesta and sediments through time using epifluorescence microscopy and PCR-DGGE analysis of 16S rDNA. Our findings indicate that (1) the degree and nature of the disturbance to bacterial assemblages from deposit feeding varies among invertebrate taxa, (2) recovery was significant but incomplete over 3 h, and (3) recolonization of biotically disturbed sediments is dominated by immigration.
40802167|We investigated if the limited development of "Trifolium repens" growing in a heavy metal (HM) multicontaminated soil was increased by selected native microorganisms, bacteria ("Bacillus cereus" (Bc)), yeast ("Candida parapsilosis" (Cp)), or arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), used either as single or dual inoculants. These microbial inoculants were assayed to ascertain whether the selection of HM-tolerant microorganisms can benefit plant growth and nutrient uptake and depress HM acquisition. The inoculated microorganisms, particularly in dual associations, increased plant biomass by 148% (Bc), 162%, (Cp), and 204% (AMF), concomitantly producing the highest symbiotic (AMF colonisation and nodulation) rates. The lack of AMF colonisation and nodulation in plants growing in this natural, polluted soil was compensated by adapted microbial inoculants. The metal bioaccumulation abilities of the inoculated microorganisms and particularly the microbial effect on decreasing metal concentrations in shoot biomass seem to be involved in such effects. Regarding microbial HM tolerance, the activities of antioxidant enzymes known to play an important role in cell protection by alleviating cellular oxidative damage, such as Superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione reductase, and ascorbate peroxidase, were here considered as an index of microbial metal tolerance. Enzymatic mechanisms slightly changed in the HM-adapted "B. cereus" or "C. parapsilosis" in the presence of metals. Antioxidants seem to be directly involved in the adaptative microbial response and survival in HM-polluted sites. Microbial inoculations showed a bioremediation potential and helped plants to develop in the multcontaminated soil. Thus, they could be used as a biotechnological tool to improve plant development in HM-contaminated environments.
25153294|Biodeterioration of archaeological sites and historic buildings is a major concern for conservators, archaeologists, and scientists involved in preservation of the world's cultural heritage. The Maya archaeological sites in southern Mexico, some of the most important cultural artifacts in the Western Hemisphere, are constructed of limestone. High temperature and humidity have resulted in substantial microbial growth on stone surfaces at many of the sites. Despite the porous nature of limestone and the common occurrence of endolithic microorganisms in many habitats, little is known about the microbial flora living inside the stone. We found a large endolithic bacterial community in limestone from the interior of the Maya archaeological site Ek' Balam. Analysis of 16S rDNA clones demonstrated disparate communities (endolithic: &gt;80% Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, and Low GC Firmicutes; epilithic: &gt;50% Proteobacteria). The presence of differing epilithic and endolithic bacterial communities may be a significant factor for conservation of stone cultural heritage materials and quantitative prediction of carbonate weathering.
4287490| We report a model system for plasmid transfer analysis using the regulated lambda phage right promoter, Pr,, fused to luc and lucOR as reporter genes. We have demonstrated that the systems cI857-Pr::luc and cI857-Pr::lucOR are temperature-inducible in Escherichia coli but not in other Gram-negative bacteria analyzed, enabling detection of luminescence when plasmids were mobilized from E. coli to those Gram-negative backgrounds. Using light for the detection, we have observed plasmid transfer from E. coli harboring RK2 and R388 derived plasmids to Pseudomonas putida KT2440 (co-introduced with donors) and to indigenous microorganisms, in vitro and in nonsterile soil microcosms. The importance of nutrients for an efficient plasmid transfer in nonsterile soil microcosms has been confirmed. When plasmid transfer experiments were carried out into nonsterile soil microcosms, significant populations of indigenous transconjugants arose. This system provides efficient marker genes and avoids the use of antibiotics for the selection of transconjugants. 
4287638| A field study was initiated in February 1996 in a remote sandy beach of The Grande Terre (Kerguelen Archipelago, 69 42 E, 49 19 S) with the objective of determining the long-term effects of some bioremediation agents on the biodegradation rate and the toxicity of oil residues under severe subantarctic conditions. A series of 10 experimental plots were settled firmly into sediment. Each plot received 2L of Arabian light crude oil and some of them were treated with bioremediation agents: slow release fertilizer Inipol EAP-22 (Elf Atochem) or fish composts. Plots were sampled on a regular basis over a 3-year period. A two-order of magnitude increase of saprophytic and hydrocarbon-utilizing microorganisms occurred during the first month of the experiment in all treated enclosures, but no clear differences appeared between the plots. Very high microbial populations were present during the experiment. Biodegradation within treated spots was faster than within the untreated ones and appeared almost complete after 6 months as indicated by the degradation index of aliphatic hydrocarbons within all plots. The analysis of interstitial water collected below the oily residues presented no toxicity. However, a high toxicity signal, using Microtox solid phase, appeared for all oiled sand samples with a noticeable reduction with time even if the toxicity signal remained present and strong after 311 days of oil exposition. As a conclusion, it is clear that the microbial response was rapid and efficient in spite of the severe weather conditions, and the rate of degradation was improved in presence of bioremediation agents. However, the remaining residues had a relatively high toxicity. 
4251244|Microbial viability and growth in animal guts are dependent upon conditions influenced by both the physiological activities of the animal and the activities of the microbes themselves. To examine the relative contribution of these influences, the guts of Molpadia intermedia (a subtidal holothuroid) and a variety of other marine deposit feeders from diverse habitats were probed with mini- or microelectrodes to measure oxygen, Eh, and pH. In general, bulk oxygen and pH conditions of the gut mimicked those of ambient sediments, revealing nearly neutral pH and zero oxygen in sub- and intertidal animals, with more oxygen in bathyal animals ingesting oxygenated sediments. Eh in guts of subsurface deposit feeders that likely subduct and aerate sediments before ingestion did not mimic sediments. Axial Eh profiles, in contrast to those of pH and oxygen, revealed significant changes along the gut. In most deposit feeders, values decreased from mouth to midgut, suggesting high rates of microbial metabolism within the gut. Increases in Eh were observed in the most distal portion of guts, however, likely due to anal intake of aerated water, and throughout the guts of terebellid polychaetes that feed on highly reducing sediments. This addition of a strong oxidant by the animal may be necessary to avoid sulfide poisoning and may provide access to organic products by stimulating chemoautotrophy. Radial profiles of the gut revealed sharp gradients of Eh and oxygen. In general, steep redox gradients stimulate bacterial metabolism and may lead to exceptionally high respiratory rates. Radial diffusion calculations made using oxygen profiles surrounding the gut reveal that, as predicted by digestion theory, oxygen consumption rates are rapid and are higher in the hindgut, where the digestive products of the animal are available to microbes, than in the foregut.
4251411|The contribution of bacteria to phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) release from, or retention in, sediment was studied in a flow-through system. "Live" and formaldehyde-"killed" sediment communities were incubated in 25-liter bottles with a continuous flow of P- or P + N-enriched water. Sediment bacteria in the killed communities were inhibited by adding formaldehyde (final concentration 0.04% v/v) to the sediment before the start of the experiment. Bacterial activity in the live sediments measured with [
4251275| The marine, free-living Stilbonematinae (Nematoda: Desmodorida) inhabit the oxygen sulfide chemocline in marine sands. They are characterized by an association with ectosymbiotic bacteria. According to their ultra-structure the bacteria are Gram-negative and form morphologically uniform coats that cover the entire body surface of the worms. They are arranged in host-genus or host-species specific patterns: cocci form multilayered sheaths, rods, and crescent- or filament-shaped bacteria form monolayers. The detection of enzymes associated with sulfur metabolism and of ribulose-1,5 bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase, as well as elemental sulfur in the bacteria indicate a chemolithoautotrophic nature of the symbionts. Their reproductive patterns appear to optimize space utilization on the host surface: vertically standing rods divide by longitudinal fission, whereas other bacteria form non-septate filaments of up to 100 m length. 
4250889|Temperature dependence and seasonal variations in rates of microbial degradation of the lignin and polysaccharide components of specifically radiolabeled lignocelluloses were determined in sediment and water samples from a Georgia salt marsh and the nearby Okefenokee Swamp. Although temperature regimes in the two ecosystems were similar, rates of mineralization of Spartina alterniflora lignocellulose in salt marsh sediments increased eightfold between winter and summer, whereas rates of mineralization of lignocellulose from an analogous freshwater macrophyte, Carex walteriana, in Okefenokee sediments increased only twofold between winter and summer. Temperature was the major factor influencing seasonal variations in rates of lignocellulose degradation in both environments. At any given temperature, no substantial differences in lignocellulolytic potential were observed with sediment samples collected at each season. In both ecosystems, the bulk of the lignocellulosic detritus was not degraded at the time of its peak deposition during the fall and winter. Instead, the periods of maximal decomposition occurred during the following spring and summer. These results suggest that periods of maximal nutrient regeneration from the mineralization of lignocellulosic detritus coincide with periods of highest primary production, and that, depending on hydrologic conditions, significant horizontal transport of essentially intact lignocellulosic material is possible due to the lag period between deposition and microbial degradation.
41489159|Cultivation techniques were used to study the heterotrophic bacterial diversity in two microbial mat samples originating from the littoral zone of two continental Antarctic lakes (Forlidas Pond and Lundstrm Lake) in the Dufek Massif (within the Pensacola Mountains group of the Transantarctic Mountains) and Shackleton Range, respectively. Nearly 800 isolates were picked after incubation on several growth media at different temperatures. They were grouped using a whole-genome fingerprinting technique, repetitive element palindromic PCR and partial 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Phylogenetic analysis of the complete 16S rRNA gene sequences of 82 representatives showed that the isolates belonged to four major phylogenetic groups: Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria and Firmicutes. A relatively large difference between the samples was apparent. Forlidas Pond is a completely frozen water body underlain by hypersaline brine, with summer thaw forming a slightly saline littoral moat. This was reflected in the bacterial diversity with a dominance of isolates belonging to Firmicutes, whereas isolates from the freshwater Lundstrm Lake revealed a dominance of Actinobacteria, A total of 42 different genera were recovered, including first records from Antarctica for Albidiferax, Bosea, Gurvibacter, Luteimonas, Ornithinibacillus, Pseudoxanthomonas, Sphingopyxis and Spirosoma. Additionally, a considerable number of potential new species and new genera were recovered distributed over different phylogenetic groups. For several species where previously only the type strain was available in cultivation, we report additional strains. Comparison with public databases showed that overall, 72% of the phylotypes are cosmopolitan whereas 23% are currently only known from Antarctica. However, for the Bacteroidetes, the majority of the phylotypes recovered are at present known only from Antarctica and many of these represent previously unknown species.
23469582|During the past decade, there has been an explosion in the quantity of sequencing data that has come out of the studies of microbiomes. This has resulted primarily from new technological developments to interrogating any environment of choice. Additional downstream applications to interrogating these datasets include "omics" studies such as transcriptomics and proteomics, all leading to a deeper understanding of microbial diversity and the multitude of species that remain uncultured. Metagenomic studies are now being performed routinely on a wide range of environments including soils, oceans, air, plants, and various animal species. They are being used to identify novel microbial species, new pathways, and to elucidate the roles of viruses and phage in the environment. In this review, we get a perspective on where the science is headed and what we expect to learn as additional studies unfold.
4251561| The chemical nature and spatial arrangements of exopolymers in a degradative biofilm community were studied using a panel of fluorescein isothiocynate- and tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate-conjugated probes. Image analysis and dual channel imaging, in conjunction with scanning confocal laser microscopy, allowed detection and quantification of lectin binding to a variety of glycoconjugates. Relative abundance of these components varied between 0 and 67% of biofilm area at any depth. Lectin binding sites were distributed nonuniformly, both horizontally and vertically, within the >30-m thick biofilms when the herbicide diclofop methyl was provided as the sole carbon source. A more uniform distribution of lectin binding sites was formed by the same biofilm community, when grown on a labile medium. Diclofop and its metabolites accumulated in extracellular polymers when biofilms were grown with diclofop as the sole source of carbon and energy, but not in the presence of the labile carbon source. There was a nearly 1:1 correspondence between the distribution of regions that accumulated diclofop (and other chlorinated ring compounds) and regions with binding sites for the -L-fucose-specific Ulex europaeus Type I lectin. These regions also bound polyanionic and cationic fluor-conjugated dextrans, and a hydrophobic-specific dye, demonstrating the nonuniform distribution of charged and hydrophobic regions in the biofilm matrix. Hydrolytic enzymes, some of them selected for their specificity against residues identified by the lectin assay, had no effect on either structural integrity or diclofop binding. The distribution of diclofop binding, lectin binding, and charged regions observed in these biofilms indicated a degree of spatial organization and differentiation within the biofilm community. In addition, based on cell morphology and fluorescent gram reaction, these regions were primarily associated with one community member, a Bacillus coagulans strain. 
4287540|Viruses are abundant in a variety of aquatic environments, often exceeding bacterial abundance by one order of magnitude. In the present study, the spatial distribution of viruses in offshore waters of the Alboran Sea (Western Mediterranean) have been studied to determine the relationships between viruses and host communities in this oligotrophic marine environment. Viral abundance was determined using two methods: (i) epifluorescence light microscopy using the dsDNA binding fluorochrome DAPI, and (ii) direct counts by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The results obtained were significantly different; the highest viral counts were obtained by mean of TEM analyses. In all the samples tested the number of viruses was exceeded by the bacterial concentrations, with a ratio between viral and bacterial titers varying between 1.4 and 20. VLP (virus-like particle) counts were not significantly correlated (p > 0.001) with chlorophyll a concentration or the abundance of cyanobacteria. However, there was a positive and significant correlation with bacterial abundance (p < 0.001). The analysis of size and morphology of viral particles by TEM and the correlation obtained between the numbers of VLP and bacteria suggest that the majority of the viral particles in the Alboran Sea are bacteriophages. None of the indirect evidence suggested that eukaryotic algae or cyanobacteria were important host organisms in these waters.
25153274| The effect of long-term elevated soil Pb levels on soil microbiota was studied at a forest site in Norway, where the soil has been severely contaminated with Pb since the last period of glaciation (several thousand years). Up to 10% Pb (total amount, w/w) has been found in the top layer. The microbial community was drastically affected, as judged from changes in the phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) pattern. Specific PLFAs that were high in Pb-enriched soil were branched (especially br17:0 and br18:0), whereas PLFAs common in eukaryotic organisms such as fungi (18:26,9 and 20:4) were low compared with levels at adjacent, uncontaminated sites. Congruent changes in the PLFA pattern were found upon analyzing the culturable part of the bacterial community. The high Pb concentrations in the soil resulted in increased tolerance to Pb of the bacterial community, measured using both thymidine incorporation and plate counts. Furthermore, changes in tolerance were correlated to changes in the community structure. The bacterial community of the most contaminated soils showed higher specific activity (thymidine and leucine incorporation rates) and higher culturability than that of control soils. Fungal colony forming units (CFUs) were 10 times lower in the most Pb-enriched soils, the species composition was widely different from that in control soils, and the isolated fungi had high Pb tolerance. The most commonly isolated fungus in Pb-enriched soils was Tolypocladium inflatum. Comparison of isolates from Pb-enriched soil and isolates from unpolluted soils showed that T. inflatum was intrinsically Pb-tolerant, and that the prolonged conditions with high Pb had not selected for any increased tolerance. 
4251548|Cyanobacterial blooms were sampled at five locations in Lake Grand-Lieu on seven different occasions during May-October 1994. Strains of Microcystis aeruginosa and Anabaena circinalis were isolated from the samples. Microcystins were detected in freeze-dried field samples and the isolated strains by HPLC. The toxins were present in the blooms sampled between June and October. The microcystin content in the blooms varied with site and time, from undetectable concentrations to 0.23 mg g
23597821|Bacterial infections are the second largest cause of mortality in shrimp hatcheries. Among them, bacteria from the genus Vibrio constitute a major threat. As the use of antibiotics may be ineffective and banned from the food sector, alternatives are required. Historically, phage therapy, which is the use of bacteriophages, is thought to be a promising option to fight against bacterial infections. However, as for antibiotics, resistance can be rapidly developed. Since the emergence of resistance is highly undesirable, a formal characterization of the dynamics of its acquisition is mandatory. Here, we explored the co-evolutionary dynamics of resistance between the bacteria Vibrio sp. CV1 and the phages V1G, V1P1, and V1P2. Single-phage treatments as well as a cocktail composed of the three phages were considered. We found that in the presence of a single phage, bacteria rapidly evolved resistance, and the phages decreased their infectivity, suggesting that monotherapy may be an inefficient treatment to fight against Vibrio infections in shrimp hatcheries. On the contrary, the use of a phage cocktail considerably delayed the evolution of resistance and sustained phage infectivity for periods in which shrimp larvae are most susceptible to bacterial infections, suggesting the simultaneous use of multiple phages as a serious strategy for the control of vibriosis. These findings are very promising in terms of their consequences to different industrial and medical scenarios where bacterial infections are present.
4287665| A laboratory experiment was performed to test whether differences in nutrient and energy demands between picophytoplankton and heterotrophic bacteria can explain the apparent inverse biomass relationship between these organisms in lakes along gradients of organic carbon and nutrients. Growth rates and final yield of cells were analyzed in crossed gradients of glucose and phosphate. Concentrations of phosphate (10, 25, and 60 g P L
27770621|The associations among rhizobia chromosomal background, nodulation genes, legume plants, and geographical regions are very attractive but still nuclear. To address this question, we analyzed the interactions among rhizobia rDNA genotypes, nodC genotypes, legume genera, as well as geographical regions in the present study. Complex relationships were observed among them, which may be the genuine nature of their associations. The statistical analyses indicate that legume plant is the key factor shaping both rhizobia genetic and symbiotic diversity. In the most cases of our results, the nodC lineages are clearly associated with rhizobial genomic species, demonstrating that nodulation genes have co-evolved with chromosomal background, though the lateral transfer of nodulation genes occurred in some cases in a minority. Our results also support the hypothesis that the endemic rhizobial populations to a certain geographical area prefer to have a wide spectrum of hosts, which might be an important event for the success of both legumes and rhizobia in an isolated region.
25153209| Iodide-oxidizing bacteria (IOB), which oxidize iodide (I) to molecular iodine (I), were isolated from iodiderich (63 M to 1.2 mM) natural gas brine waters collected from several locations. Agar media containing iodide and starch were prepared, and brine waters were spread directly on the media. The IOB, which appeared as purple colonies, were obtained from 28 of the 44 brine waters. The population sizes of IOB in the brines were 10 to 10 colony-forming units (CFU) mL. However, IOB were not detected in natural seawaters and terrestrial soils (fewer than 10 CFU mL and 10 CFU g wet weight of soils, respectively). Interestingly, after the enrichment with 1 mM iodide, IOB were found in 6 of the 8 seawaters with population sizes of 10 to 10 CFU mL. 16S rDNA sequencing and phylogenetic analyses showed that the IOB strains are divided into two groups within the -subclass of the Proteobacteria. One of the groups was phylogenetically most closely related to Roseovarius tolerans with sequence similarities between 94% and 98%. The other group was most closely related to Rhodothalassium salexigens, although the sequence similarities were relatively low (89% to 91%). The iodide-oxidizing reaction by IOB was mediated by an extracellular enzyme protein that requires oxygen. Radiotracer experiments showed that IOB produce not only I but also volatile organic iodine, which were identified as diiodomethane (CHI) and chloroiodomethane (CHClI). These results indicate that at least two types of IOB are distributed in the environment, and that they are preferentially isolated in environments in which iodide levels are very high. It is possible that IOB oxidize iodide in the natural environment, and they could significantly contribute to the biogeochemical cycling of iodine. 
4287719| High nitrogen losses were observed in a rotating biological contactor (RBC) treating ammonium-rich (up to 500 mg
25256151|Fungal endophytes and saprotrophs generally play an important ecological role within plant tissues and dead plant material. Several reports based solely on morphological observations have postulated that there is an intimate link between endophytes and saprotrophs. This study aims to provide valuable insight as to whether some endophytic fungi manifest themselves as saprotrophs upon host decay. Ribosomal DNA-based sequence comparison and phylogenetic relationships from 99 fungal isolates (endophytes, mycelia sterilia, and saprotrophs) recovered from leaves and twigs of Magnolia liliifera were investigated in this study. Molecular data suggest there are fungal taxa that possibly exist as endophytes and saprotrophs. Isolates of Colletotrichum, Fusarium, Guignardia, and Phomopsis, which are common plant endophytes, have high sequence similarity and are phylogenetically related to their saprotrophic counterparts. This provides evidence to suggest that some endophytic species change their ecological strategies and adopt a saprotrophic lifestyle. The implication of these findings on fungal biodiversity and host specificity is also discussed.
4287749|Epifluorescence microscopy and transmission electron microscopy were applied to study virioplankton community in the Gulf of Trieste (northern Adriatic Sea). The total viral abundance was in a range between
25153102| Bioremediation of soils contaminated with wood preservatives containing polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) is desired because of their toxic, mutagenic, and carcinogenic properties. Creosote wood preservative-contaminated soils at the Champion International Superfund Site in Libby, Montana currently undergo bioremediation in a prepared-bed land treatment unit (LTU) process. Microbes isolated from these LTU soils rapidly mineralized the C-labeled PAH pyrene in the LTU soil. Gram staining, electron microscopy, and 16S rDNA-sequencing revealed that three of these bacteria, JLS, KMS, and MCS, were Mycobacterium strains. The phylogeny of the 16S rDNA showed that they were distinct from other Mycobacterium isolates with PAH-degrading activities. Catalase and superoxide dismutase (SOD) isozyme profiles confirmed that each isolate was distinct from each other and from the PAH-degrading mycobacterium, Mycobacterium vanbaalenii sp. nov, isolated from a petroleum-contaminated soil. We find that dioxygenase genes nidA and nidB are present in each of the Libby Mycobacterium isolates and are adjacent to each other in the sequence nidB-nidA, an order that is unique to the PAH-degrading mycobacteria. 
40605661|The polymerase chain reaction coupled with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) has been used widely to determine species richness and structure of microbial communities in a variety of environments. Researchers commonly archive soil samples after routine chemical or microbial analyses, and applying PCR-DGGE technology to these historical samples offers evaluation of long-term patterns in bacterial species richness and community structure that was not available with previous technology. However, use of PCR-DGGE to analyze microbial communities of archived soils has been largely unexplored. To evaluate the stability of DGGE patterns in archived soils in comparison with fresh soils, fresh and archived soils from five sites along an elevational gradient in the Chihuahuan Desert were compared using PCR-DGGE of 16S rDNA. DNA from all archived samples was extracted reliably, but DNA in archived soils collected from a closed-canopy oak forest site could not be amplified. DNA extraction yields were lower for most archived soils, but minimal changes in bacterial species richness and structure due to archiving were noted in bacterial community profiles from four sites. Use of archived soils to determine long-term changes in bacterial community structure via PCR-DGGE appears to be a viable option for addressing microbial community dynamics for particular ecosystems or landscapes.
40343425|Agricultural improvement (addition of fertilizers, liming) of seminatural acidic grasslands across Ireland and the UK has resulted in significant shifts in floristic composition, soil chemistry, and microbial community structure. Although several factors have been proposed as responsible for driving shifts in microbial communities, the exact causes of such changes are not well defined. Phosphate was added to grassland microcosms to investigate the effect on fungal and bacterial communities. Plant species typical of unimproved grasslands (Agrostis capillaris, Festuca ovina) and agriculturally improved grasslands (Lolium perenne) were grown, and phosphate was added 25 days after seed germination, with harvesting after a further 50 days. Phosphate addition significantly increased root biomass (p<0.001) and shoot biomass (p<0.05), soil pH (by 0.1 U), and microbial activity (by 5.33 mg triphenylformazan [TPF] g soil; p<001). A slight decrease (by 0.257 mg biomass-C g soil; p<0.05) in microbial biomass after phosphate addition was found. The presence of plant species significantly decreased soil pH (p<0.05; by up to 0.2 U) and increased microbial activity (by up to 6.02 mg TPF g soil) but had no significant effect on microbial biomass. Microbial communities were profiled using automated mated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis. Multidimensional scaling plots and canonical correspondence analysis revealed that phosphate addition and its interactions with upland grassland plant species resulted in considerable changes in the fungal and bacterial communities of upland soil. The fungal community structure was significantly affected by both phosphate (R=0.948) and plant species (R=0.857), and the bacterial community structure was also significantly affected by phosphate (R=0.758) and plant species (R=0.753). Differences in microbial community structure following P addition were also revealed by similarity percentage analysis. These data suggest that phosphate application may be an important contributor to microbial community structural change during agricultural management of upland grasslands.
23469585|Vibrio parahaemolyticus is a Gram-negative, halophilic bacterium found commonly in temperate and warm estuarine waters worldwide. V. parahaemolyticus is considered an emerging bacterial pathogen in Europe and has been responsible for several recent seafood-associated outbreaks. During ad hoc testing of raw shellfish produce in May 2012, pandemic group (O3:K6) V. parahaemolyticus was isolated from Pacific oysters (Crassostrea gigas), harvested in Southern England. Follow-on testing of water and shellfish, encompassing a small number geographically diverse sites, also retrieved pandemic group isolates. These strains are amongst the most northerly pandemic strains described to date and represent the first instance of pandemic V. parahaemolyticus isolated in the UK, highlighting the expanding geographical distribution of these foodborne pathogens in the environment.
4251454| Factors that regulate and induce stalk formation by the iron-oxidizing and stalk-forming bacterium Gallionella ferruginea were studied in laboratory cultures and in situ. A stalk-forming strain,
4251374|The regulation of bacterial community biomass and productivity by resources and predators is a central concern in the study of microbial food webs. Resource or bottom-up regulation refers to the limitation of bacteria by carbon and nutrients derived from allocthonous inputs, primary production, and heterotrophic production. Predatory or top-down regulation refers to the limitation of bacteria below levels supportable by resources alone. Large scale comparative studies demonstrate strong correlations between bacterial productivity and biomass, suggesting significant resource regulation. Comparisons of the abundances of heterotrophic flagellates and bacteria, however, imply that in some cases there may be top-down regulation of bacteria in eutrophic environments. Experimental studies in lakes support the importance of resource regulation and reveal little top-down control from protozoans. Increases in bacterial abundance and production with nutrient enrichment were limited in enclosure experiments with high abundances of the cladoceran, Daphnia. Regulation of bacteria by Daphnia may occur in many lakes seasonally and prevail in some lakes throughout the year where these animals sustain dense populations. In most situations, however, bacteria appear to be limited primarily by resources.
41489109|Biological nitrogen fixation is a keystone process in many ecosystems, providing bioavailable forms of fixed nitrogen for members of the community. In the present study, degenerate primers targeting the nitrogenase iron protein-encoding gene (nifH) were designed and employed to investigate the physical and chemical parameters that underpin the distribution and diversity of nifH as a proxy for nitrogen-fixing organisms in the geothermal springs of Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Wyoming, nifH was detected in 57 of the 64 YNP springs examined, which varied in pH from 1.90 to 9.78 and temperature from 16C to 89C. This suggested that the distribution of nifH in YNP is widespread and is not constrained by pH and temperature alone. Phylogenetic and statistical analysis of nifH recovered from 13 different geothermal spring environments indicated that the phylogeny exhibits evidence for both geographical and ecological structure. Model selection indicated that the phylogenetic relatedness of nifH assemblages could be best explained by the geographic distance between sampling sites. This suggests that nifH assemblages are dispersal limited with respect to the fragmented nature of the YNP geothermal spring environment. The second highest ranking explanatory variable for predicting the phylogenetic relatedness of nifH assemblages was spring water conductivity (a proxy for salinity), suggesting that salinity may constrain the distribution of nifH lineages in geographically isolated YNP spring ecosystems. In summary, these results indicate a widespread distribution of nifH in YNP springs, and suggest a role for geographical and ecological factors in constraining the distribution of nifH lineages in the YNP geothermal complex.
41693860|Tuberculate mycorrhizae on Pinus contorta (lodgepole pine) have previously been shown to reduce acetylene, but an outstanding question has been to what degree these structures could meet the nitrogen requirements of the tree. We compared the growth, tissue nitrogen contents, and stable nitrogen isotope ratios of P. contorta growing in gravel pits to the same species growing on adjacent intact soil. Trees growing in severely nitrogen deficient gravel pits had virtually identical growth rates and tissue nitrogen contents to those growing on intact soil that had nitrogen levels typical for the area. N values for trees in the gravel pits were substantially lower than N values for trees on intact soil, and isotope ratios in vegetation were lower than the isotope ratios of the soil. The form of soil nitrogen in the gravel pits was almost exclusively nitrate, while ammonium predominated in the intact soil. Discrimination against N during plant uptake of soil nitrate in the highly N-deficient soil should be weak or nonexistent. Therefore, the low N in the gravel pit trees suggests that trees growing in gravel pits were using another nitrogen source in addition to the soil. Precipitation-borne nitrogen in the study area is extremely low. In conjunction with our other work, these findings strongly suggests that P. contorta and its microbial symbionts or associates fix nitrogen in sufficient amounts to sustain vigorous tree growth on the most nitrogen-deficient soils.
41693729|Seasonal changes in environmental conditions have a strong impact on microbial community structure and dynamics in aquatic habitats. To better elucidate the response of bacterial communities to environmental changes, we have measured a large variety of limnetic variables and investigated bacterial community composition (BCC) and dynamics over seven consecutive years between 2003 and 2009 in mesotrophic Lake Tiefwaren (NE Germany). We separated between free-living (FL, > 0.2, < 5.0 m) and particle-associated (PA, > 5.0 m) bacteria to account for different bacterial lifestyles and to obtain a higher resolution of the microbial diversity. Changes in BCC were studied by DGGE based on PCR-amplified 16S rRNA gene fragments. Sequencing of DGGE bands revealed that ca. 70 % of all FL bacteria belonged to the Actinobacteria, whereas PA bacteria were dominated by Cyanobacteria (43 %). FL communities were generally less diverse and rather stable over time compared to their PA counterpart. Annual changes in reoccurring seasonal patterns of dominant freshwater bacteria were supported by statistical analyses, which revealed several significant correlations between DGGE profiles and various environmental variables, e.g. temperature and nutrients. Overall, FL bacteria were generally less affected by environmental changes than members of the PA fraction. Close association of PA bacteria with phytoplankton and Zooplankton suggests a tight coupling of PA bacteria to organisms of higher trophic levels. Our results indicate substantial differences in bacterial lifestyle of pelagic freshwater bacteria, which are reflected by contrasting seasonal dynamics and relationships to a number of environmental variables.
41412445|Many of the fungal pathogens that threaten agricultural and natural systems undergo wind-assisted dispersal. During turbulent wind conditions, long-distance dispersal can occur, and airborne spores are carried over distances greater than the mean. The occurrence of longdistance dispersal is an important ecological process, as it can drastically increase the extent to which pathogen epidemics spread across a landscape, result in rapid transmission of disease to previously uninfected areas, and influence the spatial structure of pathogen populations in fragmented landscapes. Since the timing of spore release determines the wind conditions that prevail over a dispersal event, this timing is likely to affect the probability of longdistance dispersal occurring. Using a Lagrangian stochastic model, we test the effect of seasonal and diurnal variation in the release of spores on wind-assisted dispersal. Spores released during the hottest part of the day are shown to be more likely to undergo long-distance dispersal than those released at other times. Furthermore, interactions are shown to occur between seasonal and diurnal patterns of release. These results have important consequences for further modelling of wind-assisted dispersal and the use of models to predict the spread of fungal pathogens and resulting population and epidemic dynamics.
25256102|The association between community functional shift and dynamics of genomic DNA composition can be used to identify functionally relevant populations as indicator organisms for systems monitoring. In this work, fingerprinting-based community DNA hybridization was used to monitor community structural dynamics and identify genomic fragments whose abundance shifts were concomitant to changes in COD removal capacity in a reactor. A laboratory-scale anaerobic-anoxic-oxic fixed biofilm system treating coking wastewater was operated with (LR mode) or without effluent recirculation (LNR mode). The contribution to total chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal by the anoxic reactor increased from 4% in LNR mode to 26% in LR mode. Long primer RAPD (randomly amplified polymorphic DNA) community fingerprints of the anoxic reactor also changed most significantly from the one similar to the anaerobic reactor to one similar to the oxic reactor. DNA hybridization revealed one signature band of 2.1 kb shared by the anoxic and oxic reactors in LR, but not LNR mode. Clone library profiling of this band resulted in one predominant 2.1-kb genomic fragment (B3) with no homologous sequences in GenBank. Real-time polymerase chain reaction indicated that copy numbers of B3 in the anoxic reactor under LR mode were 69 times higher than that under LNR mode, concomitant to a significant increase in COD removal capacity in this reactor. The different patterns of distribution of B3 in the laboratory system and a comparable malfunctioning industrial system demonstrated the potential of this genomic fragment as physical markers in systems monitoring. In addition, this genomic fragment may allow sequence-guided isolation of the host microbe.
4251596|Aerobiological sampling was conducted year-round at three sites on Signy Island, maritime Antarctic, between December 1992 and January 1994, and during the summer at a fourth coastal site. The concentrations of keratinaceous particles were monitored. Feather fragments were the most abundant of all particle types trapped. Seal hairs were also common, particularly on the coast. Numbers of both particle types were most common in the air in summer. The Antarctic soil fungus Geomyces pannorum, which is able to utilize keratin-based substrates, was also present in aerobiological samples on Signy Island. G. pannorum was only found during early winter on the year-round sampling sites. It was more abundant during summer in the air at the coastal site, which was more heavily influenced by seals, birds and humans. Skuas were swabbed when they returned to the island early in summer. G. pannorum was recovered in culture, suggesting that these birds may act as vectors for the transport of microorganisms between Antarctica and more northern landmasses. Organic material deposited on snow was concentrated on the soil at the edge of the ice cap by melt wash, making additional keratin and other organic substrates available to soil microorganisms.
4251785|The behavior of Escherichia coli immersed in aqueous systems amended with humic acids, under PAR, UV-A, UV-B, and simulated solar radiation was examined. Culturability, ability to elongate, functioning of the electron transport systems, and glucose uptake were assessed. Humic substances in the range from 1 to 50 mg L
40926479|Glacier forefields are an ideal playground to investigate the role of development stages of soils on the formation of plant-microbe interactions as within the last decades, many alpine glaciers retreated, whereby releasing and exposing parent material for soil development. Especially the status of macronutrients like nitrogen differs between soils of different development stages in these environments and may influence plant growth significantly. Thus, in this study, we reconstructed major parts of the nitrogen cycle in the rhizosphere soil/root system of Leucanthemopsis alpina (L.) HEYWOOD as well as the corresponding bulk soil by quantifying functional genes of nitrogen fixation (nifH), nitrogen mineralisation (chiA, aprA), nitrification (amoA AOB, amoA AOA) and denitrification (nirS, nirK and nosZ) in a 10-year and a 120-year ice-free soil of the Damma glacier forefield. We linked the results to the ammonium and nitrate concentrations of the soils as well as to the nitrogen and carbon status of the plants. The experiment was performed in a greenhouse simulating the climatic conditions of the glacier forefield. Samples were taken after 7 and 13 weeks of plant growth. Highest nifH gene abundance in connection with lowest nitrogen content of L. alpina was observed in the 10-year soil after 7 weeks of plant growth, demonstrating the important role of associative nitrogen fixation for plant development in this soil. In contrast, in the 120-year soil copy numbers of genes involved in denitrification, mainly nosZ were increased after 13 weeks of plant growth, indicating an overall increased microbial activity status as well as higher concentrations of nitrate in this soil.
25152957| Spatial and temporal variations in the concentrations of dissolved gases (CH, CO, and O) in peat cores were studied using membrane inlet mass spectrometry (MIMS). Variations in vertical gas profiles were observed between random peat cores taken from hollows on the same peat bog. Methane concentrations in profiles (0-30 cm) generally increased with depth and reached maximum values in the range of 200-450 M CH below about 13-cm depth. In some profiles, a peak of dissolved methane was observed at 7-cm depth. Oxygen penetrated to approximately 2-cm depth in the hollows. The sampling probe was used to continuously monitor CH, CO, and O concentrations at fixed depths in peat cores over periods of several days. The concentration of dissolved CO and O at 1-cm depth oscillated over a 24-h period with the maximum of CO concentration corresponding with the minimum of O. Diurnal variations in CO but not CH were measured at 15-cm depth; dissolved CO levels decreased during daylight hours to a constant minimum concentration of 4.85 mM. This report also describes the application of MIMS for the measurement of gaseous diffusion rates in peat using an inert gas (argon); the value of D, the diffusion coefficient, was 2.07  10 m s. 
4250705|The yeast flora associated with exudates of Quercus, Ulmus, Populus, and Pseudotsuga was examined in the light of new isolations in geographic areas different from those in previous reports. Application of multivariate analytic methods indicated that geographic distance, although a meaningful ecological factor, is largely overshadowed by host tree specificity, provided that yeast community physiological profiles and not yeast taxa, are used as ecological descriptors. Some physiological attributes used in classifying yeasts were identified as particularly important in shaping the yeast communities of those trees. The possible divergence between these attributes and those generally considered taxonomically useful is discussed.
4250745|The abundance of Aeromonas hydrophila was measured monthly at 29 sites in Albemarle Sound, North Carolina and its tributaries from April 1977 through July 1979. Simultaneous measurements included heterotrophic plate count bacteria, fecal coliform bacteria, and 18 physical and chemical parameters. Using only 6 water quality parameters, multiple correlation and regression analysis of the data produced a best-fit regression which explained 38% of the variation observed in A. hydrophila density. The 6 water quality parameters included dissolved oxygen, temperature, orthophosphate, chlorophyll A trichromatic, total Kjeldahl nitrogen, and ammonia. Heterotrophic plate count bacteria and fecal coliform densities were highly correlated with A. hydrophila density, but made the model very unstable. The model was successfully tested against similar data collected for 2 other North Carolina reservoirs, Lake Norman and Badin Lake. Data from 10 sites in Badin Lake over 18 months and from 7 sites on Lake Norman over 5 months were not significantly different from the Albemarle Sound model. Conditions of water quality that may give rise to "blooms" of A. hydrophila will simultaneously contribute to the probability of increased epizootics in fish in the southeastern United States.
40926466|The symbiotic relationship between Asaia, an a-proteobacterium belonging to the family Acetobacteriaceae, and mosquitoes has been studied mainly in the Asian malaria vector Anopheles stephensi. Thus, we have investigated the nature of the association between Asaia and the major Afro-tropical malaria vector Anopheles gambiae. We have isolated Asaia from different wild and laboratory reared colonies of A. gambiae, and it was detected by PCR in all the developmental stages of the mosquito and in all the specimens analyzed. Additionally, we have shown that it localizes in the midgut, salivary glands and reproductive organs. Using recombinant strains of Asaia expressing fluorescent proteins, we have demonstrated the ability of the bacterium to colonize A. gambiae mosquitoes with a pattern similar to that described for A. stephensi. Finally, fluorescent in situ hybridization on the reproductive tract of females of A. gambiae showed a concentration of Asaia at the very periphery of the eggs, suggesting that transmission of Asaia from mother to offspring is likely mediated by a mechanism of egg-smearing. We suggest that Asaia has potential for use in the paratransgenic control of malaria transmitted by A. gambiae.
4250939|The populations of Klebsiella pneumoniae, Escherichia coli, Enterobacter aerogenes, and Pseudomonas sp. fell following their addition to soil, but species lysing these gram-negative bacteria were not detected. The numbers of Staphylococcus aureus and Micrococcus flavus fell by more than four orders of magnitude and of Saccharomyces cerevisiae by more than two orders after their addition to soil. Organisms lysing these gram-positive bacteria were present in soil, but their numbers did not increase as a result of the additions. Lytic activity against S. aureus was detected in soil filtrates, but this activity was not enhanced by inoculation of soil with the bacterium. Addition of cycloheximide to soil suspensions delayed the fall in abundance of M. flavus but did not suppress the lytic populations. We conclude that lysis is not responsible for the decline of bacteria or S. cerevisiae added to soil.
4251224| The role of saprophytic phyllosphere yeasts in removing aphid honeydew and other nutrients from wheat leaves was evaluated in growth cabinet experiments at different temperatures and relative humidities. Population densities of both pink and white yeasts (Sporobolomyces roseus and Cryptococcus laurentii, respectively) increased between 12 and 24C, if nutrients were supplied. White yeast numbers increased rapidly at a constant vapor pressure deficit (VPD) of 0.10 kPa and alternating VPDs of 0.10 and 0.61 kPa (each 12 hours per day) but decreased at a constant VPD of 0.61 kPa. In growth cabinet experiments with aphids on wheat plants, the amount of aphid honeydew on the leaves was lower when yeast population densities were high. Addition of amino acids to leaves with honeydew had no effect on yeast population density or the rate of honeydew consumption. This indicated that low concentrations of amino acids in aphid honeydew are not a limiting factor for honeydew consumption by the yeasts. The naturally occurring saprophytes efficiently removed fructose, sucrose, and melezitose from the phyllosphere of field-grown wheat plants. 
4250465| Microautoradiography was used to screen natural phytoplankton populations from Lake Kinneret for their ability to take up radioactive organic substrates (glucose, acetic acid, amino acids, and glycollic acid. Several of the important Chlorophyta (Pediastrum spp., Actinastrum hantzschii, Kirchneriella spp., Coelastrum spp., Scenedesmus spp., and Tetradron spp.) and Cyanophyta (Microcystis spp., Merismopedia sp., Chroococcus spp., and Anabaena spp.) showed consistent organic uptake. However, the principal bloom former, the dinoflagellate Peridinium cinctum fa westii and most of the pelagic algae observed, never assimilated any of the above substrates. Autoradiographic surveys permit rapid screening of algal populations for species which are capable of taking up organic matter and can indicate potential facultative heterotrophs. 
4250515| Several naturally occurring calcium-phosphate apatites which varied in crystalline structure and ionic composition were added as crystals of different particle size to P-free (< 1 /liter total P) nutrient media. Sufficient
4287688|The aim of the study was to assess the effect of the mycorrhizosphere of A. tortillis spp. raddiana mycorrhized with Glomus intraradices on the root nodulation by Sinorhizobium terangae (ORS 1009) and/or Mesorhizobium plurifarium (ORS 1096) in two different culture substrates (sandy soil and sand). The endomycorrhizal fungus only stimulated plant growth in the sandy soil. Moreover, arbuscular mycorrhizal infection enhanced the nodulation process in both culture substrates. Beside the stimulatory effects of the mycorrhizosphere on both rhizobia development, fungal symbiosis induces two different dynamics of each bacterial strains in the sand-grown plants. These results suggest specific relationships could occur during the development of the tripartite symbiosis, at physiological and molecular level. From a practical point of view, the role of arbuscular mycorrhizas in improving nodulation and N
4251469| The ability of the indigenous microbial community from three streams in the Niagara River watershed to degrade chlorobenzoate congeners was studied over a two-year period using culture enrichment techniques. Sediment enrichments from Bloody Run Creek and Devil's Hole Creek, which were shown to be contaminated by groundwater run-off from the Hyde Park chemical landfill site, consistently showed a higher frequency of complete microbial degradation of 3-chloro-, 4-chloro-, and 3,4-dichlorobenzoate when compared to enrichments from control samples of Fish Creek, a tributary that is not effected by Hyde Park. The isomer showing the most frequent degradation in all sediment enrichments was 4-chlorobenzoate. Seasonal variations were observed for 3-chlorobenzoate degradation, only. Year-to-year variations in microbial chlorobenzoate degradation were noted for 4-chloro- and 3,4-dichlorobenzoate enrichments. Although 4C batch culture enrichments consistently showed less frequent degradation of chlorobenzoates during all seasons sampled, some sites showed complete degradation at this temperature. This suggests that the culturable microbial consortia responsible for chlorobenzoate degradation include facultative psychrophiles. Phosphorous nutrient limitations in all streams limited the microbial degradation potential in situ. 
41489040|The influence of bacterial communities on the formation of carbonate deposits such as moonmilk was investigated in Altamira Cave (Spain). The study focuses on the relationship between the bacterial communities at moonmilk deposits and those forming white colonizations, which develop sporadically throughout the cave. Using molecular fingerprinting of the metabolically active bacterial communities detected through RNA analyses, the development of white colonizations and moonmilk deposits showed similar bacterial profiles. White colonizations were able to raise the pH as a result of their metabolism (reaching in situ pH values above 8.5), which was proportional to the nutrient supply. Bacterial activity was analyzed by nanorespirometry showing higher metabolic activity from bacterial colonizations than uncolonized areas. Once carbonate deposits were formed, bacterial activity decreased drastically (down to 5.7% of the white colonization activity). This study reports on a specific type of bacterial community leading to moonmilk deposit formation in a cave environment as a result of bacterial metabolism. The consequence of this process is a macroscopic phenomenon of visible carbonate depositions and accumulation in cave environments.
25153291| Wohlfahrtia magnifica (Diptera: Sarcophagidae) is the major myiasis-causing fly species in the whole of Eurasia for most important domestic animals. The aim of the present work was to obtain data on the culturable bacteria isolated under aerobic conditions from this fly: bacteria were isolated from all developmental stages (larvae, pupa, and imago) of Wohlfahrtia magnifica, and the third-stage larval organs were also sampled. To determine the possible antagonistic effects between the dominant bacterial groups, an antibiosis assay was carried out. Plating and isolation of bacteria was performed by classical microbiological methods. Characterization of the isolated strains was carried out via a polyphasic approach; classical phenotypic tests, chemotaxonomical examinations, and 16S rDNA sequence analyses were also applied. In the case of maggot macerate samples, members of the family Enterobacteriaceae were characteristic. Members of a new genus (Schineria) belonging to the  subdivision of proteobacteria were also isolated. According to our data, the shifts in the Schineria and Proteus populations within the larvae are strongly influenced by their interactions with each other and among the members of the family Enterobacteriaceae. The pupa and imago samples contained several other Gram-negative bacteria (Stenotrophomonas, Brevundimonas, etc.). Among Gram-positive bacteria, in all maggot macerate samples, members of the genus Bacillus and the Arthrobacter-Micrococcus group of actinobacteria were dominant (neither of them was a producer or sensitive to the compounds of other microorganisms), and bacteria related to the genus Corynebacterium were also found. From the larvae Aureobacterium liquefaciens and Enterococcus faecalis were isolated, and from the pupae Dietzia maris and Enterococcus faecalis. In the samples of third-stage larval organs, the dominant groups were the same as in the third-stage larval macerate sample; however, several additional genera/species were observed (Rhodococcus fascians, Streptomyces sp., Rathayibacter sp., Bacillus thuringiensis/cereus). 
4287604| Heterotrophic bacteria in sea ice play a key role in carbon cycling, but little is known about the predominant players at the phylogenetic level. In a study of both algal bands and clear ice habitats within summertime Arctic pack ice from the Chukchi Sea, we determined the abundance of total bacteria and actively respiring cells in melted ice samples using epifluorescence microscopy and the stains 4, 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole 2HCl (DAPI) and 5-cyano-2,3-ditolyl tetrazolium chloride (CTC), respectively. Organic-rich and -poor culturing media were used to determine culturable members by plating (at 0C and 5C) and most-probable-number (MPN) analyses (at -1C). Total bacterial counts ranged from
4250890|Computer-enhanced microscopy (CEM) was used to study the growth kinetics of bacterial microcolonies attached to the wall of a continuous-flow slide culture. Image processing increased effective microscope resolution and quantitated colony growth at 10 min intervals. Three growth parameters were used to determine growth rate: the time required for cell fission, the specific rate of increase in cell number, and the specific rate of increase in cell area. Growth rate was initially constant regardless of colony size, as assumed previously in deriving colonization kinetics. However, at low substrate concentrations growth rate varied depending on laminar flow velocity. Growth was flow-dependent at a glucose concentration of 100 mg/liter and flow-independent at a concentration of 1 g/liter. This indicated that the surface microenvironment became substrate-depleted in the absence of sufficient laminar flow velocities and that glucose rather than oxygen was rate limiting.
23468255|The relationship between community structure and growth and pH tolerance of a soil bacterial community was studied after liming in a reciprocal inoculum study. An unlimed (UL) humus soil with a pH of 4.0 was fumigated with chloroform for 4 h, after which <1 % of the initial bacterial activity remained. Half of the fumigated soil was experimentally limed (EL) to a pH of 7.6. Both the UL and the EL soil were then reciprocally inoculated with UL soil or field limed (FL) soil with a pH of 6.2. The FL soil was from a 15-year-old experiment. The structural changes were measured on both bacteria in soil and on bacteria able to grow on agar plates using phospholipids fatty acid (PLFA) and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis. The developing community pH tolerance and bacterial growth were also monitored over time using thymidine incorporation. The inoculum source had a significant impact on both growth and pH tolerance of the bacterial community in the EL soil. These differences between the EL soil inoculated with UL soil and FL soil were correlated to structural changes, as evidenced by both PLFA and DGGE analyses on the soil. Similar correlations were seen to the fraction of the community growing on agar plates. There were, however, no differences between the soil bacterial communities in the unlimed soils with different inocula. This study showed the connection between the development of function (growth), community properties (pH tolerance) and the structure of the bacterial community. It also highlighted the importance of both the initial properties of the community and the selection pressure after environmental changes in shaping the resulting microbial community.
25153015| An in situ field study of the motility patterns exhibited by Phormidium corallyticum and Beggiatoa spp. in black-band disease of corals was conducted over a 5-day period. Measurements were made at a spatial resolution of 50 m to document the horizontal migration of black-band across living coral tissue, while vertical migrations within the band were documented by observation and macrophotography of the black-band surface. It was determined that horizontal migration occurred both day and night, with the fastest movements by the front of the band during the day and the back of the band at night. Beggiatoa would rise to the band surface at night, and would often remain above the cyanobacterial population during extended periods of illumination the following day. The migration patterns are discussed in terms of motility cues and microbial physiology. 
41489023|Universal 16S rRNA gene primers (8F and 518R) bearing inosine substitutions at either the 3-ultimate or the 3-ultimate and penultimate base positions were exploited for the first time to study the bacterial community associated with coral polymicrobial Black Band Disease (BBD). Inosine-modified universal primer pairs display some shifting in the composition of 16S rRNA gene libraries, as well as expanding the observed diversity of a BBD bacterial community at the family/class level. Possible explanations for the observed shifts are discussed. These results thus point to the need for adopting multiple approaches in designing 16S rRNA universal primers for PCR amplification and subsequent construction of 16S rRNA gene libraries or pyrosequencing in the exploration of complex microbial communities.
4251280| The microbial diversity in two deep, confined aquifers, the Grande Ronde (1270 m) and the Priest Rapids (316 m), Hanford Reservation, Washington, USA, was investigated by sampling from artesian wells. These basaltic aquifers were alkaline (pH 8.5 to 10.5) and anaerobic (Eh -200 to -450 mV). The wells were allowed to free-flow until pH and Eh stabilized, then the microflora was sampled with water filtration and flow-through sand-trap methods. Direct microscopic counts showed 7.6  10
4250848| Nuclepore filters of 0.6-1.0 m pore size have been used to prepare "protist-free" water for a number of studies in microbial ecology. This procedure has been called into question by a recent study claiming that a significant portion of bacterial loss in filtrates could be due to uncharacterized predators passing through 0.6 m filters. We were unable to directly observe protists in 0.6 m filtrates using phase contrast, epifluorescence, or transmission electron microscopy. Using the culture techniques of rice grain enrichment and most probable number, however, we were able to observe and quantify several species of bacterivorous nanoflagellates that developed not only in 0.6 m, but also in 0.4 m seawater filtrates. The ability of predacious nanoflagellates to squeeze through bacteria-sized pores questions studies of bacterial production and chemical cycling that have assumed protist-free filtrates. 
41489041|The influence of bacterial activity and diversity on bacterial growth efficiency was investigated in a flatland river. Eutrophic River Warnow drains predominantly agricultural land and is heavily loaded with nutrients, dissolved and particulate organic matter (DOM and POM), especially humic substances. Although the water column bacterial community consists of many inactive or damaged cells, bacterioplankton sustained a high bacterial secondary production of 0.2-14.5 g C L h and a high DNA synthesis (thymidine uptake) of 6.1-15.5 g C L h. The direct and short-term measurement of bacterial respiration (by optodes) revealed high respiration rates especially in summer leading to directly estimated bacterial growth efficiencies (BGE) of 2-28%. These values are compared to calculations based only on bacterial production, which considerably overestimated BGEs. From all these data, River Warnow can be characterized as a strongly remineralizing system. River Warnow was dominated among others by Cytophaga/Flavobacteria and Actinobacteria which are typical for organic rich waters because of their ability to degrade high molecular weight compounds. However, community composition did not significantly affect BGE.
27770599|We studied the response of the sulfate-reducing prokaryote (SRP) communities to the experimental variation of salinity and tide in an outdoor mesocosm setup. Intact soil monoliths were collected at two areas of the haringvliet lagoon (The Netherlands): one sampling location consisted of agricultural grassland, drained and fertilized for at least the last century; the other of a freshwater marshland with more recent sea influence. Two factors, i.e., "salinity" (freshwater/oligohaline) and "tide" (nontidal/tidal), were tested in a full-factorial design. Soil samples were collected after 5 months (JuneOctober). Dissimilatory (bi)sulfite reductase  subunit-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (dsrB-DGGE) analysis revealed that the SRP community composition in the agricultural grassland and in the freshwater marshland was represented mainly by microorganisms related to the Desulfobulbaceae and the Desulfobacteraceae, respectively. Desulfovibrio-related dsrB were detected only in the tidal treatments; Desulfomonile-related dsrB occurrence was related to the presence of oligohaline conditions. Treatments did have an effect on the overall SRP community composition of both soils, but not on the sulfate depletion rates in sulfate-amended anoxic slurry incubations. However, initiation of sulfate reduction upon sulfate addition was clearly different between the two soils.
4287510| The structure of the microbial rhizoplane community of the important crop plant oilseed rape was studied by using a culture-dependent as well as a culture-independent approach based on 16S rDNA amplification. After isolation of the microbial community from the rhizoplane of oilseed rape (Brassica napus cv. Westar), the collected suspension was divided into two parts. One part was used for cultivation of bacteria onto three different growth media to establish a culture collection. From the other part of the rhizoplane suspension, genomic DNA was isolated and purified. Thereafter, 16S rDNA was amplified by PCR and cloned to obtain a library of 16S rDNA genes representative for the bacterial communities of this habitat. Phylogenetic 16S rDNA sequence analysis of 103 clones of this library revealed considerable differences from the corresponding nucleotide sequences of 111 cultured bacteria. Whereas the 16S rDNA clone library was dominated by -Proteobacteria and bacteria of the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides (CFB) phylum (51% and 30%, respectively), less than 17% of the cultured bacteria belonged to these two groups. More than 64% of the cultivated isolates were allocated to the - and -subclasses of the Proteobacteria, which were present in the clone library at about 14%. Most of the clones of the -Proteobacteria of the library showed highest similarity to Bradyrhizobium sp. No such bacteria were found in the culture collection. Similarly, the second dominant group of the clone library comprising members of the CFB phylum was represented in the culture collection by a single isolate. The phylogenetic analysis of isolates of the culture collection clearly emphasized the need to use different growth media for recovery of rhizoplane bacteria. Whereas most of the -Proteobacteria were recovered on complex medium, most of the -Proteobacteria were isolated onto minimal media. Our results demonstrate that the combined approach pursued in this paper is necessary to explore the biodiversity of bacterial rhizoplane communities. 
41489769|Members of the Coxiella genus are intracellular bacteria that can infect a variety of animals including humans. A symbiotic Coxiella was recently described in Amblyomma americanum ticks in the Northern Hemisphere with no further investigations of other species in other geographic regions. These ixodid ticks represent a group of important vectors for human infectious agents. In the present work, we have demonstrated that symbiotic Coxiella (SCox) are widespread, occurring in South America and infecting 100% of all life stages and eggs of the Cayenne ticks Amblyomma cajennense from Brazil and the USA. Using light microscopy, in situ hybridization, and PCR, we demonstrated SCox in salivary glands, ovaries, and the intestines of A. cajennense. These symbionts are vertically and transtadially transmitted in laboratory reared A. cajennense, and quantitative PCR analyses indicate that SCox are more abundant in adult female ticks, reaching values corresponding to an 11, 38, and 200 increase in SCox 16S rRNA gene copy number in unfed females, compared to unfed nymphs, larvae, and eggs, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses showed distinct SCox subpopulations in the USA and Brazil and demonstrated that SCox bacteria do not group with pathogenic Coxiella burnetii.
23361676|Tundra ecosystem is of importance for its high accumulation of organic carbon and vulnerability to future climate change. Microorganisms play a key role in carbon dynamics of the tundra ecosystem by mineralizing organic carbon. We assessed both ecosystem process rates and community structure of Bacteria, Archaea, and Fungi in different soil layers (surface organic layer and subsurface mineral soil) in an Arctic soil ecosystem located at Spitsbergen, Svalbard during the summer of 2008 by using biochemical and molecular analyses, such as enzymatic assay, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP), quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and pyrosequencing. Activity of hydrolytic enzymes showed difference according to soil type. For all three microbial communities, the average gene copy number did not significantly differ between soil types. However, archaeal diversities appeared to differ according to soil type, whereas bacterial and fungal diversity indices did not show any variation. Correlation analysis between biogeochemical and microbial parameters exhibited a discriminating pattern according to microbial or soil types. Analysis of the microbial community structure showed that bacterial and archaeal communities have different profiles with unique phylotypes in terms of soil types. Water content and hydrolytic enzymes were found to be related with the structure of bacterial and archaeal communities, whereas soil organic matter (SOM) and total organic carbon (TOC) were related with bacterial communities. The overall results of this study indicate that microbial enzyme activity were generally higher in the organic layer than in mineral soils and that bacterial and archaeal communities differed between the organic layer and mineral soils in the Arctic region. Compared to mineral soil, peat-covered organic layer may represent a hotspot for secondary productivity and nutrient cycling in this ecosystem.
4251718|Engineered stimulation of Fe(III) has been proposed as a strategy to enhance the immobilization of radioactive and toxic metals in metal-contaminated subsurface environments. Therefore, laboratory and field studies were conducted to determine which microbial populations would respond to stimulation of Fe(III) reduction in the sediments of sandy aquifers. In laboratory studies, the addition of either various organic electron donors or electron shuttle compounds stimulated Fe(III) reduction and resulted in Geobacter sequences becoming important constituents of the Bacterial 16S rDNA sequences that could be detected with PCR amplification and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Quantification of Geobacteraceae sequences with a PCR most-probable-number technique indicated that the extent to which numbers of Geobacter increased was related to the degree of stimulation of Fe(III) reduction. Geothrix species were also enriched in some instances, but were orders of magnitude less numerous than Geobacter species. Shewanella species were not detected, even when organic compounds known to be electron donors for Shewanella species were used to stimulate Fe(III) reduction in the sediments. Geobacter species were also enriched in two field experiments in which Fe(III) reduction was stimulated with the addition of benzoate or aromatic hydrocarbons. The apparent growth of Geobacter species concurrent with increased Fe(III) reduction suggests that Geobacter species were responsible for much of the Fe(III) reduction in all of the stimulation approaches evaluated in three geographically distinct aquifers. Therefore, strategies for subsurface remediation that involve enhancing the activity of indigenous Fe(III)-reducing populations in aquifers should consider the physiological properties of Geobacter species in their treatment design.
4250539|The environmental and microbiological factors that can influence heavy metal toxicity are discussed with a view to understanding the mechanisms of microbial metal tolerance. It is apparent that metal toxicity can be heavily influenced by environmental conditions. Binding of metals to organic materials, precipitation, complexation, and ionic interactions are all important phenomena that must be considered carefully in laboratory and field studies. It is also obvious that microbes possess a range of tolerance mechanisms, most featuring some kind of detoxification. Many of these detoxification mechanisms occur widely in the microbial world and are not only specific to microbes growing in metal-contaminated environments.
40343509|The bark beetle Ips typographus has different hibernation environments, under the bark of standing trees or in the forest litter, which is likely to affect the beetleassociated fungal flora. We isolated fungi from beetles, standing I. typographus-attacked trees, and forest litter below the attacked trees. Fungal identification was done using cultural and molecular methods. The results of the two methods in detecting fungal species were compared. Fungal communities associated with I. typographus differed considerably depending on the hibernation environment. In addition to seven taxa of known ophiostomoid I. typographus-associated fungi, we detected 18 ascomycetes and anamorphic fungi, five wood-decaying basidomycetes, 11 yeasts, and four zygomycetes. Of those, 14 fungal taxa were detected exclusively from beetles that hibernated under bark, and six taxa were detected exclusively from beetles hibernating in forest litter. The spruce pathogen, Ceratocystis polonica, was detected occasionally in bark, while another spruce pathogen, Grosmannia europhioides, was detected more often from beetles hibernating under the bark as compared to litter. The identification method had a significant impact on which taxa were detected. Rapidly growing fungal taxa, e. g. Penicillium, Trichoderma, and Ophiostoma, dominated pure culture isolations; while yeadts dominated the communtities detected using molecular methods. The study also demonstreted low frequencies of tree peathogenic fungi carried by I. typographus during its outbreaks and that the beetle does not requiree them to sucessfully attack and kill trees.
4251391|Models of the microbial food web have generally used compartments aggregated by general body size and gross taxonomy. It has been assumed that these also reflect guilds or holons. Generally, results of simulation or analysis based on this structure have been reasonably well validated. Herein I summarize why the aggregations may be justified and what may be learned from disaggregation.
40343416|The aims of the present study are to find out whether the effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis on plant resistance to water deficit are mediated by the endogenous abscisic acid (ABA) content of the host plant and whether the exogenous ABA application modifies such effects. The -deficient tomato mutant sitiens and its near-isogenic wild-type parental line were used. Plant development, physiology, and expression of plant genes expected to be modulated by AM symbiosis, drought, and ABA were studied. Results showed that only wild-type tomato plants responded positively to mycorrhizal inoculation, while AM symbiosis was not observed to have any effect on plant development in sitiens plants grown under well-watered conditions. The application of ABA to sitiens plants enhanced plant growth both under well-watered and drought stress conditions. In respect to sitiens plants subjected to drought stress, the addition of ABA had a cumulative effect in relation to that of inoculation with G. intraradices. Most of the genes analyzed in this study showed different regulation patterns in wild-type and sitiens plants, suggesting that their gene expression is modulated by the plant ABA phenotype. In the same way, the colonization of roots with the AM fungus G. intraradices differently regulated the expression of these genes in wildtype and in sitiens plants, which could explain the distinctive effect of the symbiosis on each plant ABA phenotype. This also suggests that the effects of the AM symbiosis on plant responses and resistance to water deficit are mediated by the plant ABA phenotype.
40343387|Extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) contribute to biofilm stability and adhesion properties. The EPS matrix might also be a site for free extracellular enzyme activity; however, little is known about participation of enzyme activity in EPS during biofilm formation. In this study, we analyzed the activities of -glucosidase, leuaminopeptidase, and -glucosaminidase during the colonization of artificial substrata (glass tiles) in a stream distinguishing enzyme activity in EPS matrix (matrixenzymes) and total biofilm extracellular enzyme activity. The 1-h incubation of a biofilm suspension and cationexchange resin followed by centrifugation seems appropriate to extract the matrix fraction (supernatant) and measure matrix enzymes (including free and linked to EPS) in freshwater biofilms, although there is a methodological limitation for using a biofilm suspension instead of an undisrupted biofilm. Total biofilm activities and matrixenzyme activities showed similar capabilities to decompose organic matter compounds, with a greater capacity for peptide decomposition (leu-aminopeptidase) than for polysaccharides (-glucosidase), and a low decomposition of chitin and peptidoglycan (-glucosaminidase). Matrixenzyme activity increased with colonization time, but more slowly than that of total enzyme activity. At the beginning of the colonization experiment (days 1-4) matrix enzymes accounted for 65-81% of total biofilm enzyme activity. Higher proportion of polysaccharides in EPS versus total biofilm, and higher matrix-enzyme activities per microgram of polysaccharides in the EPS were measured during the first 1-3 days of biofilm formation, indicating a high rate of enzyme release into the matrix during this period. Relative contribution of matrix-enzyme activities decreased as biofilm matures, but was maintained at 13-37% of total enzyme activity at the 42- to 49-day-old biofilm. These enzymes, retained and conserved in the EPS, may contribute to community metabolism. When analyzing extracellular enzymes in biofilms, the contribution of matrix enzymes must be considered, especially for young biofilms.
41693742|Rhizosphere competence of fluorescent pseudomonads is a prerequisite for the expression of their beneficial effects on plant growth and health. To date, knowledge on bacterial traits involved in rhizosphere competence is fragmented and derived mostly from studies with model strains. Here, a population approach was taken by investigating a representative collection of 23 Pseudomonas species and strains from different origins for their ability to colonize the rhizosphere of tomato plants grown in natural soil. Rhizosphere competence of these strains was related to phenotypic traits including: (1) their carbon and energetic metabolism represented by the ability to use a wide range of organic compounds, as electron donors, and iron and nitrogen oxides, as electron acceptors, and (2) their ability to produce antibiotic compounds and N-acylhomoserine lactones (N-AHSL). All these data including origin of the strains (soil/rhizosphere), taxonomic identification, phenotypic cluster based on catabolic profiles, nitrogen dissimilating ability, siderovars, susceptibility to iron starvation, antibiotic and N-AHSL production, and rhizosphere competence were submitted to multiple correspondence analyses. Colonization assays revealed a significant diversity in rhizosphere competence with survival rates ranging from approximately 0.1 % to 61 %. Multiple correspondence analyses indicated that rhizosphere competence was associated with siderophore-mediated iron acquisition, substrate utilization, and denitrification. However, the catabolic profile of one rhizosphere-competent strain differed from the others and its competence was associated with its ability to produce antibiotics phenazines and N-AHSL. Taken together, these data suggest that competitive strains have developed two types of strategies to survive in the rhizosphere.
4250806| Bacterial biomass in surface sediments of a headwater stream was measured as a function of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) flux and temperature. Bacterial biomass was estimated using epifluorescence microscopic counts (EMC) and ATP determinations during exposure to streamwater containing 1,788 g DOC/liter and after transfer to groundwater containing 693 g DOC/liter. Numbers of bacteria and ATP concentrations averaged 1.36  10
25153004|The respiratory diseases produced by the Legionella genus of bacteria are collectively called Legionellosis. Presently more than 34 species of Legionella have been identified, 20 of which have been isolated from both environmental and clinical sources. The diseases produced by Legionella include the pneumonic form, Legionnaires' disease, and the flu-like form, Pontiac fever. Because the vast majority of Legionellosis is caused by the L. pneumophila species, this bacterium is the thrust of the discussion. Legionella is a global bacterium. The relationship of the bacterium to its environment has told us many things about infectious diseases. Not until Legionellosis and the discovery of its etiologic agent, Legionella, has such a successful modern-day marriage been consummated between the agent and its environment. Nearly two decades have passed since the term Legionellosis found its way into the vocabulary of the scientific journals, the popular press, and courtroom proceedings. Too often the scientific development, engineering implementation, and societal acceptance are disconnected. The focus of scientific research sometimes does not reflect engineering or societal needs and thus contributes little to the solution of immediate and important problems. At other times, scientific knowledge that could contribute to solutions is over-looked because of poor communication between the problem holders, the scientific community, regulatory agencies, the problem makers, and the public. The scope of this paper provides insights on the ecological niche of Legionella, describes the organism's ecological relationships in the natural world, and provides wisdom for effective control of the bacterium for the industrial and user communities.
40605730|New data on 129 bacterial isolates were analyzed together with prior samples to characterize communitylevel patterns of legume-rhizobial symbiosis on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama. Nodules have been sampled from 24 BCI legume species in 18 genera, representing about one quarter of the legume species and one half of the genera on the island. Most BCI legumes associated exclusively with nodule symbionts in the genus Bradyrhizobium, which comprised 86.3% of all isolates (315 of 365). Most of the remaining isolates (44 of 365) belonged to the -proteobacterial genus Burkholderia; these were restricted to two genera in the legume subfamily Mimosoideae. Multilocus sequence analysis indicated that BCI Bradyrhizobium strains were differentiated into at least eight lineages with deoxyribonucleic acid divergence of the same magnitude as found among currently recognized species in this bacterial genus. Two of these lineages were widely distributed across BCI legumes. One lineage was utilized by 15 host species of diverse life form (herbs, lianas, and trees) in 12 genera spanning two legume subfamilies. A second common lineage closely related to the taxon B. elkanii was associated with at least five legume genera in four separate tribes. Thus, BCI legume species from diverse clades within the family frequently share interaction with a few common lineages of nodule symbionts. However, certain host species were associated with unique symbiont lineages that have not been found on other coexisting BCI legumes. More comprehensive sampling of host taxa will be needed to characterize the overall diversity of nodule bacteria and the patterns of symbiont sharing among legumes in this community.
27770595|Bacteria are very important degraders of organic substances in aquatic environments. Despite their influential role in the carbon (and many other element) cycle(s), the specific genetic identity of active bacteria is mostly unknown, although contributing phylogenetic groups had been investigated. Moreover, the degree to which phenotypic potential (i.e., utilization of environmentally relevant carbon substrates) is related to the genomic identity of bacteria or bacterial groups is unclear. The present study compared the genomic finger-prints of 27 bacterial isolates from the humic River Warnow with their ability to utilize 14 environmentally relevant substrates. Acetate was the only substrate utilized by all bacterial strains. Only 60% of the strains respired glucose, but this substrate always stimulated the highest bacterial activity (respiration and growth). Two isolates, both closely related to the same Pseudomonas sp., also had very similar substrate utilization patterns. However, similar substrate utilization profiles commonly belonged to genetically different strains (e.g., the substrate profile of Janthinobacterium lividum OW6/RT-3 and Flavobacterium sp. OW3/15-5 differed by only three substrates). Substrate consumption was sometimes totally different for genetically related isolates. Thus, the genomic profiles of bacterial strains were not congruent with their different substrate utilization profiles. Additionally, changes in pre-incubation conditions strongly influenced substrate utilization. Therefore, it is problematic to infer substrate utilization and especially microbial dissolved organic matter transformation in aquatic systems from bacterial molecular taxonomy.
4287649|The effects of oxygen concentration on photosynthesis and respiration in two hypersaline cyanobacterial mats were investigated. Experiments were carried out on mats from Eilat, Israel, with moderate photosynthetic activity, and mats from Mallorca, Spain, with high photosynthetic activity. The oxygen concentration in the overlying water above the mats was increased stepwise from 0% to 100% O
4250887|Diel changes in the specific growth rates of natural bacterial communities as a whole and of different groups within the communities were followed over 2 days during July 1982, in stratified waters in the vicinity of a shallow sea tidal mixing front in the Irish Sea. Waters well above (4 m) and below (60 m) the thermocline were enclosed in dialysis bags and incubated in situ. The results show that there were periods of altered growth rates of the whole bacterial community and synchronous cell division of morphological groups. An increase in mean cell volume within both 4 and 60 m communities preceded an increase in specific growth rates, with a resultant decrease in the mean cell volume. Above the thermocline the whole bacterial community, as well as the rod and coccoid forms, doubled in number once a day. The doubling time of the whole bacterial community at 60 m was 2 days and slower than that at 4 m. This was due to a slower doubling time (3 days) for the coccoid forms. Rod forms at the two depths had a similar doubling time (1 day). The time of day when maximum division rate occurred was also different in the two water masses. At 4 m more coccoid forms divided during the night, whereas at 60 m more divided during the day. Conversely, at 4 m more rod forms divided during the day, whereas at 60 m more divided at night. These data indicate that the bacterial community and members of the community may be adapted to exploit the diurnal rhythms of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) release by other organisms and that portions of the bacterial community may therefore be more active at certain times of the day. The diurnal growth of the bacterial community may thus vary between different water masses and largely reflects the differences in the chemical and biological characteristics of the two water masses investigated.
4251762|The study of relationships between cell size and productivity is of key importance in microbial ecology to understand which members of natural aquatic communities are responsible for the overall activity and/or productivity. Flow sorting of microorganisms from different environmental samples was used to analyze the activity of bacterial cells depending on their biovolume. Bacterial cells from five different natural samples taken along the Mediterranean coast including fresh- and seawaters were incubated with tritiated leucine, then stained with SYTO 13 and sorted by flow cytometry according to their average side-angle-scattered (SSC) light. In all samples, a bell-shaped relationship was found between cell biovolume and activity, whereas activity of a given cell-size class varied between samples. In contrast, an inverse relationship was found between biovolumes and abundances. These results suggest that medium-sized cells with highest growth rates are probably submitted to intense grazing. For one sample, bacteria within five different size classes were sorted and the genetic diversity of cells within each sorted size class and that of the whole community were analyzed by the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) method. The genetic diversity, as determined at the community level was highly represented into the pool of small cells, whereas only few species were present into larger cell subpopulations. The results suggest that only a few genotypes may be dominant within the largest and most productive cells. Furthermore, cell size polymorphism as well as heterogeneous cellular activities were found within some species.
41692866|The alpha-Proteobacterium Bartonella is a common parasite of voles and mice, giving rise to short-lived (4 weeks to 2 months) infections. Here, we report high sequence diversity in genes of the VirB/VirD type IV secretion system (T4SS), amongst Bartonella from natural rodent populations in NE Poland. The VirB5 protein is predicted to consist of three conserved alpha helices separated by loops of variable length which include numerous indels. The C-terminal domain includes repeat stretches of KEK residues, reflecting underlying homopolymeric stretches of adenine residues. A total of 16 variants of VirB5, associated with host identity, but not bacterial taxon, were identified from 22 Bartonella isolates. One was clearly a recombinant from two others, another included an insertion of two KEK repeats. The virB5 gene appears to evolve via both mutation and recombination, as well as slippage mediated insertion/deletion events. The recombinational units are thought to be relatively short, as there was no evidence of linkage disequilibrium between virB5 and the hep A locus only 5.5 kb distant. The diversity of virB5 is assumed to be related to immunological role of this protein in Bartonella infections; diversity of virB5 may assist persistence of Bartonella in the rodent population, despite the relatively short (3-4 weeks) duration of individual infections. It is clear from the distribution of virB5 and bepA alleles that recombination within and between clades is widespread, and frequently crosses the boundaries of conventionally recognised Bartonella species.
4250557|The population of sulfate-reducing bacteria in saltmarsh sediment was examined at monthly intervals by plate-counting and by determining the response of sulfate reduction rates to environmental temperature using
23597847|We investigated microbial succession on lake sturgeon (Acipenser fulvescens) egg surfaces over the course of their incubation period as a function of simulated stream flow rate. The primary objective was to characterize the microbial community assembly during succession and to examine how simulated stream flow rate affect the successional process. Sturgeon eggs were reared under three flow regimes; high (0.55 m/s), low (0.18 m/s), and variable (0.35 and 0.11 m/s alternating 12 h intervals). Eggs were collected from each flow regime at different egg developmental stages. Microbial community DNA was extracted from egg surface and the communities were examined using 16S rRNA gene-based terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and 454 pyrosequencing. Analysis of these datasets using principal component analysis revealed that microbial communities were clustered by egg developmental stages (early, middle, and late) regardless of flow regimes. 454 pyrosequencing data suggested that 9098 % of the microbial communities were composed of the phyla Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes throughout succession. -Protebacteria was more dominant in the early stage, Bacteroidetes became more dominant in the middle stage, and -Proteobacteria became dominant in the late stage. A total of 360 genera and 5,826 OTUs at 97 % similarity cutoff were associated with the eggs. Midway through egg development, the egg-associated communities of the low flow regime had a higher diversity than those communities developed under high or variable flow regimes. Results show that microbial community turnover occurred during embryogenesis, and stream flow rate influenced the microbial succession processes on the sturgeon egg surfaces.
40802290|Dinoflagellates in the genus Symbiodinium are among the most abundant and important group of eukaryotic microbes found in coral reef ecosystems. Recent analyses conducted on various host cnidarians indicated that Symbiodinium assemblages in the Caribbean Sea are genetically and ecologically diverse. In order to further characterize this diversity and identify processes important to its origins, samples from six orders of Cnidaria comprising 45 genera were collected from reef habitats around Barbados (eastern Caribbean) and from the Mesoamerican barrier reef off the coast of Belize (western Caribbean). Fingerprinting of the ribosomal internal transcribed spacer 2 identified 62 genetically different Symbiodinium. Additional analyses of clade Symbiodinium using microsatellite flanker sequences unequivocally characterized divergent lineages, or "species," within what was previously thought to be a single entity (B1 or B184). In contrast to the Indo-Pacific where hostgeneralist symbionts dominate many coral communities, partner specificity in the Caribbean is relatively high and is influenced little by the host's apparent mode of symbiont acquisition. Habitat depth (ambient light) and geographic isolation appeared to influence the bathymtrie zonation and regional distribution for most of the Symbiodinium spp. characterized. Approximately 80% of Symbiodinium types were endemic to either the eastern or western Caribbean and 40-50% were distributed to compatible hosts living in shallow, high-irradiance, or deep, low-irradiance environments. These ecologie, geographic, and phylogenetic patterns indicate that most of the present Symbiodinium diversity probably originated from adaptive radiations driven by ecological specialization in separate Caribbean regions during the Pliocene and Pleistocene periods.
25153168|One of the major challenges in microbial ecology for the future is to establish links between structural and functional biodiversity. This is particularly difficult when one is interested in a phylogenetically diversified function such as denitrification. The data banks are very rich in functional gene sequences (nirS in this study), but most of them were obtained from not yet cultivated bacteria, and thus must be supplemented by sequences of organisms from the environment for which we could associate a taxonomic position and physiological characteristics. Combined analysis including molecular (16S-rRNA or nirS genes), physiological, and biochemical approaches was carried out on a bacterial set of 89 strains isolated from marine sediment. The denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) technique was successfully applied on unclamped polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products of nirS genes to compare the picture of the biodiversity obtained with 16S rRNA and nirS genes. The diversity of nirS genes and denitrifier characteristics were found within several of the 16S rDNA phylotypes. In contrast, the nirS phylotypes were no diverse both with respect to 16S rDNA and to physiology and biochemistry of denitrification. Sequences of the nirS PCR products were very close to marine environmental clones and were analyzed within the same phylogenetic tree.
25153281|Decomposition of plant litter by the soil microbial community is an important process of controlling nutrient cycling and soil humus formation. Fungal laccases are key players in litter-associated polyphenol degradation, but little is known about the diversity and spatial distribution of fungal species with laccase genes in soils. Diversity of basidiomycete laccase genes was assessed in a cambisolic forest soil, and the spatial distribution of the sequences was mapped in a 100-m plot by using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on soil DNA extracts. Diversity of laccase sequences was higher in the organic horizon and decreased with the depth. A total of 167 different sequences sharing 44-96% oligonucleotide similarity was found in 13 soil cores harvested in the 100-m plot. Dissimilarity in laccase sequence content was 67% between adjacent cores; 45.5%, 35.5% and 19% of laccase sequences were attributed to ectomycorrhizal, unknown and saprotrophic basidiomycetes, respectively. Most dominant sequences were attributed to the extramatrical hyphae of known ectomycorrhizal taxa (e.g., Russulaceae) and restricted to small patches (&lt;0.77 m) in a specific soil horizon. Soil fungi with laccase genes occupied different niches and showed strikingly variable distribution patterns. The distribution of laccase sequences, and corresponding fungi, likely reflected a part of the oxidative potential in soils.
4250955| Dental plaque is a complex community of bacteria coexisting in an environment frequently limited by carbon and energy sources. Unlike Streptococcus mutans, other oral streptococci such as S. milleri and S. sanguis have an absolute requirement for and actually consume all available arginine when grown glucose limited in a chemically defined medium. The conditions, particularly in terms of arginine concentration, under which the dental plaque bacteria S. mutans and S. milleri would coexist under glucose-limiting conditions were investigated. The minimum level of arginine supporting optimal growth of S. milleri was found to be ca. 50 M, and above this level these strains outcompeted S. mutans. However, coexistence with S. mutans could be achieved at arginine levels of 14-40 M, depending upon the S. milleri and S. mutans strains used. Under such dual limitation, S. milleri was unable to respond to glucose pulses but did respond to pulses of arginine and arginine plus glucose. One of the two S. milleri strains did not tolerate low pH. In contrast, S. mutans did not tolerate high pH whereas S. milleri was unaffected. This is relevant to dental plaque where arginine catabolism produces a pH rise. Additionally, arginine is an important nutrient since it can be used as an energy source by some oral streptococci. 
40605664|Through lysis of bacterioplankton cells, viruses mediate an important, but poorly understood, pathway of carbon and nutrients from the particulate to the dissolved form. Via this activity, nutrient-rich cell lysates may become available to noninfected cells and support significant growth. However, the nutritional value of lysates for noninfected bacteria presumably depends on the prevailing nutrient limitation. In the present study, we examined dynamics of dissolved DNA (D-DNA) and viruses along a transect in the phosphorus (P)-limited Ore Estuary, northern Baltic Sea. We found that viruses were an important mortality factor for bacterioplankton and that their activity mediated a significant recycling of carbon and especially of P. Uptake of dissolved DNA accounted for up to 70% of the bacterioplankton  demand, and about a quarter of the D-DNA pool was supplied through viral lysis of bacterial cells. Generally, the importance of viral lysates and uptake of D-DNA was highest at the estuarine and offshore stations and was positively correlated with  limitation measured as alkaline phosphatase activity. Our results highlight the importance of viral activity for the internal recycling of principal nutrients and pinpoints D DNA as a particularly relevant compound in microbial P dynamics.
41489080|Novosphingobium sp. PP1Y, isolated from a surface seawater sample collected from a closed bay in the harbour of Pozzuoli (Naples, Italy), uses fuels as its sole carbon and energy source. Like some other Sphingomonads, this strain can grow as either planktonic free cells or sessile-aggregated flocks. In addition, this strain was found to grow as biofilm on several types of solid and liquid hydrophobic surfaces including polystyrene, polypropylene and diesel oil. Strain PP1Y is not able to grow on pure alkanes or alkane mixtures but is able to grow on a surprisingly wide range of aromatic compounds including mono, bi, tri and tetracyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and heterocyclic compounds. During growth on diesel oil, the organic layer is emulsified resulting in the formation of small biofilm-coated drops, whereas during growth on aromatic hydrocarbons dissolved in paraffin the oil layer is emulsified but the drops are coated only if the mixtures contain selected aromatic compounds, like pyrene, propylbenzene, tetrahydronaphthalene and heterocyclic compounds. These peculiar characteristics suggest strain PP1Y has adapted to efficiently grow at the water/fuel interface using the aromatic fraction of fuels as the sole carbon and energy source.
40343458|The potential role of host plant species in the selection of symbiotic, nitrogen-fixing Frankia strains belonging to the Elaeagnus host infection group was assessed in bioassays with two Morella, three Elaeagnus, and one Shepherdia species as capture plants, inoculated with soil slurries made with soil collected from a mixed pine/grassland area in central Wisconsin, USA. Comparative sequence analysis of nifH gene fragments amplified from homogenates of at least 20 individual lobes of root nodules harvested from capture plants of each species confirmed the more promiscuous character of Morella cerifera and Morella pensylvanica that formed nodules with frankiae of the Alnus and the Elaeagnus host infection groups, while frankiae in nodules formed on Elaeagnus umbellata, Elaeagnus angustifolia, Elaeagnus commutata, and Shepherdia argentea generally belonged to the Elaeagnus host infection group. Diversity of frankiae of the Elaeagnus host infection groups was larger in nodules on both Morella species than in nodules formed on the other plant species. None of the plants, however, captured the entire diversity of nodule-forming frankiae. The distribution of clusters of Frankia populations and their abundance in nodules was unique for each of the plant species, with only one cluster being ubiquitous and most abundant while the remaining clusters were only present in nodules of one (six clusters) or two (two clusters) host plant species. These results demonstrate large effects of the host plant species in the selection of Frankia strains from soil for potential nodule formation and thus the significant effect of the choice of capture plant species in bioassays on diversity estimates in soil.
25153068| We studied the migration of cyanobacteria in desert crusts from Las Brdenas Reales (Spain). The crusts were almost exclusively colonized by the filamentous cyanobacterium Oscillatoria, which formed a dense layer approximately 600 m thick located between 1.5 and 2.1 mm deep. Laboratory and field experiments showed that saturation of the crust with liquid water induced a migration of the cyanobacteria leading to a significant greening of the surface within a few minutes. Under light and rapid evaporation, the green color rapidly disappeared and the crust surface was completely devoid of filaments within 60 min. In contrast, 260 min was required to recover the original white color of the crust when slow evaporation was experimentally imposed. The up and down migration following wetting and drying occurred also in the dark. This demonstrates that light was not a required stimulus. Addition of ATP synthesis inhibitors prevented the cyanobacterium from migrating down into the crust, with filaments remaining on the surface. Therefore, the disappearance of the green color observed during desiccation can only be attributed to an active cyanobacterial motility response to the decrease in the water content. The simplest explanation that can account for the evidence gathered is the presence of a mechanism that links, directly or indirectly, these motility responses to gradients in water content, namely a form of hydrotaxis. 
25152990| Attachment strength and exopolysaccharide (EPS) production of Pseudomonas sp. (bacteria) and the diatom Amphora coffaeformis were studied on six different substrata with surface tensions between 19 and 64.5 mN m. Test panels of the materials were exposed to bacterial cultures between 3 and 120 hours, and to diatom cultures between 48 and 72 hours. Exopolysaccharide production by surface-associated cells was measured using the phenol sulfuric acid method. Attachment studies were run by exposing test panels to laminar flow pressure using a radial flow chamber. Highest EPS production by bacteria and diatoms was recorded on substrata with surface tensions above 30 mN m. Lowest EPS production occurred on substrata between 20 and 25 mN m. Highest EPS production and strongest adhesion was found on polycarbonate (33.5 mN m). Both test organisms improved their attachment strength with exposure time on most materials. However, amounts of produced EPS and improvement of attachment indicated that mechanisms other than polysaccharide production are more important on substrata with low surface tensions (&lt;25 mN m). Simply producing more polysaccharides is not sufficient to overcome weak attachment on materials with low surface tensions. For example, adhesion of Pseudomonas sp. and A. coffaeformis on polytetrafluorethylene/perfluor-copolymer (PFA; 22 mN m) and glass (64.5 mN m) was equally strong although EPS production was much higher on glass than on PFA. This is somewhat surprising for A. coffaeformis because polysaccharide production has been considered the most important attachment mechanism of A. coffaeformis. 
40605727|Despite their ubiquitous distribution in tectonically active coastal zones, shallow water hydrothermal vents have been less investigated than deep-sea vents. In the present study, we investigated the role of viral control and fluid emissions on prokaryote abundance, diversity, and community structure (total Archaea, total Bacteria, and sulphate-reducing bacteria) in waters and sediments surrounding the caldera of four different shallow-water hydrothermal vents (three located in the Mediterranean Sea and one in the Pacific Ocean). All vents, independent of their location, generally displayed a significant decrease of benthic prokaryote abundance, as well as its viable fraction, with increasing distance from the vent. Prokaryote assemblages were always dominated by Bacteria. Benthic Archaea accounted for 23-33% of total prokaryote abundance in the Mediterranean Sea and from 13 to 29% in the Pacific Ocean, whereas in the water column they accounted for 25-38%. The highest benthic bacterial ribotype richness was observed in close proximity of the vents (i.e., at 10-cm distance from the emissions), indicating that vent fluids might influence bacterial diversity in surrounding sediments. Virioplankton and viriobenthos abundances were low compared to other marine systems, suggesting that temperature and physical-chemical conditions might influence viral survival in these vent systems. We thus hypothesize that the high bacterial diversity observed in close proximity of the vents is related with the highly variable vent emissions, which could favor the coexistence of several prokaryotic species.
4287667| Mediterranean ecosystems have not been consistently investigated as natural habitats for microbes in general, and fungi in particular. Here we present the results of a survey of epiphytic mycobiota (filamentous fungi and yeasts) on the phylloplane of selected plants in the Arrbida Natural Park, an ecosystem of Mediterranean characteristics in Portugal, using conventional culture-dependent isolation methods. Leaves from the species Acer monspessulanum and Quercus faginea (deciduous trees) and Cistus albidus, Pistacia lentiscus, and Osyris quadripartita (evergreen shrubs) were collected twice a year for two consecutive years, at two distinct locations of Serra da Arrbida: the more humid northern slope and the drier southern slope. A total of 1029 strains of filamentous fungi and 540 strains of yeasts were isolated, which represented at least 36 and 46 distinct species, respectively. Total counts were higher on the plants from the northern slope and there was a general increase from spring to autumn, notably on the deciduous trees for the yeasts. Plant species that had higher numbers of leaf colonists (A. monspessulanum, C. albidus, and Q. faginea) also yielded a wider range of species. Among the filamentous fungi there was a predominance of species of ascomycetous affinity, whereas basidiomycetous species dominated among yeast isolates. Some of the taxa recovered were common to other phylloplane studies (e.g., ubiquitous molds and yeasts such as Cladosporium spp. and Cryptococcus spp., respectively), but less common species were also found, some of which appeared to represent undescribed taxa. Interestingly, a few species seemed to be associated with a particular plant, notably in the case of the evergreen shrub C. albidus. However, for a considerable number of fungi and yeasts the same taxon was recovered throughout the year from more than one plant and at both sites, suggesting that such species might be genuine phylloplane inhabitants (or at least of aerial plant surfaces) even though they appeared not to display host specificity. 
4251144|Rhodococcus chlorophenolicus PCP-1, a mineralizer of polychlorinated phenols, was inoculated into natural sandy loam and peaty soils with pentachlorophenol (PCP) at concentrations usually found at lightly and heavily polluted industrial sites (30 to 600 mg PCP/kg). A single inoculum of 10
4287643| This study focuses on the impact of natural levels of UVBR (ultraviolet-B radiation: 280 to 315 nm) on bacterio- and phytoplankton (<10 m) from the Gulf of Aqaba, Red Sea. Incident biologically effective doses (BEDs) and attenuation of biologically effective radiation in the water column were measured using a DNA biodosimeter. UVBR-induced DNA damage was measured as cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs), using an antibody directed to CPDs followed by chemiluminescent detection. Depth profiles of DNA damage were determined in two plankton size fractions (0.2 to 0.8 m and 0.8 to 10 m) collected down to 50 m depth. Furthermore, accumulation and removal of CPDs were monitored in surface plankton samples during several daily cycles. Small plankton (plankton <10 m) composition was determined by flow cytometry. The plankton community in the Gulf of Aqaba was dominated by nonphototrophic bacteria and the free-living prochlorophyte Prochlorococcus spp. (<0.8 m). In general, no DNA damage could be detected in dosimeter DNA below 15 m. In contrast, DNA damage (up to 124 CPD
41489805|Dendroctonus rhizophagus Thomas and Bright (Curculionidae: Scolytinae) is an endemic economically important insect of the Sierra Madre Occidental in Mexico. This bark beetle has an atypical behavior within the genus because just one beetle couple colonizes and kills seedlings and young trees of 11 pine species. In this work, the bacteria associated with the Dendroctonus rhizophagus gut were analyzed by culture-dependent and culture-independent methods. Analysis of 16S rRNA sequences amplified directly from isolates of gut bacteria suggests that the bacterial community associated with Dendroctonus rhizophagus, like that of other Dendroctonus spp. and Ips pini, is limited in number. Nine bacterial genera of -Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria classes were detected in the gut of Dendroctonus rhizophagus. Stenotrophomonas and Rahnella genera were the most frequently found bacteria from Dendroctonus rhizophagus gut throughout their life cycle. Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Ponticoccus gilvus, and Kocuria marina showed cellulolytic activity in vitro. Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Rahnella aquatilis, Raoultella terrigena, Ponticoccus gilvus, and Kocuria marina associated with larvae or adults of Dendroctonus rhizophagus could be implicated in nitrogen fixation and cellulose breakdown, important roles associated to insect development and fitness, especially under the particularly difficult life conditions of this beetle.
4251733|The cell density and the genetic structure of bacterial subcommunities (further named pools) present in the various microenvironments of a silt loam soil were investigated. The microenvironments were isolated first using a procedure of soil washes that separated bacteria located outside aggregates (outer part) from those located inside aggregates (inner part). A nondestructive physical fractionation was then applied to the inner part in order to separate bacteria located inside stable aggregates of different size (size fractions, i.e., two macroaggregate fractions, two microaggregate fractions, and the dispersible day fraction). Bacterial densities measured by acridine orange direct counts (AODC) and viable heterotrophic (VH) cell enumerations showed the heterogeneous quantitative distribution of cells in soil. Bacteria were preferentially located in the inner part with 87.6% and 95.4% of the whole AODC and VH bacteria, respectively, and in the microaggregate and dispersible clay fractions of this part with more than 70% and 80% of the whole AODC and VH bacteria, respectively. The rRNA intergenic spacer analysis (RISA) was used to study the genetic structure of the bacterial pools. Different fingerprints and consequently different genetic structures were observed between the unfractionated soil and the microenvironments, and also among the various microenvironments, giving evidence that some populations were specific to a given location in addition to the common populations of all the microenvironments. Cluster and multivariate analysis of RISA profiles showed the weak contribution of the pools located in the macroaggregate fractions to the whole soil community structure, as well as the clear distinction between the pool associated to the macroaggregate fractions and the pools associated to the microaggregate ones. Furthermore, these statistical analyses allowed us to ascertain the influence of the clay and organic matter content of microenvironments on the genetic structure relatedness between pools.
4287627|Heterotrophic nanoflagellates (HNF) make up a large fraction of the zooplankton biomass of rivers. Their abundance can be strongly affected by water discharge, but the consequences of this highly dynamic factor for their main prey, the bacteria, is still unknown. The focus of this study was on bacterial-HNF interactions in the Lower River Rhine (Germany) with respect to the discharge-dependent dynamics. The bacterial and HNF abundances and biomasses were determined over the course of 17 months. The potential consumption of bacteria by HNF was calculated based on the biomass data and on data on the HNF production. The mean bacterial abundance in the Rhine at Cologne ranged from 0.3 10
4250956|A variety of freshwater marsh and swamp habitats are found interspersed in a mosaic pattern throughout the Okefenokee Swamp, Georgia, USA. We examined spatial and temporal patterns in standing stocks and activity in the microbial community of five habitats within this heterogeneous ecosystem. Standing stock dynamics were studied by measuring microbial biomass (ATP) and bacterial numbers (AODC) in both water and sediments over a 14 month period. Abundance varied temporally, being generally lower in winter months than in spring and summer months. However, a large proportion of the measured variability was not correlated with temporal patterns in temperature or with bulk nutrient levels. Spatial variability was characteristic of the Okefenokee at a variety of large and small scales. Habitat-level heterogeneity was evident when microbial standing stocks and activity (measured as
4251628|Growth rates of marine bacterial isolates on particulate organic substrates were measured using a novel apparatus which restricts bacterial cells to the uptake of hydrolysate produced from particulate substrates only by enzymes that are actively released from the bacterium into the culture medium. Significant, varying growth rates were measured for four different marine bacteria, using three different, ecologically significant particulate organic substrates (preparations of amylopectin, chitin, and animal hide). Growth rates sometimes approached but were usually lower than rates that have been reported in laboratory experiments using dissolved organic growth substrates. These results are consistent with recent model predictions and have important implications for microbial ecology and material cycling in diverse liquid-bathed environments.
4251769|Bacterivorous protists have been recovered from pristine and contaminated aquifer environments, but the ecological role of these organisms in bioremediation strategies has not been well defined. Burkholderia cepacia G4 PR1 constitutively expresses a toluene ortho-monooxygenase (tom) due to a secondary transposition of a Tn5 transposable element in a trichloroethylene (TCE) degradative plasmid (TOM). Groundwater and sediment from a potential site for a TCE bioremediation field demonstration were used in laboratory microcosms to test the survival of this organism. In non-sterile aquifer sediment slurries, the bacterium was eliminated in a logrithmic decay concomitant with an increase in bacterivorous protists. A half-life for the organism calculated from extinction coefficients increased logarithmically with increasing inoculation density above 1 10
4287580| Previous studies have demonstrated that naphthalene and other polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) can be anaerobically oxidized with the reduction of sulfate in PAH-contaminated marine harbor sediments, including those in San Diego Bay. In order to learn more about the microorganisms that might be involved in anaerobic naphthalene degradation, the microorganisms associated with naphthalene degradation in San Diego Bay sediments were evaluated. A dilution-to-extinction enrichment culture strategy, designed to recover the most numerous culturable naphthalene-degrading sulfate reducers, resulted in the enrichment of microorganisms with 16S rDNA sequences in the -Proteobacteria, which were closely related to a previously described pure culture of a naphthalene-degrading sulfate reducer, NaphS2, isolated from sediments in Germany. A more traditional enrichment culture approach, expected to enrich for the fastest-growing naphthalene-degrading sulfate reducers, yielded 16S rDNA sequences closely related to those found in the dilution-to-extinction enrichments and NaphS2. Analysis of 16S rDNA sequences in sediments from two sites in San Diego Bay that had been adapted for rapid naphthalene degradation by continual amendment with low levels of naphthalene suggested that the microbial community composition in the amended sediments differed from that present in the unamended sediments from the same sites. Most significantly, 6-8% of the sequences recovered from 100 clones of each of the naphthalene-amended sediments were closely related to the 16S rDNA sequences in the enrichment cultures as well as the sequence of the pure culture, NaphS2. No sequences in this NaphS2 phylotype were recovered from the sediments that were not continually exposed to naphthalene. A PCR primer, which was designed based on these phylotype sequences, was used to amplify additional 16S rDNA sequences belonging to the NaphS2 phylotype from PAH-degrading sediments from Island End River (Boston), MA, and Liepaja Harbor, Latvia. Closely related sequences were also recovered from highly contaminated sediment from Tampa Bay, FL. These results suggest that microorganisms closely related to NaphS2 might be involved in naphthalene degradation in harbor sediments. This finding contrasts with the frequent observation that the environmentally relevant microorganisms cannot be readily recovered in pure culture and suggests that further study of the physiology of NaphS2 may provide insights into factors controlling the rate and extent of naphthalene degradation in marine harbor sediments. 
4251676| The majority of phosphatase (
25153097| The microbial communities associated with electrodes from underwater fuel cells harvesting electricity from five different aquatic sediments were investigated. Three fuel cells were constructed with marine, salt-marsh, or freshwater sediments incubated in the laboratory. Fuel cells were also deployed in the field in salt marsh sediments in New Jersey and estuarine sediments in Oregon, USA. All of the sediments produced comparable amounts of power. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences after 3-7 months of incubation demonstrated that all of the energy-harvesting anodes were highly enriched in microorganisms in the -Proteobacteria when compared with control electrodes not connected to a cathode. Geobacteraceae accounted for the majority of -Proteobacterial sequences or all of the energy-harvesting anodes, except the one deployed at the Oregon estuarine site. Quantitative PCR analysis of 16S rRNA genes and culturing studies indicated that Geobacteraceae were 100-fold more abundant on the marine-deployed anodes versus controls. Sequences most similar to microorganisms in the family Desulfobulbaceae predominated on the anode deployed in the estuarine sediments, and a significant proportion of the sequences recovered from the freshwater anodes were closely related to the Fe(III)-reducing isolate, Geothrix fermentans. There was also a specific enrichment of microorganisms on energy harvesting cathodes, but the enriched populations varied with the sediment/water source. Thus, future studies designed to help optimize the harvesting of electricity from aquatic sediments or waste organic matter should focus on the electrode interactions of these microorganisms which are most competitive in colonizing anodes and cathodes. 
27770623|Plant-derived organic matter inputs are thought to be a key driver of soil bacterial community composition and associated soil processes. We sought to investigate the role of acid grassland vegetation on soil bacterial community structure by assessing bacterial diversity in combination with other soil variables in temporally and spatially distinct samples taken from a field-based plant removal experiment. Removal of aboveground vegetation resulted in reproducible differences in soil properties, soil respiration and bacterial diversity. Vegetated soils had significantly increased carbon and nitrogen concentrations and exhibited higher rates of respiration. Molecular analyses revealed that the soils were broadly dominated by Alphaproteobacterial and Acidobacterial lineages, with increased abundances of Alphaproteobacteria in vegetated soils and more Acidobacteria in bare soils. This field-based study contributes to a growing body of evidence documenting the effect of soil nutrient status on the relative abundances of dominant soil bacterial taxa, with Proteobacterial taxa dominating over Acidobacteria in soils exhibiting higher rates of C turnover. Furthermore, we highlight the role of aboveground vegetation in mediating this effect by demonstrating that plant removal can alter the relative abundances of dominant soil taxa with concomitant changes in soil CO2-C efflux.
23469201|During the infectious process, pathogens may reach anatomical sites where they are exposed to substances interfering with their growth. These substances can include molecules produced by the host, and his resident microbial population, as well as exogenous antibacterial drugs. Suboptimal concentrations of inhibitory molecules and stress conditions found in vivo (high or low temperatures, lack of oxygen, extreme pH) might induce in bacteria the activation of survival mechanisms blocking their division capability but allowing them to stay alive. These "dormant" bacteria can be reactivated in particular circumstances and would be able to express their virulence traits. In this study, it was evaluated the effect of some environmental conditions, such as optimal and suboptimal temperatures, direct light and antibiotic sub-inhibitory concentrations doses of antibiotic, on the human pathogens Escherichia coli and Enterococcus faecalis when incubated in fluids accumulated in the body of patients with different pathologies. It is shown that inoculation in a number of accumulated body fluids and the presence of gentamicin, reliable conditions encountered during pathological states, induce stress-responding strategies enabling bacteria to persist in microcosms mimicking the human body. Significant differences were detected in Gram-negative and Gram-positive species with E. faecalis surviving, as starved or viable but non-culturable forms, in any microcosm and condition tested and E. coli activating a viable but non-culturable state only in some clinical samples. The persistence of bacteria under these conditions, being non-culturable, might explain some recurrent infections without isolation of the causative agent after application of the standard microbiological methods.
4250553|A study of the yeast flora of necrotic oranges and associated Drosophila yielded a total of 221 isolates composed of Kloeckera apiculata (75), Pichia fermentans (75), Pichia kluyveri (50), Torulopsis stellata (17), Hanseniaspora uvarum (2), P. membranaefaciens (1), and Candida vini (1). The yeast species of all samples of oranges and adult Drosophila were very similar; however, the species of Drosophila contained a higher proportion of P. fermentans and a lower proportion of K. apiculata than was found in the rotting oranges. P. fermentans was subsequently found more frequently on the surface of the necrotic tissue, where the flies feed, than was found internally. Since P. fermentans characteristically produces a pellicle and pseudomycelium and K. apiculata does not, it is concluded that the growth characteristics of the yeasts are an important factor determining adult "Drosophila" diets.
25153096|The distribution, host associations, and phylogenetic relationships of the unicellular cyanobacterial symbionts of selected marine sponges were investigated with direct 16s rDNA sequencing. The results indicate that the symbionts of the marine sponges Aplysina aerophoba, Ircinia variabilis, and Petrosia ficiformis from the Mediterranean, four Chondrilla species from Australia and the Mediterranean, and Haliclona sp. from Australia support a diversity of symbionts comprising at least four closely related species of Synechococcus. These include the symbionts presently described as Aphanocapsa feldmannii from P. ficiformis and Chondrilla nucula. A fifth symbiont from Cymbastela marshae in Australia is an undescribed symbiont of sponges, related to Oscillatoria rosea. One symbiont, Candidatus Synechococcus spongiarum, was found in diverse sponge genera in the Mediterranean Sea and the Indian, Pacific, and Southern oceans, whereas others were apparently more restricted in host association and distribution. These results are discussed in terms of the biodiversity and biogeographic distributions of cyanobacterial symbionts.
25153482|Culturable rhizosphere bacterial communities had been shown to exhibit wave-like distribution patterns along wheat roots. In the current work we show, for the first time, significant wave-like oscillations of an individual bacterial strain, the biocontrol agent Pseudomonas fluorescens 32 marked with gfp, along 3-week-old wheat roots in a conventionally managed and an organically managed soil. Significant wave-like fluctuations were observed for colony forming units (CFUs) on selective media and direct fluorescent counts under the microscope. Densities of fluorescent cells and of CFUs fluctuated in a similar manner along wheat roots in the conventional soil. The frequencies of the first, second, and third harmonics were similar for direct cell counts and CFUs. Survival of P. fluorescens 32-gfp introduced into organically managed soil was lower than that of the same strain added to conventionally managed soil. Thus, when root tips reached a depth of 10-35 cm below soil level, the majority of the introduced cells may have died, so that no cells or CFU"s were detected in this region at the time of sampling. As a result, significant waves in CFUs or direct counts along roots were not found in organically managed soil, except when a sufficiently long series with detectable CFUs were obtained. In this last case the wave-like fluctuation in CFUs was damped toward the root tip. In conclusion, when cells of a single bacterial strain randomly mixed in soil survived until a root tip passed, growth and death cycles after passage of the root tip resulted in oscillating patterns of population densities of this strain along 3-week-old wheat roots.
4250776| Under starvation conditions, 50% survivorship times displayed no significant relationship with cell size in 2 ciliate species in this study and 5 protozoan species from the literature. Differences in survival ability were attributed to differences in weight-specific respiratory rate and relative motility among these 7 species. At low bacterial levels, 4 ciliate species in this study displayed significant differences in survivorship. High survivorship of Euplotes patella relative to that of Paramecium caudatum and Paraurostyla sp. at low ciliate densities was attributed to the lower individual energy requirements of this smaller species. High survivorship of Stentor coeruleus was interpreted as an effect of its large quantity of reserves and low respiratory rate. The survivorship of E. patella was reduced at a higher population density. Four ciliate species survived longer at 15C than at 22C. Q
4250442|The effects of various combinations of light intensity, oxygen concentration, and CO
4287596|Clostridium cellulolyticum sporulation was investigated during growth on cellulose fibers in a mineral-salt based medium which corresponds to conditions linked to its natural ecological niche. At steady state of the continuous cultures under limitation and with an excess of cellulose and/or ammonium, bacterial cells mainly sporulated at low dilution rates (D), at least 10% sporulation being observed at the lowest D tested. Increasing the cellulose concentration in the feed-medium reservoir increased the percentage of spores in the bioreactor. It appeared that the remaining undigested cellulose could serve as an exogenous carbon source supply at a continuous but limited rate throughout the sporulation process. In addition to the proportion of carbon and nitrogen, the influence of the environmental pH on spore formation was studied. In cellulose-fed continuous cultures at a constant D and a pH decreasing from 7.2 to 6.4, the percentage of spores increased to 14% at the lowest pH tested. When C. cellulolyticum was grown in batch culture, the level of sporulation was dramatically higher in unregulated-pH fermentation compared to pH-controlled growth conditions at pH 7.2 since in the former it reached 45% within 5 days of cultivation. It then appeared that a low specific growth rate and a low environmental pH in the presence of an insoluble carbon substrate were the major factors inducing sporulation in C. cellulolyticum. Furthermore, since the spores adhere to the carbon substrate (the cellulose) the bacteria gain advantages when the environment allows germination thanks to the recovery of suitable growth conditions. By allowing the maintenance and the integrity of the bacteria in the microbiota, spore formation could then explain the successful survival of C. cellulolyticum in cellulosic anaerobic habitats where low environmental pH conditions are often found.
4251389|Models of the microbial food web have their origin in the debate over the importance of bacteria as an energetic subsidy for higher trophic levels leading to harvestable fisheries. Conceptualization of the microbial food web preceded numerical models by 10-15 years. Pomeroy's work was central to both efforts. Elements necessary for informative and comprehensive models of microbial loops in plankton communities include coupled carbon and nitrogen flows utilizing a size-based approach to structuring and parameterizing the food web. Realistic formulation of nitrogen flows requires recognition that both nitrogenous and nonnitrogenous organic matter are important substrates for bacteria. Nitrogen regeneration driven by simple mass-specific excretion constants seems to overestimate the role of bacteria in the regeneration process. Quantitative assessment of the link-sink question, in which the original loop models are grounded, requires sophisticated analysis of size-based trophic structures. The effects of recycling complicate calculation of the link between bacteria or dissolved organic matter and mesozooplankton, and indirect effects show that the link might be much stronger than simple analyses have suggested. Examples drawn from a series of oceanic mixed layer plankton models are used to illustrate some of these points. Single-size class models related to traditional P-Z-N approaches are incapable of simulating bacterial biomass cycles in some locations (e.g., Bermuda) but appear to be adequate for more strongly seasonal regimes at higher latitudes.
4250945|Seemingly opposing hypotheses concerning the effects of environmental fluctuations on species diversity were shown to complement one another. Studies were made on naturally occurring microbial communities growing in continuous cultures, under both low and high productivity levels. The communities consisted of species of bacteria, protozoan flagellates, and protozoan predators (sarcodinians and ciliates). Fluctuations were imposed by periodically removing a portion of the culture and refilling with sterilized medium. They were designed to mimic the effect of fluctuations periodically decreasing the demand/supply ratio of the community for the available resources. It was found that when growth rates were low (either because of low productivity levels or because of low intrinsic growth rates of the organisms concerned), fluctuations decreased species diversity, whereas when growth rates were high, fluctuations increased species diversity. It is suggested that fluctuations decrease diversity when growth rates are low because they prevent slower growing species from surviving, and increase diversity when growth rates are high because they decrease the extent of competitive domination and exclusion.
4250564| Thioploca had been encountered in several locations in Central Europe. Five of these were revisited to find out if T. schmidlei and T. ingrica were still present in these locations. Of the three locations in Lake Constance with abundant populations, one (Staad) contained a sparse population of small specimens of T. ingrica only; from the others (Ermatingen and Mainau) neither species was recovered. In Lower Saxony two spots reportedly contained T. ingrica. The first of these (Bckeburg) has been destroyed by human stream improvement. The description of the other (Bad Nenndorf) was insufficient for relocation. During the search a new location containing T. ingrica was discovered, Crater Spring, across highway B65 from Bad Nenndorf. 
4251261| The growth efficiency of freshwater bacteria was examined in continuous cultures. One series of experiments was carried out using generation times from 50 to 200 hours and aged, normal, and enriched media, all of natural origin. Another series of experiments examined the bacterial growth efficiency during the growth season in eutrophic Frederiksborg Slotss, in relation to changes in the planktonic communities and to factors controlling the bacterial incorporation of
4250578|In continuous culture enrichments that were inoculated with activated sludge and were fed with polymeric substrates, freely dispersed single-celled bacteria belonging to the Cytophaga group dominated among the initial populations, irrespective of the activated sludge source. These populations were grazed by flagellated protozoa which after several days reached high cell densities. Other morphologic bacterial groups such as spiral-shaped or filamentous bacteria then became dominant. In defined mixed culture experiments with bacterial isolates from the enrichment cultures, it was shown that a "grazing-resistant" Microcyclus strain outgrew a Cytophaga strain in the presence of grazing protozoa. In contrast, the Cytophaga strain competed successfully with the Microcyclus strain and with other "grazing-resistant" strains under protozoa-free conditions. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that assumed grazing resistance factors such as floccing or filamentous growth were lost by some of the strains when they were grown for several generations in continuous culture under the same conditions, but in the absence of protozoa.
4287486|The growth of Pseudomonas aureofaciens PGS12 was followed in nutrient broth (NB), on nutrient agar (NA), and on plant roots by monitoring cell numbers, the production of the autoinducer hexanoyl-homoserine lactone (HHL), and the antibiotic phenazine-1-carboxylic acid (PCA). In NB, as the growth rate declined in transition phase, HHL synthesis increased rapidly, shortly followed by PCA production. During stationary phase, HHL concentration declined rapidly while PCA concentration continued to increase slowly. The luxAB reporter genes were inserted in the phzB gene of the phenazine operon and phenazine transcriptional activity was monitored using measurement of luminescence. Levels and pattern of light output were similar to HHL accumulation and indicated that gene expression was maximal in transition phase and silenced in stationary phase. PCA production continued in stationary phase, suggesting that the protein products of the phenazine operon were maintained in the cell after down regulation. HHL accumulation was 60 times higher on NA than in NB per equivalent volume because of a 60-fold increase in cell density on NA. Higher levels of PCA per cell (6.8 times) and per equivalent volume (360-fold) accumulated in a colony compared to that found in broth. HHL remained at a high concentration in a colony for a longer period compared to a short burst in NB, and this may explain the increased PCA production. In contrast, on wheat seedlings and bean plant roots, bacterial growth was observed, but neither HHL nor PCA was detected; however, transcriptional activity of the phzB::luxAB reporter occurred on the bean plant roots.
40605854|We studied the vegetation, testate amoebae and abiotic variables (depth of the water table, pH, electrical conductivity, Ca and Mg concentrations of water extracted from mosses) along the bog to extremely rich fen gradient in sub-alpine peatlands of the Upper Engadine (Swiss Alps). Testate amoeba diversity was correlated to that of mosses but not of vascular plants. Diversity peaked in rich fen for testate amoebae and in extremely rich fen for mosses, while for testate amoebae and mosses it was lowest in bog but for vascular plants in extremely rich fen. Multiple factor and redundancy analyses (RDA) revealed a stronger correlation of testate amoebae than of vegetation to water table and hydrochemical variables and relatively strong correlation between testate amoeba and moss community data. In RDA, hydrochemical variables explained a higher proportion of the testate amoeba and moss data than water table depth. Abiotic variables explained a higher percentage of the species data for testate amoebae (30.3% or 19.5% for binary data) than for mosses (13.4%) and vascular plants (10%). These results show that (1) vascular plant, moss and testate amoeba communities respond differently to ecological gradients in peatlands and (2) testate amoebae are more strongly related than vascular plants to the abiotic factors at the mire surface. These differences are related to vertical trophic gradients and associated niche differentiation.
25153124|Exploration of environmental factors governing soil microbial community composition is long overdue and now possible with improved methods for characterizing microbial communities. Previously, we observed that rice soil microbial communities were distinctly different from tomato soil microbial communities, despite management and seasonal variations within soil type. Potential contributing factors included types and amounts of organic inputs, organic carbon content, and timing and amounts of water inputs. Of these, both soil water content and organic carbon availability were highly correlated with observed differences in composition. We examined how organic carbon amendment (compost, vetch, or no amendment) and water additions (from air dry to flooded) affect microbial community composition. Using canonical correspondence analysis of phospholipid fatty acid data, we determined flooded, carbon-amended (+C) microcosm samples were distinctly different from other +C samples and unamended (-C) samples. Although flooding without organic carbon addition influenced composition some, organic carbon addition was necessary to substantially alter community composition. Organic carbon availability had the same general effects on microbial communities regardless of whether it was compost or vetch in origin. In addition, flooded samples, regardless of organic carbon inputs, had significantly lower ratios of fungal to bacterial biomarkers, whereas under drier conditions and increased organic carbon availability the microbial communities had higher proportions of fungal biomass. When comparing field and microcosm soil, flooded +C microcosm samples were most similar to field-collected rice soil, whereas all other treatments were more similar to field-collected tomato soil. Overall, manipulating water and carbon content selected for microbial communities similar to those observed when the same factors were manipulated at the field scale.
4287585|Lasallia hispanica, Parmelia omphalodes, and Cornicularia normoerica, saxicolous thalli growing on granite, show a close relationship with other lichens and microorganisms living in the lithic substrate beneath them. The lithobiontic community is an accumulation of microorganisms at an interface forming a biofilm, which interacts with the lithic substrate both geophysically and geochemically. Because of their fruticose and foliose morphology, the saxicolous species examined here are mainly involved in geophysical processes, but in the proximity of their attachment structures, geochemical processes may also be observed. On the other hand, fungi, algae and cyanobacteria forming crustose lichens, as well as free-living lithobiontic microorganisms, are known to show combined geophysical and geochemical action, mainly on laminar minerals. The substrate zone where the saxicolous lichens are attached is most affected by weathering reactions and shows the highest co-occurrence of lithobiontic microorganisms. The physical and chemical properties of the substrate, along with lichen and microorganism activity, determine different microenvironments and microhabitats. The ecological functioning of these lithobiontic communities is not yet fully understood, and research efforts similar to the present are needed to confirm that their development is influenced by interrelations between different community members and the substrate, as suggested here.
25153486|The community of culturable cellulolytic bacteria was analyzed in two long-term experimental field sites on Albic Luvisol (silty sand) and Haplic Phaeozem (loam), with and without farmyard manure treatment. Against the backdrop of significant differences in soil properties, the bacterial community structure differed clearly between sites and was affected by manure application as analyzed by T-RFLP of 16S rDNA. The population densities of cellulolytic bacteria were significantly increased by manure application in Phaeozem. Cellulose decomposing potentials of 537 isolates were tested on soluble, colloidal, and crystalline cellulose. The results showed some evidence of a greater proportion of isolates with high decomposition activity in Luvisol, but no impact from manure application could be observed in both soils. Restriction analysis and sequencing of 16S rDNA of isolates revealed a rather simple community composition that was dominated by Streptomyces (67%). The composition of the RFLP groups was affected by manure application, which was most evident in Luvisol, whereas an effect of the soil type could not be found. Although abundant RFLP groups were assigned to phylogenetically different bacterial classes (Actinobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, and Gammaproteobacteria), cellulolytic activity could not consistently be differentiated. All in all, cellulolytic capabilities of the isolates were highly variable and did not map to phylogenetic affiliation.
4251664|Determination of the relative abundance of a specific prokaryote in an environmental sample is of major interest in applied and environmental microbiology. Relative abundance can be calculated using knowledge of SSU rDNA copy number, amount of SSU rDNA in the sample, and a weighted average estimate of the genome sizes for organisms in the original sample. By surveying the literature, we provide estimates of genome size and SSU rDNA copy number for 303 and 101 prokaryotes, respectively. This compilation can be used to make reasonable estimates for a wide range of organisms in the calculation of relative abundance. A statistical analysis suggests that no correlation exists between genome size and SSU rDNA copy number. A phylogenetic analysis is used to offer insights into the evolution of both genome size and SSU rDNA copy number.
41489192|Phylogenetic diversity among filamentous sulfuroxidizing bacteria of the genus Thioploca inhabiting freshwater/brackish environments was analyzed in detail. The 16S rRNA gene sequence of Thioploca found in a freshwater lake in Japan, Lake Okotanpe, was identical to that of Thioploca from Lake Ogawara, a brackish lake. The samples of the two lakes could be differentiated by the sequences of their 23S rRNA genes and 16S-23S rRNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions. The 23 S rRNA-based phylogenetic relationships between Thioploca samples from four lakes (Lake Okotanpe, Lake Ogawara, Lake Biwa, and Lake Constance) were similar to those based on the 16S rRNA gene sequences. In addition, multiple types of the ITS sequences were obtained from Thioploca inhabiting Lake Okotanpe and Lake Constance. Variations within respective Thioploca populations were also observed in the analysis of the soxB gene, involved in sulfur oxidation. As major members of the sheath-associated microbial community, bacteria of the phylum Chloroflexi were consistently detected in the samples from different lakes. Fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed that they were filamentous and abundantly distributed within the sheaths of Thioploca.
41489193|In this study, to explore the microbial community structure and its functionality in the deep-sea environments, we initially performed a 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA)-based community structure analyses for microbial communities in the sea water collected from sites of 765-790 m in depth in the Pacific Ocean. Interestingly, in the clone library we detected the presence of both photoautotrophic bacteria such as cyanobacteria and photoheterotrophic bacteria, such as Chloroflexus sp. To further explore the existence and diversity of possible light-utilizing microorganisms, we then constructed and analyzed a 23 S rRNA plastid gene cloning library. The results showed that the majority of this cloning library was occupied by oxygenic photoautotrophic organisms, such as diatoms Thalassiosira spp. and cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. In addition, the diversity of these oxygenic photoautotrophic organisms was very limited. Moreover, both reverse-transcription PCR and quantitative reverse-transcription PCR approaches had been employed to detect expression of the genes involved in protein synthesis and photosynthesis of photoautotrophic organisms, and the positive results were obtained. The possible mechanisms underlying the existence of very limited diversity of photosynthetic organisms at this depth of ocean, as well as the positive detection of rRNA and mRNA of diatom and cyanobacteria, were discussed.
23361672|Marine macroalgae are known to harbor large populations of microbial symbionts, and yet, microbe symbiosis in invasive macroalgae remains largely unknown. In this study, we applied molecular methods to study microbial communities associated with two invasive algae Acanthophora spicifera and Gracilaria salicornia and the two native algae Gracilaria coronopifolia and Laurencia nidifica at spatial and temporal scales in Hawaiian coral reef ecosystems. Bacterial communities of both the invasive and native macroalgae displayed little spatial and temporal variations, suggesting consistent and stable bacterial associations with these macroalgae. Results of this study identified three types of bacterial populations: nonspecific (present in both algal and water samples); algae-specific (found in all algal species); and species-specific (only found in individual species). The bacterial diversity of invasive algae was lower than that of their native counterparts at phylum and species levels. Notably, the vast majority (71 %) of bacterial communities associated with the invasive algae G. salicornia were representatives of Cyanobacteria, suggesting a potential ecological significance of symbiotic Cyanobacteria.
4287663|The succession of bacterial communities inhabiting the forefield of the Dammaglacier (Switzerland) was investigated in soils ranging in successional age from 0 to 100 years since deglaciation. Overall activity per bacterial cell was estimated by the amount of fluorescein diacetate (FDA) hydrolyzed per DAPI-stained cell, and an index of "opportunism" was determined from the ratio of culturable to total cells (C:T ratio). Ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA) was used to estimate the richness of dominant phylotypes and to construct rank-abundance plots of the dominant populations. We observed a biphasic trend in specific cellular activity, which exhibited minima in the 0- and 100-year-old soils while a maximum activity per cell was reached in the 70-y soil. On average, the C:T ratio showed the same trend as the specific activity, although we observed some differences between the two sampling transects. RISA revealed a decrease in dominant phylotype richness as successional age increased, and rank-abundance plots indicated that the evenness of the dominant bacterial phylotypes significantly decreased with successional age. The combination of specific cellular activity and C:T ratio results suggested the presence of an r-K continuum of bacteria while RISA showed that richness and evenness of dominant phylotypes decreased with successional age. We conclude that bacterial succession in the glacier forefield was a dynamic process with adaptation to the differing stages of succession occurring on both the individual and community levels.
23468248|Anaerobic digestion (AD) is an attractive microbiological technology for both waste treatment and energy production. Syntrophic acetogenic bacteria are an important guild because they are essential for maintaining efficient and stable AD operation. However, this guild is poorly understood due to difficulties to culture them. In this study, we developed specific PCR assays targeting the propionate-CoA transferase genes (pct) to investigate their diversity and distribution in several mesophilic anaerobic digesters and a bench-scale temperature-phased AD (TPAD) system. Phylogenetic analysis of sequenced pct amplicons revealed the occurrence of Syntrophobacter fumaroxidans and six other clusters of putative pct genes. Principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) showed that pct diversity and abundance were largely correlated to the feedstocks of the digesters, while little difference was seen between the granular and the liquid fractions of each digester or between the two digesters of the TPAD system. Cluster-specific qPCR analysis revealed major impact of feedstocks and fractions on the abundance of pct genes. Readily fermentable substrates such as sugar- or starch-rich feedstocks selected for pct genes (Cluster I) related to Syntrophobacter, while manure feedstock selected for pct clusters related to pct of Clostridium spp. These results suggest that propionate metabolism can be affected by feedstocks and partition differently between solid and liquid phases in digesters. The PCR assays developed in this study may serve as a tool to investigate propionate-oxidizing bacteria in anaerobic digesters and other anaerobic environments.
4251590| Laboratory storage of deep vadose zone sediments has previously resulted in an increase in the abundance of cultured microorganisms by as much as 10,000-fold, without concomitant increases in total microscopic counts. In the present study, factors contributing to the time-dependent stimulation of various microbiological parameters were examined during a 224 d post-sampling period, using a factorial-design experiment that partitioned the effects of storage time, sediment condition (intact blocks or homogenized) during storage, and O
4287756|The diversity of prokaryotes inhabiting solar saltern ponds was determined by thermal melting and reassociation of community DNA. These measurements were compared with fingerprinting techniques such as terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms (T-RFLP) analysis, denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), and cloning and sequencing approaches. Three ponds with salinities of 22, 32, and 37% (NaCl saturation) were studied. The combination of independent molecular techniques to estimate the total genetic diversity provided a realistic assessment to reveal the microbial diversity in these environments. The changes in the prokaryotic communities at different salinity (22, 32, and 37% salt) were significant and revealed that the total genetic diversity increased from 22% to 32% salinity. At 37% salinity the diversity was reduced again to nearly half that at 22% salinity. Our results revealed that the community "genome" had a DNA complexity that was 7 (in 22% salinity pond), 13 (in 32% salinity pond), and 4 (in 37% salinity pond) times the complexity of an Escherichia coli genome. The base composition profiles showed two abundant populations, which changed in relative amount between the three ponds. They indicated an uneven taxon distribution at 22% and 37% salinity and a more even distribution at 32% salinity. The results indicated a large predominating population at 37% salinity, which might correspond to the abundance of square archaea (SPhT) observed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and also indicated by the same T-RFLP fragment as the SPhT. The SPhT phylotype has also been reported to be the most frequently retrieved phylotype from this environment by culture independent techniques. In addition, two different operational taxonomic units (OTU) were detected at 37% salinity based on PCR with bacterial specific primers and T-RFLP. One of these predominant phylotypes is the extreme halophilic bacterium belonging to the bacteroidetes group, Salinibacter ruber.
41693853|Within aquatic ecosystems, periphytic biofilms can be hot spots of denitrification, and previous work has suggested that algal taxa within periphyton can influence the species composition and activity of resident denitrifying bacteria. This study tested the hypothesis that algal species composition within biofilms influences the structure and function of associated denitrifying bacterial communities through the composition of organic exudates. A mixed population of bacteria was incubated with organic carbon isolated from one of seven algal species or from one of two streams that differed in anthropogenic inputs. Pyrolysis-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (Py-GC/MS) revealed differences in the organic composition of algal exudates and stream waters, which, in turn, selected for distinct bacterial communities. Organic carbon source had a significant effect on potential denitrification rates (DNP) of the communities, with organics isolated from a stream with high anthropogenic inputs resulting in a bacterial community with the highest DNP. There was no correlation between DNP and numbers of denitrifiers (based on nirS copy numbers), but there was a strong relationship between the species composition of denitrifier communities (as indicated by tag pyrosequencing of nosZ genes) and DNP. Specifically, the relative abundance of Pseudomonas stutzeri-like nosZ sequences across treatments correlated significantly with DNP, and bacterial communities incubated with organic carbon from the stream with high anthropogenic inputs had the highest relative abundance of P. stutzeri-like nosZ sequences. These results demonstrate a significant relationship between bacterial community composition and function and provide evidence of the potential impacts of anthropogenic inputs on the structure and function of stream microbial communities.
40605884|Nine diazotrophic bacteria were isolated from surface-sterilized roots and culms of wheat variety Malviya-234, which is grown with very low or no inputs of nitrogen fertilizer. Out of the nine bacteria, four showed indole acetic acid (IAA) production, and five were positive for P solubilization. One isolate, WM234C-3, showed appreciable level of nitrogenase activity, IAA production, and P solubilization ability, and was further characterized with a view to exploiting its plant growth promoting activity. Based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis, this isolate was identified as Achromobacter xylosoxidans. Diazotrophic nature of this particular isolate was confirmed by Western blot analysis of dinitrogenase reductase and amplification of nifli. Analysis of the nifH sequence showed close homology with typical diazotrophic bacteria. Endophytic nature and cross-infection ability of WM234C-3 were tested by molecular tagging with gusA fused to a constitutive promoter followed by inoculation onto rice seedlings in axenic conditions. At 21 days after inoculation, the roots showed blue staining, the most intense color being at the emergence of lateral roots and root tips. Microscopic observation confirmed colonization of gus-tagged WM234C-3 in the intercellular spaces of cortical as well as vascular zones of roots. Inoculation of gus-tagged WM234C-3 to rice plants resulted in significant increase in root/shoot length, fresh weight, and chlorophyll a content. Plant growth promoting features coupled with cross-infection ability suggest that this endophytic bacterium may be exploited as agricultural agent for various crops after a thorough and critical pathogenicity test.
25153189| XTT (3-[1-[(phenylamino)-carbonyl]-3,4-tetrazolium]-bis(4-methoxy-6-nitro)benzenesulfonic acid hydrate), MTS (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium, inner salt), and WST-1 (4-(3-4-iodophenyl)-2-(4-nitrophenyl)-2H-5-tetrazolio)-1,3-benzenedisulfonate) are tetrazolium salts that have become commercially available only in relatively recent years; they differ from earlier such compounds in that their reduction gives rise to a formazan product that is water soluble. We have established the sites in the prokaryotic respiratory chain at which each of the dyes is reduced to its corresponding formazan and have evaluated the suitability of each for the colorimetric estimation of electron transport system activity in populations of activated sludge microorganisms. Reduction of all three tetrazolium salts was shown to be proportional to cell biomass and oxygen uptake and to be susceptible to low levels of the reference toxicant 3,5-dichlorophenol. XTT, which was not inhibitory at concentrations of up to 2 mM and was reduced by 91% of isolates from a sample of culturable activated sludge bacteria, was chosen for further assay development. XTT-formazan production was found to be stimulated by the availability of an exogenous carbon and energy source, and by the presence of the electron-coupling agent phenazine methosulfate. Less than 3% of XTT reduction by an activated sludge sample was abiotic. An assay based on this compound could be a valuable and simple tool for the routine monitoring of the performance of wastewater treatment systems. 
23469589|Published results of studies based on samples size fractionated by sequential filtration (e.g. 0.23 m) indicate that many ciliate, dinoflagellate and rhizarian phylotypes are found among marine picoeukaryotes. This is somewhat surprising as these protists are typically known as being large organisms (often >10 m) and no picoplanktonic species have so far been identified. Here, the abundances of ciliate and dinoflagellate phylotypes in published molecular studies of picoeukaryotes are shown to correlate negatively with the pore size chosen for the end filter in the sequential filtrations (i.e. the filter used to collect the microbial biomass). This suggests that extracellular DNA adhering to small particles may be the source of ciliate and dinoflagellate phylotypes in picoplanktonic size fractions. This hypothesis was confirmed using real-time qPCR, which revealed significantly less dinoflagellate 18S rDNA in a 0.83-m size fraction compared to 0.23 m. On average, the abundance of putative extracellular phylotypes decreased by 8489 % when a 0.8-m end filter was used rather than a 0.2-m end filter. A 0.8-m filter is, however, not sufficient to retain all picoeukaryotic cells. Thus, selection of filter pore size involves a trade-off between avoiding artefacts generated by extracellular DNA and sampling the entire picoeukaryotic community. In contrast to ciliate and dinoflagellate phylotypes, rhizarian phylotypes in the picoplankton size range do not display a pattern consistent with an extracellular origin. This is likely due to the documented existence of picoplanktonic swarmer cells within this group.
41489148|Toxic blooms of the cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa affect humans and animals in inland water systems worldwide, and it has been hypothesized that the development of these blooms will increase under the future scenario of global change, considering eutrophication and temperature increase as two important consequences. The importance of genetic adaptation, chance and history on evolution of growth rate, and toxin production of M. aeruginosa was studied under these new conditions. The experiment followed the idea of "replaying life's tape" by means of the simultaneous propagation of 15 independent isolates of three M. aeruginosa strains, which were grown under doubled nutrient concentration and temperature during c. 87 generations. Adaptation by new mutations that resulted in the enhancement of growth rate arose during propagation of derived cultures under the new environmental conditions was the main component of evolution; however, chance also contributed in a lesser extension to evolution of growth rate. Mutations were selected, displacing the wild-type ancestral genotypes. In contrast, the effect of selection on mutations affecting microcystin production was neutral. Chance and history were the pacemakers in evolution of toxin production. Although this study might be considered an oversimplification of the reality, it suggest that a future scenario of global change might lead to an increase in M. aeruginosa bloom frequency, but no predictions about the frequency of toxicity can be made.
4287628|Previously, we showed that copiotrophic and oligotrophic bacteria fluctuate as moving waves along roots. These waves probably originate as a result of growth and death cycles at any location where a moving nutrient source passed. In this study, we placed sclerotia of Rhizoctonia solani AG8 along growing roots of wheat and showed that the proportions of root sections from which R. solani was isolated fluctuated with distance from the root tip. Similarly, proportions of root sections from which naturally occurring Pythium spp. were isolated fluctuated with distance from the root tip. Fourier analysis showed that these fluctuations constituted significant waves. Cross-correlation analyses demonstrated that there were negative correlations between R. solani infections and colony forming units of copiotrophic bacteria at the time of inoculation at the same locations on the root (lag = 0 cm), indicating that infection by R. solani could have been inhibited by these bacteria. There was a positive correlation between Pythium infections and copiotrophic bacteria at a lag of 6 cm along the roots. It therefore appears that Pythium infection took place shortly after the initial peak in copiotrophic bacteria following the passage of the root tip.
41692863|The effects of elevated CO on soil bacterial community with upland vegetation have been widely studied, but limited information is available regarding responses of denitrifier and methanogen communities to elevated CO in wetland ecosystems. Using restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), terminal RFLP analysis, and realtime quantitative PCR, we compared communities of denitrifiers and methanogens in a laboratory-scale wetland system planted with one of three macrophytes, Typha latifolia, Scirpus lacustris, or Juncus effusus, after 110 days of incubation. Our study showed that elevated CO could affect community structures of both denitrifiers and methanogens, each of which had a unique response pattern. In particular, elevated CO shifted mVS-containing community with a unique structure irrespective of vegetation type. mcrA -containing community appeared to shift to community with unique types of hydrogenotrophs under elevated CO conditions. The change of dissolved organic carbon driven by elevated CO appeared to be related with the shift of both denitrifiers and methanogens. Overall, this study indicates that elevated CO could change the community structure of denitrifiers and methanogens temporarily. These results also suggest a presence of stable dominant populations that were not substantially affected by changes in CO concentration.
4287652| Exoenzymatic activities (aminopeptidase and -glucosidase) and organic matter composition were investigated in June 1996 and February 1997 in the sediment of two areas of the Adriatic Sea differently influenced by the Po river. Protein, carbohydrate, and lipid concentrations were comparable to those reported in most productive systems. Sediment chlorophyll a and biopolymeric carbon concentrations in June were twice as high as in February, but highest exoenzymatic activities and organic matter turnover rates were observed in February (with aminopeptidase activities 10 times higher than in June). The accumulation of organic matter and lower protein and carbohydrate turnover rates observed in June were the result of a different biochemical composition of organic matter in the two sampling periods. In June, organic matter was characterized by a more refractory composition. The consequent reduction of available organic substrate was associated with a decrease in the exoenzymatic substrate affinity. Lower organic matter turnover rates were also observed in deeper sediment layers. In February, the freshwater plume was almost completely confined to the northern area, whereas in June it was extended to the southern area. The results suggest that river inputs influence the biochemical composition and distribution of the sediment organic matter and exoenzymatic activities in coastal marine sediments. 
4251075| Bacterial biomass, production, and turnover were determined for two freshwater marsh sites and a site in the main river channel along the tidally influenced Hudson River. The incorporation of
25152953|Many variables must be considered in seeking to describe differences in population sizes for native aquatic bacterial populations. In this study of seagrass- and nearby plant-free sediments, seasonal effects on total bacterial counts were found to be highly significant, outweighting the significance of factors such as geographic variability, but on populations of a chosen Alteromonas sp., they were not significant at the 5% level. Summer counts for both populations were higher than those for winter; this result is likely to reflect the higher productivity of the host Zostera capricorni in summer months, resulting in the exudation of increased amounts of organic nutrients. The Alteromonas sp. occurred in greatest abundance (1.8% of the total population) at the seagrass sediment site from which it was originally isolated and formed up to 1.5% of the population in adjacent plant-free sediments. In fluorescent microscopy studies with labeled antibodies, the Alteromonas sp. was found to be ubiquitous in seagrass and plant-free sediments but was found closely associated in much higher numbers with seagrass root-rhizome tissue, suggesting a possible nutritional relationship between plant and bacterium. In associated trials of sediment preservation techniques, bacterial counts of replicate sediments preserved with glutaraldehyde (3% v/v) were higher than those obtained using Lugol's iodine or freezing.
41489194|The contribution of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) to nitrogen removal in wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) remains unknown. This study investigated the abundance of archaeal (AOA) and bacterial (ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB)) amoA genes in eight of Bangkok's municipal WWTPs. AOA amoA genes (3.2810   1.74x10  -2.23x10;  1.92x10 copies 1; sludge) outnumbered AOB amoA genes in most of the WWTPs even though the plants' treatment processes, influent and effluent characteristics, removal efficiencies, and operation varied. An estimation of the ammoniaoxidizing activity of AOA and AOB suggests that AOA involved in autotrophic ammonia oxidation in the WWTPs.Statistical analysis shows that the numbers of AOA amoA genes correlated negatively to the ammonium levels in effluent wastewater, while no correlation was found between the AOA amoA gene numbers and the oxygen concentrations in aeration tanks. An analysis of the AOB sequences shows that AOB found in the WWTPs limited to only two AOB clusters which exhibit high or moderate affinity to ammonia. In contrast to AOB, AOA sequences of various clusters were retrieved, and they were previously recovered from a variety of environments, such as thermal and marine environments.
25153458|Environmental microbiology investigation was carried out in Jiaozhou Bay to determine the source and distribution of tetracycline-resistant bacteria and their resistance mechanisms. At least 25 species or the equivalent molecular phylogenetic taxa in 16 genera of resistant bacteria could be identified based on 16S ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid sequence analysis. Enterobacteriaceae, Pseudomonadaceae, and Vibrionaceae constituted the majority of the typical resistant isolates. Indigenous estuarine and marine Halomonadaceae, Pseudoalteromonadaceae, Rhodobacteraceae, and Shewanellaceae bacteria also harbored tetracycline resistance. All the six resistance determinants screened, tet(A)-(E) and tet(G), could be detected, and the predominant genes were tet(A), tet(B), and tet(G). Both anthropogenic activity-related and indigenous estuarine or coastal bacteria might contribute to the tet gene reservoir, and resistant bacteria and their molecular determinants may serve as bioindicators of coastal environmental quality. Our work probably is the first identification of tet(E) in Proteus, tet(G) in Acinetobacter, tet(C) and tet(D) in Halomonas, tet (D) and tet(G) in Shewanella, and tet(B), tet(C), tet(E), and tet(G) in Roseobacter.
4251678|Methane production and methane oxidation potential were measured in a 30 cm peat core from the Moorhouse Nature Reserve, UK. The distribution of known groups of methanogens and methane oxidizing bacteria throughout this peat core was assessed. Using 16S rRNA gene retrieval and functional gene probing with genes encoding key proteins in methane oxidation and methanogenesis, several major groups of microorganisms were detected. Methane production and oxidation was detected in all depths of the peat core. PCR amplification and oligonucleotide probing experiments using DNA isolated from all sections of the peat core detected methanotrophs from the groups Methylosinus and Methylococcus and methanogens from the groups Methanosarcinaceae, Methanococcaceae, and Methanobacteriaceae. 16S rDNA sequences amplified with the Methylosinus-specific primer were shown to have a high degree of identity with 16S rDNA sequences previously detected in acidic environments. However, no methanogen sequences were detected by the probes available in this study in the sections of the peat core (above 7 cm) where the majority of methanogenesis occurred, either because of low methanogen numbers or because of the presence of novel methanogen sequences.
4251343|Acid and nonacid generating fungal strains isolated from weathered sandstone, limestone, and granite of Spanish cathedrals were assayed for their ability to oxidize iron and manganese. In general, the concentration of the different cations present in the mineral salt media directly affected Mn(IV) oxide formation, although in some cases, the addition of glucose and nitrate to the culture media was necessary. Mn(II) oxidation in acidogenic strains was greater in a medium containing the highest concentrations of glucose, nitrate, and manganese. High concentrations of Fe(II), glucose, and mineral salts were optimal for iron oxidation. Mn(IV) precipitated as oxides or hydroxides adhered to the mycelium. Most of the Fe(III) remained in solution by chelation with organic acids excreted by acidogenic strains. Other metabolites acted as Fe(III) chelators in nonacidogenic strains, although Fe(III) deposits around the mycelium were also detected. Both iron and manganese oxidation were shown to involve extracellular, hydrosoluble enzymes, with maximum specific activities during exponential growth. Strains able to oxidize manganese were also able to oxidize iron. It is concluded that iron and manganese oxidation reported in this work were biologically induced by filamentous fungi mainly by direct (enzymatic) mechanisms.
4251554| Six-day-old larvae of the catarina scallop, Argopecten ventricosus (=circularis), were infected with different concentrations of Vibrio alginolyticus to determine virulence and to describe vibriosis in this species. The development of vibriosis was compared to the effect of the supernatant of a 24-h V. alginolyticus culture. An experimental larvae culture system (ELCS) yielded a maximum survival of 80% from the 6th to the 19th day (control and low concentrations of V. alginolyticus). No effect was shown with concentrations of V. alginolyticus below 0.5  10
25153325| We investigated the growth response of the heterotrophic prokaryotic community focusing on Vibrio- and Rhodobacter-related populations (SRF3) to variation in the availability of dissolved organic matter (DOM), population density-dependent effects, and prokaryotic virus (phage) infection in coastal and offshore waters of the NW Mediterranean Sea. We tested the response of the prokaryotic community to three different DOM fractions prepared by ultrafiltration. One of the DOM fractions contained phages (&lt;0.2 m), a second was virus-free (&lt;100 kDa), and a third contained only low molecular weight (&lt;1 kDa). The proportion of Vibrio and SRF3 populations as determined by fluorescent in situ hybridization in the community ranged from &lt; 1 to 6.2% and from 3.2 to 6.3%, respectively. Based on changes in cell numbers, growth rates ranged from 2.1 to 3.1 day for Vibrio and from 0.8 to 1.2 day for SRF3. Growth rates of Vibrio were similar or higher than those of the total prokaryotic community, whereas the ability of Vibrio to use high molecular weight (HMW) DOM and the responses to additions of phage-rich material were lower. Growth rates of SRF3 were lower than that of the community. Susceptibility to infection of SRF3 was sometimes lower than in the community, whereas the growth stimulation of HMW DOM was similar or lower. Reducing the cell concentrations of the prokaryotic community by dilution stimulated the overall growth of the community, including that of its constituent Vibrio and SRF3 populations, but the effect was smaller on the SRF3 and greater on Vibrio populations than for the total community. Comparisons with the community also revealed that life strategy traits of bacterial populations differed between coastal and offshore waters. Overall, our data suggest that Vibrio is an r-strategist or opportunistic population in the NW Mediterranean Sea, whereas SRF3 is a K-strategist or equilibrium population. 
4251056|Three principal methods have been used to administer substrates to sediments: injection, porewater replacement, and slurry. Here we assess how each of these techniques affects incorporation of radiolabels into macromolecules of marine sedimentary microbes. Eighty-five cores of intertidal sand were collected in a randomized-block, factorial design. One set of cores received
23468260|Emerging infectious diseases usually arise from wild animal populations. In the present work, we performed a screening for bacterial infection in natural populations of New World primates. The blood cell bulk DNAs from 181 individuals of four Platyrrhini genera were PCR screened for eubacterial 16S rRNA genes. Bacteria were detected and identified in 13 distinct individuals of Alouatta belzebul, Alouatta caraya, and Cebus apella monkeys from geographically distant regions in the states of Mato Grosso and Par, Brazil. Sequence analyses showed that these Platyrrhini bacteria are closely related not only to human pathogens Pseudomonas spp. but also to Pseudomonas simiae and sheep-Acari infecting Pseudomonas spp. The identified Pseudomonas possibly represents a group of bacteria circulating in natural monkey populations.
40605668|The molecular diversity of the rumen microbiome was investigated in five semi-domesticated adult female Norwegian reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus) grazing on natural summer pastures on the coast of northern Norway (71.00 N, 25.30 E). Mean population densities (numbers per gram wet weight) of methanogenic archaea, rumen bacteria and ciliate protozoa, estimated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), were 3.1710, 5.1710 and 4.0210, respectively. Molecular diversity of rumen methanogens was revealed using a 16S rRNA gene library (54 clones) constructed using pooled PCR products from the whole rumen contents of the five individual reindeer. Based upon a similarity criterion of <97%, a total of 19 distinct operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were identified, nine of which are potential new species. The 16S rRNA sequences generated from the reindeer rumen exhibited a high degree of sequence similarity to methanogens affiliated with the families Methanobacteriaceae (14 OTUs) and Methanosarcinaceae (one OTU). Four of the OTUs detected belonged to a group of uncultivated archaea previously found in domestic ruminants and thought to be dominant in the rumen together with Methanobrevibacter spp. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiling of the rumen bacterial 16S rRNA gene and the protozoal 18S rRNA gene indicated a high degree of animal variation, although some bands were common to all individuals. Automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) profiling of the ruminai Neocallimastigales population indicated that the reindeer are likely to contain more than one type of anaerobic fungus. The ARISA profile from one animal was distinct from the other four. This is the first molecular investigation of the ruminai methanogenic archaea in reindeer, revealing higher numbers than expected based on methane emission data available. Also, many of the reindeer archaeal 16S rRNA gene sequences were similar to those reported in domesticated ruminants in Australia, Canada, China, New Zealand and Venezuela, supporting previous findings that there seems to be no host type or geographical effect on the methanogenic archaea community structure in ruminants.
40343505|The Nyack floodplain is located on the Middle Fork of the Flathead River, an unregulated, pristine, fifthorder stream in Montana, USA, bordering Glacier National Park. The hyporheic zone is a nutritionally heterogeneous floodplain component harboring a diverse array of microbial assemblages essential in fluvial biogeochemical cycling, riverine ecosystem productivity, and trophic interactions. Despite these functions, microbial community structure in pristine hyporheic systems is not well characterized. The current study was designed to assess whether physical habitat heterogeneity within the hyporheic zone of the Nyack floodplain was sufficient to drive bacterial  diversity between three different hyporheic flow path locations. Habitat heterogeneity was assessed by measuring soluble reactive phosphorous, nitrate, dissolved organic carbon, dissolved oxygen, and soluble total nitrogen levels seasonally at surface water infiltration, advection, and exfiltration zones. Significant spatial differences were detected in dissolved oxygen and nitrate levels, and seasonal differences were detected in dissolved oxygen, nitrate, and dissolved organic carbon levels. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and cell counts indicated that bacterial diversity increased with abundance, and DGGE fingerprints covaried with nitrate levels where water infiltrated the hyporheic zone. The ribosomal gene phylogeny revealed that hyporheic habitat heterogeneity was sufficient to drive  diversity between bacterial assemblages. Phylogenetic (P) tests detected sequence disparity between the flow path locations. Small distinct lineages of Firmicutes, Actinomycetes, Planctomycetes, and Acidobacteria defined the infiltration zone and -and -proteobacterial lineages delineated the exfiltration and advection zone communities. These data suggest that spatial habitat heterogeneity drives hyporheic microbial community development and that attempts to understand functional differences between bacteria inhabiting nutritionally heterogeneous hyporheic environments might begin by focusing on the biology of these taxa.
41489804|Sequential mRNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (mRNA FISH) and fluorescence-assisted cell sorting (SmRFF) was used for the identification of nitrite-reducing bacteria in mixed microbial communities. An oligonucleotide probe labeled with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was used to target mRNA of nirS, the gene that encodes nitrite reductase, the enzyme responsible for the dissimilatory reduction of nitrite to nitric oxide. Clones for nirS expression were constructed and used to provide proof of concept for the SmRFF method. In addition, cells from pure cultures of Pseudomonas stutzen and denitrifying activated sludge were hybridized with the HRP probe, and tyramide signal amplification was performed, conferring a strongly fluorescent signal to cells containing nirS mRNA. Flow cytometryassisted cell sorting was used to detect and physically separate two subgroups from a mixed microbial community: non-fluorescent cells and an enrichment of fluorescent, nitrite-reducing cells. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and subsequent sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes were used to compare the fragments amplified from the two sorted subgroups. Sequences from bands isolated from DGGE profiles suggested that the dominant, active nitrite reducers were closely related to Acidovorax BSB421. Furthermore, following mRNA FISH detection of nitrite-reducing bacteria, 16S rRNA FISH was used to detect ammonia-oxidizing and nitrite-oxidizing bacteria on the same activated sludge sample. We believe that the molecular approach described can be useful as a tool to help address the longstanding challenge of linking function to identity in natural and engineered habitats.
25153028|The discovery that biofilms are ubiquitous among the epiphytic microflora of leaves has prompted research about the impact of biofilms on the ecology of epiphytic microorganisms and on the efficiency of strategies to manage these populations for disease control and to ensure food safety. Biofilms are likely to influence the microenvironment and phenotype of the microorganisms they harbor. However, it is also important to determine whether there are differences in the types of bacteria within biofilms compared to those outside of biofilms so as to better target microorganisms via disease control strategies. Broad-leaved endive (Cichorium endivia var. latifolia) harbors biofilms containing fluorescent pseudomonads. These bacteria can cause considerable post-harvest losses when this plant is used for manufacturing minimally processed salads. To determine whether the population structure of the fluorescent pseudomonads in biofilms is different from that outside of biofilms on the same leaves, bacteria were isolated quantitatively from the biofilm and solitary components of the epiphytic population on leaves of field-grown broad-leaved endive. Population structure was determined in terms of taxonomic identities of the bacteria isolated, in terms of genotypic profiles, and in terms of phenotypic traits related to surface colonization and biofilm formation. The results illustrate that there are no systematic differences in the composition and structure of biofilm and solitary populations of fluorescent pseudomonads, in terms of either genotypic profiles or phenotypic profiles of the strains. However, Gram-positive bacteria tended to occur more frequently within biofilms than outside of biofilms. We suggest that leaf colonization by fluorescent pseudomonads involves a flux of cells between biofilm and solitary states. This would allow bacteria to exploit the advantages of these two types of existence; biofilms would favor resistance to stressful conditions, whereas solitary cells could foster spread of bacteria to newly colonizable sites on leaves as environmental conditions fluctuate.
41412443|Glacier forefield chronosequences, initially composed of barren substrate after glacier retreat, are ideal locations to study primary microbial colonization and succession in a natural environment. We characterized the structure and composition of bacterial, archaeal and fungal communities in exposed rock substrates along the Damma glacier forefield in central Switzerland. Soil samples were taken along the forefield from sites ranging from fine granite sand devoid of vegetation near the glacier terminus to well-developed soils covered with vegetation. The microbial communities were studied with genetic profiling (T-RFLP) and sequencing of clone libraries. According to the T-RFLP profiles, bacteria showed a high Shannon diversity index (H) (ranging from 2.3 to 3.4) with no trend along the forefield. The major bacterial lineages were Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Firmicutes and Cyanobacteria. An interesting finding was that Euryarchaeota were predominantly colonizing young soils and Crenarchaeota mainly mature soils. Fungi shifted from an Ascomycota-dominated community in young soils to a more Basidiomycota-dominated community in old soils. Redundancy analysis indicated that base saturation, pH, soil C and N contents and plant coverage, all related to soil age, correlated with the microbial succession along the forefield.
25153071| Taxon abundance patterns are a central focus in evolution and ecology, providing the basic architecture of natural assemblages and potential clues to their formative processes. To better interpret species abundance patterns in natural microbial communities, we examined the consequences of three fundamental types of abundance patterns-uniform, geometric, and lognormal distributions. Theoretical communities were constructed based on the three pattern types with 2000 to 20,000 species and 10 to 10 individuals. The "dominant" species (species 1) among models that differed only in pattern type generally varied in abundance by 1 to 3 orders of magnitude. At the extremes among all the models examined, the dominant species comprised as much as 16% and as little as 0.005% of the total community. Analysis of the models and comparison with seven published surveys suggests that entire soil bacterial communities do not routinely exhibit Preston's cannonical subset of lognormal distributions. Use of the models to evaluate survey limitations showed that common diversity indices are generally sensitive to sample size over the range (50 to 200 clones) commonly used for microbial communities, emphasizing the need to compare surveys of similar size. The results collectively demonstrate that uniform, geometric, and lognormal distributions have profoundly different experimental and ecological consequences. Further, defined abundance models provide a simple quantitative tool for evaluating abundance patterns in clone libraries (even small ones) from natural communities. 
4287533|The fraction of bacteria displaying phosphatase activity within natural photosynthetic biofilms was examined in relation to phosphorus limitation and algal photosynthesis. An artificial substrate that forms a fluorescent precipitate was used in conjunction with the nucleic acid stain DAPI to enumerate extracellular phosphatase expression by biofilm bacteria exposed to different photosynthetic activities and phosphorus supplies. The proportion of bacteria displaying phosphatase activity changed in response to the presence or absence of algal photosynthesis. In general, phosphate-deprived biofilms had positive linear trends in bacterial phosphatase activity (p < 0.001), with greater proportions of bacteria displaying phosphatase under photosynthetic inhibition compared to active photosynthesis. Under sufficient phosphate supplies, biofilms had negative linear trends (p < 0.05) or were lower in the proportion of bacteria displaying phosphatase activity in the presence of algal photosynthesis, whereas bacterial phosphatase activity was generally maintained when photosynthesis was inhibited. It is suggested that the amount of extracellular organic carbon released within the biofilm matrix during photosynthesis indirectly affected bacterial phosphatase synthesis.
4287566|The release of non-disinfected wastewater into the marine environment is a common practice in many countries; nevertheless, the molecular mechanisms involved in determining the survival of enteric bacteria in seawater are poorly understood, in spite of the obvious public health implications. In a methodological attempt to address this issue, a plasmid-based collection of 687 Escherichia coli distinct promoter::luxCDABE fusions was screened to identify promoters that are induced upon exposure to seawater. The luminescence driven by 22 out of these promoters reproducibly increased at least two-fold in an artificial seawater medium; only 9 of the corresponding genes have previously been assigned a function. The most prominent characteristic of the induced genes was that most (18 out of 22) were under rpoS control. The induction of these seawater-responsive promoters was evaluated in different media to identify the cause of the increased transcription. Salinity or osmolarity was instrumental in only four cases, and in three promoters, increased pH also seemed to play a role; however, the most significant environmental effector in inducing the majority of the seawater-induced promoters appeared to be nutrient limitation.
23361681|The oviparous sponge Ectyoplasia ferox is commonly found in Florida and the Bahamas. Every year in August and/or September about 6 days after a full moon, E. ferox will shed embryo-containing spawning material into the seawater from which hundreds to thousands of larvae will hatch per host individual. In order to investigate vertical microbial transmission in E. ferox, 16S rRNA gene library construction and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis was employed. Microbial symbionts from six phyla and the unknown lineage SAUL were shown to be vertically transmitted. The identification of 21 VT clusters, of which 19 were situated within sponge-specific or sponge-coral-specific clusters, indicated that a large fraction of the symbiotic microbial consortium was present in the sexual reproductive stages. Spawning led to a 50 % reduction of microbial numbers in the adult sponge mesohyl. We furthermore provide the first evidence that the symbiotic microbial consortia of E. ferox were generally metabolically active within the reproductive stages. Finally, we propose E. ferox as a model system for vertical transmission owing to the ease of experimental access to all sexual reproductive stages, and to experimental tractability in the laboratory including the possibility of rearing symbiont-free juvenile sponges.
40605847|The temporal dynamics in bulk bacterial parameters and in the richness of the total and active bacterial community, determined from CE-SSCP fingerprints of 16S rRNA genes and 16S rRNA transcripts, respectively, were followed weekly to bimonthly at an oligotrophic coastal site in the NW Mediterranean Sea. Bacterial abundance, bacterial heterotrophic production, and bacterial and community respiration determined over two seasonal cycles displayed large short-term variability and no pronounced temporal pattern was detectable for these parameters. Concentrations in inorganic nutrients, salinity, or concentrations of chlorophyll a could not significantly explain the temporal variability of the bacterial parameters determined. By contrast, bacterial respiration and the bacterial carbon demand were both negatively correlated with the richness of the active bacterial community, while the bacterial parameters determined herein were not related to the richness of the total bacterial community present. Our results indicate that a reduced number of ribotypes is active when rates of bacteria-mediated carbon processes are high. Our approach, based on fingerprints of 16S rRNA transcripts, could represent an interesting tool to investigate the relationship between the structure and function of marine bacteria, in particular, on short temporal and spatial scales.
25153134| Despite the critical position of nitrification in N cycling in coniferous forest soils of western North America, little information exists on the composition of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) in these soils, or their response to treatments that promote or reduce nitrification. To this end, an experiment was conducted in which a set of soil cores was reciprocally transplanted between adjacent forest (low nitrification potential) and meadow (high nitrification potential) environments, at two high-elevation (1500 m) sites in the H.J. Andrews Experimental Forest located in the Cascade Mountains of Oregon. Half of the cores were placed in screened PVC pipe (closed) to prevent new root colonization, large litter debris inputs, and animal disturbance; the other cores were placed in open mesh bags. A duplicate set of open and closed soil cores was not transferred between sites and was incubated in place. Over the 2-year experiment, net nitrification increased in both open and closed cores transferred from forest to meadow, and to a lesser extent in cores remaining in the forest. In three of four forest soil treatments, net nitrification increases were accompanied by increases in nitrification potential rates (NPR) and 10-to 100-fold increases in AOB populations. In open cores remaining in the forests, however, increases in net nitrification were not accompanied by significant increases in either NPR or AOB populations. Although some meadow soil treatments reduced both net nitrification and nitrification potential rates, significant changes were not detected in most probable number (MPN)-based estimates of AOB population densities. Terminal restriction fragment profiles (T-RFs) of a PCR-amplified 491-bp fragment of the ammonia monooxygenase subunit A gene (amoA) changed significantly in response to some soil treatments, and treatment effects differed among locations and between years. A T-RF previously shown to be a specific biomarker of Nitrosospira cluster 4 (Alu390) was widespread and dominant in the majority of soil samples. Despite some treatments causing substantial increases in AOB population densities and nitrification potential rates, nitrosomonads remained undetectable, and the nitrosospirad AOB community composition did not change radically following treatment. 
25256200|Relatively little is known about large-scale spatial and temporal fluctuations in bacterioplankton, especially within the bacterial families. In general, however, a number of abiotic factors (namely, nutrients and temperature) appear to influence distribution. Community dynamics within the Vibrionaceae are of particular interest to biologists because this family contains a number of important pathogenic, commensal, and mutualist species. Of special interest to this study is the mutualism between sepiolid squids and Vibrio fischeri and Vibrio logei, where host squids seed surrounding waters daily with their bacterial partners. This study seeks to examine the spatial and temporal distribution of the Vibrionaceae with respect to V. fischeri and V. logei in Hawaii, southeastern Australia, and southern France sampling sites. In particular, we examine how the presence of sepiolid squid hosts influences community population structure within the Vibrionaceae. We found that abiotic (temperature) and biotic (host distribution) factors both influence population dynamics. In Hawaii, three sites within squid host habitat contained communities of Vibrionaceae with higher proportions of V. fischeri. In Australia, V. fischeri numbers at host collection sites were greater than other populations; however, there were no spatial or temporal patterns seen at other sample sites. In France, host presence did not appear to influence Vibrio communities, although sampled populations were significantly greater in the winter than summer sampling periods. Results of this study demonstrate the importance of understanding how both abiotic and biotic factors interact to influence bacterial community structure within the Vibrionaceae.
4251492|Specific monoclonal antibodies raised in previous studies were used in a quantitative ELISA to determine the biomass of three species of aquatic hyphomycetes: Tetracladium marchalianum de Wild, Anguillospora longissima Ingold, and Alatospora acuminata Ingold. The use of these methods for the study of mixed assemblages was assessed in the laboratory. The presence of nontarget fungi did not interfere with specific recognition by antibodies in the ELISA assay. The immunoassays indicated that lower biomass was attained by individual species colonizing field-incubated leaf material compared to laboratory-inoculated material. Alatospora acuminata attained the highest relative biomass on field-incubated leaf material, and T. marchalianum the lowest. These results contrast sharply with those obtained using more conventional methods based on conidial abundance. Conidia of T. marchaliamum were recorded more frequently than conidia of A. acuminata, and are, therefore, assumed to have had a higher relative abundance. The implications of these apparently conflicting results are discussed.
40343501|Eukaryotic plankton assemblages in 11 highmountain lakes located at altitudes of 2,817 to 5,134 m and over a total area of ca. one million square kilometers on the Eastern Tibet Plateau, spanning a salinity gradient from 0.2 (freshwater) to 187.1 g 1 (hypersaline), were investigated by cultivation independent methods. Two 18S rRNA genebased fingerprint approaches, i.e., the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) with subsequent band sequencing were applied. Samples of the same lake type (e.g., freshwater) generally shared more of the same bands or TRFs than samples of different types (e.g., freshwater versus saline). However, a certain number of bands or T-RFs among the samples within each lake were distinct, indicating the potential presence of significant genetic diversity within each lake. PCA indicated that the most significant environmental gradient among the investigated lakes was salinity. The observed molecular profiles could be further explained (17-24%) by ion percentage of chloride, carbonate and bicarbonate, and sulfate, which were also covaried with change of altitude and latitude. Sequence analysis of selected major DGGE bands revealed many sequences (largely protist) that are not related to any known cultures but to uncultured eukaryotic picoplankton and unidentified eukaryotes. One fourth of the retrieved sequences showed 97% similarity to the closest sequences in the GenBank. Sequences related to well-known heterotrophic nanoflagellates were not retrieved from the DGGE gels. Several groups of eukaryotic plankton, which were found worldwide and detected in low land lakes, were also detected in habitats located above 4,400 m, suggesting a cosmopolitan distribution of these phylotypes. Collectively, our study suggests that there was a high beta-diversity of eukaryotic plankton assemblages in the investigated Tibetan lakes shaped by multiple geographic and environmental factors.
40926430|Bivalves filter and accumulate large numbers of microorganisms present in the harvesting water. A complete understanding of the balance between Anodonta cygnea and the microbiota present in their surrounding environment remains incomplete. Therefore, the aim of this study was to quantify and identify the indigenous bacteria in the biological fluids of A. cygnea collected from Mira Lagoon in northern Portugal. The results showed Vibrio metschnikovii and Aeromonas sobria as the dominant groups. The median for total bacteria from mucus was 3.1x10 CFU g , whereas the range in means from fluids was 1.5x10 to 6.5x10CFU ml. During the experimental work, Escherichia coli and enterococci were not detected in healthy A. cygnea. However, the periodic detection of E. coli and enterococci in Mira lagoon revealed its presence in the water. Our observations suggest that A. cygnea has the ability to filter and eliminate E. coli, present in the surrounding environment, through an active phagocytic process conducted by hemolymph circulating cells, the hemocytes.
25153090|Bacteria isolated from infant feces were immobilized in polysaccharide gel beads (2.5% gellan gum, 0.25% xanthan gum) using a two-phase dispersion process. A 52-day continuous culture was carried out in a single-stage chemostat containing precolonized beads and fed with a medium formulated to approximate the composition of infant chyme. Different dilution rates and pH conditions were tested to simulate the proximal (PCS), transverse (TCS), and distal (DCS) colons. Immobilization preserved all nine bacterial groups tested with survival rates between 3 and 56%. After 1 week fermentation, beads were highly colonized with all populations tested (excepted Staphylococcus spp. present in low numbers), which remained stable throughout the 7.5 weeks of fermentation, with variations below 1 log unit. However, free-cell populations in the circulating liquid medium, produced by immobilized cell growth, cell-release activity from gel beads, and free-cell growth, were altered considerably by culture conditions. Compared to the stabilization period, PCS was characterized by a considerable and rapid increase in Bifidobacterium spp. concentrations (7.4 to 9.6 log CFU/mL), whereas Bifidobacterium spp., Lactobacillus spp., and Clostridium spp. concentrations decreased and Staphylococcus spp. and coliforms increased during TCS and DCS. Under pseudo-steady-state conditions, the community structure developed in the chemostat reflected the relative proportions of viable bacterial numbers and metabolites generally encountered in infant feces. This work showed that a complex microbiota such as infant fecal bacteria can be immobilized and used in a continuous in vitro intestinal fermentation model to reproduce the high bacterial concentration and bacterial diversity of the feces inoculum, at least at the genera level, with a high stability during long-term experiment.
23361590|Aphanizomenon ovalisporum is a planktonic nostocalean cyanobacterium with increasing research interest due to its ability to produce the potent cytotoxin cylindrospermopsin and its potential invasiveness under the global warming scenario. The present study provides novel data on the potential dispersal strategies of A. ovalisporum by analyzing the influence of temperature (1040 C) on akinete differentiation and cell morphometry in cultures of A. ovalisporum UAM 290 isolated from a Spanish pond. Our results confirmed a temperature-dependent akinete differentiation, with the maximum akinete production reached at 20 C (15 % of the cells), a low basal production at 2530 C (<0.4 % of the cells) and no detectable production at 35 C. Furthermore, we reported the fragmentation of A. ovalisporum filaments at temperatures of 25 C and above. Additionally, we observed that the morphology of vegetative cells varied under different temperature scenarios. Indeed, a strong negative correlation was found between temperature and the width, length and biovolume of vegetative cells, whereas akinete dimensions remained stable along the temperature gradient. Therefore, linear regressions between temperature and the cell size parameters are herein presented aiming to facilitate the identification of A. ovalisporum in the field throughout the course of the year. This is the first study evidencing that akinete production is triggered by temperatures between 20 and 25 C in A. ovalisporum and reporting the existence of filament fragmentation as a potential dispersal strategy of this species. The importance of these findings for understanding the annual life cycle and invasive potential of A. ovalisporum is further discussed herein.
4251381|Components and processes in the aquatic microbial loop are compared with the composition and functioning of the soil microbial loop. Relative to their bacterial and/or fungal food sources, many of the soil water-film fauna (e.g., protozoa, nematodes) are conspicuous by low biomasses and high turnover rates of carbon and mineral nutrients. Comparisons with production and turnover rates of aerial (pore-inhabiting) fauna are made, and the highly patchy nature of soil microhabitats is shown to be similar to that of aquatic (marine) habitats.
23597822|The effects of viral lysis and heterotrophic nanoflagellate grazing (top down forces) on prokaryotic mortality and their subsequent impact on their metabolism were estimated in the upper euphotic and deeper aphotic depth of 11 freshwater lakes located in the French Massif Central. The standing stocks of viruses (VA) and heterotrophic nanoflagellate (HNF) varied significantly (p < 0.05) with sampled depth. VA was substantially (twofold on an average) and significantly higher (p < 0.03) at the aphotic compared to euphotic depth, whereas the reverse was true (p < 0.02) for HNF. Among the prokaryote subgroup, high nucleic acid content prokaryotes explained for significant variability in the total VA and served as principle host target for viral proliferation. Like standing stocks, flagellate grazing and viral infection rates also followed similar patterns. In the investigated lakes, the mechanism for regulating prokaryotic production varied with sampled depth from grazing control in the euphotic to control due to viral lysis in the aphotic. We also tested the hypothesis of top down control on prokaryotic growth efficiency (PGE, which we used as an index of prokaryotic physiological and energetic status at the community level) at both depths. Overall, among the studied lakes, PGE varied widely (451 %) with significantly (p < 0.05) lower values in the aphotic (mean = 184 %) than euphotic depth (mean = 329 %). Contrasting observations on the top down control of PGE between sampled depths were observed. The presence of grazers was found to stimulate PGE at the euphotic, whereas viruses through their lytic infection had a strong negative impact on PGE at the aphotic depth. Such observed differences in PGE and the mechanism controlling prokaryotic production with depth could eventually have strong implication on carbon and nutrient flux patterns in the studied lakes.
4251313|In situ measurements of ultraviolet (UV) irradiance, carbon fixation, and scytonemin pigmentation were made on Scytonema populations from contrasting localities in England. Significant negative correlations were obtained between the following variate pairs: pigmentation and UV irradiance; pigmentation and carbon fixation rate. A significant positive correlation was found between pigmentation and sheath thickness. The negative correlation between pigmentation and UV irradiance was unexpected and appeared contrary to the results of previous studies, which indicated a positive correlation between the variates and the recognition of scytonemin as a radiation shield. However, by considering how radiation damage is related to cell division and the water relations of the sites investigated, it was shown that scytonemin is still functioning as a radiation shield, even in shaded sites. Rivularia colonies produced scytonemin only upon their upper, sun-exposed surfaces and were positively correlated with UV irradiance. This paper also describes the successful use of some new and inexpensive techniques to measure pigments in cyanobacterium sheaths, and integrated in situ UV-irradiance.
4251196|Biofilm formation on presterile slate-discs placed at a pristine source site and at three polluted sites located upstream from, at, and downstream from a sewage-works outfall in a South Wales river, was monitored over 14 days. Viable bacterial cell densities in biofilms increased with time at all sites but more rapidly at the polluted sites, and stabilized after 1-4 days at levels equal to those of stones indigenous to the corresponding sites, and similar to those seen in other comparable pristine and polluted rivers. Biofilm cell densities were elevated about 1,000-fold at the sewage works outfall compared with the site immediately upstream. Downstream from the outfall, the cell densities were intermediate between the upstream and outfall values. Epilithon resuspended from the slates during colonization was tested for its capacity to biodegrade the surfactant sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) in die-away tests. No biodegradation of this common pollutant was observed for the samples from the pristine source. In contrast, even after only 1 day, all polluted sites produced samples capable of biodegrading SDS. Longer exposure in the river led to more rapid onset of biodegradation in the die-away tests, indicating an adaptation mechanism(s). Die-away kinetics were fitted by computerized non-linear regression analysis to one of several models. The model of best fit involved biodegradation of SDS by a bacterial population growing at the expense of endogenous carbon. The regression parameter reflecting SDS-degrading activity of the epilithic samples increased markedly during Days 0-4 for all three polluted sites. The stabilized values (Days 4-14) increased from the upstream site to the outfall, then decreased to intermediate values downstream. Although this pattern corresponded to the changes in viable cell numbers, the effect of the sewage input was less marked for the SDS-degrading activities than for bacterial cell densities. In addition, there was little variation in growth characteristics throughout colonization at all three polluted sites. Collectively the results indicate that the observed adaptation during exposure in the river is attributable to colonization of the epilithon by an existing SDS-degrading population, rather than the acquisition or adaptation of this biodegradative capability.
4251588| Invasions of aquatic ecosystems by exotic bivalves are known to cause dramatic changes in phytoplankton and some other groups, but their effect on the microbial component is unknown. The invasion of the tidal freshwater Hudson River by the exotic zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) has caused large changes in several components of the Hudson's food web. Planktonic bacteria in the tidal freshwater Hudson are a major part of the food web, and mediate important processes in the carbon budget. We used a long-term data set, spanning four years prior to the zebra mussel (ZM) invasion and four years post-invasion, to describe ZM effects on planktonic bacteria. Small and meso-scale experiments were conducted to specifically examine direct consumption of bacteria by ZM, as well as effects on protozoans. Bacterial abundances in the Hudson have increased roughly 2 since the ZM arrived, making it clear that direct consumption by Dreissena is a minor process. Experiments show that ZM do not remove bacteria from Hudson River water, but are very effective at clearing flagellated protozoans, the major predator of bacteria. The observed changes in bacterial abundance have not been accompanied by equally large changes in bacterial productivity, suggesting growth is primarily limited by carbon supply. Bacterial production has not declined despite a dramatic decline of phytoplankton, confirming previous suggestions that bacteria and phytoplankton are not strongly linked in the Hudson. As a result of the increase in bacterial abundance and removal of phytoplankton, the absolute and relative contributions of bacterial carbon to living particulate organic carbon (POC) standing stocks have increased dramatically. The maintenance of the bacterial component of the Hudson River's food web may be one mechanism whereby consumers are "insulated" from effects of zebra mussel consumption of phytoplankton carbon. 
4251436| The extent of induced morphological defense in Euplotes daidaleos correlates to this ciliate's predation risk from the defense-inducing predator species. Euplotes daidaleos responded by morphological transformation only to organisms that are able to feed on typically formed Euplotes cells (63  5 m cell width in E. daidaleos). Three of those potential predator species caused defensive changes to various degrees (Student's t-test, P < 0.1 to P < 0.0001): Lembadion bullinum (Ciliata) induced 82  6 m cell width in E. daidaleos; Chaetogaster diastrophus (Oligochaeta) induced 85  6 m width; and Stenostomum sphagnetorum (Turbellaria) induced 89  8 m width (at a density of 10 predators per milliliter, respectively). At higher predator densities (50 or 100 organisms per milliliter), Euplotes developed a correspondingly larger width (to a maximum of 103  10 m in the presence of S. sphagnetorum). Euplotes did not respond to organisms (e.g., Blepharisma japonicum, Colpidium campylum, Didinium nasutum, Paramecium caudatum, Spirostomum ambiguum, Stentor coeruleus) that cannot feed on this ciliate species. Daphnia longispina and Bursaria truncatella predators, which can feed on large prey of 125, or 200 m in diameter, respectively, also had no effect on the morphology of Euplotes. The extent of defense in Euplotes that was induced by 10 predators per milliliter during 24 h decreased the predation risk from those predators to 67% in the presence of S. sphagnetorum, to 50% with L. bullinum, and to 15% with C. diastrophus, compared to the typical form of Euplotes. In a natural population, the defensive form of E. daidaleos was found with average cell widths of 88  8 m. The results indicate that predator-induced defense in natural Euplotes populations is beneficial to this prey and that it is adapted to the predation abilities of Euplotes predators, whereby energetical costs related to defensive changes may be saved. 
4251774|In a previous paper, we described wavelike distributions of bacterial populations along roots of wheat, and hypothesized that one mechanism underlying these distributions might be growth and death cycles of microorganisms in response to a moving nutrient source, the root tip. Similar wavelike distributions in microbial biomass were obtained using a simulation model for growth and death of bacteria in relation to their substrate (BACWAVE). The model was parameterized with data from one experiment on rhizosphere bacterial populations along wheat roots, and compared against a similar but independent experiment. In experiments described in this paper, similar wavelike distributions in bacterial populations were observed in response to a single artificial exudate moving linearly through a soil that had been air-dry for almost 2 years. The period of the spatial waves was longer when the tip of the artificial exudate moved at a speed of 4.2 cm/day compared to a tip moving at 1.1 cm/day, but after transformation into the temporal domain, the periods of the waves were similar for both moving speeds. The observed distributions were simulated using the BACWAVE model with similar parameter values as derived from the experiment with wheat roots mentioned above. The results presented in this paper confirm our hypothesis that wavelike distributions of bacterial population along plant roots can arise from "exudates" released primarily from the root tip, without the need for additional exudation points.
25256239|Fungal diversity in the rhizosphere of healthy and diseased clonal black spruce (Picea mariana) plants was analyzed with regard to nursery production chronosequences. The four key production stages were sampled: mother plants (MP), 8-week-old cuttings (B + 0), second-year cuttings (B + 1), and third-year cuttings (B + 2). A total of 45 fungal taxa were isolated and identified based on cultural, phenotypic, and molecular characters. Members of phylum Ascomycota dominated, followed by Basidiomycota and Zygomycota. Diagnosis characters and distance analysis of the internal transcribed spacer rDNA sequences allowed the identification of 39 ascomycetous taxa. Many belong to the order Hypocreales, families Hypocreaceae and Nectriaceae, which contain many clusters of potentially pathogenic taxa (Cylindrocladium, Fusarium, and Neonectria) and are also ecologically associated with antagonistic taxa (Chaetomium, Hypocrea, Microsphaeropsis, Penicillium, Paecilomyces, Verticillium, Trichoderma, and Sporothrix). This is also the first report of a Cylindrocladium canadense association with disease symptoms and relation with Pestalotiopsis, Fusarium, Exserochilum, Rhizoctonia, and Xenochalara fungal consortia. Both production chronosequence and plant health considerably influenced fungal taxa assemblages. Unweighted pair-group arithmetic average clustering showed that isolates from MP, B + 0, and B + 1 plant rhizospheres clustered together within healthy or diseased health classes, whereas isolates from healthy and diseased B + 2 plants clustered together. Canonical correspondence analysis revealed substantial alteration in community assemblages with regard to plant health and yielded a principal axis direction that regrouped taxa associated with diseased plant rhizosphere soil, whereas the opposite axis direction was associated with healthy plants. Two diversity indices were defined and applied to assess the fungal taxa contribution (Tc) and persistence (Pi) throughout the production.
4251606|Viruses that cause lysis of Synechococcus spp. are present throughout the year in the western Gulf of Mexico. The effect of sunlight on loss rates of cyanophage infectivity was determined by incubating natural cyanophage communities and cyanophage isolates (strains S-PWM1 and S-PWM3) in UV-transparent bags at the surface, and at depth, on several occasions throughout the year. Decay rates of infectivity of natural cyanophage communities at the surface, at Port Aransas, Texas, USA, ranged from undetectable to 0.335 h
4251154|When grown in a minimal medium and suspended for 2 hours in distilled water, seawater, phosphate buffer or a polyphosphate solution, E. coli MC4100 cells with high alkaline phosphatase activity survived in seawater for longer periods than cells with low or no activity. However, mutant cells totally deprived of alkaline phosphatase activity held in phosphate-containing media before transfer to seawater showed survival almost as high as the wild type strain, indicating that alkaline phosphatase activity is not the only factor influencing survival. Alkaline phosphatase activity also increased the protection of cells provided by glycine betaine. Survival was enhanced when cells were preincubated in the presence of phosphate or polyphosphate. Thus, the transfer of cells in wastewater could influence their subsequent survival in seawater.
40605869|Microbial community composition was examined in two soil types, Anthrosols and adjacent soils, sampled from three locations in the Brazilian Amazon. The Anthrosols, also known as Amazonian dark earths, are highly fertile soils that are a legacy of pre-Columbian settlement. Both Anthrosols and adjacent soils are derived from the same parent material and subject to the same environmental conditions, including rainfall and temperature; however, the Anthrosols contain high levels of charcoal-like black carbon from which they derive their dark color. The Anthrosols typically have higher cation exchange capacity, higher pH, and higher phosphorus and calcium contents. We used culture media prepared from soil extracts to isolate bacteria unique to the two soil types and then sequenced their 16S rRNA genes to determine their phylogenetic placement. Higher numbers of culturable bacteria, by over two orders of magnitude at the deepest sampling depths, were counted in the Anthrosols. Sequences of bacteria isolated on soil extract media yielded five possible new bacterial families. Also, a higher number of families in the bacteria were represented by isolates from the deeper soil depths in the Anthrosols. Higher bacterial populations and a greater diversity of isolates were found in all of the Anthrosols, to a depth of up to 1 m, compared to adjacent soils located within 50-500 m of their associated Anthrosols. Compared to standard culture media, soil extract media revealed diverse soil microbial populations adapted to the unique biochemistry and physiological ecology of these Anthrosols.
40343462|Nineteen efficient phosphate-solubilizing fluorescent Pseudomonas from the cold deserts of the trans-Himalayas were screened for stress tolerance against temperature, alkalinity, salinity, calcium salts, and desiccation. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing placed these bacteria under three groups with fourteen strains in Group I including Pseudomonas trivialis and P. poae, two strains in Group II together with Pseudomonas kilonensis and P. corrugata, and three strains in Group III along with Pseudomonas jessenii and P. moraviensis. Genetic diversity assessed by ERIC and BOXPCR revealed variability among strains belonging to the same phylogenetic groups. Cluster analysis based on the growth characteristics under regimes of different stress levels placed the strains into three distinct clusters displaying no correlation to their phylogenetic groups. Stresstolerant strains differed in the level of decline in phosphate solubilization under increasing intensity of various stress parameters. The highest decrease occurred with 5% CaCO, followed by 2.5% CaCO, pH 11, 5% NaCl, temperature of 37C, 40% PEG, 5% CaSO, 2.5% NaCl, 2.5% CaSO, pH 9 and temperature of 15C. Two strains belonging to Phylogenetic Group I exhibited higher phosphate solubilization at lower temperature. The results revealed that stresstolerance ability was not limited to any particular phylogenetic group. Knowledge about the genetic variants of phosphate-solubilizing fluorescent Pseudomonas with potential for tolerance to desiccation, alkalinity, temperature, and salinity could be useful in understanding their ecological role under stressful environments of low phosphate availability.
4250950| Bacterial counts on the contents of an anaerobic fixed-bed digester receiving a whey substrate were conducted using the modified roll tube technique. Average anaerobic counts after 48 hours incubation on lactate containing media were 3.12  10
25256099|Abundance and biomass of the microbial loop members [bacteria, heterotrophic nanoflagellates (HNF), and ciliates] were seasonally measured in the naturally eutrophic and shallow (2.8 mean depth) Lake Vrtsjrv, which has a large open surface area (average 270 km) and highly turbid water (Secchi depth &lt;1 m). Grazing rates (filter feeding rates) on 0.5-, 3-, and 6-m-diameter particles were measured to estimate pico- and nanoplankton grazing (filter feeding) by micro- and metazooplankton. Among grazers, HNF had a low abundance (&lt;50 cells mL) and, due to their low specific filtering rates, they only grazed a minor fraction of the bacterioplankton (4.2% of total grazing). Ciliates were relatively abundant (158 cells mL) and, considering their high specific feeding rates, were able to graze more than 100% of the bacterial biomass production in the open part of the lake, whereas the average daily grazing accounted for 9.3% of the bacterial standing stock. Ciliates were potentially important grazers of nanoplanktonic organisms (on average, approximately 20% of the standing stock of 3-m-size particles was grazed daily). Metazooplankton grazed a minor part of the bacterioplankton, accounting for only 0.1% of standing stock of bacteria. Grazing on nanoplankton (3-6 m) by metazooplankton was higher (0.4% of standing stock). The hypothesis is proposed that ciliates dominate due to a lack of top-down regulation by predators, and HNF have a low abundance due to strong grazing pressure by ciliates.
41489790|Soil microbial communities follow distinct seasonal cycles which result in drastic changes in processes involving soil nutrient availability. The biomass of fungi has been reported to be highest during winter, but is fungal growth really occurring in frozen soil? And what is the effect of plant cover on biomass formation and on the composition of fungal communities? To answer these questions, we monitored microbial biomass N, ergosterol, and the amount of fungal hyphae during summer and winter in vegetated and unvegetated soils of an alpine primary successional habitat. The winter fungal communities were identified by rDNA ITS clone libraries. Winter soil temperatures ranged between -0.6C and -0.1C in snow-covered soil. We found distinct seasonal patterns for all biomass parameters, with highest biomass concentrations during winter in snow-covered soil. The presence of plant cover had a significant positive effect on the amount of biomass in the soil, but the type of plant cover (plant species) was not a significant factor. A mean hyphal ingrowth of 5.6 m soil was detected in snow-covered soil during winter, thus clearly proving fungal growth during winter in snow-covered soil. Winter fungal communities had a typical species composition: saprobial fungi were dominating, among them many basidiomycete yeasts. Plant cover had no influence on the composition of winter fungal communities.
41489196|Several molecular techniques were employed to document the bacterial diversity associated with the marine sponge Gelliodes carnosa. Cultivation-dependent and cultivation-independent methods were used to obtain the 16S rRNA gene sequences of the bacteria. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the bacterial community structure was highly diverse with representatives of the high G+ C Gram-positive bacteria, cyanobacteria, low G+ C Gram-positive bacteria, and proteobacteria (-, -, and -), most of which were also found in other marine environments, including in association with other sponges. Overall, 300 bacterial isolates were cultivated, and a total of 62 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were identified from these isolates by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis and DNA sequencing of the 16S rRNA genes.Approximately 1,000 16S rRNA gene clones were obtained by the cultivation-independent method. A total of 310 clones were randomly selected for RFLP analysis, from which 33 OTUs were acquired by further DNA sequencing and chimera checking. A total of 12 cultured OTUs (19.4% of the total cultured OTUs) and 13 uncultured OTUs (39.4% of the total uncultured OTUs) had low sequence identity (<97%) with their closest matches in GenBank and were probably new species. Our data provide strong evidence for the presence of a diverse variety of unidentified bacteria in the marine sponge G. carnosa. A relatively high proportion of the isolates exhibited antimicrobial activity, and the deferred antagonism assay showed that over half of the active isolates exhibited a much stronger bioactivity when grown on medium containing seawater. In addition to demonstrating that the sponge-associated bacteria could be a rich source of new biologically active natural products, the results may have ecological implications. This study expands our knowledge of the diversity of spongeassociated bacteria and contributes to the growing database of the bacterial communities within sponges.
25153056|In contrast to the rather limited diversity of plants and animals to be found in the Antarctic, the microbial diversity of this continent has been shown to be "surprisingly" diverse. Apparently barren soil and rock landscapes, as well as the numerous and diverse lakes found at the edges of the continent, harbor a range of prokaryotes which indicate that the extremely low temperatures which prevail seasonally are no obstacle to microbial colonization. Both direct cultivation methods and modern molecular genetic methods have contributed to our understanding of the range of organisms to be found. Cultivation based studies are often hampered by constraints inherent in the methods selected for the isolation of organisms. Molecular-based approaches do not suffer from the same cultivation-based biases, but other problems need to be taken into consideration. It has rarely been possible to combine both techniques in a single study, nor has it usually been possible to take the results and conclusions drawn from the study of one environment and apply this knowledge to a further series of experiments on the same environment. The Antarctic may be considered to be a geogrpahically well isolated area to study. Comparison with other environments that may also be "isolated" from their surroundings (i.e., hot springs or highly saline lakes) allows parallels to be drawn. The conclusions drawn provide important insights into the way the Antarctic may have been colonized and the microbiota diversified. Much work still needs to be done beyond the simple task of making an inventory. The functioning of complex communities, such as mat systems, requires an understanding of the ecology of the systems, not only at the level of the whole system, but also the role of localized environments within that system. Perhaps these ecosystems have, in the absence of plant and animal communities, a role to play in the monitoring of polar climate change. The information available at present clearly indicates that the Antarctic is deserving of further study at the microbial level.
40605657|Molecular approaches based on both whole-cell and extracted DNA were applied to assess chronic and acute effects of copper on the ammonia oxidizing bacteria (AOB) community in an activated sludge system. The ammonia monooxygenase amoA gene was chosen as the functional marker to evaluate changes in the AOB community. Using in situ polymerase chain reaction, we were able to visualize the peripheric distribution of the amoA gene-possessing bacteria in activated sludge floes. The AOB biomass content was constant in both chronic and acute toxicity experiments, but the ammonia oxidizing activity, measured as ammonia uptake rate, was different.The AOB community structural changes due to the copper presence were evaluated by multivariate analysis of the DGGE bands profiles. The chronic contamination caused a change in the AOB community compared to the control. In contrast, acute inputs led to a temporary change in the AOB community, after which the community was similar to the control. Recovery after acute intoxication was achieved after 72 h. The present study reports on the effects of chronic and acute copper contamination on the ammonia uptake ability of the microorganisms and the structure of the AOB community in a wastewater system and, as a consequence, gives indications on the response of wastewater plants under similar conditions.
4251034|Laboratory experiments were conducted to determine the effect of bacterial films on adhesion of Enteromorpha sp. reproductive swarmer cells. Swarmers always attached in greater numbers to filmed than to unfilmed polystyrene surfaces. Surface energy measurements produced higher values on filmed surfaces than on unfilmed surfaces. Our data indicate that this higher surface energy may contribute to the increased adhesion by the algal swarmers.
23597859|The effects of inundation caused by the 2011 Tohoku tsunami on soil bacterial communities in agricultural fields were evaluated. Bacterial communities were compared across three different types of soil, unflooded field (UF) soil, soil flooded for 2 weeks (short term (ST)), and soil flooded for 2 months (long term (LT)), using polymerase chain reaction-pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes. Acidobacteria were dominant in UF, with a relative abundance of approximately 35 %, and Proteobacteria dominated flooded soils (3067 %). Hierarchical cluster analysis indicated that the community structure of soil bacteria in flooded soils (ST and LT) clearly differed from that in UF. Differences between LT and ST fields were rarely observed in terms of chemical properties and microbial community structure at the phylum level. However, sulfur-oxidizing bacteria (SOB) and nitrite-oxidizing bacteria (NOB) in LT tended to occur at high and low abundances, respectively. Halothiobacillus, a halotolerant SOB, was detected in all LT fields. Unexpectedly, a zeta-Proteobacteria, which had previously only been detected in marine environments, was detected in LT fields only. Our results demonstrate that the effects of the 2011 Tohoku tsunami on soil bacterial communities in agricultural fields may have lasted at least 1 year. Furthermore, SOB, NOB, and zeta-Proteobacteria may serve as indicators of the effects of seawater inundation on microorganisms.
4251010| The zonation and structure of phototrophic microbial mats were studied along two thermal gradients in sulfide-rich hot springs of southwest Iceland. The green, filamentous bacterium Chloroflexus and the unicellular, "high-temperature form" (HTF) of Mastigocladus formed mats growing up to a temperature limit of 62-66C. The dominant phototrophs were Chloroflexus sp., Mastigocladus laminosus, and Phormidium laminosum, respectively, at the three temperature intervals: >60C, 60C to 55-50C, and <55-50C. A Chloroflexus mat growing at 60C under 60 M H
4250589|The behavior of the ciliate Colpidium campylum was unaffected by exposure in vitro to high concentrations of pharyngeal and hindgut fluids from the earthworm Lumbricus terrestris, but movement became abnormal and ceased in concentrations of midgut fluid as low as 1.5%. On mixing C. campylum culture with an equal volume of midgut fluid, which often contained resident astomatous ciliates, the C. campylum cells were immediately immobilized and frequently disintegrated, while the astomatous ciliates continued to behave normally. Possible causes of the hostility of the midgut environment, and implications for earthworm nutrition, are discussed.
40926438|Over the last few decades, the ability of rhizosphere bacteria to promote plant growth has been considered to be of scientific, ecological, and economic interest. The properties and mechanisms of interaction of these root-colonizing bacteria have been extensively investigated, and plant protection agents that are based on these bacterial strains have been developed for agricultural applications. In the present study, the root colonization of barley by Pseudomonas sp. DSMZ 13134, that is contained in the commercially available plant protection agent Proradix  , was examined using the fluorescence in situ hybridization method with oligonucleotide probes and specific gfp-tagging of the inoculant strain in combination with confocal laser scanning microscopy. In the first phase of root colonization, the inoculant strain competed successfully with seed and soil-borne bacteria (including Pseudomonads) for the colonization of the rhizoplane. Pseudomonas sp. DSMZ 13134 could be detected in all parts of the roots, although it did not belong to the dominant members of the root-associated bacterial community. Gfp-tagged cells were localized particularly in the root hair zone, and high cell densities were apparent on the root hair surface. To investigate the impact of the application of Proradix  on the structure of the dominant root-associated bacterial community of barley, T-RFLP analyses were performed. Only a transient community effect was found until 3 weeks post-application.
4250845| Studies on the concentration of fecal coliforms in freshwater bivalves were carried out using a spread plate method and membrane fecal coliform medium. Water, sediment, and bivalves collected from the Buri-ganga River at Dhaka, Bangladesh, were examined. As demonstrated in many previous studies, fecal coliform counts were consistently higher for the bivalve tissue than those for water and sediment samples; in the bivalve Lamellidens marginalis, they were 10.0- to 87.0-fold higher than those in water, and 2.0- to 11.0-fold higher than those in sediment. 
4251259| In order to determine the relative importance of autotrophic and heterotrophic activities in both bacterial and phytoplanktonic communities in an oligomesotrophic lake, the size fractionation by differential filtration and the use of a bacterial inhibitor (gentamycin) were combined. The study was carried out at Lake Pavin during the spring planktonic bloom. Photosynthetic and photo- and chemoheterotrophic activities were measured from the assimilation of NaH
40605736|The microbial population of geothermally heated sediments in a shallow bay of Vulcano Island (Italy) was characterized with respect to metabolic activities and the putatively catalyzing hyperthermophiles. Site-specific anoxic culturing media, most of which were amended with combinations of electron donors (glucose or carboxylic acids) and acceptors (sulfate), were used for selective enrichment of metabolically defined subpopulations. The mostly archaeal chemoautotrophs produced formate at rates of 3.25 and 0.46 fmol cell day with and without sulfate, respectively. The glucose fermenting heterotrophs produced acetate (18 fmol cell day) and lactate (2.6 fmol cell day) and were identified as predominantly Thermus sp. and coccoid archaea. These archaeal cells also metabolized lactate (5.6 fmol cell day), but neither formate nor acetate. The heterotrophic culture enriched on formate/acetate/propionate/sulfate utilized mainly formate (27 fmol cell day) and lactate (89-195 fmol cell day), and consumed sulfate (38-68 fmol cell day). These formate or lactate consuming sulfate reducers were dominated by Archaeoglobales (7% in situ) and unidentified Archaea. The in situ benthic community comprised 15% Crenarchaeota, a significant group only in the autotrophic cultures, and 3% Thermus sp., the putatively predominant group involved in fermentative metabolism. The role of Thermoccales (4% in situ) remained undisclosed in our experiments. This first comprehensive data set established plausible links between several groups of hyperthermophiles in shallow marine hydrothermal systems, their metabolic function within the benthic microbial community, and biogeochemical turnover rates.
4251576|The variability of prominent bacterial 16S rRNA molecules from environmental soil samples was investigated. Ribosomes and genomic DNA were extracted from 160 soil samples derived from three different test fields in the Drentse A grasslands (The Netherlands). After amplification of bacterial 16S rRNA molecules by reverse transcription and PCR, the products were separated by temperature-gradient gel electrophoresis. Characteristic and complex band patterns were obtained, indicating high bacterial diversity. The fingerprints from soil samples from plots, taken in regular patterns, were almost identical. Reproducible differences between the three test fields of different history were obtained. A parallel approach with PCR-amplified genomic 16S rDNA led to similar results. The presence and activity of prominent bacteria in test fields of several hundred m
41489183|Culture studies of phage-host systems have shown that phage proliferation strongly depends on the physiological state of the host, but it is still unclear to what extent this holds true within aquatic ecosystems. We used a combination of flow sorting and electron microscopy to explore how the frequency of bacterial cells with attached viruses (FCAV), of visibly infected cells, and the number of intracellular viruses are distributed within five physiologic categories: cells with high (HNA) and low (LNA) nucleic acid content, with a compromised membrane, in division, and with an intactlooking morphology. FCAV was not different between the cellular physiologic categories, suggesting low influence of host physiology on viral adsorption. Infected cells were found within all the physiologic categories, besides the dividing cells, but showed different levels of new virion production, with the abundance of intracellular viruses ranked as follows: HNA> intact-looking cells>LNA> compromised membrane cells. These results favor the physiological control hypothesis of viral progeny production. The calculation of viral production rate of the HNA and LNA cells show that viral infection of HNA cells likely accounts for the majority of viral production. It also show that cells considered as less active can still act as resources for phages, although they contain much less intracellular phage particles.
23468250|We inoculated lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia (Dougl.) Engelm.) with Paenibacillus polymyxa P2b-2R, a diazotrophic bacterium previously isolated from internal stem tissue of a naturally regenerating pine seedling to evaluate biological nitrogen fixation and seedling growth promotion by this microorganism. Seedlings generated from pine seed inoculated with strain P2b-2R were grown for up to 13 months in a N-limited soil mix containing 0.7 mM available N labeled as Ca( 15 NO 3 ) 2 to facilitate detection of N 2 -fixation. Strain P2b-2R developed a persistent endophytic population comprising 10 2 10 6 cfu g -1 plant tissue inside pine roots, stems, and needles during the experiment. At the end of the growth period, P2b-2R had reduced seedling mortality by 14 % and 15 N foliar N abundance 79 % and doubled foliar N concentration and seedling biomass compared to controls. Our results suggest that N 2 -fixation by P. polymyxa enhanced growth of pine seedlings and support the hypothesis that plant-associated diazotrophs capable of endophytic colonization can satisfy a significant proportion of the N required by tree seedlings growing under N-limited conditions.
23469574|Vibrios are among the most common bacteria that inhabit surface waters throughout the world and are responsible for a number of severe infections both in humans and animals. Several reports recently showed that human Vibrio illnesses are increasing worldwide including fatal acute diarrheal diseases, such as cholera, gastroenteritis, wound infections, and septicemia. Many scientists believe this increase may be associated with global warming and rise in sea surface temperature (SST), although not enough evidence is available to support a causal link between emergence of Vibrio infections and climate warming. The effect of increased SST in promoting spread of vibrios in coastal and brackish waters is considered a causal factor explaining this trend. Field and laboratory studies carried out over the past 40 years supported this hypothesis, clearly showing temperature promotes Vibrio growth and persistence in the aquatic environment. Most recently, a long-term retrospective microbiological study carried out in the coastal waters of the southern North Sea provided the first experimental evidence for a positive and significant relationship between SST and Vibrio occurrence over a multidecadal time scale. As a future challenge, macroecological studies of the effects of ocean warming on Vibrio persistence and spread in the aquatic environment over large spatial and temporal scales would conclusively support evidence acquired to date combined with studies of the impact of global warming on epidemiologically relevant variables, such as host susceptibility and exposure. Assessing a causal link between ongoing climate change and enhanced growth and spread of vibrios and related illness is expected to improve forecast and mitigate future outbreaks associated with these pathogens.
25153227|Streptomycetes are important members of soil microbial communities and are particularly active in the degradation of recalcitrant macromolecules and have been implicated in biological control of plant disease. Using a streptomycetes-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) methodology coupled with band excision and sequence analysis, we examined the effect of grape marc compost amendment to soil on cucumber plant-associated streptomycetes community composition. We observed that both compost amendment and proximity to the root surface influenced the streptomycetes community composition. A strong root selection for a soil-derived Streptomycete, most closely related to Streptomyces thermotolerans, S. iakyrus, and S. thermocarboxydus, was independent of compost amendment rate. However, while the impact of compost amendment was mitigated with increasing proximity to the root, high levels of compost amendment resulted in the detection of compost-derived species on the root surface. Conversely, in rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soils, the community composition of streptomycetes was affected strongly even by modest compost amendment. The application of a streptomycetes-specific PCR primer set combined with DGGE analysis provided a rapid means of examining the distribution and ecology of streptomycetes in soils and plant-associated environments.
25256168|This study characterized the microbial community and population dynamics in an anaerobic hybrid reactor (AHR) treating cassava starch wastewater. Methanogens and nonmethanogens were followed during the start-up and operation of the reactor, and linked to operational and performance data. Biomass samples taken from the sludge bed and packed bed zones of the AHR at intervals throughout the operational period were examined by 16S rRNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). The start-up seed and the reactor biomass were sampled during the feeding of the wastewater with a chemical oxygen demand (COD) value of 8 g L and a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 8 days. These samples were characterized by the predominance of cells with long-rod morphology similar to Methanosaeta spp. Following a sharp operational change, accomplished by increasing the COD concentration of the organic influent from 8 to 10 g L and reducing the HRT from 8 to 5 days, there was a doubling of the organic loading rate, a reduction of the COD removal efficiency, as well as decreased methane content in the biogas and an accumulation of total volatile acids in the reactor. Moreover, this operational change resulted in a significant population shift from long-rod Methanosaeta-like cells to tetrad-forming Methanosarcina-like cells. The distributions of microbial populations involved in different zones of the AHR were determined. The results showed that nonmethanogens became the predominant population in both sludge and the packed bed zone. However, the percentage of methanogens in the packed bed zone was higher than that in the sludge bed zone. This higher percentage of methanogens was likely caused by the fact that the packed bed zone provided a suitable environmental condition with an appropriate nutrient availability for methanogen growth.
23469150|Freshwater aquifers in granitic rocks are widespread microbial habitats in the terrestrial subsurface. Microbial populations in deep granitic groundwater from two recently drilled (1 and 2 years) and two old boreholes (14 and 25 years) were compared. The 16S rRNA gene sequences related to "Candidatus Magnetobacterium bavaricum", Thermodesulfovibrio spp. of Nitrospirae (90.593.1 % similarity) and a novel candidate division with <90 % similarity to known cultivated species were dominant in all boreholes. Most of the environmental clones closely related to the novel lineages in Nitrospirae, which have been detected exclusively in deep groundwater samples. In contrast, betaproteobacterial sequences related to the family Rhodocyclaceae were obtained only from the recently drilled boreholes, which had higher total cell numbers. Catalyzed reporter deposition-fluorescence in situ hybridization (CARD-FISH) analysis supported the result from clone library analysis; betaproteobacterial cells were dominantly detected in recently drilled boreholes. These results suggest that while indigenous microbial populations represented by the novel phylotypes persisted in the boreholes for 25 years, betaproteobacterial species disappeared after 2 years owing to the change of substrate availability.
4250606|When previously dried soil was remoistened, a series of microbial events occurred. The bacterial plate count population increased rapidly, with a doubling time of 4-5 h. The length of fungal hyphae and microscopic counts of bacteria increased more slowly. The microscopically counted bacterial population was estimated to have a doubling time of about 90 h. The respiratory burst occurring after 2-3 days coincided with the maximal growth rate of the bacterial plate count population. From the respiratory data, plate count bacteria were estimated to have a cell mass of 0.4 pg dry weight, whereas the mass of microscopically counted bacteria was only 10% of this. Changes in bacterial DNA content corresponded to changes in the microscopic count, whereas changes in soil catalase activity mainly corresponded to changes in the fungal biomass, which was dominant. It is suggested that bacterial plate counts and microscopic counts represent two distinct populations of bacteria, which for practical purposes may be termed zymogenous and autochthonous, respectively.
4251108|Pigment extracts of phototrophic bacteria isolated from Lake Kinneret (Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Thiocapsa roseopersicina, Prosthecochloris aestuaris and Chlorobium phaeobacteroides) were studied by means of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). An absorption wavelength of 360 nm provided the best resolution among the pigments of the species tested and between them and chlorophyll a. Signature pigments were identified for each of these species, and their presence was thereby monitored in lake water samples. C. phaeobacteroides, which was observed in the anaerobic hypolimnion and predominated in the metalimnion, was recognized by a characteristic cluster of major chlorophyllous pigment peaks. The spectral qualities of these pigments were close but not identical to published data on bacteriochlorophyll e, presumably due to the use of different solvents for extraction. The intensity of these pigment peaks was employed to determine the depth of the greatest phototrophic bacterial biomass, which was not related to that of algae.
41489031|Floral nectar of insect-pollinated plants often contains dense yeast populations, yet little quantitative information exists on patterns and magnitude of species richness of nectar-dwelling yeasts in natural plant communities. This study evaluates yeast species richness at both the plant community and plant species levels in a montane forest area in southern Spain, and also explores possible correlations between the incidence of different yeast species in nectar and their reported tolerance to high sugar concentrations, and between yeast diversity and pollinator composition. Yeast species occurring in a total of 128 fieldcollected nectar samples from 24 plant species were identified by sequencing the D1/D2 domain of the large subunit rDNA, and rarefaction-based analyses were used to estimate yeast species richness at the plant community and plant species levels, using nectar drops as elemental sampling units. Individual nectar samples were generally characterized by very low species richness (1.2 yeast species/sample, on average), with the ascomycetous Metschnikowia reukaufii and Metschnikowia gruessii accounting altogether for 84.7% of the 216 isolates identified. Other yeasts recorded included species in the genera Aureobasidium, Rhodotorula, Cryptococcus, Sporobolomyces, and Lecythophora. The shapes and slopes of observed richness accumulation curves were quite similar for the nectar drop and plant species approaches, but the two approaches yielded different expected richness estimates. Expected richness was higher for plant species-based than for nectar drop-based analyses, showing that the coverage of nectar yeast species occurring in the region would be improved by sampling additional host plant species. A significant correlation was found between incidence of yeast species in nectar and their reported ability to grow in a medium containing 50% glucose. Neither diversity nor incidence of yeasts was correlated with pollinator composition across plant species.
4251476|The long-term effects of diesel fuel and "Arabian light" crude oil contamination on microbial communities was investigated in land-fast ice located in the Terre Adelie area (Antarctica). After oil addition, the changes in bacterial communities were studied in situ during a nine-month period in austral winter 1993. Weekly sampling in sea ice allowed a regular survey of total, saprophytic, and hydrocarbon utilizing bacteria. A clear seasonality was observed. In uncontaminated samples, maximal values of bacterial biomass occurred during ice formation and just before summer thaw. Minimal bacterial abundance ($<10^{5}$ cells ml
4287718|Past studies of organic matter processing in stream ecosystems have focused on the fate of allochthonous terrestrial leaf detritus. In streams with a reduced canopy, submerged macrophytes may provide a significant source of organic matter to the microbial community and higher trophic levels. We compared mass loss patterns and microbial dynamics between a submerged macrophyte, Sagittaria platyphylla, and a deciduous leaf, Populus deltoides. Mass loss rates were higher for the submerged macrophyte, though exponential decay values indicated that both are "fast" decomposers. Bacterial abundance was not significantly different between plant types, but bacterial productivity was significantly higher in Sagittaria. Although fungal biomass was higher overall for Populus, it was not significantly different from that of Sagittaria until day 30. Relative to fungi, bacteria made up 4% and 7% of the peak microbial biomass on Populus and Sagittaria, respectively. Aquatic hyphomycete sporulation was detected only on Populus. These results suggest that in systems where submerged macrophytes are abundant, they can provide a carbon source quantitatively comparable to that of riparian leaf detritus, but that qualitative differences in leaf structural composition cause a shift toward a more significant role for bacterial decomposers.
40926445|In many limnetic systems, the input of allochthonous organic matter, e. g., leaf litter, is a substantial source of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) for pelagic bacteria, especially in fall and winter when autochthonous DOC production is low. However, relatively little is known about community changes of pelagic lake bacteria due to leaf litter input which includes both the release of leaf leachates and microorganisms from the leaf litter into the surrounding water. Therefore, we have experimentally studied the effects of different types of leaf litter (Betula pendula, Fagus silvtica, and Pinus silvestris) on the pelagic bacterial community composition by adding leaves to different treatments of epilimnic water samples (unfiltered, 0.2 m and 5.0 m-pre-filtered) from humic Lake Grosse Fuchskuhle (Northeastern Germany). The addition of leaf litter led to a significant increase in DOC concentration in lake water, and each leaf litter type produced significantly different amounts of DOC (p=<0.001) as well as of specific DOC fractions (p=< 0.001) except of polysaccharides. DGGE banding patterns varied over time, between types of leaf litter, and among treatments. Bacteria belonging to known bacterial phylotypes in the southwest basin of Lake Grosse Fuchskuhle were frequently found and even persisted after leaf litter additions. Upon leaf litter addition, a-proteobacteria (Azospirillum, Novosphingobium, and Sphingopyxis) as well as -proteobacteria (Curvibacter and Polynucleobacter) were enriched. Our results indicate that supply of leaf litter DOM shifted the bacterial community in the surrounding water towards specific phylotypes including species capable of assimilating the more recalcitrant DOC pools. Statistical analyses, however, show that DGGE banding patterns are not only affected by DOC pools but also by treatment. This indicates that biological factors such as source community and grazing may be also important for shifts in bacterial community structure following leaf litter input into different lakes.
4287536|We studied changes in the epilimnetic bacterial community composition (BCC), bacterial biomass and production, and protistan succession and bacterivory along the longitudinal axis of the canyon-shaped, highly eutrophic Sau Reservoir (NE Spain) during two sampling campaigns, in April and July 1997. Longitudinal changes in BCC from the river inflow to the dam area of the reservoir were detected by using oligonucleotide probes targeted to the kingdom Bacteria, to the alpha, beta, and gamma subclasses (ALFA, BETA, and GAMA) of the class Proteobacteria, and to the Cytophaga/Flavobacterium (CF) cluster. In general, the inflow of the organically loaded Ter river, with highly abundant allochthonous bacterial populations, induced a clearly distinguishable longitudinal succession of the structure of the microbial food web. The most dynamic changes in microbial parameters occurred at the plunge point, the mixing area of river water and the reservoir epilimnion. Changes within members of BETA and CF were the most important in determining changes in BCC, bacterial abundance and biomass. Much less relevant changes occurred within the less abundant ALFA and GAMA bacteria. From the plunge point downstream, we described a significant shift in BCC in the form of decreased proportions of BETA and CF. This shift spatially coincided with the highest values of heterotrophic nanoflagellate bacterivory (roughly doubled the bacterial production). CF numerically dominated throughout the reservoir without any marked longitudinal changes in their mean cell volume. In contrast, very large cells affiliated to BETA clearly dominated in the allochthonous bacterial biomass brought by the river. BETA showed a marked downstream trend of decreasing mean cell volume. We conclude that the observed BCC shift and the longitudinal shift in food web structure (bacteria-heterotrophic nanoflagellates-ciliates) resulted from highly complex interactions brought about by several major factors: varying hydrology, the high localized allochthonous input of organic matter brought by the river, downstream changing substrate availability, and selective protistan bacterivory.
27770619|Community structure of sediment bacteria in the Everglades freshwater marsh, fringing mangrove forest, and Florida Bay seagrass meadows were described based on polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) patterns of 16S rRNA gene fragments and by sequencing analysis of DGGE bands. The DGGE patterns were correlated with the environmental variables by means of canonical correspondence analysis. There was no significant trend in the ShannonWeiner index among the sediment samples along the salinity gradient. However, cluster analysis based on DGGE patterns revealed that the bacterial community structure differed according to sites. Not only were these salinity/vegetation regions distinct but the sediment bacteria communities were consistently different along the gradient from freshwater marsh, mangrove forest, eastern-central Florida Bay, and western Florida Bay. Actinobacteria- and Bacteroidetes/Chlorobi-like DNA sequences were amplified throughout all sampling sites. More Chloroflexi and members of candidate division WS3 were found in freshwater marsh and mangrove forest sites than in seagrass sites. The appearance of candidate division OP8-like DNA sequences in mangrove sites distinguished these communities from those of freshwater marsh. The seagrass sites were characterized by reduced presence of bands belonging to Chloroflexi with increased presence of those bands related to Cyanobacteria, -Proteobacteria, Spirochetes, and Planctomycetes. This included the sulfate-reducing bacteria, which are prevalent in marine environments. Clearly, bacterial communities in the sediment were different along the gradient, which can be explained mainly by the differences in salinity and total phosphorus.
40926478|Caves are extreme and specialised habitats for terrestrial life that sometimes contain moonmilk, a finegrained paste-like secondary mineral deposit that is found in subterranean systems worldwide. While previous studies have investigated the possible role of microorganisms in moonmilk precipitation, the microbial community ecology of moonmilk deposits is poorly understood. Bacterial and fungal community structure associated with four spatially isolated microcrystalline, acicular calcite moonmilk deposits at Ballynamintra Cave (S. Ireland) was investigated during this study. Statistical analyses revealed significant differences in microbial activity, number of bacterial species, bacterial richness and diversity, and fungal diversity (Shannon's diversity) among the moonmilk sites over an area of approximately 2.5 m. However, the number of fungal species and fungal community richness were unaffected by sampling location. SIMPER analysis revealed significant differences in bacterial and fungal community composition among the sampling sites. These data suggest that a rich assemblage of microorganisms exists associated with moonmilk, with some spatial diversity, which may reflect small-scale spatial differences in cave biogeochemistry.
25153354|The degradation of tributyltin (TBT) and changes of bacterial number and community structures were investigated in microcosms using the sediment collected from the Mekong River, Vietnam. Concentrations of TBT in sediments were less than 0.62 ng/g (dry wt), lower than those reported from other areas. TBT-resistant bacteria were found in the three sampling sites, and the occurrence rates were 11-16% out of the total viable count. In this microcosm experiment, initial concentration of TBT [1.0-1.4 g/g (dry wt)] decreased to 0.6 g/g (dry wt) during 150 days, whereas that in the control microcosm with autoclaved sediment did not change, indicating that Mekong River sediment contains high TBT-degrading activity by microorganisms. The occurrence of TBT-resistant bacteria and the bacterial community structures monitored by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis were almost the same between test and control groups, indicating that the addition of TBT had little influence on microbial community structure. Mekong River sediment seems to have a stable microbial community against TBT pollution.
4251746| Relationships between biofilm structural components (algal and bacterial biomass) and the activities of some extracellular enzymes that contribute to the ability to degrade organic matter) were explored for six Atlantic and three Mediterranean streams and rivers. The biofilms in these fluvial systems accounted for a wide range of bacterial and algal biomass and colonized the most common benthic habitats. Ratio of bacteria/algae biomass was lower in Atlantic than in Mediterranean streams, but enzymatic activities (-glucosidase, -xylosidase, phosphatase) were in general greater in the Mediterranean stream biofilms. Climatic characteristics (especially temperature) may explain the differences in enzymatic activities between biofilms of similar structure but different flow regime. The ratio -xylosidase: -glucosidase was similar (around 0.5) for all streams and substrata considered, showing that there is a general higher utilization of cellobiosic than xylobiosic molecules in fluvial systems. In general, highly heterotrophic biofilms showed lower extracellular enzymatic activities than more autotrophic biofilms. Maximum enzymatic activity is achieved when the algal biomass is two- to threefold higher than the bacterial biomass. The relevance of algal biomass on the heterotrophic ability of biofilms may be related to the physical proximity between the two, but also to the high proportion of polymeric carbohydrates included in algal exudates and lysis products, whose use is enzyme-mediated. 
23361609|Loliginid and sepiolid squid light organs are known to host a variety of bacterial species from the family Vibrionaceae, yet little is known about the species diversity and characteristics among different host squids. Here we present a broad-ranging molecular and physiological analysis of the bacteria colonizing light organs in loliginid and sepiolid squids from various field locations of the Indo-West Pacific (Australia and Thailand). Our PCR-RFLP analysis, physiological characterization, carbon utilization profiling, and electron microscopy data indicate that loliginid squid in the Indo-West Pacific carry a consortium of bacterial species from the families Vibrionaceae and Photobacteriaceae. This research also confirms our previous report of the presence of Vibrio harveyi as a member of the bacterial population colonizing light organs in loliginid squid. pyrH sequence data were used to confirm isolate identity, and indicates that Vibrio and Photobacterium comprise most of the light organ colonizers of squids from Australia, confirming previous reports for Australian loliginid and sepiolid squids. In addition, combined phylogenetic analysis of PCR-RFLP and 16S rDNA data from Australian and Thai isolates associated both Photobacterium and Vibrio clades with both loliginid and sepiolid strains, providing support that geographical origin does not correlate with their relatedness. These results indicate that both loliginid and sepiolid squids demonstrate symbiont specificity (Vibrionaceae), but their distribution is more likely due to environmental factors that are present during the infection process. This study adds significantly to the growing evidence for complex and dynamic associations in nature and highlights the importance of exploring symbiotic relationships in which non-virulent strains of pathogenic Vibrio species could establish associations with marine invertebrates.
4250754|The uptake kinetics of leucine and the assimilation and respiration of leucine, glycine, glutamate and arginine by a marine Pseudomonas sp. was evaluated to determine whether the uptake and efficiency of substrate utilization of free-living bacteria differed from that of bacteria associated with surfaces. Bacteria were allowed to attach to plastic substrata with known hydrophilicities, as measured by advancing water contact angle (
40802173|Soil from the Amazonian region is usually regarded as unsuitable for agriculture because of its low organic matter content and low pH; however, this region also contains extremely rich soil, the Terra Preta Anthrosol. A diverse archaeal community usually inhabits acidic soils, such as those found in the Amazon. Therefore, we hypothesized that this community should be sensitive to changes in the environment. Here, the archaeal community composition of Terra Preta and adjacent soil was examined in four different sites in the Brazilian Amazon under different anthropic activities. The canonical correspondence analysis of terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms has shown that the archaeal community structure was mostly influenced by soil attributes that differentiate the Terra Preta from the adjacent soil (i.e., pH, sulfur, and organic matter). Archaeal 16S rRNA gene clone libraries indicated that the two most abundant genera in both soils were "Candidatus nitrosphaera" and "Canditatus nitrosocaldus". An ammonia monoxygenase gene (amoA) clone library analysis indicated that, within each site, there was no significant difference between the clone libraries of Terra Preta and adjacent soils. However, these clone libraries indicated there were significant differences between sites. Quantitative PCR has shown that Terra Preta soils subjected to agriculture displayed a higher number of amoA gene copy numbers than in adjacent soils. On the other hand, soils that were not subjected to agriculture did not display significant differences on amoA gene copy numbers between Terra Preta and adjacent soils. Taken together, our findings indicate that the overall archaeal community structure in these Amazonian soils is determined by the soil type and the current land use.
4251059|Of nine organotin compounds tested towards the marine yeast Debaryomyces hansenii, only triphenyltin chloride (
40605886|Many insects harbor specific bacteria in their digestive tract, and these gut microbiota often play important roles in digestion and nutrient provisioning. While it is common for a given insect species to harbor a representative gut microbial community as a population, how this community is acquired and maintained from generation to generation is not known for most xylophagous insects, except termites. In this study, we examined acquisition of gut microbiota by the wood-feeding beetle, Anoplophora glabripennis, by identifying and comparing microbial community members among different life stages of the insect and with microbes it encounters in the environment. Automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis was employed to compare bacterial communities present in the egg and larval stages of A. glabripennis as well as with microbes found in the oviposition site and the surrounding woody tissue. Multivariate analyses were used to identify relationships between sample type and specific bacterial types (operational taxonomic units). From this analysis, bacteria that were derived from the environment, the oviposition site, and/or the egg were identified and compared with taxa found in larvae. Results showed that while some larval microbes were derived from environmental sources, other members of the larval microbial community appear to be vertically transmitted. These findings could lead to a better understanding of which microbial species are critical for the survival of this insect and to development of techniques that could be used to alter this community to disrupt the digestive physiology of the host insect as a biological control measure.
4251352| Thymidine and leucine incorporation into macromolecules of soil bacteria extracted by homogenization-centrifugation were measured after size-fractionation of the bacterial suspension through different sized filters (1.0, 0.8, 0.6, 0.4 m). The specific thymidine incorporation rate was highest for the unfiltered and 1.0 m filtered suspensions (approximately 10  10
41412392|The use of antimicrobials in food animal production leads to the development of antimicrobial resistance (AMR), and animal manure constitutes the largest reservoir of such AMR. In previous studies, composted swine manure was found to contain substantially lower abundance of AMR genes that encode resistance to tetracyclines (tet genes) and macrolidelincosamide-streptogramin (MLS B ) superfamily (erm genes), than manures that were treated by lagoons or biofilters. In this study, temporal changes in AMR carried by both cultivated and uncultivated bacteria present in swine manure during simulated composting and lagoon storage were analyzed. Treatments were designed to simulate the environmental conditions of composting (55  C with modest aeration) and lagoon storage (ambient temperature with modest aeration). As determined by selective plate counting, over a 48-day period, cultivated aerobic heterotrophic erythromycinresistant bacteria and tetracycline-resistant bacteria decreased by more than 4 and 7 logs, respectively, in the simulated composting treatment while only 1 to 2 logs for both resistant bacterial groups in the simulated lagoon treatment. Among six classes each of erm and tet genes quantified by class-specific real-time PCR assays, the abundance of erm(A), erm(C), erm (F), erm(T), erm(X), tet(G), tet(M), tet(O), tet(T),and tet(W) declined marginally during the first 17 days, but dramatically thereafter within 31 days of the composting treatment. No appreciable reduction of any of the erm or tet genes analyzed was observed during the simulated lagoon treatment. Correlation analysis showed that most of the AMR gene classes had similar persistence pattern over the course of the treatments, though not all AMR genes were destructed at the same rate during the treatments.
40343417|The effects of organic and integrated production systems on the culturable fungal microflora of stored apple fruits from five matched pairs of certified organic and integrated ' Golden Delicious' farms were studied at five representative production sites in Switzerland. Isolated fungi were identified morphologically. Colonization frequency (percentage of apples colonized), abundance (colony numbers), and diversity (taxon richness) were assessed for each orchard. The standard quality of the stored fruits was comparable for both organic and integrated apples and complied with national food hygiene standards. Yeasts (six taxa) and the yeast-like fungus Aureobasidium pullulans were the dominant epiphytes, filamentous fungi (21 taxa) the dominant endophytes. The most common fungi occurred at all sites and belonged to the "white" and "pink" yeasts, yeast-like A, pullulans, filamentous fungi Cladosporium spp., Alternaria spp., and sterile filamentous fungi. Canonical correspondence analysis of the total fungal community revealed a clear differentiation among production systems and sites. Compared to integrated apples, organic apples had significantly higher frequencies of filamentous fungi, abundance of total fungi, and taxon diversity. The effects of the production system on the fungal microflora are most likely due to the different plant protection strategies. The incidence of potential mycotoxin producers such as Pnicillium and Alternaria species was not different between production systems. We suggest that higher fungal diversity may generally be associated with organic production and may increase the level of beneficial and antagonistically acting species known for their potential to suppress apple pathogens, which may be an advantage to organic apples, e.g., in respect to natural disease control.
23469200|We have recently detected the endosymbiont Wolbachia in multiple individuals and populations of the grasshopper Chorthippus parallelus (Orthoptera: acrididae). This bacterium induces reproductive anomalies, including cytoplasmic incompatibility. Such incompatibilities may help explain the maintenance of two distinct subspecies of this grasshopper, C. parallelus parallelus and C. parallelus erythropus, which are involved in a Pyrenean hybrid zone that has been extensively studied for the past 20 years, becoming a model system for the study of genetic divergence and speciation. To evaluate whether Wolbachia is the sole bacterial infection that might induce reproductive anomalies, the gonadal bacterial community of individuals from 13 distinct populations of C. parallelus was determined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis of bacterial 16S rRNA gene fragments and sequencing. The study revealed low bacterial diversity in the gonads: a persistent bacterial trio consistent with Spiroplasma sp. and the two previously described supergroups of Wolbachia (B and F) dominated the gonad microbiota. A further evaluation of the composition of the gonad bacterial communities was carried out by whole cell hybridization. Our results confirm previous studies of the cytological distribution of Wolbachia in C. parallelus gonads and show a homogeneous infection by Spiroplasma. Spiroplasma and Wolbachia cooccurred in some individuals, but there was no significant association of Spiroplasma with a grasshopper's sex or with Wolbachia infection, although subtle trends might be detected with a larger sample size. This information, together with previous experimental crosses of this grasshopper, suggests that Spiroplasma is unlikely to contribute to sex-specific reproductive anomalies; instead, they implicate Wolbachia as the agent of the observed anomalies in C. parallelus.
41489773|In the past decade, an increasing number of methods in microbial ecology have been developed that address the questions of which microbes exist in the environment, what their roles are and, to some extent, what their abundance is. In the present paper, we propose and describe the proof of principle of a novel method for analysing shifts in microbial community composition that uses small RNA fragments directly derived from 16S rRNA. Community fingerprints are generated on the basis of sequence-dependent conformational differences of rRNA fragments. We applied this method to profile artificial and natural communities and to detect changes in community structure in enrichment cultures. This method constitutes a PCR-free alternative to microbial community characterisation and can provide information on the relative abundance of rRNA from individual phylotypes in low diversity samples.
41489110|In this study, hydrocarbon (HC) degradation activity of a HC-rich marine sediment was assessed in anaerobic microcosms during a 224 days incubation period. Natural TOC/N/P ratio of the sediment porewater (1,000/5/1) was gradually decreased to 1,000/40/6 which resulted in approximately ninefold increase in gas production (CH+CO) and HC removal. Addition of external HCs to the microcosms was also resulted in approximately twofold higher gas production and HC removal. A high proportion (92%) of aromatic HCs and all n-alkanes were removed from the microcosms under unlimited nutrient supply conditions without external HC addition. The microorganisms of the sediment degraded a wide range of aliphatic (n-C alkanes and acyclic isoprenoids) and aromatic (18 different one-to five-ring aromatics) HCs. Monitoring functional gene and transcript abundances revealed that methanogenesis and dissimilatory sulfate reduction took place simultaneously during the first 126 days, afterwards, only the syntrophic methanogenic consortium was active. Genes and transcripts related to initial activation of HCs were highly abundant throughout the incubation period showing that fumarate addition was the main pathway of anaerobic HC degradation. In conclusion, biostimulation of highly polluted anoxic marine sediments via nutrient amendment is effective and may constitute a suitable and cost-effective field-scale bioremediation strategy.
25153148|Growing concern for the preservation of cultural heritage has led to a greater interest in the biological attack on these buildings. The importance of cyanobacteria as deteriogens is emphasized and the traditional and more modern molecular methods used to detect these microorganisms are discussed. The development of molecular techniques for the rapid identification of cyanobacteria without need for culture and isolation is fundamental if our knowledge of these communities in biofilms on the surfaces of historic buildings is to be extended.
4251627|Typical marine bacteria (i.e., obligately oligotrophic) that were numerically dominant members of naturally occurring marine communities were identified by cloning and sequencing the amplified 16S rRNA genes obtained from dilution cultures of the original samples. The data reported here refer to two different habitats of a marine pelagic environment (28 miles offshore, in the northwestern Mediterranean Sea). The samples were taken from the water column at two representative layers, i.e., the 30-m depth, corresponding to the chlorophyll maximum layer, and the 1800-m depth, representative of a deep, oligotrophic environment. Three major lineages were found in the 16S rDNA clone libraries prepared from the two samples, two of which could be assigned to the Vibrio and the Rhodobacter groups. The third lineage was a distant relative of the genus Flavobacterium, but it was not closely related to any marine isolate. Six oligonucleotide probes, either complementary to the conserved sequence domains or selectively hybridizing to the clone sequences, were designed for use as hybridization group-specific and strain-specific probes. A single-mismatch discrimination between certain probes and nontarget sequences was demonstrated by detecting the probes' specificity at different hybridization and washing conditions. The screening of the clone libraries with the obtained probes revealed that neither the 30-m sample higher dilution nor the 1800-m one were pure cultures. While some representative of the Vibrio group were found in both the surface and the deep sample, the members of the Flavobacterium and Rhodobacter lineages were detected only in the deep and the euphotic layers, respectively. We suggest an approach for analyzing autochthonous marine bacteria able to grow in unamended seawater.
4250961|The microbial structure within, between, and over time in decaying cladodes of the common prickly pear Opuntia stricta was studied at each of two separate localities. In general, the effective number of yeast species and yeast species diversity increased as the rot aged to the observed maximum time of 4 weeks. Yeast heterogeneity at the two localities differed in the mode of environmental influence, with spatial variability (among rots) most important at one and temporal variability (within rots over time) most important at the other. Differences in cactus density and quality (age) are most likely determinants of the differences in yeast community structure.
40605724|The spatial pattern of antibiotic resistance in culturable sediment bacteria from four freshwater streams was examined. Previous research suggests that the prevalence of antibiotic resistance may increase in populations via indirect or coselection from heavy metal contamination. Sample bacteria from each stream were grown in media containing one of four antibioticstetracycline, chloramphenicol, kanamycin, and streptomycinat concentrations greater than the minimum inhibitory concentration, plus a control. Bacteria showed high susceptibilities to the former two antibiotics. We summarized the latter two more prevalent (aminoglycoside) resistance responses and ten metals concentrations per sediment sample, by Principal Components Analysis. Respectively, 63 and 58% of the variability was explained in the first principal component of each variable set. We used these multivariate summary metrics [i.e., first principal component (PC) scores] as input measures for exploring the spatial correlation between antibiotic resistance and metal concentration for each stream sampled. Results show a significant and negative correlation between metals PC scores versus aminoglycoside resistance scores and suggest that selection for metal tolerance among sediment bacteria may influence selection for antibiotic resistance differently in sediments than in the water column. Our most important finding comes from geostatistical cross-variogram analysis, which shows that increasing metal concentration scores are spatially associated with decreasing aminoglycoside resistance scoresa negative correlation, but holds for contaminated streams only. We suspect our field results are influenced by metal bioavailability in the sediments and by a contaminant promoted interaction or "cocktail effect" from complex combinations of pollution mediated selection agents.
4251748| Leaf wettability, cuticular wax composition, and microbial colonization of upper and lower leaf surfaces of ivy (Hedera helix L.) was investigated for young and old leaves sampled in June and September. Contact angles of aqueous buffered solutions measured on young leaf surfaces ranged between 76 and 86 and were not dependent on the pH value of the applied droplets. Contact angles measured on old leaf surfaces were up to 32, significantly lower than on young leaf surfaces. Furthermore, contact angles were significantly lower using aqueous solutions of pH 9.0 compared to pH 3.0, indicating the influence of ionizable functional groups on leaf surface wetting properties. Observed changes in leaf wetting properties did not correlate with different levels of alkanoic acids in cuticular waxes. However, microscopic examination of the leaf surfaces indicated the influence of epiphytic microorganisms on wetting properties of old leaves, since their surfaces were always colonized by epiphytic microorganisms (filamentous fungi, yeasts, and bacteria), whereas surfaces of young leaves were basically clean. In order to analyze the effect of epiphytic microorganisms on leaf surface wetting, surfaces of young and clean ivy leaves were artificially colonized with Pseudomonas fluorescens. This resulted in a significant increase and a pH dependence of leaf surface wetting in the same way as it was observed on old ivy leaf surfaces. From these results it can be deduced that the native wetting properties of leaf surfaces can be significantly masked by the presence of epiphytic microorganisms. The ecological implications of altered wetting properties for microorganisms using the leaf/atmosphere interface as habitat are discussed. 
23361608|The association of metazoan, protist, and microbial communities with Scleractinian corals forms the basis of the coral holobiont. Coral bleaching events have been occurring around the world, introducing changes in the delicate balance of the holobiont symbiotic interactions. In this study, Archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotic phototrophic plastids of bleached colonies of the Brazilian coral Siderastrea stellata were analyzed for the first time, using 16S rRNA gene libraries. Prokaryotic communities were slightly more diverse in healthy than in bleached corals. However, the eukaryotic phototrophic plastids community was more diverse in bleached corals. Archaea phylogenetic analyses revealed a high percentage of Crenarchaeota sequences, mainly related to Nitrosopumilus maritimus and Cenarchaeum symbiosum. Dramatic changes in bacterial community composition were observed in this bleaching episode. The dominant bacterial group was Alphaproteobacteria followed by Gammaproteobacteria in bleached and Betaproteobacteria in healthy samples. Plastid operational taxonomic units (OTUs) from both coral samples were mainly related to red algae chloroplasts (Florideophycea), but we also observed some OTUs related to green algae chloroplasts (Chlorophyta). There seems to be a strong relationship between the Bacillariophyta phylum and our bleached coral samples as clones related to members of the diatom genera Amphora and Nitzschia were detected. The present study reveals information from a poorly investigated coral species and improves the knowledge of coral microbial community shifts that could occur during bleaching episodes.
4251252|The influence of surface attachment and growth on inhibition of the ammonia oxidizing bacterium, Nitrosomonas europaea, by nitrapyrin was investigated in liquid culture in the presence and absence of glass slides. Significant attachment to glass slides occurred in the absence of ammonia, but the extent of attachment was not affected by nitrapyrin, nor by previous culture of cells in medium containing nitrapyrin. The presence of glass slides affected neither the specific growth rate of N. europaea, measured by changes in nitrite concentration, nor inhibition by nitrapyrin. Inhibitory effects of nitrapyrin on increases in nitrite concentration and in free cell concentration were similar, but greater effects were observed on changes in attached cell concentration. Established biofilms on glass slides grew at a lower specific growth rate than freely suspended cells. Both biofilm cells, and those detached from the biofilm, were protected from inhibition. A mechanism for protection of biofilm populations is proposed involving reduced sensitivity of slowly growing cells producing extracellular polymeric material.
4250790|Fluorescein diacetate (FDA) hydrolysis was evaluated as a means to detect actively metabolizing bacteria in freshwater. Fluorescein diacetate, a nonfluorescent derivative of fluorescein, can be transported across cell membranes and deacetylated by nonspecific esterases. Resultant fluorescein accumulates within cells and allows direct visualization by epifluorescent microscopy. Application of FDA to a variety of freshwater habitats yielded estimates of active cells ranging from 6-24% of the total population. These estimates were 49-61% lower than estimates of active cells obtained from measures of electron transport activity. The difference was attributed to low permeability of the fluorogen through the outer membrane of heterotrophic gram-negative cells. Data suggest that FDA hydrolysis as a means of detecting active bacteria may be limited to environments rich in eucaryotes and gram-positive cells.
4251205|Although there is a long history of conjecture regarding the role and significance of bacterial chemotaxis in microbial ecology, only recently has a significant body of work appeared attempting to address this issue. The purpose of this paper is to provide a concise overview of this work, which combines mathematical modeling of bacterial population migration and experimental measurement of the model parameters with modeling of competitive microbial population dynamics in a nonmixed environment. Predictions from the population dynamics models, based on experimental estimates of the various motility and growth parameter values, are related to the small number of experimental observations available to date dealing with the effects of bacterial motility on competition in a nonmixed environment. Current results indicate that cell motility and chemotaxis properties can be as important to population dynamics as cell growth kinetic properties, so that greater attention to this aspect of microbial behavior is warranted in future studies of microbial ecology.
23468257|Research on sponge microbial assemblages has revealed different trends in the geographic variability and specificity of bacterial symbionts. Here, we combined replicated terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and clone library analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequences to investigate the biogeographic and host-specific structure of bacterial communities in two congeneric and sympatric sponges: Ircinia strobilina, two color morphs of Ircinia felix and ambient seawater. Samples were collected from five islands of the Bahamas separated by 80 to 400 km. T-RFLP profiles revealed significant differences in bacterial community structure among sponge hosts and ambient bacterioplankton. Pairwise statistical comparisons of clone libraries confirmed the specificity of the bacterial assemblages to each host species and differentiated symbiont communities between color morphs of I. felix. Overall, differences in bacterial communities within each host species and morph were unrelated to location. Our results show a high degree of symbiont fidelity to host sponge across a spatial scale of up to 400 km, suggesting that host-specific rather than biogeographic factors play a primary role in structuring and maintaining spongebacteria relationships in Ircinia species from the Bahamas.
4287629|Maize root colonization and phosphate solubilizing activity of the fungus Penicillium rugulosum were assessed in a greenhouse trial using soil-plant microcosms. The bacterial gene hph conferring resistance to hygromicin B was introduced by electroporation in the wild-type strain IR-94MF1 of P. rugulosum and one transformant, w-T3, was selected. Maize plants were grown for 5 weeks in a P-poor soil and fertilized with a Florida apatite mineral, with Navay, an apatite rock deposit from Venezuela, or with simple superphosphate. Inoculation treatments included strain IR-94MF1, transformant w-T3 and two IR-94MF1 UV-induced mutants with enhanced (
4287679|Soil drying and rewetting represents a common physiological stress for the microbial communities residing in surface soils. A drying-rewetting cycle may induce lysis in a significant proportion of the microbial biomass and, for a number of reasons, may directly or indirectly influence microbial community composition. Few studies have explicitly examined the role of drying-rewetting frequency in shaping soil microbial community structure. In this experiment, we manipulated soil water stress in the laboratory by exposing two different soil types to 0, 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, or 15 drying-rewetting cycles over a 2-month period. The two soils used for the experiment were both collected from the Sedgwick Ranch Natural Reserve in Santa Ynez, CA, one from an annual grassland, the other from underneath an oak canopy. The average soil moisture content over the course of the incubation was the same for all samples, compensating for the number of drying-rewetting cycles. At the end of the 2-month incubation we extracted DNA from soil samples and characterized the soil bacterial communities using the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) method. We found that drying-rewetting regimes can influence bacterial community composition in oak but not in grass soils. The two soils have inherently different bacterial communities; only the bacteria residing in the oak soil, which are less frequently exposed to moisture stress in their natural environment, were significantly affected by drying-rewetting cycles. The community indices of taxonomic diversity and richness were relatively insensitive to drying-rewetting frequency. We hypothesize that drying-rewetting induced shifts in bacterial community composition may partly explain the changes in C mineralization rates that are commonly observed following exposure to numerous drying-rewetting cycles. Microbial community composition may influence soil processes, particularly in soils exposed to a significant level of environmental stress.
4287488| Based on several experiences of microbial release using genetically modified Rhizobium leguminosarum, we have highlighted a number of aspects related to the suitability of introduced markers such as resistance to mercury and -galactosidase activity, the latter serving the function of high-expression level reporter gene obtained by the introduction of a synthetic promoter conferring strong inducible expression in Gram-negative bacteria. In vitro expression and in vivo performances of the chosen examples have been followed in model strains comparing gene dosage and expression levels. The technical possibility of unambiguously monitoring the marked GMM has been evaluated in medium- and long-term experiments carried out both in microcosms and soil, also including the presence of the plant symbiotic host. Marker stability, regardless the nature of the gene, was shown to be dependent on the location of the genetic modification and on its degree of gene expression regualtion. Reporter strength was found to be an advantage allowing the distinction of marker-bearing bacteria while negatively affecting their genetic stability. Plasmid-borne regulated reporters were found to be stable up to the stages of rhizosphere colonization, but were more critically selected against upon symbiotic host invasion. 
40802277|The temples of Angkor monuments including Angkor Thorn and Bayon in Cambodia and surrounding countries were exclusively constructed using sandstone. They are severely threatened by biodeterioration caused by active growth of different microorganisms on the sandstone surfaces, but knowledge on the microbial community and composition of the biofilms on the sandstone is not available from this region. This study investigated the microbial community diversity by examining the fresh and old biofilms of the biodeteriorated bas-relief wall surfaces of the Bayon Temple by analysis of 16S and 18S rRNA gene sequences. The results showed that the retrieved sequences were clustered in 11 bacterial, 11 eukaryotic and two archaeal divisions with disparate communities (Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Cyanobacteria, Proteobacteria; Alveolata, Fungi, Metazoa, Viridiplantae; Crenarchaeote, and Euyarch-aeota). A comparison of the microbial communities between the fresh and old biofilms revealed that the bacterial community of old biofilm was very similar to the newly formed fresh biofilm in terms of bacterial composition, but the eukaryotic communities were distinctly different between these two. This information has important implications for understanding the formation process and development of the microbial diversity on the sandstone surfaces, and furthermore to the relationship between the extent of biodeterioration and succession of microbial communities on sandstone in tropic region.
25153439|Swarming motility is considered to be a social phenomenon that enables groups of bacteria to move coordinately atop solid surfaces. The differentiated swarmer cell population is embedded in an extracellular slime layer, and the phenomenon has previously been linked with biofilm formation and virulence. The gram-negative nitrogen-fixing soil bacterium Rhizobium etli CNPAF512 was previously shown to display swarming behavior on soft agar plates. In a search for novel genetic determinants of swarming, a detailed analysis of the swarming behavior of 700 miniTn5 mutants of R. etli was performed. Twenty-four mutants defective in swarming or displaying abnormal swarming patterns were identified and could be divided into three groups based on their swarming pattern. Fourteen mutants were completely swarming deficient, five mutants showed an atypical swarming pattern with no completely smooth edge and local extrusions, and five mutants displayed an intermediate swarming phenotype. Sequence analysis of the targeted genes indicated that the mutants were likely affected in quorum-sensing, polysaccharide composition or export, motility, and amino acid and polyamines metabolism. Several of the identified mutants displayed a reduced symbiotic nitrogen fixation activity.
41693868|Assumptions on the matching specificity of group-specific bacterial primers may bias the interpretation of environmental microbial studies. As available sequence data continue growing, the performance of primers and probes needs to be reevaluated. Here, we present an evaluation of several commonly used and one newly designed Bacteroidetes-specifc primer (CF418). First, we revised the in silico primer coverage and specificity with the current SILVA and RDP databases. We found minor differences with previous studies, which could be explained by the chosen databases, taxonomies, and matching criteria. We selected eight commonly used Bacteroidetes primers and tested them with a collection of assorted marine bacterial isolates. We also used the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) approach in environmental samples to evaluate their ability to yield clear and diverse band patterns corresponding to Bacteroidetes phylotypes. Among the primers tested, CF968R did not provide satisfactory results in DGGE, although it exhibited the highest in silico coverage for Flavobacteria. Primers CFB560 and CFB555 presented undesirable features, such as requiring nested protocols or presence of degeneracies. Finally, the new primer CF418 and primer CF319a were used to explore the Bacteroidetes dynamics throughout a 1-year cycle in Mediterranean coastal waters (Blanes Bay Microbial Observatory). Both primers provided clear and diverse banding patterns, but the low specificity of CF319a was evidenced by 83.3 % of the bands sequenced corresponding to nontarget taxa. The satisfactory DGGE banding patterns and the wide diversity of sequences retrieved from DGGE bands with primer CF418 prove it to be a valuable alternative for the study of Bacteroidetes communities, recovering a wide range of phylotypes within the group.
4287605|The ascomycete community colonizing decaying Spartina alterniflora blades in a southeastern U.S. salt marsh was characterized by analysis of internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of fungal rRNA genes. ITS sequences were amplified with ascomycete-specific primers from DNA extracted from S. alterniflora blades at two stages of decay (early and late) and were identified based on sequence analysis of a companion ascomycete culture collection. The S. alterniflora ITS libraries were dominated by clones from three species of ascomycetes: Mycosphaerella sp. 2, Phaeosphaeria spartinicola, and Phaeosphaeria halima. ITS sequences from five other less abundant ascomycete species were also found in the clone libraries, only two of which could be identified based on the culture collection, Hydropisphaera erubescens and a new species nicknamed '4clt'. Ascospore expulsion assays indicated dominance by the same three species as the ITS analysis, although this non-molecular approach differed from the molecular method in relative ranking of the dominant species and in characterization of minor species. Analysis of ITS amplicons from three replicate plots by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis showed significant spatial homogeneity in ascomycete community composition for both early- and late-stage decay. ITS sequence analysis identified morphologically cryptic subgroups for two of the three dominant salt marsh ascomycetes.
4251221| The nutritional responses of unattached and attached bacterial communities were studied in groundwater from 3 sampling depths, i.e., 830-841 m, 910-921 m, and 999-1,078 m, of the subvertical borehole KLX01 at the Laxemar study area in SE Sweden. The salinity profile of the groundwater in this borehole is homogeneous. There were negative redox potentials (Eh) in the waters (-220 to -270 mV) and they contained sulfide, hydrogen, and methane. Biofilm reactors with hydrophilic glass surfaces were connected to the flowing groundwaters from each of the 3 depths with flow rates of approximately 3 
4251567|Inoculation of polluted environments with specialized strains is an important strategy in bioremediation. Especially the efficacy and safety of genetically engineered biodegradative microorganisms could be improved further, if host organisms with predictable survival in specific target ecosystems were identified and could be engineered to carry catabolic gene cassettes. Here we empirically tested whether strains originally isolated from the target ecosystem (indigenous inoculants) had superior survival rates compared to strains derived from geographically and ecologically different locations (nonindigenous inoculants). We experimentally tested this approach by isolating various strains of Pseudomonas and related genera from a highly polluted river sediment (Spittelwasser River) and following their survival in sediment slurries from the same river in comparison with that of nonindigenous strains. Both indigenous and nonindigenous inoculants grew and maintained cell densities of between 10
40926440|Previous observations of correlated community dynamics between phytoplankton and bacteria in lakes indicate that phytoplankton populations may influence bacterial community structure. To investigate the possibility that bacterial use of phytoplankton exudates contributes to observed patterns of community change, we characterized the diversity and dynamics of heterotrophic bacterioplankton with genetic potential to use glycolate, a photorespirationspecific exdate, in five lakes overa 15-week period. Cultureindependent approaches were used to track different bacterial phylotypes represented by DNA sequence variation in the functional gene glycolate oxidase subunit D (glcD). glcD gene sequences from freshwater bacteria exhibited broad phylogenetic diversity, including sequences representing the Alpha-, Beta-, and Gammaproteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Verrucomicrobia. The majority of glcD gene sequences were betaproteobacterial, with 48% of the sequences clustering with the glcD gene from the cosmopolitan freshwater species Polynucleobacter necessarius. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism fingerprinting of the glcD gene revealed changes in glycolate-utilizing assemblages over time. An average of 39% of within-lake temporal variation in glycolate-utilizing assemblages across five lakes was explained by phytoplankton community composition and dynamics. The interaction between phytoplankton populations and the environment explained an additional 17% of variation on average. These observations offer new insight into the diversity and temporal dynamics of freshwater bacteria with genetic potential to use glycolate and support the hypothesis that algal exudates influence the structure of bacterial communities.
4251110|The hypothesis that the population size of introduced bacteria is affected by habitable pore space was studied by varying moisture content and bulk density in sterilized, as well as in natural loamy sand and silt loam. The soils were inoculated with Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar trifolii and established and maintained at soil water potentials between -5 and -20 kPa (pF 1.7 and 2.3). Rhizobial cells were enumerated when population sizes were expected to be more or less stable. In sterilized soils, the rhizobial numbers were not affected or decreased only slightly when water potentials increased from -20 to -5 kPa. In natural soils, the decrease in rhizobial numbers with increasing water potentials was more pronounced. Bulk density had only minor effects on the population sizes of rhizobia or total bacteria. Soil water retention curves of both soils were used to calculate volume and surface area of pores from different diameter classes, and an estimation of the habitable pore space was made. Combining these values of the theoretical habitable pore space with the measured rhizobial numbers showed that only 0.37 and 0.44% of the habitable pore space was occupied in the sterilized loamy sand and silt loam, respectively. The situation in natural soil is more complicated, since a whole variety of microorganisms is present. Nevertheless, it was suggested that, in general, pore space does not limit proliferation and growth of soil microorganisms.
4251172|We analyzed heterotrophic, pelagic bacterial production and specific growth rate data from 57 studies conducted in fresh, marine and estuarine/coastal waters. Strong positive relationships were identified between 1) bacterial production and bacterial abundance and 2) bacterial production and algal biomass. The relationship between bacterial production and bacterial abundance was improved by also considering water temperature. The analysis of covariance model revealed consistent differences between fresh, marine and estuarine/coastal waters, with production consistently high in estuarine/coastal environments. The log-linear regression coefficient of abundance was not significantly different from 1.00, and this linear relationship permitted the use of specific growth rate (SGR in day
25153468|To evaluate the role of dissolved organic matter (DOM) on microbial community metabolism, we established extracellular enzyme activity (EEA) and substrate-induced respiration (SIR) profiles of sediment samples collected from littoral and profundal regions of the western, central, and eastern basins of Lake Erie. Lake Erie is spatially structured such that the central and western basins receive relatively major inputs of allochthonous DOM in comparison to the eastern basin. Overall, spatial patterns of EEA and SIR profiles suggest both greater metabolic diversity and activity in the littoral regions of the central and western basins. In contrast, the eastern basin demonstrated much less structuring between littoral and profundal areas. To evaluate whether the observed spatial patterns are the result of microbial community adaptations to local DOM availability, we performed three experimental treatments by inoculating sediment samples with polyvinylpyrrolidone, which sequesters large polyphenols, or with either vanillin or catechol, two small phenolic compounds. Our results revealed that esterase and glycosidase EEA from the eastern basin were induced by small phenolics and inhibited by large polyphenols. In contrast, the addition of small phenolics decreased esterase and glycosidase activities from the central basin, while polyphenols had a negligible effect. These results suggest that the source and composition of DOM play a significant role in the local adaptation of microbial communities, determining large-scale spatial patterns of microbial functional diversity in Lake Erie sediments.
4250989|Anoxic salt marsh sediments were amended with several methylated sulfur compounds. Sediment microbes transformed the added compounds into other volatile methylated sulfur compounds and eventually mineralized the compounds to CH
27770596|Peatlands subjected to sulfate deposition have been shown to produce less methane, believed to be due to competitive exclusion of methanogenic archaea by sulfate-reducing bacteria. Here, we address whether sulfate deposition produces impacts on a higher microbial group, the testate amoebae. Sodium sulfate was applied to experimental plots on a Scottish peatland and samples extracted after a period of more than 10 years. Impacts on testate amoebae were tested using redundancy analysis and MannWhitney tests. Results showed statistically significant impacts on amoebae communities particularly noted by decreased abundance of Trinema lineare, Corythion dubium, and Euglypha rotunda. As the species most reduced in abundance are all small bacterivores we suggest that our results support the hypothesis of a shift in dominant prokaryotes, although other explanations are possible. Our results demonstrate the sensitivity of peatland microbial communities to sulfate deposition and suggest sulfate may be a potentially important secondary control on testate amoebae communities.
25153394|We have assessed ectomycorrhizal fungi colonizing Norway spruce (Picea abies L.) seedlings in nine forest nurseries using restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and sequencing analyses of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2) amplicons. Restriction analysis of the amplified DNA fragments with HinfI, MboI, and TaqI enzymes allowed the definition of 17 RFLP genotypes; five of them could be unambiguously assigned to Thelephora terrestris, Hebeloma longicaudum, H. crustuliniforme, Tricharina ochroleuca, and Cenococcum geophilum species by comparison with the sporocarp RFLP-pattern database. The remaining genotypes have been sequenced and compared with sequences deposited in the GenBank database. The phylogenetic analysis of resulting sequences and their identified matches indicated that isolated genotypes have formed seven clades. The ascomycetes were predominant: we have determined eight species-Wilcoxina mikolae, Phialophora finlandia, Tuber sp., Cenococcum geophilum, Tricharina ochroleuca, Pulvinula constellatio, and two unidentified ascomycetes-whereas the basidiomycetes were less common (four species denoted: Amphinema byssoides, Hebeloma crustuliniforme, H. longicaudum, and Thelephora terrestris). Wilcoxina mikolae and Phialophora finlandia were the most frequent fungi. Analysis of variance revealed that ascomycetes abundance was higher in nurseries that used organic fertilizer.
40605667|In pelagic ecosystems, the principal source of organic matter is via autotrophic production and the primary sink is through heterotrophic respiration. One would therefore anticipate that there is some degree of linkage between these two compartments. Recent work has shown that respiration in the light is higher than dark respiration. Consequently, many of the methods used to determine respiration and production are biased as they require the assumption that light and dark respiration rates are equivalent. We show here that, in a coastal ecosystem, under visible light exposure, respiration in the light is related to gross production. More than 60% of the variation of respiration in the light, measured at 1 to 40 g L of chlorophyll a (Chla), could be explained by the variations of gross production. Secondly, the relative contribution of bacterial respiration to community respiration in the light represented up to 79% at low Chkz (1 g L) and was negatively correlated with Chla concentration. Although bacterial production and bacterial respiration were both enhanced in the light, bacterial respiration in the light was more stimulated than bacterial production, which resulted in a decrease in bacterial growth efficiency during light exposure. These results show that the impact of light on the functioning of the microbial loop needs to be taken into account for a better understanding of the oceanic carbon cycle.
25152959| The objective of this study was (a) to detect changes of the functional abilities of the microflora during composting of manure as a result of windrow turning frequency and (b) to detect differences between distinct zones within the windrows. Biolog GN microtiter plates containing 95 different carbon sources were inoculated with diluted suspensions of compost material containing 15,000 microorganisms per well (120 l). We found a dramatic shift in functional microbial community structure during the 8-week composting process. The shift was more rapid when the compost windrows were turned. The substrate use pattern in the outer, well-aerated zone of the unturned windrow was similar to that of the turned windrows. Microbial biomass and respiration decreased more rapidly in the turned than in the unturned windrows, indicating a different pace of compost maturation. The data suggest that the Biolog assay may be a suitable approach to determine compost maturity. 
27770593|The main aim of this paper was the comprehensive estimation of the occurrence rate and the antibiotic-resistance conditions of opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa in hydrocarbon-contaminated environments. From 2002 to 2007, 26 hydrocarbon-contaminated sites of Hungary were screened for the detection of environmental isolates. Altogether, 156 samples were collected and examined for the determination of appearance, representative cell counts, and antibiotic-resistance features of P. aeruginosa. The detected levels of minimal inhibitory concentrations of ten different drugs against 36 environmental strains were compared to the results of a widely used reference strain ATCC 27853 and four other clinical isolates of P. aeruginosa. Based on our long-term experiment, it can be established that species P. aeruginosa was detectable in case of 61.5% of the investigated hydrocarbon-contaminated sites and 35.2% of the examined samples that shows its widespread occurrence in polluted soilgroundwater systems. In the course of the antibiotic-resistance assay, our results determined that 11 of the examined 36 environmental strains had multiple drug-resistance against several clinically effective antimicrobial classes: cephalosporins, wide spectrum penicillins, carbapenems, fluoroquinolones, and aminoglycosides. The fact that these multiresistant strains were isolated from 8 different hydrocarbon-contaminated sites, mainly from outskirts, confirms that multiple drug-resistance of P. aeruginosa is widespread not only in clinical, but also in natural surroundings as well.
4251487|Batch culture incubations were used to investigate the effects of pH (6.8 or 5.5) and carbohydrate (starch) availability on dissimilatory aromatic amino acid metabolism in human fecal bacteria. During growth on peptide mixtures, tyrosine and phenylalanine fermentations occurred optimally at pH 6.8, while individual metabolic reactions were inhibited by up to 80% in the presence of 10 g l
25153120|Microbial communities in the sediment and associated with the dominant type of standing dead plant were collected from the high marsh zones of 10 sites along the eastern coast of the United States from Maine to Florida. Microbial community composition was examined using T-RFLP, and bacterial and fungal abundance was determined microscopically. Within the sediment, community composition was strongly correlated with latitude, indicating that biogeographical factors are important determinants of sediment community composition, whereas abundance was positively and strongly correlated with sediment organic matter content. A strong biogeographical effect was observed for both bacterial and fungal abundance on standing dead plants, but there was no clear relationship between community composition and latitude. Microbial community composition was more similar among plants of the same type (i.e., related plant species) suggesting that plant type (i.e., substrate quality) is primarily responsible for the determining community composition on standing dead plants.
4250688| Three methods of estimating bacterial productivity were compared using parallel samples of Atlantic Ocean water (within 0.25-15 km of the Georgia coast). The frequency-of-dividing cells (FDC) method and the [
4251254| Scanning electron microscopy and fluorescence microscopy after staining with DAPI indicated that the skin mucus of the cornetfish contained large numbers of bacteria, 4  10
41489118|The present study aimed to experimentally quantify the influence of a reduction of surface sediment permeability on microbial characteristics and ecological processes (respiration and leaf litter decomposition) occurring in the hyporheic zone (i.e. the sedimentary interface between surface water and groundwater). The physical structure of the water-sediment interface was manipulated by adding a 2-cm layer of coarse sand (unclogged systems) or fine sand (clogged systems) at the sediment surface of slow filtration columns filled with a heterogeneous gravel/sand sedimentary matrix. The influence of clogging was quantified through measurements of hydraulic conductivity, water chemistry, microbial abundances and activities and associated processes (decomposition of alder leaf litter inserted at a depth of 9 cm in sediments, oxygen and nitrate consumption by microorganisms). Fine sand deposits drastically reduced hydraulic conductivity (by around 8-fold in comparison with unclogged systems topped by coarse sand) and associated water flow, leading to a sharp decrease in oxygen (reaching less than 1 mg L at 3 cm depth) and nitrate concentrations with depth in sediments. The shift from aerobic to anaerobic conditions in clogged systems favoured the establishment of denitrifying bacteria living on sediments. Analyses performed on buried leaf litter showed a reduction by 30% of organic matter decomposition in clogged systems in comparison with unclogged systems. This reduction was linked to a negative influence of clogging on the activities and abundances of leaf-associated microorganisms. Finally, our study clearly demonstrated that microbial processes involved in organic matter decomposition were dependent on hydraulic conductivity and oxygen availability in the hyporheic zone.
23597804|Sequence-based surveys of microorganisms in varied environments have found extremely diverse assemblages. A standard practice in current high-throughput sequence (HTS) approaches in microbial ecology is to sequence the composition of many environmental samples at once by pooling amplicon libraries at a common concentration before processing on one run of a sequencing platform. Biomass of the target taxa, however, is not typically determined prior to HTS, and here, we show that when abundances of the samples differ to a large degree, this standard practice can lead to a perceived bias in community richness and composition. Fungal signal in settled dust of five university teaching laboratory classrooms, one of which was used for a mycology course, was surveyed. The fungal richness and composition in the dust of the nonmycology classrooms were remarkably similar to each other, while the mycology classroom was dominated by abundantly sporulating specimen fungi, particularly puffballs, and appeared to have a lower overall richness based on rarefaction curves and richness estimators. The fungal biomass was three to five times higher in the mycology classroom than the other classrooms, indicating that fungi added to the mycology classroom swamped the background fungi present in indoor air. Thus, the high abundance of a few taxa can skew the perception of richness and composition when samples are sequenced to an even depth. Next, we used in silico manipulations of the observed data to confirm that a unique signature can be identified with HTS approaches when the source is abundant, whether or not the taxon identity is distinct. Lastly, aerobiology of indoor fungi is discussed.
40802284|Protozoan grazers play an important role in Controlling the density of crude-oil degrading marine communities as has been evidenced in a number of microcosm experiments. However, small bioreactors contain a low initial titre of protozoa and the growth of hydrocarbon-depleting bacteria is accompanied by the fast depletion of mineral nutrients and oxygen, which makes microcosms rather unsuitable for simulating the sequence of events after the oil spill in natural seawater environment. In the present study, the population dynamics of marine protozoan community have been analysed in a 500 1 mesocosm experiment involving bioaugmented oil booms that contained oil sorbents and slow-release fertilisers. A significant increase in numbers of marine flagellates and ciliates on biofilms of oil-degrading microbes was microscopically observed as early as 8 days after the start of the experiment, when protozoa exhibited a population density peak making up to 3,000 cells ml Further, the protozoan density varied throughout the experiment, but never dropped below 80 cells ml. An 18S rRNA genebased fingerprinting analysis revealed several changes within the eukaryotic community over the whole course of the experiment. Initial growth of flagellates and small ciliates was followed by a predominance of larger protozoa. According to microscopic observations and SSU rRNA molecular analyses, most predominant were the ciliates belonging to Euplotidae and Scuticociliatia.This is the first study to characterise the eukaryotic communities specifically in a large-scale oil bioremediation trial using both microscopy-based and several molecular techniques.
25153179|Water samples from a Canadian stream were passed through membrane filters between 22 July 2002 and 19 May 2003. Filters with trapped conidia of aquatic hyphomycetes were cut in half. One half was examined under a light microscope, and conidia were counted and identified. From the second half, DNA was extracted and amplified with fungal primers. The number of different ITS sequences (phylotypes) in the amplified DNA was assessed with DGGE. On average, the number of visually identified species per sample (12.4) was higher than the number of phylotypes (11.7), but the difference was nonsignificant (P = 0.36). However, the difference between species and phylotype numbers increased significantly with the number of species or conidia present on the filter, indicating that the sensitivity of DGGE decreases with sample size. When few conidia were present, phylotype numbers often exceeded species numbers, suggesting insufficient resolution of visual identification or the presence of DNA from nonconidial sources. A modification of the described method may be useful to check the accuracy of taxonomy and identification based on conidial morphology.
41489760|Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are widespread plant symbionts occurring in most agricultural crops, where they can play key roles in the growth and health of their plant hosts. Plant benefits can depend on the identity of the associated arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), but little is known about the identity of the fungal partners in most agricultural systems. In this study, we describe the AMF assemblages associated with four cultivars of strawberry in an outdoor experiment using two field soils with different origin and management history. Assemblages were characterised by clone library sequencing of 18S rRNA gene fragments. Soil dramatically influenced the degree of mycorrhizal colonisation and AMF assemblage structure in the roots. No differences were observed between cultivars. Fungi belonging to the genus Acaulospora dominated the AMF assemblages in one soil, but they were not detected in the other. These results suggest that physicochemical soil characteristics and management can play a role in determining the identity and structure of microbial communities associated with particular hosts in agricultural systems.
25153477|The endophytic bacterial diversity in the roots of rice (Oryza sativa L.) growing in the agricultural experimental station in Hebei Province, China was analyzed by 16S rDNA cloning, amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA), and sequence homology comparison. To effectively exclude the interference of chloroplast DNA and mitochondrial DNA of rice, a pair of bacterial PCR primers (799f-1492r) was selected to specifically amplify bacterial 16S rDNA sequences directly from rice root tissues. Among 192 positive clones in the 16S rDNA library of endophytes, 52 OTUs (Operational Taxonomic Units) were identified based on the similarity of the ARDRA banding profiles. Sequence analysis revealed diverse phyla of bacteria in the 16S rDNA library, which consisted of alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon subclasses of the Proteobacteria, Cytophaga/Flexibacter/Bacteroides (CFB) phylum, low G+C gram-positive bacteria, Deinococcus-Thermus, Acidobacteria, and archaea. The dominant group was Betaproteobacteria (27.08% of the total clones), and the most dominant genus was Stenotrophomonas. More than 14.58% of the total clones showed high similarity to uncultured bacteria, suggesting that nonculturable bacteria were detected in rice endophytic bacterial community. To our knowledge, this is the first report that archaea has been identified as endophytes associated with rice by the culture-independent approach. The results suggest that the diversity of endophytic bacteria is abundant in rice roots.
4250727|All species of streptococci are divided into several groups according to the ecological niches they occupy. Members of the lactic acid group are found only in the plant environment and the dairy. Members of the pyogenic group and the buccal and intestinal residents of the subthermophilic group are found in intimate association only with homeothermic hosts. Members of the virulent pyogenic group, such as Streptococcus pyogenes, S. equi, and S. infrequens, are restricted to single hosts-the human, the horse, and the pig-whereas others, such as S. agalactiae can be found in several hosts. The intestinal dwellers of the subthermophilic group, S. bovis and S. equinus, occur in several animal species and are not isolated from other sources. The superficially homogeneous S. faecalis of the "enteric" group may actually consist of a group specifically restricted to the human host, and of a second group distributed among wild animals, insects, and plants. The latter group differs from the human type by the ability to hydrolyze starch and to produce a rennin-proteolytic type of curd in milk. Streptococcus faecium is widely distributed in both the homeothermic and poikilothermic environments, but no properties which differentiate the sources are known. Streptococcus faecium biot. casseliflavus has been isolated only from insects and plants. Streptococcus uberis occurs on the bovine lips and skin. Unidentified streptococci from all environments vary widely in properties. Many resemble S. lactis, S. faecalis, and S. faecium.
40343347|The community structure of sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) associated with reed (Phragmites australis) rhizosphere in Lake Velencei (Hungary) was investigated by using cultivation-based and molecular methods. The cultivation methods were restricted to recover lactateutilizing species with the exclusion of Desulfobacter and some Desulfobacterium species presumably not being dominant members of the examined community. The most-probable-number (MPN) estimations of lactateutilizing SRB showed that the cell counts in reed rhizosphere were at least one order of magnitude higher than that in the bulk sediment. The number of endospores was low compared to the total SRB counts. From the highest positive dilution of MPN series, 47 strains were isolated and grouped by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of the amplified 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and dsrAB (dissimilatory sulfite reductase) genes. Contrary to the physiological diversity of the isolates, the combined results of RFLP analysis revealed higher diversity at species as well as at subspecies level. Based on the partial 16S rRNA sequences, the representative strains were closely affiliated with the genera Desulfovibrio and Desulfotomaculum. The partial dsrAB sequences of the clones, recovered after isolation and PCR amplification of the community DNA, were related to hitherto uncultured species of the genera Desulfovibrio and Desulfobulbus. Nevertheless, the representative of the second largest clone group was shown to be closely affiliated with the sequenced dsrAB gene of a strain isolated from the same environment and identified as Desulfovibrio alcoholivorans. Another clone sequence was closely related to a possible novel species also isolated within the scope of this work.
4251155| Plankton community structure and major pools and fluxes of carbon were observed before and after culmination of a bloom of cyanobacteria in eutrophic Frederiksborg Slotss, Denmark. Biomass changes of heterotrophic nanoflagellates, ciliates, microzooplankton (50 to 140 m), and macrozooplankton (larger than 140 m) were compared to phytoplankton and bacterial production as well as micro- and macrozooplankton ingestion rates of phytoplankton and bacteria. The carbon budget was used as a means to examine causal relationships in the plankton community. Phytoplankton biomass decreased and algae smaller than 20 m replaced Aphanizomenon after the culmination of cyanobacteria. Bacterial net production peaked shortly after the culmination of the bloom (510 g C
25153178| The sulfate-reducing bacterium strain SRB D2 isolated from the photic zone of a hypersaline microbial mat, from Lake Chiprana, NE Spain, respired pyruvate, alanine, and -ketoglutarate but not formate, lactate, malate, succinate, and serine at significant rates under fully oxic conditions. Dehydrogenase enzymes of only the former substrates are likely oxygen-tolerant as all substrates supported anaerobic sulfate reduction. No indications were found, however, that aerobic respiration supported growth. Although strain SRB D2 appeared phylogenetically closely related to the oxygen-tolerant sulfate-reducing bacterium Desulfovibrio oxyclinae, substrate spectra were markedly different. Most-probable-number (MPN) estimates of sulfate-reducing bacteria and aerobic heterotrophic bacteria indicated that the latter were numerically dominant in both the photic and aphotic zones of the mat. Moreover, substrate spectra of representative isolates showed that the aerobic heterotrophic bacteria are metabolically more diverse. These findings indicate that sulfate-reducing bacteria in the fully oxic photic zone of mats have to compete with aerobic heterotrophic bacteria for organic substrates. Porewater analysis revealed that total carbohydrates and low-molecular-weight carbon compounds (LMWC) made up substantial fractions of the total dissolved organic carbon (DOC) pool and that nighttime degradation of the former was concomitant with increased concentration of the latter. Our findings indicate that aerobic respiration by sulfate-reducing bacteria contributes to organic carbon mineralization in the oxic zone of microbial mats as daytime porewater LMWC concentrations are above typical half-saturation constants. 
4250701|The salinity of the Great Salt Lake, Utah has changed greatly over the past 23 years. The north arm of the lake has increased in salinity and decreased in overall biological diversity, whereas the south arm has decreased in salinity and increased markedly in biological diversity.
4251085|A population density-dependent copper (Cu) resistance mechanism in a gram-negative soil bacterium, strain TDCd1, was shown to be inducible and was accompanied by changes in the protein composition of the outer membrane of the cell envelope. Characteristically, following inoculation of TDCd1 into Cu-supplemented growth media, there was a period of growth inhibition during which the number of individuals tolerant to Cu gradually increased, even though microcultural experiments indicated that some cells died during this period. We concluded that the population density dependency of the resistance mechanism resulted from the interactions between the rate of cell death, the time taken for Cu resistance to develop, and the size of the initial population. Therefore, the ability of relatively large populations of microorganisms to grow in metal-supplemented media under laboratory conditions may have little ecological significance for sparse populations in natural environments.
4250912| The number of bacterial cells in soil that form colonies on nutrient agar represent a small fraction of the direct microscopic counts (DMC). The colony-forming cells have larger cell dimensions than the very small ("dwarf") cells which represent the majority of the DMC. This may indicate that the dwarf cells are species unable to form visible colonies on agar, or that they swell to normal dimensions when growing. Indigenous bacterial cells were separated from soil by density gradient centrifugation and fractionated according to diameter by filtration through polycarbonate filters. Each filtrate was studied with respect to DMC, cell dimensions, colony-forming cells (visible colonies and microcolonies), and cell dimensions during growth on the agar. The calculated average percent viability was only 0.2% for cells with diameters below 0.4 m, about 10% for cells with diameters between 0.4 and 0.6 m, and 30-40% for cells with diameters above 0.6 m. Only 10-20% of the viable cells with diameters <0.4 m increased their diameter to >0.4 m prior to growth. Thus, size change during starvation and growth cycles did not explain the high numbers of dwarf cells observed by microscopy. The results show that despite the relatively low number of colony-forming bacteria in soil, the species that form colonies may be fairly representative for the medium size and large cells, which constitute a major part of the bacterial biovolume. Thus plate counting could be a useful method to count and isolate the bacteria accounting for much of the biovolume in soil. The origin of the dwarf cells is still unclear, but the low number of small cells that increased in size seems to indicate that the majority of these bacterial cells are not small forms of ordinary sized bacteria. 
4287539|Viral lysis of specific bacterial populations has been suggested to be an important factor for structuring marine bacterioplankton communities. In the present study, the influence of bacteriophages on the diversity and population dynamics of four marine bacterial phage-host systems was studied experimentally in continuous cultures and theoretically by a mathematical model. By use of whole genome DNA hybridization toward community DNA, we analyzed the dynamics of individual bacterial host populations in response to the addition of their specific phage in continuous cultures of mixed bacterial assemblages. In these experiments, viral lysis had only temporary effects on the dynamics and diversity of the individual bacterial host species. Following the initial lysis of sensitive host cells, growth of phage-resistant clones of the added bacteria resulted in a distribution of bacterial strains in the phage-enriched culture that was similar to that in the control culture without phages after about 50-60 h incubation. Consequently, after a time frame of 5-10 generations after lysis, it was the interspecies competition rather than viral lysis of specific bacterial strains that was the driving force in the regulation of bacterial species composition in these experiments. The clonal diversity, on the other hand, was strongly influenced by viral activity, since the clonal composition of the four species in the phage-enriched culture changed completely from phage-sensitive to phage-resistant clones. The model simulation predicted that viral lysis had a strong impact on the population dynamics, the species composition, and the clonal composition of the bacterial community over longer time scales (weeks). However, according to the model, the overall density of bacteria in the system was not affected by phages, since resistant clones complemented the fluctuations caused by viral lysis. Based on the model analysis, we therefore suggest that viral lysis can have a strong influence on the dynamics of bacterial populations in planktonic marine systems.
41489802|Certain strains of the rhizosphere bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens contain the phenazine biosynthesis operon (phzABCDEFG) and produce redox-active phenazine antibiotics that suppress a wide variety of soilborne plant pathogens. In 2007 and 2008, we isolated 412 phenazine-producing (Phz) fluorescent Pseudomonas strains from roots of dryland wheat and barley grown in the low-precipitation region (<350 mm annual precipitation) of central Washington State. Based on results of BOX-PCR genomic fingerprinting analysis, these isolates, as well as the model biocontrol Phz strain P. fluorescens 2-79, were assigned to 31 distinct genotypes separated into four clusters. All of the isolates exhibited high 16S rDNA sequence similarity to members of the P. fluorescens species complex including Pseudomonas orientalis, Pseudomonas gessardii, Pseudomonas libanensis, and Pseudomonas synxantha. Further recA-based sequence analyses revealed that the majority of new Phz isolates (386 of 413) form a clade distinctly separated from P. fluorescens 2-79. Analysis of phzF alleles, however, revealed that the majority of those isolates (280 of 386) carried phenazine biosynthesis genes similar to those of P fluorescens 2-79. phzF-based analyses also revealed that phenazine genes were under purifying selection and showed evidence of intracluster recombination. Phenotypic analyses using Biolog substrate utilization and observations of phenazine-1-carboxylic acid production showed considerable variability amongst members of all four clusters. Biodiversity indices indicated significant differences in diversity and evenness between the sampled sites. In summary, this study revealed a genotypically and phenotypically diverse group of phenazine producers with a population structure not seen before in indigenous rhizosphere-inhabiting Phz Pseudomonas spp.
4251270| Bacterial biomass, secondary production, and extracellular enzymatic activity [-glucosidase and leucine-aminopeptidase, measured as cleavage of artificial fluorogenic substrates 4-methyl umbelliferyl (MVF) -D-glucopyranoside and L-leucine 7-amido-4-methyl coumarin (MCA)] were measured along a trophic gradient in the Northern Adriatic Sea in four ecologically different situations. Bacterial parameters were compared with chlorophyll a and inorganic and organic nutrient concentrations. Bacterial secondary production and extracellular enzymatic activity markedly changed among different seasons and along the trophic gradient. Average bacterial secondary production increased from 0.61 to 2.09 g
4250419| The toxicity of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) to the diatom Thalassiosira pseudonana (formerly Cyclotella nana), grown in pure and mixed cultures, was greatest when in competition with other species. Continuous cultures were superior to batch cultures for studying competitive interactions, and PCB caused greater alteration of species composition in continuous cultures than it did in batch cultures. Natural phytoplankton communities from Vineyard Sound, maintained in continuous culture, responded to PCB stress the same as did gnotobiotic communities, with T. pseudonana showing similar responses in both communities. A PCB concentration of 0.1 g/liter (0.1 part per billion), a level not uncommon in natural waters, did not affect algal growth in pure cultures but caused substantial disruption of continuous culture communities. The possible impact of PCB pollution on natural phytoplankton communities is discussed. 
4250622|Volatile compounds exuded from axenically grown free-living nematodes were determined with gas chromatographic and mass spectrometric techniques. Carbon dioxide evolved from 5-200 nematodes was determined with an ampoule technique, whereas total ammonia (
4250431|The initial rate of phosphorus uptake by phosphorus-limited cells of Corynebacterium bovis grown in batch culture and in a chemostat was measured with [
41489186|Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis is a robust method for characterizing soil microbial communities. We determined the effects of extraction solvent (chloroform vs dichloromethane) and buffer (phosphate vs citrate) on the yield and the profile of PLFAs extracted from an acidic (pH 5.5) and an alkaline (pH 8.6) soil following two 2-h sequential extractions. The yield and the profile of the PLFAs obtained separately by the first and the second 2-h extraction were compared to identify the impact of sequential extractions on the PLFA extraction efficiency. Chloroform-citrate and a 2  2-h extraction maximized PLFA yields in both soils. Multivariate analysis of the data showed that the choice of the extraction mixture did not significantly influence the profile of the PLFAs obtained by the first 2-h extraction, whereas it had a profound effect on the profile of the PLFAs obtained by the second 2-h extraction. Most PLFAs were extracted during the first extraction except 18:26,9 and 22:0 which were almost equally extracted by the two sequential extractions. The choice of organic solvent significantly influenced the profile of the PLFAs extracted; their yield increased with chloroform with the exception of 18:26,9 and 22:0 which were favored by dichloromethane. Overall, a 2  2-h extraction with chloroform/methanol/citrate is expected to provide maximum PLFA yields.
40926444|The exploration of spatial patterns of abundance and diversity patterns along precipitation gradients has focused for centuries on plants and animals; microbial profiles along such gradients are largely unknown. We studied the effects of soil pH, nutrient concentration, salinity, and water content on bacterial abundance and diversity in soils collected from Mediterranean, semi-arid, and arid sites receiving approximately 400, 300, and 100 mm annual precipitation, respectively. Bacterial diversity was evaluated by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and clone library analyses and the patterns obtained varied with the climatic regions. Over 75% of the sequenced clones were unique to their environment, while ~2% were shared by all sites, yet, the Mediterranean and semi-arid sites had more common clones (~9%) than either had with the arid site (4.7% and 6%, respectively). The microbial abundance, estimated by phospholipid fatty acids and real-time quantitative PCR assays, was significantly lower in the arid region. Our results indicate that although soil bacterial abundance decreases with precipitation, bacterial diversity is independent of precipitation gradient. Furthermore, community composition was found to be unique to each ecosystem.
25256149|A web-based resource, Microbial Community Analysis (MiCA), has been developed to facilitate studies on microbial community ecology that use analyses of terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphisms (T-RFLP) of 16S and 18S rRNA genes. MiCA provides an intuitive web interface to access two specialized programs and a specially formatted database of 16S ribosomal RNA sequences. The first program performs virtual polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of rRNA genes and restriction of the amplicons using primer sequences and restriction enzymes chosen by the user. This program, in silico PCR and Restriction (ISPaR), uses a binary encoding of DNA sequences to rapidly scan large numbers of sequences in databases searching for primer annealing and restriction sites while permitting the user to specify the number of mismatches in primer sequences. ISPaR supports multiple digests with up to three enzymes. The number of base pairs between the 5' and 3' primers and the proximal restriction sites can be reported, printed, or exported in various formats. The second program, APLAUS, infers a plausible community structure(s) based on T-RFLP data supplied by a user. APLAUS estimates the relative abundances of populations and reports a listing of phylotypes that are consistent with the empirical data. MiCA is accessible at http://mica.ibest.uidaho.edu/.
40926456|Seasonal changes in the mineralization of organic compounds in sediments were investigated in temperate, sublittoral zone sediments (Tokyo Bay, Japan). The total mineralization rate and sulfate reduction rate showed large seasonal variations over the year, and although the fluctuations in both rates correlated with temperature, the latter was irregularly high in May. The concentration of organic carbon dissolved in interstitial water was specifically high in April. A culture-based experiment was also conducted under temperatures corresponding to the seasonal changes. In the culture incubated at a temperature corresponding to April (13 C), hydrolysis and fermentation proceeded, but terminal oxidation was hindered, thereby resulting in acetate accumulation. At a temperature corresponding to May (22 C), acetate oxidation coupled with sulfate reduction was observed. The temperature-related differences were also reflected in the bacterial community structure in the cultures analyzed by DGGE. In the culture incubated at the lower temperature, sulfate-reducing bacterium of incomplete oxidizer was detected, while sequence found in the culture incubated at the higher temperature was related to complete oxidizers. These results suggest that complete and incomplete-oxidizing sulfate-reducing bacteria act as distinct functional groups, responding to temperature in different ways, particularly in environments characterized by large temperature fluctuations.
4250657| Taxonomic diversity, physiological tolerance ranges, and nutrient utilization capabilities were determined for bacterial communities in Gulf of Alaska surface waters and sediments. Taxonomic diversity was assessed using Shannon Weaver (H) and equitability (J) indices. Physiological tolerance and nutritional versatility indices were developed to further assess the state of "informational heterogeneity" within the bacterial communities. The Gulf of Alaska bacterial communities were characteristically diverse; the bacterial populations in these marine ecosystems generally were eurytolerant and nutritionally versatile. The maintenance of a high degree of informational heterogeneity was found to be characteristic of these bacterial communities. It appears to be of adaptive advantage to maintain diverse populations with physiological tolerances whose ranges exceed those experienced within the natural habitat, and for the bacterial communities to possess a high degree of nutritional versatility within these marine ecosystems. 
25256197|To collect information about the genetic diversity of the plankton community and to study how plankton respond to environmental conditions, plankton samples were collected from five stations representing different trophic levels in a shallow, eutrophic lake (Lake Donghu), and investigated by PCR-DGGE fingerprinting. A total of 100 bands (61 of 16S rDNA bands and 39 of 18S rDNA bands) were detected. The DGGE bands unique to any single station accounted for 38% of the total bands, whereas common bands detected at all five stations accounted for only 11%. Using UPGMA clustering and MDS ordination of DGGE fingerprints, stations I and II were found to initially group together into one cluster, which was later joined by station V. Stations III and IV were isolated into two separate groups of one station each. Some differences in grouping relationships were found when analysis was completed on the basis of chemical characteristics and morphological composition, with zooplankton composition showing the greatest variability. However, the most similar stations (I and II) were always initially grouped into one cluster. Moreover, stations that exhibited the same or similar trophic level (stations III and IV), but different concentrations of heavy metals, were further differentiated by the DGGE method. Results of the present study indicated that PCR-DGGE fingerprinting was more sensitive than the traditional methods, as other studies suggested. Additionally, PCR-DGGE appears to be more appropriate for diversity characterization of the plankton community, as it is more canonical, systematic, and effective. Most importantly, fingerprinting results are more convenient for the comparative analyses between different studies. Therefore, the use of the described fingerprinting analysis may provide an operable and sensitive biomonitoring approach to identify critical, and potentially negative, stress within an aquatic ecosystem.
40802168|From July to December 2006, a panel of 401 enterococci was isolated from carcass rinse samples collected in five poultry processing plants in New Zealand. Agar diffusion assays for nine antibacterial drugs were used to obtain a resistance phenotype for each isolate. Hierarchical clustering techniques and diversity indices showed a high diversity of resistance phenotypes within each plant, with populations of "Enterococcus faecalis" showing greater heterogeneity than "Enterococcus faecium". Bayesian modelling identified three clusters of phenotype patterns within the panel: the "E. faecium" isolates showed a high probability of containing two distinct clusters, whilst the "E. faecalis" isolates all grouped together to form the third cluster. The validity of these three clusters was examined using pairwise fixation indices and analysis of variance. Comparing the three clusters to the structure of the participating companies showed that resistance phenotypes for "E. faecium" isolated from processing plants that were geographically separated but were operated by the same integrated poultry company were more similar than "E. faecium" isolated from unconnected companies. Company-level management factors, such as the routine use of antibacterial drugs and the genetic line of birds reared, mirrored the structure of these clusters, thus indicating that company-level factors were the dominant selective pressures upon resistance phenotypes across all operating units within these integrated poultry companies.
40343345|Testate amoebae play an important role at the very first beginning of succession on land. We used litterbags buried into four different soils to study the early colonization (which occurred within less than 55 days) and establishment of testate amoebae. The litterbag cellulose exposed at the youngest mining site poor in nitrogen and phosphorus was colonized firstly in high abundances, whereas the substrate introduced into the reference sites of undisturbed soil was colonized slowly and in low densities. Besides the (expected) small-sized r-strategists (e.g., Euglypha rotunda, Tracheleuglypha dentata, and Trinema lineare), large-sized K-strategists (e.g., Centropyxis spp., Phryganella acropodia) occurred in remarkably high densities on all sites. Species that colonized the cellulose in high densities (e.g., P. acropodia and T. dentata) were found extremely rarely in the adjacent source substrate and vice versa, stressing the importance of the target substrate quality. In the course of the experiment, the influencing environmental factors became more complex, as shown by redundancy analysis (RDA). Concerning the amoebal community, there was a change from variability to stability, as visualized by cluster analysis. Adjacent litterbags within an investigation site revealed amoebal species and abundances with an increasing similarity during exposition time, whereas the litterbags between the four investigation sites were colonized differently. These observations point to a stochastic (variable) beginning of community assembly, changing to a more deterministic (stable) course. No species replacement has been observed, which is an essential part of most successional theories. Thus, the more flexible concept of "community assembly" should be considered instead of "succession" for protozoa. The stochastic beginning of community assembly and the lack of species replacement are explained by a neutral community model.
4250498|Bacterial consumption of CO, a major atmospheric pollutant, has been described in the literature long ago, but often with controversial data. Attempts were made, therefore, to isolate and study a broader spectrum of aerobic CO bacteria in order to better understand their ecology. About 100 samples from various locations in the USSR (water, mud, junkyard, or garden, soil etc.) were inoculated into mineral medium and incubated under 80% CO and 20% O
25153043|The Multi-Analyte Array Biosensor (MAAB) has been developed at the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) with the goal of simultaneously detecting and identifying multiple target agents in complex samples with minimal user manipulation. This paper will focus on recent improvements in the biochemical and engineering aspects of this instrument. These improvements have enabled the expansion of the repertoire of analytes detected to include Salmonella typhimurium and Listeria monocytogenes, and also expanded the different sample matrices tested. Furthermore, all components of the biochemical assays could be prepared well in advance of sample testing, resulting in a "plug-and-play" methodology. Simultaneous detection of three toxins (ricin, staphylococcal enterotoxin B, and cholera toxin) was demonstrated using a novel fluidics cube module that limits the number of manipulations to only the initial sample loading. This work demonstrates the utility of the MAAB for rapid analysis of complex samples with multianalyte capability, with a minimum of operator manipulations required for either sample preparation or final analysis.
25256222|Despite the importance of peatlands as a major store of sequestered carbon and the role of fungi in releasing sequestered C, we know little about the community structure of fungi in peatlands. We investigated these across a gradient of naturally regenerating peatland vegetation using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and clone libraries of fragments of the fungal rRNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region. Significant changes in the fungal community structure of peat samples at different stages of regeneration were observed, which relate to the composition of the vegetation recolonizing these sites. Cloning and sequence analysis also demonstrated a potential shift in the relative abundance of the main fungal phyla. Some of the clones identified to genus level were highly related to fungi known to play a role in the degradation of plant litter or wood in similar ecosystems and/or form mycorrhizal associations. In addition, several fungal isolates highly related to peat clones were obtained, and their enzymic capacity to degrade structural plant tissues was assessed. Together, these results suggest that the fungal community composition of peat may be an important indicator of the status of regeneration and potential carbon sequestration of cutover peatlands.
4287592| Generally, only a small fraction of free-living pelagic bacteria are metabolically active, while particle-associated bacteria usually exhibit a larger proportion of active bacteria. Most previous studies on the active fraction of bacteria focus on planktonic communities, and there are only a few studies on sediment and epiphytic biofilm bacteria. We compared the active fraction of the total number of bacteria in three different habitats of the littoral zone of Lake Erken, Sweden, including the sediments, the epiphytic biofilm on the submerged macrophyte Ranunculus circinatus, and the water column. Active bacteria were detected as those with an active electron transport system, identified by the capacity to reduce the tetrazolium salt CTC (5-cyano-2,3-ditolyltetrazolium chloride) into its fluorescent, water insoluble state. There were large differences between habitats. The active fraction of the total number of bacteria detected by fluorescence microscopy (annual mean  SD) in the sediments was 46  10%, on R. circinatus 37  18%, and in the water column 4  4%. The abundance of CTC-reducing cells was correlated with total bacterial abundance, and the fraction of CTC-reducing bacteria generally increased with total bacterial abundance, for all the habitats. Consequently, the difference in the fraction of CTC-reducing bacteria between the habitats could be attributed to different densities of bacteria, with a larger proportion of active bacteria at higher bacterial densities. 
23597808|Knowing the bacterial community, as well as understanding how it changes during a hydrological pulse, is very important to understand nutrient cycles in floodplain systems. The bacterial community structure was analyzed in the 12 sites of upper Paran River floodplain, and its changes during a flood pulse were described. In order to understand how high and low water phases change bacterial community by changing abiotical variables, the bacterial community distribution was determined in superficial water of 12 different sampling stations, every 3 months, from December 2010 to September 2011. The bacterial community structure and diversity was analyzed by fluorescent in situ hybridization, considering the main domains Bacteria and Archaea and the subdivisions of the phylum Proteobacteria (Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, and Gammaproteobacteria) and the CytophagaFlavobacterium cluster. Smaller densities were observed on ebb and low water periods and the highest density was observed in March 2011. The high water period caused a decrease in diversity because of the lost of equitability. The highest values of ShannonWiener index were found on December 2010 and September 2011. The nutrients runoff to the aquatic environments of the floodplain promoted an increase in the total bacterial density during the high water phase as well as changes in bacterial community composition. The bacterial community presented both spatial and temporal differences. Yet, temporal changes in limnological characteristics of the floodplain were the most important predictor of bacterial community and also influenced its diversity.
4287614| Forefields of two receding glaciers were sampled along either a 150 or 200 m long transect at identical spatial intervals for assessment of soil microbial activity and community diversity trends. The forefields belonged to the Dammaglacier (forefield area is 157 ha, 2000 m above sea level) and Rotfirnglacier (100 ha, 2200 m) and at the time of sampling were receding at an estimated rate of 8 and 10 m yr
4287526|We investigated the conditions promoting toluene biodegradation for gasoline-contaminated near-surface (0.6 m depth) and subsurface (4.7 to 5.0 m depth) vadose zone soils sampled from an arid environment. At both depths, water addition was required for toluene biodegradation to occur. In near-surface samples, no inorganic nutrient addition was necessary and (i) biodegradation was fastest at 0.0 MPa, (ii) biodegradation rates decreased with decreasing water potential down to -1.0 MPa, and (iii) biodegradation was undetectable at -1.5 MPa. For subsurface material, toluene depletion was stimulated either by slurrying with a nutrient solution or by adjusting the moisture content to 20% (0.0 MPa) with nutrient solution and lowering the oxygen concentration (to effectively 1 mg L
4251098|Bacterial floras isolated from eggs, skin, gills, and intestines have been described for a limited number of fish species. Generally, the range of bacterial genera isolated is related to the aquatic habitat of the fish and varies with factors such as the salinity of the habitat and the bacterial load in the water. In many investigations, identification of isolates to the genus level only makes it difficult to determine the precise relationships of aquatic and fish microfloras. Bacteria recovered from the skin and gills may be transient rather than resident on the fish surfaces. Microfloras of fish intestines appear to vary with the complexity of the fish digestive system. The genera present in the gut generally seem to be those from the environment or diet which can survive and multiply in the intestinal tract, although there is evidence for a distinct intestinal microflora in some species. While obligate anaerobes have been recovered from carp and tilapia intestines, low ambient temperatures may prevent colonization by anaerobes in species such as rainbow trout.
4251351|The depth distributions of anaerobic microbial methane production and potential aerobic microbial methane oxidation were assessed at several sites in both Sphagnum- and sedge-dominated boreal peatlands in Sweden, and compared with net methane emissions from the same sites. Production and oxidation of methane were measured in peat slurries, and emissions were measured with the closed-chamber technique. Over all eleven sites sampled, production was, on average, highest 12 cm below the depth of the average water table. On the other hand, highest potential oxidation of methane coincided with the depth of the average water table. The integrated production rate in the 0-60 cm interval ranged between 0.05 and 1.7 g
25153053|A specific 16S rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probe (PIR1223) for the genus Pirellula and a species-specific probe (RB454) for Pirellula sp. strain SH1 have been designed and optimized. Together with the already existing order-specific probe PLA886, the two newly designed probes were used to detect and identify planctomycetes, pirellulae, and close relatives of Pirellula sp. strain SH1 in different habitats. With the help of these probes for detection and identification, bacteria of the genus Pirellula were detected and cultivated from tissue of the Mediterranean sponge Aplysina aerophoba and from the water column of the Kiel Fjord. An unexpected result was the close phylogenetic relationship of the isolate from the sponge and the brackish water habitat Kiel Fjord as revealed by DNA/DNA hybridization.
4250728|Among the more recently discovered agents of human disease are small, free-living amebae belonging to the genera Naegleria and Acanthamoeba. An overview of the distribution of Acanthamoeba in recent surveys of the near shore waters of the northeastern United States is presented. There appears to be a particular association between the presence of Acanthamoeba in marine sediments and the sites of oceanic sludge dumping. Amebae belonging to the genus Naegleria have not been isolated from these marine sediments which routinely yielded Acanthamoeba. Starch gel electrophoretic analysis of enzymes suggests that some isolates of Acanthamoeba from oceanic sludge dump-sites are not members of previously recognized pathogenic species.
4250894|Adhesion of the hydrophilic Leptospira biflexa serovar patoc 1 (L. patoc) was consistently greater on inert hydrophobic surfaces than on hydrophilic surfaces (glass and plastic). When inert substrata were coated with fetal calf serum (FCS) or bovine serum albumin fraction V (BSA), however, surface hydrophobicity was reduced compared to untreated surfaces, but adhesion of L. patoc increased. The mechanism of adhesion at protein-coated surfaces is likely to be different than that at untreated surfaces, but it is suggested that the adhesion is nonspecific, as the level of adhesion is similar for different protein coatings. Increased adhesion to FCS- and BSA-coated surfaces was apparently not associated with substrate utilization (scavenging of fatty acids) from the coatings, as essentially fatty acid-free BSA-coated surfaces had similar levels of adhesion. The presence of FCS in the diluent lowered the adhesion of L. patoc regardless of the original nature of the substratum. This may result from the mutual repulsion of the bacterium and the substratum caused by the exclusion volumes of similar macromolecules adsorbed to both surfaces from the FCS solution.
4251675| It is often hypothesized that those organisms that are superior competitors for sparse resources fare poorly in competition for abundant resources, and vice versa. If there is indeed such a systematic trade-off, then this has important implications for the choice of bacterial strains in bioremediation and other applications. We studied seven bacterial strains that can grow on either 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate (2,4-D) or succinate as a sole source of carbon. Growth rates were measured on each substrate at both low (5 g/ml) and high (500 g/ml) concentrations. We used two different methods to test the significance of correlations among growth rates, a traditional method that treats each strain as an independent observation and a newer method that takes into account phylogenetic relationships between strains, thereby avoiding spurious correlations caused by a lack of statistical independence of strains. In both 2,4-D and succinate, we observed significant positive correlations between growth rates measured at high and low substrate concentrations by the traditional comparative method. No significant correlations were detected after adjusting for the phylogenetic relationships among the strains. In neither case did we observe the negative correlation expected from a trade-off between growth rates at high and low substrate levels. 
27770582|A cultivation-based assessment of endophytic bacteria present in deep-seated shoot tips of banana suckers was made with a view to generate information on the associated organisms, potential endophytic contaminants in tissue-cultured bananas and to assess if the endophytes shared a beneficial relationship with the host. Plating the tissue homogenate from the central core of suckers showed colony growth on nutrient agar from just 75% and 42% of the 12 stocks during May and November, respectively (average 58%; 610 3 colony-forming units per gram), yielding diverse organisms belonging to firmicutes (Bacillus, Brevibacillus, Paenibacillus, Virgibacillus, Staphylococcus spp.), actinobacteria (Cellulomonas, Micrococcus, Corynebacterium, Kocuria spp.), -proteobacteria (Paracoccus sp.), and -proteobacteria (Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter spp.). Each shoot tip showed one to three different organisms and no specific organism appeared common to different sucker tips. Tissue homogenate from shoot tips including the ones that did not yield culturable bacteria displayed abundant bacterial cells during microscopic examination suggesting that a high proportion of cells were in viable-but-nonculturable state, or their cultivation requirements were not met. Direct application of cultivation-independent approach to study endophytic bacterial community using bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA universal primers resulted in high interference from chloroplast and mitochondrial genome sequences. Dislodging the bacterial cells from shoot tips that did not show cultivable bacteria and incubating the tissue crush in dilute-nutrient broth led to the activation of four organisms (Klebsiella, Agrobacterium, Pseudacidovorax spp., and an unidentified isolate). The endophytic organisms in general showed better growth at 3037 C compared with 25 C, and the growth of endophytes as well as pathogenic Erwinia carotovora were promoted with the supply of host tissue extract (HTE) while that of the isolates from nonplant sources were inhibited or unaffected by HTE, suggesting an affinity or dependence of the endophytes on the host and the prospect of an HTE-based assay for discriminating the nonendophytes from endophytes.
4250832|Yeast communities in necroses of organpipe cactus (Stenocereus thurberi) were surveyed at 3 localities in Arizona. Quantitative analysis of random samples allows comparisons of the types and numbers of yeasts at 3 levels: within plants, between plants within a locality, and between localities. The analysis shows that the major source of variability is between plants. This pattern is identical with the pattern shown by agria cactus (Stenocereus gummosus) and is thought to be due to sampling different successional stages. No significant differences in estimates of the effective number of yeast species (ENS) in agria and organpipe samples were found. Comparisons of agria, organpipe, and prickly pear (Opuntia) cacti support the hypothesis that cactus chemistry is an important determinant of the yeast community structure which, in turn, is an important determinant of the diversity of Drosophila species which utilize necrotic cacti as feeding and breeding substrates.
27770605|Dinitrogen-fixing organisms in cyanobacterial mats were studied in two shallow coral reef ecosystems: La Reunion Island, southwestern Indian Ocean, Sesoko (Okinawa) Island, and northwestern Pacific Ocean. Rapidly expanding benthic miniblooms, frequently dominated by a single cyanobacterial taxon, were identified by microscopy and molecular tools. In addition, nitrogenase activity by these blooms was measured in situ. Dinitrogen fixation and its contribution to mat primary production were calculated using 15 N 2 and 13 C methods. Dinitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria from mats in La Reunion and Sesoko showed few differences in taxonomic composition. Anabaena sp. among heterocystous and Hydrocoleum majus and Symploca hydnoides among nonheterocystous cyanobacteria occurred in microbial mats of both sites. Oscillatoria bonnemaisonii and Leptolyngbya spp. occurred only in La Reunion, whereas Hydrocoleum coccineum dominated in Sesoko. Other mats dominated by Hydrocoleum lyngbyaceum, Phormidium laysanense, and Trichocoleus tenerrimus occurred at lower frequencies. The 24-h nitrogenase activity, as measured by acetylene reduction, varied between 11 and 324 nmoles C 2 H 2 reduced g 1 Chl a. The highest values were achieved by heterocystous Anabaena sp. performed mostly during the day. Highest values for nonheterocystous cyanobacteria were achieved by H. coccineum mostly during the night. Daily nitrogen fixation varied from nine (Leptolyngbya) to 238 nmoles N 2 g 1 Chl day 1 (H. coccineum). Primary production rates ranged from 1,321 (S. hydnoides) to 9,933 nmoles C g 1 Chl day 1 (H. coccineum). Dinitrogen fixation satisfied between 5% and 21% of the nitrogen required for primary production.
4250556|The relative importance of three environmental variables known to influence the rate of bacterial sulfate reduction was examined using sediment from a saltmarsh pan. The variables investigated were temperature, electron donor concentration, and electron acceptor concentration. Their relative influence on the rate of bacterial sulfate reduction was examined with multiple replicate sediment samples in which the variables were experimentally adjusted. Sulfate reduction rates were measured with
23361675|The concentration of CO 2 in the Earth's atmosphere has increased over the last century. Although this increase is unlikely to have direct effects on soil microbial communities, increased atmospheric CO 2 may impact soil ecosystems indirectly through plant responses. This study tested the hypothesis that exposure of plants to elevated CO 2 would impact soil microorganisms responsible for key nitrogen cycling processes, specifically denitrification and nitrification. We grew trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) trees in outdoor chambers under ambient (360 ppm) or elevated (720 ppm) levels of CO 2 for 5 years and analyzed the microbial communities in the soils below the trees using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and clone library sequencing targeting the nitrite reductase (nirK) and ammonia monooxygenase (amoA) genes. We observed a more than twofold increase in copy numbers of nirK and a decrease in nirK diversity with CO 2 enrichment, with an increased predominance of Bradyrhizobia-like nirK sequences. We suggest that this dramatic increase in nirK-containing bacteria may have contributed to the significant loss of soil N in the CO 2 -treated chambers. Elevated CO 2 also resulted in a significant decrease in copy numbers of bacterial amoA, but no change in archaeal amoA copy numbers. The decrease in abundance of bacterial amoA was likely a result of the loss of soil N in the CO 2 -treated chambers, while the lack of response for archaeal amoA supports the hypothesis that physiological differences in these two groups of ammonia oxidizers may enable them to occupy distinct ecological niches and respond differently to environmental change.
27770574|Many cyanobacteria produce cyanotoxins, which has been well documented from freshwater environments but not investigated to the same extent in marine environments. Cyanobacteria are an obligate component of the polymicrobial disease of corals known as black band disease (BBD). Cyanotoxins were previously shown to be present in field samples of BBD and in a limited number of BBD cyanobacterial cultures. These toxins were suggested as one of the mechanisms contributing to BBD-associated coral tissue lysis and death. In this work, we tested nine cyanobacterial isolates from BBD and additionally nine isolated from non-BBD marine sources for their ability to produce toxins. The presence of toxins was determined using cell extracts of laboratory grown cyanobacterial cultures using ELISA and the PP2A assay. Based on these tests, it was shown that cyanobacterial toxins belonging to the microcystin/nodularin group were produced by cyanobacteria originating from both BBD and non-BBD sources. Several environmental factors that can be encountered in the highly dynamic microenvironment of BBD were tested for their effect on both cyanobacterial growth yield and rate of toxin production using two of the BBD isolates of the genera Leptolyngbya and Geitlerinema. While toxin production was the highest under mixotrophic conditions (light and glucose) for the Leptolyngbya isolate, it was highest under photoautotrophic conditions for the Geitlerinema isolate. Our results show that toxin production among marine cyanobacteria is more widespread than previously documented, and we present data showing three marine cyanobacterial genera (Phormidium, Pseudanabaena, and Spirulina) are newly identified as cyanotoxin producers. We also show that cyanotoxin production by BBD cyanobacteria can be affected by environmental factors that are present in the microenvironment associated with this coral disease.
40343432|The rhizosphere is an ecosystem exploited by a variety of organisms involved in plant health and environmental sustainability. Abiotic factors influence microorganism-plant interactions, but the microbial community is also affected by expression of heterologous genes from host plants. In the present work, we assessed the community shifts of Alphaproteobacteria phylogenetically related to the Rhizobiales order (Rhizobiales-like community) in rhizoplane and rhizosphere soils of wild-type and transgenic eucalyptus. A greenhouse experiment was performed and the bacterial communities associated with two wild-type (WT17 and WT18) and four transgenic (TR-9, TR-15, TR-22, and TR-23) eucalyptus plant lines were evaluated. The culture-independent approach consisted of the quantification, by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), of a targeted subset of Alphaproteobacteria and the assessment of its diversity using PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and 16S rRNA gene clone libraries. Realtime quantification revealed a lesser density of the targeted community in TR-9 and TR-15 plants and diversity analysis by principal components analysis, based on PCR-DGGE, revealed differences between bacterial communities, not only between transgenic and nontransgenic plants, but also among wild-type plants. The comparison between clone libraries obtained from the transgenic plant TR-15 and wild-type WT17 revealed distinct bacterial communities associated with these plants. In addition, a culturable approach was used to quantify the Methylobacterium spp. in the samples where the identification of isolates, based on 16S rRNA gene sequences, showed similarities to the species Methylobacterium nodulans, Methylobacterium isbiliense, Methylobacterium variable, Methylobacterium fujisawaense, and Methylobacterium radiotolerans. Colonies classified into this genus were not isolated from the rhizosphere but brought in culture from rhizoplane samples, except for one line of the transgenic plants (TR-15). In general, the data suggested that, in most cases, shifts in bacterial communities due to cultivation of transgenic plants are similar to those observed when different wild-type cultivars are compared, although shifts directly correlated to transgenic plant cultivation may be found.
4251648| The aim of this microcosm study was to determine influence of the antibiotic 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (DAPG) on the effect of wild-type and functionally modified Pseudomonas fluorescens F113 strains in a sandy loam soil of pH 5.4 planted with pea (Pisum sativum var Montana). The functional modification of strain F113 was a repressed production of DAPG, useful in plant disease control, creating the DAPG negative strain F113 G22; both were marked with a lacZY gene cassette. Lowering the soil pH to 4.4 significantly reduced the plant shoot and root weights and the root length, whereas the bacterial inocula had no significant effect. Both inocula significantly reduced the shoot/root ratio at pH 5.4, but this effect was not evident at the lowered or elevated (6.4) pH levels. The decrease in pH significantly increased the fungal and yeast colony-forming units from the rhizosphere (root extract), but did not affect the total bacterial c.f.u.'s. Inoculation with strain F113 in the pH 4.4 soil resulted in a significantly greater total bacterial population. The fungal and yeast c.f.u.'s were not significantly affected by the inocula at any pH studied. Increasing the pH significantly increased the indigenous Pseudomonas population in comparison to the reduced pH treatment and significantly increased both the introduced and total Pseudomonas populations. The antibiotic producing strain significantly reduced the total bacterial population and the NAGase activity (related to fungal activity) at pH 6.4 where the inocula population was the greatest. Alkaline phosphatase, phosphodiesterase, aryl sulfatase, -glucosidase, alkaline -galactosidase, and NAGase activities significantly increased with increasing in pH. The F113 inocula reduced the acid phosphatase activity at pH 5.4 and increased the acid -galactosidase activity over all the pH treatments. The results presented illustrate the variation in impact with soil pH, with implications for variability in efficacy of Pseudomonas fluorescens biocontrol agents with soil pH. 
4251555| In the absence of inhibitory concentrations of copper, the photoautotrophic growth of Chlorella vulgaris INETI58C at 27C exhibited a higher specific growth rate and reached a higher maximal concentration of biomass, under irradiance of 150 W m
23597825|Rodents affect soil microbial communities by burrow architecture, diet composition, and foraging behavior. We examined the effect of desert rodents on nitrogen-fixing bacteria (NFB) communities by identifying bacteria colony-forming units (CFU) and measuring nitrogen fixation rates (ARA), denitrification (DA), and CO 2 emission in soil from burrows of three gerbil species differing in diets. Psammomys obesus is folivorous, Meriones crassus is omnivorous, consuming green vegetation and seeds, and Dipodillus dasyurus is predominantly granivorous. We also identified NFB in the digestive tract of each rodent species and in Atriplex halimus and Anabasis articulata, dominant plants at the study site. ARA rates of soil from burrows of the rodent species were similar, and substantially lower than control soil, but rates of DA and CO 2 emission differed significantly among burrows. Highest rates of DA and CO 2 emission were measured in D. dasyurus burrows and lowest in P. obesus. CFU differed among bacteria isolates, which reflected dietary selection. Strains of cellulolytic representatives of the family Myxococcaceae and the genus Cytophaga dominated burrows of P. obesus, while enteric Bacteroides dominated burrows of D. dasyurus. Burrows of M. crassus contained both cellulolytic and enteric bacteria. Using discriminant function analysis, differences were revealed among burrow soils of all rodent species and control soil, and the two axes accounted for 91 % of the variance in bacterial occurrences. Differences in digestive tract bacterial occurrences were found among these rodent species. Bacterial colonies in P. obesus and M. crassus burrows were related to bacteria of A. articulata, the main plant consumed by both species. In contrast, bacteria colonies in the burrow soil of D. dasyurus were related to bacteria in its digestive tract. We concluded that gerbils play an important role as ecosystem engineers within their burrow environment and affect the microbial complex of the nitrogen-fixing organisms in soils.
25256227|The ectomycorrhizal symbiosis alters the physicochemical and biological conditions in the surrounding soil, thus creating a particular environment called ectomycorrhizosphere, which selects microbial communities suspected to play a role in gross production and nutrient cycling. To assess the ectomycorrhizosphere effect on the structure of microbial communities potentially involved in the mobilization of nutrients from the soil minerals in a poor-nutrient environment, we compared the functional diversity of soil and ectomycorrhizosphere bacterial communities in a forest stand. Two hundred and sixty-four bacterial strains and 107 fungal strains were isolated from the bulk soil of an oak (Quercus petraea) stand and from oak-Scleroderma citrinum ectomycorrhizosphere and ectomycorrhizae, in two soil organomineral horizons (0 to 3 cm and 5 to 10 cm). They were characterized using two in vitro tests related to their capacities to mobilize iron and phosphorus. We demonstrated that the oak-S. citrinum ectomycorrhizosphere significantly structures the culturable bacterial communities in the two soil horizons by selecting very efficient strains for phosphorus and iron mobilization. This effect was also observed on the diversity of the phosphate-solubilizing fungal communities in the lower soil horizon. A previous study already demonstrated that Laccaria bicolor-Douglas fir ectomycorrhizosphere structures the functional diversity of Pseudomonas fluorescens population in a forest nursery soil. Comparing to it, our work highlights the consistency of the mycorrhizosphere effect on the functional diversity of bacterial and fungal communities in relation to the mineral weathering process, no matter the fungal symbiont, the age and species of the host tree, or the environment (nursery vs forest). We also demonstrated that the intensity of phosphorus and iron mobilization by the ectomycorrhizosphere bacteria isolated from the lower soil horizon was significantly higher compared to that which was isolated from the upper horizon. This reveals for the first time a stratification of the functional diversity of the culturable soil bacterial communities as related to phosphorus and iron mobilization.
4251757| Zonations of photosynthesis and photopigments in artificial cyanobacterial mats were studied with (i) oxygen and pH microsensors, (ii) fiber-optic microprobes for field radiance, scalar irradiance, and PSII fluorescence, and (iii) a light microscope equipped with a spectrometer for spectral absorbance and fluorescence measurements. Our analysis revealed the presence of several distinct 1-2 mm thick cyanobacterial layers mixed with patches of anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria. Strong attenuation of visible light confined the euphotic zone to the uppermost 3 mm of the mat, where oxygen levels of 3-4 times air saturation and a pH peak of up to pH 8.8 were observed under saturating irradiance (413 mol photon m
4251287|A wide variety of naturally occurring bacteria cannot be isolated by classical microbiological methods, hindering study of microbial communities. To partially remove this limitation, a method using optical trapping was developed. It allows for one-step isolation of bacteria from a complex community to a pure culture. The method transfers a single bacterium to sterile culture medium using a non-destructive laser beam. The ease with which a previously unculturable cell was cultured by trapping suggests that competition may limit growth in some natural communities of bacteria.
4251165| Five transposon Tn5 insertion mutants of a bean Rhizobium strain (Rhizobium leguminosarum b.v. phaseoli) were used in an ecological study to evaluate the extent to which transposon Tn5 was stable to serve as an identifiable marker in rhizobia under a high temperature stress condition in two Sonoran Desert soils. All the mutants possessed single chromosomal insertions of the transposon. In both soils, under the temperature stress conditions that were employed (40C), both wild type and mutant populations possessing functional transposable elements declined rapidly. After 12 days, mutant cells, when screened using the Tn5 coded antibiotic resistance markers, were significantly less in number than when they were screened using only their intrinsic antibiotic resistance markers. There were no significant differences in numbers between the mutant cell population and the wild type when the mutant cells were screened using only the intrinsic antibiotic resistance markers. DNA-DNA hybridizations using a probe indicated neither deletion nor transposition of the transposable element. The results indicate that transposon DNA sequences are present within cells under high temperature stress conditions, but kanamycin/neomycin resistance is not expressed by some of these cells, suggesting that Tn5 undergoes a possible functional inactivation under these conditions. The possible implications of these findings are discussed. 
4250583|Budding and prosthecate bacteria were enumerated in spring and summer by viable counting procedures in several freshwater habitats in Australia including oligotrophic lakes, a mesotrophic lake, and eutrophic ponds. Caulobacter spp. were the most numerous type encountered. They were present in the highest concentrations (exceeding 1000/ml) in the mesotrophic lake during the summer. Their proportion to total viable heterotrophic bacteria was also highest (35.1 to 37.7) in this habitat. From 17 to 330/ml Caulobacter spp. were counted in the eutrophic habitats where their proportion to total viable numbers was less than 1.0%. In the oligotrophic lakes they varied from 5 to 23/ml and comprised greater than 5% of the total viable count. Hyphomicrobium-like bacteria were also numerous in the mesotrophic lake and in one oligotrophic lake during the summer sampling period. Ancalomicrobium spp. occurred in high concentrations (130/ml) in the mesotrophic lake. Budding bacteria of the Planctomyces-Pasteuria group were most numerous in the eutrophic habitats where as many as 240/ml were counted; their proportion to total heterotrophs remained relatively constant regardless of trophic state, however. A similar pattern was observed with Prosthecobacter spp.
25256134|We show that inferring the taxa-abundance distribution of a microbial community from small environmental samples alone is difficult. The difficulty stems from the disparity in scale between the number of genetic sequences that can be characterized and the number of individuals in communities that microbial ecologists aspire to describe. One solution is to calibrate and validate a mathematical model of microbial community assembly using the small samples and use the model to extrapolate to the taxa-abundance distribution for the population that is deemed to constitute a community. We demonstrate this approach by using a simple neutral community assembly model in which random immigrations, births, and deaths determine the relative abundance of taxa in a community. In doing so, we further develop a neutral theory to produce a taxa-abundance distribution for large communities that are typical of microbial communities. In addition, we highlight that the sampling uncertainties conspire to make the immigration rate calibrated on the basis of small samples very much higher than the true immigration rate. This scale dependence of model parameters is not unique to neutral theories; it is a generic problem in ecology that is particularly acute in microbial ecology. We argue that to overcome this, so that microbial ecologists can characterize large microbial communities from small samples, mathematical models that encapsulate sampling effects are required.
40802285|We compared the microbial community composition in soils from the Brazilian Amazon with two contrasting histories; anthrosols and their adjacent nonanthrosol soils of the same mineralogy. The anthrosols, also known as the Amazonian Dark Earths or terra preta, were managed by the indigenous pre-Colombian Indians between 500 and 8,700 years before present and are characterized by unusually high cation exchange capacity, phosphorus (P), and calcium (Ca) contents, and soil carbon pools that contain a high proportion of incompletely combusted biomass as biochar or black carbon We sampled paired anthrosol and unmodified soils from four locations in the Manaus, Brazil, region that differed in their current land use and soil type. Community DNA was extracted from sampled soils and characterized by use of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. DNA bands of interest from Bacteria and Archaea DGGE gels were cloned and sequenced. In cluster analyses of the DNA fingerprints, microbial communities from the anthrosols grouped together regardless of current land use or soil type and were distinct from those in their respective, paired adjacent soils. For the Archaea, the anthrosol communities diverged from the adjacent soils by over 90%. A greater overall richness was observed for Bacteria sequences as compared with those of the Archaea. Most of the sequences obtained were novel and matched those in databases at less than 98% similarity. Several sequences obtained only from the anthrosols grouped at 93% similarity with the Verrucomicrobia, a genus commonly found in rice paddies in the tropics. Sequences closely related to Proteobacteria and Cyanobacteria sp. were recovered only from adjacent soil samples. Sequences related to Pseudomonas, Acidobacteria, and Flexibacter sp. were recovered from both anthrosols and adjacent soils. The strong similarities among the microbial communities present in the anthrosols for both the Bacteria and Archaea suggests that the microbial community composition in these soils is controlled more strongly by their historical soil management than by soil type or current land use. The anthrosols had consistently higher concentrations of incompletely combusted organic black carbon material (BC) higher soil pH, and higher concentrations of P and Ca compared to their respective adjacent soils. Such characteristics may help to explain the longevity and distinctiveness of the anthrosols in the Amazonian landscape and guide us in recreating soils with sustained high fertility in otherwise nutrient-poor soils in modern times.
4251604|Bacterial abundance, temperature, pH, and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentration were compared across surface sites within and between two northern Wisconsin Sphagnum peatlands over the summer seasons in 1995 and 1996. Sites of interest were the Sphagnum mat surface, the water-filled moat (lagg) at the bog margin, and the bog lake littoral zone. Significant differences in both bacterial populations and water chemistry were observed between sites. pH was highest in the lake and lowest in the mat at both bogs; the opposite was true for DOC. Large populations of bacteria were present in surface interstitial water from the mat; abundance in this site was consistently higher than in the moat or lake. Bacterial abundance also increased across sites of increasing DOC concentration and declining pH. Bacterial activities (rates of [
41489106|Previous studies of fungi in polar environments have revealed a prevalence of basidiomycetous yeasts in soil and in subglacial environments of polythermal glaciers. Ascomycetous yeasts have rarely been reported from extremely cold natural environments, even though they are known contaminants of frozen foods. Using media with low water activity, we have isolated various yeast species from the subglacial ice of four glaciers from the coastal Arctic environment of Kongsfjorden, Spitzbergen, including Debaryomyces hansenii and Pichia guillermondii, with counts reaching 10 CFU L. Together with the basidiomycetes Cryptococcus liquefaciens and Rhodotorula mucilaginosa, these yeasts represent the stable core of the subglacial yeast communities. Other glacial ascomycetous species isolated included Candida parapsilosis and a putative new species that resembles Candida pseudorugosa. The archiascomycete Protomyces inouyei has seldom been detected anywhere in the world but was here recovered from ice in a glacier cave. The glacier meltwater contained only D. hansenii, whereas the seawater contained D. hansenii, Debaryomyces maramus, Pichia guilliermondii, what appears to represent a novel species resembling Candida galli and Metschnikowia bicuspidata. Only P. guilliermondii was isolated from sea ice, while snow/ice in the fjord tidal zone included C. parapsilosis, D. hansenii, P guilliermondii and Metschnikowia zobellii. All of these isolated strains were characterized as psychrotolerant and xero/halotolerant, with the exception of P. inouyei.
4287716|We examined the impact of nutrient conditions (carbon and phosphorus limitation) and grazing by protozoans on the phenotypic community structure of freshwater bacteria in continuous culture systems. Lakewater bacteria were grown on mineral medium, which was supplemented with glucose and amino acids and adjusted by different phosphorus concentrations to achieve either carbon or phosphorus limitation. Each nutrient treatment was inoculated with the same bacterial community and consisted of a nongrazing and a grazing treatment, to which the heterotrophic nanoflagellates Spumella sp. and Ochromonas sp. were added. We found that nutrient conditions alone resulted in differences in the phenotypic structure of the bacterial community: small and motile bacteria dominated under C limitation while large, elongated, and capsulated bacteria were characteristic for P limitation. The genotypic community composition as measured by T-RFLP (terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism) was not severely influenced by the two nutrient treatments. In the presence of flagellate predators, grazing-resistant bacteria developed under both nutrient conditions, but with different survival mechanisms: Highly motile bacteria prevailed under C limitation, whereas the P-limited grazing treatment was dominated by filamentous forms. T-RFLP analysis revealed only moderate changes in bacterial community composition due to grazing, which were most pronounced under P limitation. Analysis by video microscopy revealed that high swimming speed is an efficient nonmorphological survival mechanism for bacteria to reduce the capture success of the flagellate predator. The rejection of optimal-sized, nonmotile bacteria under P limitation suggests the importance of other nonmorphological, surface-located cell properties. Our results illustrate that the realized mechanisms of grazing resistance are linked to the actual limitation conditions, and that the combined effects of nutrient limitation and grazing are major determinants of bacterial community structure.
23361599|Extreme precipitation events are recognised as important drivers of ecosystem responses to climate change and can considerably affect high-latitude ombrotrophic bogs. Therefore, understanding the relationships between increased rainfall and the biotic components of these ecosystems is necessary for an estimation of climate change impacts. We studied overall effects of increased magnitude, intensity and frequency of rainfall on assemblages of Sphagnum-dwelling testate amoebae in a field climate manipulation experiment located in a relatively dry subarctic bog (Abisko, Sweden). The effects of the treatment were estimated using abundance, species diversity and structure of living and empty shell assemblages of testate amoebae in living and decaying layers of Sphagnum. Our results show that increased rainfall reduced the mean abundance and species richness of living testate amoebae. Besides, the treatment affected species structure of both living and empty shell assemblages, reducing proportions of hydrophilous species. The effects are counterintuitive as increased precipitation-related substrate moisture was expected to have opposite effects on testate amoeba assemblages in relatively dry biotopes. Therefore, we conclude that other rainfall-related factors such as increased infiltration rates and frequency of environmental disturbances can also affect testate amoeba assemblages in Sphagnum and that hydrophilous species are particularly sensitive to variation in these environmental variables.
41489799|Diversity and prevalence of plasmid-mediated quinolone resistance determinants were investigated in environmental bacteria isolated from surface seawater of Jiaozhou Bay, China. Five qnr gene aleles were identified in 34 isolates by PCR amplification, including qnrA3 gene in a Shewanella algae isolate, qnrB9 gene in a Citrobacter freundii isolate, qnrD gene in 22 Proteus vulgaris isolates, qnrS1 gene in 1 Enterobacter sp. and 4 Klebsiella spp. isolates, and qnrS2 gene in 1 Pseudomonas sp. and 4 Pseudoalteromonas sp. isolates. The qnrC, aac(6')-Ib-cr, and qepA genes could not be detected in this study. The 22 qnrD-positive Proteus vulgaris isolates could be differentiated into four genotypes based on ERIC-PCR assay. The qnrS1 and qnrD genes could be transferred to Escherichia coli J53 Azi R or E. coli TOP10 recipient strains using conjugation or transformation methods. Among the 34 qnr-positive isolates, 30 had a single point mutation in the QRDRs of GyrA protein (Ala67Ser, Ser83I1e, or Ser83Thr), indicating that cooperation of chromosome-and plasmidmediated resistance contributed to the spread and evolution of quinolone resistance in this coastal bay. Eighty-five percent of the isolates were also found to be resistant to ampi cillin, and bla CMY , bla OXY , bla SHV and bla TEM genes were detected in five isolates that also harbored the qnrB9 or qnrS1 gene. Our current study is the first identification of qnrS2 gene in Pseudoalteromonas and Pseudomonas strains, and qnrD gene in Proteus vulgaris strains. High prevalence of diverse qnr genes in Jiaozhou Bay indicates that coastal seawater may serve as an important reservoir, natural source, and dissemination vehicle of quinolone resistance determinants.
4251092|Selective removal of symbiotic hindgut microorganisms by chemical treatments reduced methane emission by the termite Zootermopsis angusticollis. Methane emission from untreated termites incubated in 25% H
25256246|Cryptoendolithic habitats in the Canadian high Arctic are associated with a variety of microbial community assemblages, including cyanobacteria, algae, and fungi. These habitats were analyzed for the presence of metal ions by sequential extraction and evaluated for relationships between these and the various microorganisms found at each site using multivariate statistical methods. Cyanobacteria-dominated communities exist under higher pH conditions with elevated concentrations of calcium and magnesium, whereas communities dominated by fungi and algae are characterized by lower pH conditions and higher concentrations of iron, aluminum, and silicon in the overlying surfaces. These results suggest that the activity of the dominant microorganisms controls the pH of the surrounding environment, which in turn dictates rates of weathering or the possibility for surface crust formation, both ultimately deciding the structure of microbial diversity for each cryptoendolithic habitat.
25153487| The relative abundance of bacteria in the mucus and tissues of Oculina patagonica taken from bleached and cave (azooxanthellae) corals was determined by analyses of the 16S rRNA genes from cloned libraries of extracted DNA and from isolated colonies. The results were compared to previously published data on healthy O. patagonica. The bacterial community of bleached, cave, and healthy corals were completely different from each other. A tight cluster (&gt;99.5% identity) of bacteria, showing 100% identity to Acinetobacter species, dominated bleached corals, comprising 25% of the 316 clones sequenced. The dominant bacterial cluster found in cave corals, representing 29% of the 97 clones sequenced, showed 98% identity to an uncultured bacterium from the Great Barrier Reef. Vibrio splendidus was the most dominant species in healthy O. patagonica. The culturable bacteria represented 0.1-1.0% of the total bacteria (SYBR Gold staining) of the corals. The most abundant culturable bacteria in bleached, cave, and healthy corals were clusters that most closely matched Microbulbifer sp., an -proteobacterium previously isolated from healthy corals and an -protobacterium (AB026194), respectively. Three generalizations emerge from this study on O. patagonica: (1) More bacteria are associated with coral tissue than mucus; (2) tissue and mucus populations are different; (3) bacterial populations associated with corals change dramatically when corals lack their symbiotic zooxanthellae, either as a result of the bleaching disease or when growing in the absence of light. 
25256233|The phylogenetic diversity of the bacterial and archaeal community in the water and sediments of three large lakes of the Wadi An Natrun was investigated using 16S rRNA clone libraries. The bacterial community was diverse: 769 clones formed 345 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) defined at 99% 16S rRNA sequence identity. The bacterial community in both the water and sediments of the lakes was dominated by clones affiliated with the low G + C Gram-type-positive group, -proteobacteria, and Bacteroidetes, (11-39, 11-30, and 10-37% of OTUs observed, respectively), patterns that have been observed in previously described alkaline, athalassohaline systems. However, a relatively high proportion of Firmicutess-related clones in the water of the lakes and -proteobacteria in the sediments was observed. The bacterial community composition of the water and sediment of the same lake and of different lakes was significantly different (p &lt; 0.05). Operational taxonomic units related to the -proteobacteria were more abundant in the sediment of Lake Fazda, whereas the sediment of Lake UmRisha was dominated by members of the -proteobacteria. The proportion of -proteobacterial and Bacteroidetes-affiliated OTUs were predominant in the water of Lake UmRisha and differed significantly from other lake waters (chi-squared analysis, p  0.01). The more oxygenated and dilute nature of Lake Hamra was reflected in its microbial community composition, with the abundance of Bacillales sequences in the water, the absence of Halanaerobiales, Clostridiales, and Archaea in the water, and the presence of representatives of more phyla such as the Actinobacteria, Spirochaetes, and Verrucomicrobia. The archaeal community composition appeared less diverse: 589 clones resulted in 198 OTUs defined at 99% 16S rRNA sequence identity, and all sequences fell into the phylum Euryarchaeota. Phylogenetic analysis showed that many of the sequences were distantly related (83-90% 16S rRNA sequence identity) to cultured and uncultured archaea, with many clones forming clusters that branched deeply within the Euryarchaeota. Forty-two and 53% of the bacterial and archaeal clones had less than 90% 16S rRNA sequence identity to previously described sequences. This indicates that the water and sediments of the Wadi An Natrun harbor a unique and novel prokaryotic diversity that is different from what has been described among other alkaline, athalassohaline lakes.
41412427|Francisella noatunensis subsp. orientalis (syn. Francisella asiatica), the causative agent of franciselliosis in warm-water fish, is a Gram-negative facultative intracellular bacterium. Although it has been characterized as one of the most pathogenic bacteria in fish, the water conditions that allow for its survival and infectious capacities outside the fish host are not known. Data obtained in this project indicate that both temperature and salinity are important factors in the culturability and persistence of F. noatunensis subsp. orientalis in both sea-and freshwater microcosms. These results indicate that culturable F. noatunensis subsp. orientalis persist for longer periods of time and at higher numbers in seawater, and its persistence is inversely related to water temperature. Moreover, the pathogenic properties of the bacteria suspended in water microcosms appear to decrease after only 24 h and become non-infective after 2 days in the absence of the fish host.
25153415|A previously unknown association between a luminous bacterium, Vibrio harveyi, and a benthic hydrozoan, Aglaophenia octodonta, is described. Aglaophenia hydrocladia showed a clear fluorescence in the folds along the hydrocaulus and at the base of the hydrotheca, suggesting the presence of luminous bacteria. This hypothesis was confirmed by isolation of luminous bacteria from Aglaophenia homogenates. Phenotypic characterization of bacterial isolates was performed by several morphological, biochemical, and cultural tests, completed with 16S rDNA sequence analysis. All the isolates were referred to a single species: V. harveyi. The association between V. harveyi and A. octodonta has epidemiological as well as ecological significance. Therefore, A. octodonta may function as habitat "islands" providing a unique set of environmental conditions for luminous bacteria colonization, quite different from those already recorded from the plankton for other Vibrio species.
4251723|Bacteria have been implicated in the production of paralytic shellfish poison (PSP) toxins, which are normally associated with bloom-forming algal species, specifically toxic dinoflagellate algae. To clarify the role that these bacteria may play in the production of PSP toxins, it is desirable to identify and localize the bacteria associated with the dinoflagellates. 16S rRNA-targeted probes offer the possibility for both, and thus, probes have been made to putatively toxigenic bacteria isolated from the PSP-related dinoflagellate Alexandrium tamarense and tested for their specificity in dot blot and in situ hybridization experiments.
25256116|An in situ colonization assay was performed to study the early stages of biofilm formation in Ro Tinto (SW, Spain), an extremely acidic environment (pH ca. 2). Eukaryotic assemblages were monitored at monthly intervals for 1 year. Diversity, colonization rates, and seasonal variations were analyzed. Structural features of naturally grown biofilms were explored by light and scanning electron microscopy in backscattered electron mode. A total of 14 taxa were recognized as constituents of the eukaryotic assemblages. The eukaryotic communities were dissimilar at the different sampling sites. The lowest diversity was found at the most extreme locations, in terms of pH and heavy metal concentrations. The biofilms were mainly formed by species from the genera Dunaliella and Cyanidium. Two genera of filamentous algae, Zygnemopsis and Klebsormidium, were principally responsible for the variability in the cell number throughout the year. These species appear in June to decrease almost completely between October and November. In contrast, the number of heterotrophic flagellates and ciliates remained constant throughout the year. The microcolonization sequence showed an initial accumulation of amorphous particles composed of bacteria and inorganic grains of minerals. By the end of the second month, the organic matrix was also populated by fungi, bacteria, and a few eukaryotic heterotrophs such as amoebae and small flagellates. Diatoms only showed significant colonization in regions where mycelial matrices were first established. Flagellated green algae such as Dunaliella or Chlamydomonas as well as Euglena were also present at the very beginning of the biofilm development, although in low numbers (&lt;100 cells cm). After the flagellated cells, sessile species of algae such Chlorella or Cyanidium appeared. Filamentous algae were the last species to colonize the biofilms. Most of the naturally grown biofilms were found to be structures composed of different species organized in different layers separated, probably by extracellular polymeric substances, although more analysis should be done in this regard. The possible implications of the biofilm structure in the adaptation to this extreme habitat are discussed.
4251463|The heterotrophic bacteria Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa stably coexisted in laboratory-grown biofilms, even though the growth rate of K. pneumoniae was twice that of P. aeruginosa under planktonic growth conditions. The failure of K. pneumoniae to displace P. aeruginosa from the biofilm could not be attributed to concentration gradients of the limiting nutrient (glucose) arising from the interaction of reaction and diffusion. Comparisons of the growth rates of the two species in mono- and binary-population biofilms suggested partial segregation of the two species in the latter. We used a fluorescently labeled monoclonal antibody to examine the spatial distribution of K. pneumoniae in frozen cross sections of biofilm to confirm this segregation. K. pneumoniae microcolonies resided on top of, or intermixed with, a base film of P. aeruginosa. We hypothesize that microscale structural heterogeneity and differing rates of bacterial attachment and detachment of the two species are responsible for coexistence in this system.
40343452|Although organic-aggregate-associated bacteria play a pivotal role in microbial food webs and in the cycling of major elements, their community composition and diversity have not been extensively studied, especially in shallow freshwater systems. This study is among the first to explore intra-lake horizontal heterogeneity of organicaggregate-associated bacterial community composition (OABC) in the large, shallow, and eutrophic Lake Taihu. During November 2006, samples were collected at four locations representing different trophic states and food web structures. Regional variability of OABC and diversity were studied by amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis and comparative analysis of four large 16S ribosomal RNA clone libraries. Our results demonstrate that OABC were numerically dominated by members of the (3-proteobacteria (19.2-38.6%), Bacteroidetes (3.6-20.0%), and a-proteobacteria (11.5-19.2%) groups. The dominance of the Bacteroidetes group was related to algae-based aggregates. Horizontal heterogeneity of OABC exists within habitats, suggesting that the trophic state of the water and the physicochemical properties of organic aggregates (OA) play a key role. Diverse bacterial communities found on OA were substantially different from free-living ones. Comparative statistical analyses of the habitats of OA-associated bacteria highlight the potential ecological importance of the exchange between OABC and the surrounding planktonic community. Lastly, we found at least 45% of sequences closely related to ones previously found in soils, sludge, sediments, and other habitats. This demonstrates that microorganisms from terrestrial and sediment habitats are an important component of OA.
4250591|High specific activity
40605660|Increases in the magnitude and variability of precipitation events have been predicted for the Chihuahuan Desert region of West Texas. As patterns of moisture inputs and amounts change, soil microbial communities will respond to these alterations in soil moisture windows. In this study, we examined the soil microbial community structure within three vegetation zones along the Pine Canyon Watershed, an elevation and vegetation gradient in Big Bend National Park, Chihuahuan Desert. Soil samples at each site were obtained in mid-winter (January) and in midsummer (August) for 2 years to capture a component of the variability in soil temperature and moisture that can occur seasonally and between years along this watershed. Precipitation patterns and amounts differed substantially between years with a drought characterizing most of the second year.Soils were collected during the drought period and following a large rainfall event and compared to soil samples collected during a relatively average season. Structural changes within microbial community in response to site, season, and precipitation patterns were evaluated using fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) and polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) analyses. Fungal FAME amounts differed significantly across seasons and sites and greatly outweighed the quantity of bacterial and actinomycete FAME levels for all sites and seasons. The highest fungal FAME levels were obtained in the low desert scrub site and not from the high elevation oak-pine forests.Total bacterial and actinomycete FAME levels did not differ significantly across season and year within any of the three locations along the watershed. Total bacterial and actinomycete FAME levels in the low elevation desert-shrub and grassland sites were slightly higher in the winter than in the summer. Microbial community structure at the high elevation oak-pine forest site was strongly correlated with levels of NH-N, % soil moisture, and amounts of soil organic matter irrespective of season. Microbial community structure at the low elevation desert scrub and sotol grasslands sites was most strongly related to soil pH with bacterial and actinobacterial FAME levels accounting for site differences along the gradient. DGGE band counts of amplified soil bacterial DNA were found to differ significantly across sites and season with the highest band counts found in the midelevation grassland site. The least number of bands was observed in the high elevation oak-pine forest following the large summer-rain event that occurred after a prolonged drought. Microbial responses to changes in precipitation frequency and amount due to climate change will differ among vegetation zones along this Chihuahuan Desert watershed gradient. Soil bacterial communities at the midelevation grasslands site are the most vulnerable to changes in precipitation frequency and timing, while fungal community structure is most vulnerable in the low desert scrub site. The differential susceptibility of the microbial communities to changes in precipitation amounts along the elevation gradient reflects the interactive effects of the soil moisture window duration following a precipitation event and differences in soil heat loads. Amounts and types of carbon inputs may not be as important in regulating microbial structure among vegetation zones within in an arid environment as is the seasonal pattern of soil moisture and the soil heat load profile that characterizes the location.
25152958| The content of Hyphomicrobium sp. was estimated from a clay loam soil using the most probable number technique with methanol as the sole carbon source. The method enumerated Hyphomicrobia as 0.2% of the total bacteria determined by acridine orange direct counts. Hyphomicrobium sp. was not able to use C-C compounds such as glucose or acetate for growth. Maximal growth yield and growth rate were obtained when the concentration of methanol was in the range of 0.5-5 mg C/liter. Substrate affinity measurements revealed
4250639|An equation describing the initial phases of microbial surface colonization is presented. Simultaneous microbial attachment and growth are considered as the primary components of colonization. A table is given that permits determination of growth rate from the density and distribution of cells present on surfaces after incubation in situ. Other methods used to calculate microbial growth rate on surfaces are evaluated. The new procedure is more accurate and less time consuming than those used previously. Published data on microbial surface colonization more closely follow the proposed colonization equation than the exponential growth equation, which overestimates the growth rate.
25153114|Stream bacteria play an important role in the utilization of dissolved organic matter (DOM) leached from leaves, and in transfer of this DOM to other trophic levels. Leaf leachate is a mixture of labile, recalcitrant, and inhibitory compounds, and bacterial communities vary in their ability to utilize leachate. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of DOM from sugar maple leaves on bacterial populations in biofilms on decomposing leaf surfaces. Populations of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, Burkholderia cepacia, and Pseudomonas putida were enumerated on decomposing maple leaves in a northeast Ohio stream using fluorescence in situ hybridization. Additionally, artificial substrata consisting of PVC-end caps filled with agar supplemented with leaf leachate and covered with cellulose filters were used to determine bacterial response to leachate from leaves at different stages of decomposition. Population sizes of bacterial species exhibited different responses. Leachate did not affect A. calcoaceticus. B. cepacia was tolerant of phenolic compounds released from leaves and the population size increased when DOM concentrations were greatest. In contrast, P. putida was inhibited by phenolic components of leachate when total DOM concentrations were greatest. Differences in response of the bacterial species to components of leaf leachate indicate the complexity of microbial population dynamics and interactions with DOM. Differences among species in response to DOM have the potential to influence transport and retention of organic matter in stream ecosystems.
25153284|Sediment resuspension induced by anthropogenic disturbance is becoming a major threat of marine coastal ecosystems worldwide. The effects of sediment resuspension on the pelagic domain and on macro- and meiobenthos are well documented in the literature, whereas the effects on the benthic microbial components are nearly neglected. We have investigated the effects of sediment resuspension at two different disturbance levels on benthic bacterial abundance, biomass, and activities and on heterotrophic nanobenthos abundance in experimental microcosms. The results of our experiments pointed out that, independently from the amount of involved energy, sediment resuspension determined a general decrease of all benthic microbial components. The main effects consisted of a decreased abundance of the metabolically active bacterial fraction and of heterotrophic nanobenthos abundance. However, the amount of energy involved in sediment resuspension had differential effects on the structure and functioning of the benthic microbial loop, but only in the short term (i.e., within 36 h). Sediment resuspension had a stimulatory effect on activities of surviving bacterial cells, which, in turn, resulted in increased sediment organic C turnover rates. We hypothesize that such an effect, enhancing nutrient availability, might have relevant consequences on the trophic state of coastal marine ecosystem.
4251190|Obligate aerobes and anaerobes coexist closely in natural ecosystems. One species representative of each class (Desulfovibrio desulfuricans and Paracoccus denitrificans) were selected for investigation in different laboratory growth systems. When incubated together, the aerobe protected the anaerobe against oxygen poisoning allowing the latter to grow and to reduce sulfate. When gas phase oxygen tension was systematically altered in stirred batch cultures, both species grew over a broad range of oxygen concentrations. Similar experiments in a chemostat indicated that conditions were far more exacting. No steady state was possible; however, at one critical oxygen tension the two species entered a stable oscillating cycle that lasted for 12 days. When the two organisms were grown in a gradostat in opposing gradients of sulfate plus oxygen and lactate, they coexisted but at different positions in the system. The actual position of the sulfate reducer was determined by the sulfate concentration in the reservoir.
41693866|Ammonia oxidation has been intensively studied for its sensitivity to environmental shifts and stresses. However, acute stress effects on the occurrence and composition of ammonia oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA) based on expression of related molecular markers in complex soil environments have been to an extent overlooked, particularly concerning transient but commonly occurring environmental changes like soil moisture shifts. The present study investigates the responses of AOB and AOA to moisture shifts and high Zn soil content. AmoA gene copies and transcripts of AOB and AOA along with potential nitrification activity were measured in a soil microcosm approach for investigating the referred environmental shifts. Moisture change from 87 to 50 % of the water holding capacity caused a ~99 % reduction of AOB but not of AOA amoA transcripts that did not change significantly. Increasing applied zinc concentrations resulted in a reduction of potential nitrification rates and negatively affected studied gene expressions of both AOB and AOA, with AOB being more responsive. Both 16 S rRNA and amoA transcripts of AOB had an inverse relation to the applied zinc, indicating a gradual loss in total cell activity. Our results suggest the existence of pronounced differences between AOB and AOA concerning ammonia oxidation activity.
27770573|Campylobacter jejuni is one of the leading bacterial causes of food-borne illness in the USA. Molecular typing methods are often used in food safety for identifying sources of infection and pathways of transmission. Moreover, the identification of genetically related isolates (i.e., clades) may facilitate the development of intervention strategies for control and prevention of food-borne diseases. We analyzed the pan genome (i.e., core and variable genes) of 63 C. jejuni isolates recovered from chickens raised in conventional, organic, and free-range poultry flocks to gain insight into the genetic diversity of C. jejuni isolates recovered from different environments. We assessed the discriminatory power of three genotyping methods [i.e., pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), multilocus sequence typing (MLST), and repetitive extragenic palindromic polymerase chain reaction (rep-PCR)]. The rep-PCR fingerprint was generated by determining the presence of repetitive sequences that are interspersed throughout the genome via repetitive extragenic palindromic PCR, enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus sequence PCR (ERIC-PCR), and BOX element PCR (BOX-PCR) and combining the data to form a composite fingerprint. The genetic fingerprints were subjected to computer-assisted pattern analysis. Comparison of the three genotypic methods revealed that repREB-PCR showed greater discriminatory power than PFGE and MLST. ERIC-PCR and BOX-PCR yielded the highest number of PCR products and greatest reproducibility. Regardless of the genotyping method, C. jejuni isolates recovered from chickens reared in conventional, organic, and free-range environments all exhibit a high level of genotypic diversity.
25153104| Low average temperatures and temperature fluctuations in temperate soils challenge the efficacy of microbial strains used for clean up of pollutants. In this study, we investigated the cold tolerance of Arthrobacter chlorophenolicus A6, a microorganism previously shown to degrade high concentrations of 4-chlorophenol at 28C. Luciferase activity from a luc-tagged derivative of the strain (A6L) was used to monitor the metabolic status of the population during 4-chlorophenol degradation. The A6L strain could degrade 200-300 g mL 4-chlorophenol in pure cultures incubated at 5C, although rates of degradation, growth and the metabolic status of the cells were lower at 5C compared to 28C. When subjected to temperature fluctuations between 5 and 28C, A6L continued to degrade 4-chlorophenol and remained active. In soil microcosm experiments, the degradation rates were significantly faster the first week at 28C, compared to 5C. However, this difference was no longer seen after 7 days, and equally low 4-chlorophenol concentrations were reached after 17 days at both temperatures. During 4-chlorophenol degradation in soil, CFU and luciferase activity values remained constant at both 5 and 28C. However, once most of the 4-chlorophenol was degraded, both values decreased by 1-1.5 logarithmic values at 28C, whereas they remained constant at 5C, indicating a high survival of the cells at low temperatures. Because of the ability of A. chlorophenolicus A6 to degrade high concentrations of 4-chlorophenol at 5C, together with its tolerance to temperature fluctuations and stress conditions found in soil, this strain is a promising candidate for bioaugmentation of chlorophenol-contaminated soil in temperate climates. 
4251215|Homogenization in methanol, two hours of refluxing in methanol, and direct saponification in alcoholic KOH were equally efficient at extracting ergosterol from fungally colonized leaf litter. A 25-cm Li-Chrosphere RP18 HPLC column gave excellent resolution of ergosterol in leaf extracts. Recovery of ergosterol added to leaf powder and methyl-cellulose ranged between 88 and 97%, but differences among leaf species were not significant. Conditions for liquid-liquid extraction from saponified extracts are critical in ergosterol analysis. Dark storage of samples does not lead to dramatic losses of ergosterol. Extensive sample clean up before HPLC injection is nonessential.
4251466| Fluorescence-labeled antibodies and oligonucleotides were used simultaneously for the in situ identification of bacteria in mixed cultures, as well as in the rhizosphere of inoculated plants. Counterstaining was performed with 4-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), and scanning confocal laser microscopy or epifluoresence microscopy with a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera were used for detection of individual cells. This strategy gave insight into the relative abundance of an inoculated strain, enabled the exact localization of single cells, and allowed the estimation of the metabolic activity of the bacteria in a complex specimen. Using a strain-specific monoclonal antibody for Azospirillum brasilense Wa3, we could identify this particular strain in root samples of inoculated wheat plantlets. Strain Wa3, as well as other bacteria colonizing the rhizosphere, were stained simultaneously with rRNA-targeted, fluorescence-labeled oligonucleotide probes. In a co-inoculation experiment with A. brasilense strains Sp7 and Wa3, it was demonstrated by in situ identification and quantitative chemoluminescence ELISA that strain Sp7 outcompeted strain Wa3. The combined application of fluorescently labeled antibodies and oligonucleotides should be generally applicable for monitoring specific bacterial strains, within the background of the same species, in relation to the total microbiota. 
25153191|The effects of exudates from uncolonized and from partly decayed beech wood on the extension rates of 16 later stage decay fungi were investigated. The partly decayed wood had been colonized by the pyrenomycete Eutypa spinosa, or the basidiomycetes Fomes fomentarius, Stereum hirsutum, and Trametes versicolor, all known as common early decay agents in European beech forests. Sterilized wood pieces were placed onto 0.5% malt agar, opposite to small agar plugs containing the test fungi. The latter showed very variable and species-specific growth responses to the various wood types. The presence of uncolonized wood stimulated extension rates in many species, whereas the four previously decayed wood types had variable stimulatory or inhibitory effects. Wood decayed by S. hirsutum resulted in reduced extension rate, delayed growth, or total inhibition in the majority of species, thus it is suggested that this species uses secondary metabolites in a defensive strategy. A single species was, however, stimulated in the presence of S. hirsutum-decayed wood. In contrast, the presence of wood decayed by F. fomentarius was stimulatory to 45% of the species. The other previously decayed wood types generally resulted in more variable responses, depending upon species. The results are discussed in an ecological context and it is suggested that the exudates from the partly decayed wood that are responsible for the reported effects may function as infochemicals, structuring microbial communities in wood.
25153391| The occurrence of hypolithic cyanobacteria colonizing translucent stones was quantified along the aridity gradient in the Atacama Desert in Chile, from less arid areas to the hyperarid core where photosynthetic life and thus primary production reach their limits. As mean rainfall declines from 21 to 2 mm year, the abundance of hypolithic cyanobacteria drops from 28 to &lt;0.1%, molecular diversity declines threefold, and organic carbon residence times increase by three orders of magnitude. Communities contained a single Chroococcidiopsis morphospecies with heterotrophic associates, yet molecular analysis revealed that each stone supported a number of unique 16S rRNA gene-defined genotypes. A fivefold increase in steady-state residence times for organic carbon within communities in the hyperarid core (3200 years turnover time) indicates a significant decline in biological carbon cycling. Six years of microclimate data suggest that the dry limit corresponds to 5 mm year rainfall and/or decadal periods of no rain, with &lt;75 h year of liquid water available to cyanobacteria under light conditions suitable for photosynthesis. In the hyperarid core, hypolithic cyanobacteria are rare and exist in small spatially isolated islands amidst a microbially depauperate bare soil. These findings suggest that photosynthetic life is extremely unlikely on the present-day surface of Mars, but may have existed in the past. If so, such microhabitats would probably be widely dispersed, difficult to detect, and millimeters away from virtually lifeless surroundings. 
4251539| Observations were made on the distribution, morphology, and chemoautotrophic potential of microbial mats found in submarine caves of dolomitized limestone which contain hydrothermal sulphidic springs at Cape Palinuro, Italy. The distribution of microbial mats is closely associated with the flow of hydrothermal fluid from springs whose activity is intermittent and initiated during low tide. Fluid emitted from active springs in the Grotta Azzurra has a maximum temperature of 24.6C and is enriched in dissolved sulfur species ( H
40926469|Oral microbiota plays a vital role in maintaining the homeostasis of oral cavity. Dental caries are among the most common oral diseases in children and pathogenic bacteria contribute to the development of the disease. However, the overall structure of bacterial communities in the oral cavity from children with dental caries has not been explored deeply heretofore. We used high-throughput barcoded pyrosequencing and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) to examine bacterial diversity of oral microbiota in saliva and supragingival plaques from 60 children aged 3 to 6 years old with and without dental caries from China. The multiplex barcoded pyrosequencing was performed in a single run, with multiple samples tagged uniquely by multiplex identifiers. As PCR-DGGE analysis is a conventional molecular ecological approach, this analysis was also performed on the same samples and the results of both approaches were compared. A total of 186,787 high-quality sequences were obtained for evaluating bacterial diversity and 41,905 unique sequences represented all phylotypes. We found that the oral microbiota in children was far more diverse than previous studies reported, and more than 200 genera belonging to ten phyla
4251126|The interaction between Agaricus bisporus and Scytalidium thermophilum on agar media was studied by differential interference contrast and phase contrast microscopy. A. bisporus combatively replaces S. thermophilum in culture on agar media. The antagonistic effect of A. bisporus is transmissible through a cellophane membrane and causes irreversible disintegration of S. thermophilum protoplasm, resulting in a total loss of viability after prolonged interaction between the two fungi. On compost extract agar, but not on other media, the growth rate of A. bisporus increased from 2.7 to
4287503|To obtain information on the importance of membrane and zeta potentials as repelling or facilitating forces during the uptake of cationic trace elements, the heavy metal content and the growth resistance of the acidotolerant fungus Bispora. sp. to heavy metals were compared at pH 1.0 and pH 7.0. Cu, Co, Ni, Cd, Cr, and La contents of the fungus were significantly lower at pH 1.0 than at pH 7.0. A similar pH effect occurred with cationic macro elements such as Na, Mg, Ca, Fe, and Mn. Only K and Zn exhibited higher levels at pH 1.0 in the fungus than at pH 7.0. Macro and micro elements present in the medium in anionic form (sulfate, chloride) showed the opposite pattern to cations: Contents were higher at pH 1.0 than at pH 7.0. Minerals present at pH 1.0 predominantly in the electrical neutral, protonated form (phosphate, borate) exhibited a similar cell content at both acid and neutral pH (P) or a higher content at neutral pH than at acid pH (B). The resistance of fungal growth to the cations Cu, Zn, Ni, Co, Cr, and Cd was significantly higher at pH 1.0 than at pH 7.0. Such a difference was not observed with Hg, present in the medium at both pH values as electrically silent HgCl
25153460|In this study, temporal variability of nosZ genotypes was evaluated in two intertidal rocky biofilms and two intertidal sediment sites of the Douro River estuary, Portugal. The results were compared to rates of key N-cycle processes and environmental variables to examine possible links between denitrifier community dynamics and N biogeochemistry. Genetic heterogeneity of the nosZ gene was evaluated by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis (T-RFLP) and by sequencing cloned nosZ gene fragments. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the majority of the nosZ genes detected were most similar to nosZ genes from isolates affiliated with alphasubclass of the class Proteobacteria. Results revealed low nosZ genotype richness, and hierarchical cluster analysis showed significant differences in the composition of denitrifier communities that inhabit different intertidal environments of the Douro River estuary. Monthly surveys of nosZ genotypes from sandy sediments showed that, while the same T-RFLP peaks were present in all samples, shifts in the relative peak areas of the different nosZ genotypes occurred. Canonical correspondence analysis, based on data from the monthly survey, revealed a strong relationship between the relative peak areas of some T-RFLP operational taxonomic units (OTUs) with denitrification rate and NO availability. Results suggest that denitrifiers with specific nosZ genetypes (OTUs) have competitive advantage over others when NO fluctuates in the system; these fluctuations reflect, in turn, variability in denitrification rates.
4250982|Seasonal incidence of Vibrio cholerae was monitored for a year in a man-made freshwater lake, an open sewage canal, and a pond composed of rainwater accumulations, located in Calcutta. V. cholerae was found in all sites. It exhibited a distinct bimodal seasonal cycle in the lake with a primary peak in August-September and a secondary peak in May-June. Correlation with environmental parameters revealed that temperature and, to a certain extent, pH were the important factors governing the densities of V. cholerae. In the lake, sediment samples harbored high densities of V. cholerae immediately after months when peak counts were observed in plankton, suggesting a cycle of cells between sediment and water. At the other sampling areas, no defined seasonality was observed. Instead, high counts of V. cholerae were observed at these severely polluted sites throughout the study period, including the winter months. All the 15 water samples passed via the ligated loop of rabbits yielded pure cultures of V. cholerae, indicating that the rabbit intestine selects out V. cholerae from a mixed flora. Uniformly high isolation rates of V. cholerae were observed from brackish water and freshwater species of export quality prawns. V. cholerae was found to be abundant and was represented by 32 individual Louisiana State University (LSU) serovars, including two new serovars. The 01 serovar could not be isolated from any of the samples examined in this study. It was concluded that V. cholerae non-01 is common in the freshwater environs of Calcutta.
23469185|The efficiency of a novel integrated treatment system for biological removal of ammonium, nitrite, nitrate, and heavy metals from fossil power plant effluent was evaluated. Microbial communities were analyzed using bacterial and archaeal 16S rRNA gene clone libraries (Sanger sequences) and 454 pyrosequencing technology. While seasonal changes in microbial community composition were observed, the significant (P=0.001) changes in bacterial and archaeal communities were consistent with variations in ammonium concentration. Phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed an increase of potential ammonium-oxidizing bacteria (AOB), Nitrosomonas, Nitrosococcus, Planctomycetes, and OD1, in samples with elevated ammonium concentration. Other bacteria, such as Nitrospira, Nitrococcus, Nitrobacter, Thiobacillus, -Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, and Acidobacteria, which play roles in nitrification and denitrification, were also detected. The AOB oxidized 56 % of the ammonium with the concomitant increase in nitrite and ultimately nitrate in the trickling filters at the beginning of the treatment system. Thermoprotei within the phylum Crenarchaeota thrived in the splitter box and especially in zero-valent iron extraction trenches, where an additional 25 % of the ammonium was removed. The potential ammonium-oxidizing Archaea (AOA) (Candidatus Nitrosocaldus) were detected towards the downstream end of the treatment system. The design of an integrated treatment system consisting of trickling filters, zero-valent iron reaction cells, settling pond, and anaerobic wetlands was efficient for the biological removal of ammonium and several other contaminants from wastewater generated at a coal burning power plant equipped with selective catalytic reducers for nitrogen oxide removal.
25153285|Overexploitation of forests to increase wood production has led to the replacement of native forest by large areas of monospecific tree plantations. In the present study, the effects of different monospecific tree cover plantations on density and composition of the indigenous soil microbial community are described. The experimental site of "Breuil-Chenue" in the Morvan (France) was the site of a comparison of a similar mineral soil under Norway spruce (Picea abies), Douglas fir (Pseudotuga menziesii), oak (Quercus sessiflora), and native forest [mixed stand dominated by oak and beech (Fagus sylvatica)]. Sampling was performed during winter (February) at three depths (0-5, 5-10, and 10-15 cm). Abundance of microorganisms was estimated via microbial biomass measurements, using the fumigation-extraction method. The genetic structure of microbial communities was investigated using the bacterial- and fungal-automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (B-ARISA and F-ARISA, respectively) DNA fingerprint. Only small differences in microbial biomass were observed between tree species, the highest values being recorded under oak forest and the lowest under Douglas fir. B- and F-ARISA community profiles of the different tree covers clustered separately, but noticeable similarities were observed for soils under Douglas fir and oak. A significant stratification was revealed under each tree species by a decrease in microbial biomass with increasing depths and by distinct microbial communities for each soil layer. Differences in density and community composition according to tree species and depth were related to soil physicochemical characteristics and organic matter composition.
4251537|Epiphytic communities dominated by cyanobacteria on standing, dead Spartina alterniflora stems in a North Carolina salt marsh were examined. Community composition changed over an annual cycle, with heterocystous cyanobacteria (Calothrix spp., Nostoc spp.) dominant in the spring, and nonheterocystous cyanobacteria (Lyngbya spp., Phormidium spp.) dominant in the fall. Diel patterns of N
41412394|Members of the cosmopolitan green algal genus Klebsormidium (Klebsormidiales, Streptophyta) are typical components of terrestrial microbiotic communities such as biological soil crusts, which have many important ecological functions. In the present study, Klebsormidium dissectum (Gay) Ettl & Grtner was isolated from a high alpine soil crust in the Tyrolean Alps, Austria. Physiological performance in terms of growth and photosynthesis was investigated under different controlled abiotic conditions and compared with ultrastructural changes under the treatments applied. dissectum showed very low light requirements as reflected in growth patterns and photosynthetic efficiency.Increasing temperatures from 5  C to 40  C led to different effects on respiratory oxygen consumption and photosynthetic oxygen evolution. While at low temperatures (5-10  C), respiration was not detectable or on a very low level, photosynthesis was relatively high, Reversely, at the highest temperature, respiration was unaffected, and photosynthesis strongly inhibited pointing to strong differences in temperature sensitivity between both physiological processes.Although photosynthetic performance of dissectum was strongly affected under short-term desiccation and recovered only partly after rehydration, this species was capable to survive even 3 weeks at 5% relative air humidity. K. dissectum cells have a cell width of 5.6  0.3 m. and a cell length of 8.4  2.0 m. Desiccated cells showed a strongly reduced cell width (46% of control) and cell length (65% of control). In addition, in desiccated cells, fewer mitochondria were stained by DIOC, and damaged plasma membranes were detected by FM 1-43 staining. High-pressure freeze fixation as well as chemical fixation allowed visualizing ultrastructural changes caused by desiccation. In such cells, the nucleus and chloroplast were still visibly intact, but the extremely thin cell walls (75-180 nm) were substantially deformed. The cytoplasm appeared electron dense and mitochondria were altered. Although K. dissectum can be characterized as euryoecious species, all ecophysiological and ultrastructural data indicate susceptibility to desiccation. However, the steadily occurring fragmentation of filaments into smaller units leads to improved self protection and thus may represent a life strategy to better survive longer periods of drought in exposed alpine soil crusts.
4250797|Numbers of bacteria in annual sea ice increased directly with numbers of algae during the 1981 spring ice diatom bloom in McMurdo Sound, Antarctica. Algae and bacteria in a control site grew at rates of 0.10 and 0.05 day
23361604|Nitrogen (N) is a crucial nutrient for soil biota, and its cycling is determined by the organic carbon decomposing process. Some endophytic fungi are latent saprotrophs that trigger their saprotrophic metabolism to promote litter organic matter cycling as soon as the host tissue senesces or dies. However, the effects of endophytic fungi on litter and soil N dynamics in vitro have rarely been investigated. In this study, we investigated N dynamics (total and mineral N) in both litter and soil in incubations of a pure culture of an endophytic fungus Phomopsis liquidambari with litter and following soil burial of the litter. Soil enzymes and microbial communities participating in the N transformations were also investigated. A pure culture of P. liquidambari released litter NH 4 + -N in the initial stages (10 days) of the incubation. However, following soil burial, the presence of both P. liquidambari and soil ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) resulted in an increase in soil NO 3 - -N. These results indicate that the endophytic fungus P. liquidambari in vitro stimulates organic mineralization and promote NH 4 + -N release. Such effects triggered soil AOB-driven nitrification process.
4251327|The effect of lettuce (Latuca sativa L.) germination and growth in nonsterilized potting compost of 0.1% and 1.0% w/w incorporation of fermenter biomass inocula of six strains of Trichoderma was investigated. Except for strains WT and T35 at 0.1% w/w, all inocula inhibited germination. Biomass of strains WT, T35, 20, and 47 at 1.0% promoted shoot fresh weight, whereas strains TH1 and 8MF2 were inhibitory. In contrast, when biomass of strains WT, TH1, and 8MF2 was autoclaved and incorporated at 1%, shoot fresh weight was promoted, but the biomass of T35 was inhibitory. None of the strains incorporated at 0.1% w/w increased shoot fresh weight, and autoclaved biomass of TH1, T35, and 20 incorporated at 0.1% w/w resulted in lower shoot fresh weights in comparison with uninoculated controls. The shoot dry weight of lettuce seedlings could be enhanced by germinating seeds in uninoculated compost and after five days' growth transferring them into WT-inoculated compost. Inoculum of strain TH1 when applied using this method was very inhibitory. With WT the degree of increase in shoot fresh weight and germination rate declined as the fermentation time to produce inocula was increased.
25152980|Broad-scale approaches seek to integrate information on whole microbial communities. It is widely recognized that culture techniques are too selective and unrepresentative to allow a realistic assessment of the overall structure of microbial communities. Techniques based on fatty acid or metabolic profiles determine the phenotypic composition of the community. Complementary information about the genotypic structure of soil microbial communities necessitates analysis of community DNA. To determine broad-scale differences in soil microbial community structure (i.e., differences at the whole community level, rather than specific differences in species composition), we have applied a community hybridization technique to determine the similarity and relative diversity of two samples by cross hybridization. In previous studies this assay failed with whole-soil community DNA. Usable hybridization signals were obtained using whole-soil DNA, in this study, by digesting the DNA with restriction enzymes before the labeling with a random-primer reaction. The community hybridization technique was tested using a graded series of microbial fractions, increasing in complexity, all isolated from the same soil sample. This demonstrated that single bacterial species and a mixture of cultivable bacteria were less complex and only 5% similar to whole-community DNA or bacteria directly extracted from the soil. Extracted bacterial and whole-community DNA were 75% similar to each other and equally complex. When DNA was extracted from four different agricultural soils, their similarities ranged from 35 to 75%. The potential usefulness of community hybridization applied to soil microbial communities is discussed.
4287525|The phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiles of soil microbial communities were determined in relation to the patterns of tree cover in a mature Norway spruce plantation. Replicate samples of the surface organic layers were taken close to the trunk, at 1 m and at 2 m (under the edge of the canopy) beneath five trees. Samples were analyzed for standard PLFAs to assess the initial composition of the microbial communities. Replicate samples were then incubated under constant or fluctuating moisture conditions for 30 d to test the hypothesis that the patterns of microbial community structure (or its physiological state) might be determined by biophysical conditions under the tree canopies. The PLFA profiles near the trunks and at 2 m were similar, but samples taken 1 m from the bases of the trees contained lower concentrations of polyunsaturated (fungal) and monounsaturated PLFAs, and higher concentrations of saturated PLFAs. These differences in PLFA profiles were maintained during laboratory incubation under a regime of drying and wetting cycles, but there was some evidence of convergence in community structure under constant moisture conditions resulting from significant increases and decreases in specific bacterial PLFA concentrations. There were no effects of either moisture treatment on fungal PLFA concentrations. It is concluded that variation in the soil biophysical environment beneath the tree canopies resulted in the differentiation of spatially defined bacterial communities that were tolerant of moisture stress. The anomaly that differences in community structure were largest at an intermediate position of 1 m between the trunk and below the canopy edge was not explained but may relate to tree root distribution.
4251341|Experimental microcosms were used to study the dynamics of heterotrophic bacterial populations with respect to phytoplankton loss. In a two-stage linked culture system, we artificially separated production and loss processes of a diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum. In the first (productive) stage, the algae developed axenically and continuously. The outflow was fluxed in two degradation stages, where phytoplankton-derived detritus resulted respectively from: (1) excretion and by-products of phagotrophic organisms (protozoans), and (2) bacterial degradation through bacterial attachment and lysis. According to the phytoplankton decay mode, i.e., lysis or grazing, bacterial adaptations were different. The study of bacterial productivity and aminopeptidase activity showed specific bacterial evolution during the succession of different prey-predator relationships. The occurrence of aggregates allowed nanoflagellates to develop an alternative diet; they fed not only on bacteria, but also on partially degraded phytoplankton detritus, inducing a strong short-cut in the food chain. Sources and controls of extracellular proteolytic activity are discussed. Such experimental approaches are interesting because they separate bacterial lysis and protozoan grazing of phytoplankton, as well as the fates of their corresponding phytoplankton detritus in the microbial food web.
4251570| Ciliates of the genus Paramecium have a unique cortical pattern after silver staining, and can be easily identified as paramecia in any sample from small ponds or other freshwater collection areas. Furthermore, readily detectable morphological characteristics serve as guides to distinguish between species of paramecia by light microscopy of living cells. Alternatively different species of the P. aurelia complex appear morphologically identical, often despite striking differences in their ecology or life strategies. This has severely hampered ecological studies [field work]. There are only a few data sets available concerning the ecology of free living paramecia in natural habitats, because there is no feasible method for multiple determinations of Paramecium species that are often required during field studies. With the adaptation of the Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RAPD-PCR) fingerprint technique, we succeeded in performing a fast and simple identification of European Paramecium aurelia species. We developed a 10-mer random primer that generated fingerprints highly specific for nine different P. aurelia species. The diagnostic band pattern was the same for different stocks of the same species, despite different geographic origins. This method has already been used successfully to identify some unknown clones collected from natural environments in southwestern Germany. This technique can be used for the identification of species and for studying elements of population structure. Field studies are now possible to answer basic questions concerning the ecology of Paramecium. These are necessary to develop a general model for limnological processes in freshwater ecosystems at a scale of a 100-m organism. 
41489160|The century-long research on succession has bestowed us with a number of theories, but little agreement on what causes species replacements through time. The majority of studies has explored the temporal trends of individual species in plant and much less so in microbial communities, arguing that interspecific interactions, especially competition, play a key role in community organization throughout succession. In this experimental investigation of periphytic succession in recirculating laboratory streams, we examined the density and the relative abundance of diatoms and soft algae for 35 days across gradients of low to high nutrient supply (nitrogen + phosphorus) and low to intermediate current velocity (10 vs. 30 cms). All algal species were classified into trophic groups and morphological guilds, both of which responded more strongly to nutrient than current velocity manipulations, as shown by regression analyses. We concluded that within the manipulated environmental ranges: (1) Succession was a gradient of stress tolerance, driven primarily by nutrient supply and secondarily, by current velocity. Nutrient supply had a qualitative effect in determining whether the contribution of species tolerant vs. sensitive to nutrient limitation would increase through time, while current velocity had a quantitative influence and affected only the rate of this increase. (2) The mechanism of algal succession at a functional level was a neutral coexistence, whereby the tolerant low profile guild maintained high density when overgrown by sensitive species, while sensitive species, constituting mostly the motile and high profile guilds, were neither facilitated nor inhibited by tolerant species but controlled by the environment. It is suggested that the mechanism of succession may depend on the level of biological organization with interspecific interactions giving way to neutral coexistence along the hierarchy from species to functional groups. Considering that the functional makeup is strictly environmentally defined, while species composition reflects local and regional species pools that may exhibit substantial geographic variability, succession is deterministic at a functional level but stochastic at a species level.
41489100|Recent studies have revealed several examples of intimate associations between insects and Actinobacteria, including the Southern Pine Beetle Dendroctonus frontalis and the Spruce Beetle Dendroctonus rufipennis. Here, we surveyed Streptomyces Actinobacteria co-occurring with 10 species of Dendroctonus bark beetles across the United States, using both phylogenetic and community ecology approaches. From these 10 species, and 19 other scolytine beetles that occur in the same trees, we obtained 154 Streptomyces-like isolates and generated 16S sequences from 134 of those. Confirmed 16S sequences of Streptomyces were binned into 36 distinct strains using a threshold of 0.2% sequence divergence. The 16S rDNA phylogeny of all isolates does not correlate with the distribution of strains among beetle species, localities, or parts of the beetles or their galleries. However, we identified three Streptomyces strains occurring repeatedly on Dendroctonus beetles and in their galleries. Identity of these isolates was corroborated using a house-keeping gene sequence (efTu). These strains are not confined to a certain species of beetle, locality, or part of the beetle or their galleries. However, their role as residents in the woodboring insect niche is supported by the repeated association of their 16S and efTu from across the continent, and also having been reported in studies of other subcortical insects.
41693745|The Brazilian Cerrado is the second largest biome in Brazil and is considered a biodiversity hotspot. In this work, we compared the bacterial communities in Cerrado soil associated with four types of native vegetation (Cerrado Denso, Cerrado sensu stricto, Campo Sujo, and Mata de Galeria) by ribosomal RNA intergenic spacer analysis, terminal fragment restriction length polymorphism and pyrosequencing. The fingerprinting results were very similar. The bacterial communities of Cerrado Denso and Cerrado sensu stricto grouped together and were distinct from those in Campo Sujo and Mata de Galeria. Pyrosequencing generated approximately 40,000 16S rRNA gene sequences per sample and allowed the identification of 17 phyla in soil samples under Cerrado vegetation. Acidobacteria were dominant in all areas studied with a relative frequency of 40-47 %, followed closely by Proteobacteria accounting for 34-40 % of the sequences. Results from all molecular techniques used suggested that the bacterial communities of Cerrado sensu stricto and Cerrado Denso are very similar to each other, while Campo Sujo forms a separate group, and Mata de Galera is the most distinct with higher species richness. This is the first extensive study of native Cerrado soil microbiota, an important but endangered biome.
23469165|Understanding the composition of the microbial populations in the intestines of liver transplant patients is important to preventing postoperative infection. We investigated the relationship between the risk of postoperative infection and variation in the predominant fecal microbial composition during the perioperative period. We prospectively analyzed the predominant intestinal microbiome of five asymptomatic adult carriers of hepatitis B virus (as controls without any antibiotics) at four weekly follow-up visits and 12 patients before operation and at three weekly postoperative follow-up visits within the first month. Analysis was by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and sequencing with digital processing of DGGE profiles using BioNumerics software. Our results showed that the predominant intestinal microbial diversity decreased substantially in eight patients during the perioperative period. Among these, five patients experienced infection with a postoperative hospital stay of more than 30 days. The rest of the four patients who experienced shorter postoperative hospital stays showed only slight variation in predominant intestinal bacterial composition and temporal stability similar to asymptomatic controls. Postoperative fecal DGGE profiles showed mostly bands assigned to Bacteroides and Firmicutes. We conclude that an empiric prophylaxis strategy that destructs gut microecological balance will not be effective in reducing the risk of postoperative infection. Instead, the destruction of intestinal microbiota might result in the appearance of opportunistic pathogens such as Bifidobacterium dentium which rarely appears in the intestinal DGGE profiles of normal humans. Cognizance of the variation of intestinal microbial profiles during the perioperative period is a critical aspect of caring for liver transplant recipients.
4250480|The antigenic structure of four aquatic Phycomycetes of the genus Saprolegnia with parasitic activity in fish was analyzed with immunoelectrophoresis and double diffusion techniques. It is shown that these serological tests might represent a valuable criterion for the identification of the four Saprolegnia species: S. parasitica, S. ferax, S. delica, and S. diclina. A specific chromogenic reaction revealed the presence of a protease with chymotrypsin-like activity among the precipitation arcs obtained after immunoelectrophoresis. Analysis of this proteolytic activity by kinetic assay methods confirmed the results of the serological tests. Moreover estimates of the quantity of enzyme present in the cellular extract and in the culture medium were obtained. A possible relationship between the proteolytic activity and the host-parasite interaction was discussed.
4251804| Nitrogen fixation genes (nifH) were amplified and sequenced from DNA extracted from surface water samples collected from six stations along the length of the Neuse River Estuary, North Carolina, in order to determine the distribution of nitrogen-fixing organisms in the transition from fresh- to saltwater. Nitrogenase genes were detected in all samples by a nested polymerase chain reaction method, and the amplification products from the upriver, midriver, and downriver stations were cloned, sequenced, and used for phylogenetic analysis. The composition of nifH clone libraries from upriver, midriver, and downriver stations (each composed of 14 randomly selected clones) were very diverse (samples from upriver and midriver stations were composed of 14 unique sequences, downriver station composed of 7 unique sequences) and differed among the stations. Some phylotypes were found at more than one station, but were usually found in the upriver and midriver stations or in the midriver and downriver stations, indicating that the phylotypes were probably transported along the river. Cyanobacterial nifH were not found at the most upriver site, but were a large fraction of sequences (50%) recovered from the downriver station, where nitrate concentration was an order of magnitude lower and salinity was higher. In contrast,  proteobacteria nifH sequences were much more common at the midriver and upriver sites (58% and 64%, respectively), compared to the downriver site (14%). Results indicate that substantially different nitrogen-fixing assemblages are present along the river, reflecting differential watershed hydrological inputs, sedimentation, and environmental selection pressures, along the salinity gradient. 
41489184|The potential effects of urbanization on the bioavailability of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) were tested by determining the extracellular enzyme activities of the heterotrophic microbial communities of the Rouge River. The activities of 19 enzymes were monitored across two water samples (river water and groundwater) at different spatial and temporal scales. High phosphatase, esterase, and aminopeptidase activities was observed in site 9 (site most exposed to anthropogenic sources) showed higher concentrations of DOC compared to sites 1 and 8 (sites exposed to less anthropogenic sources), where moderate activities of diverse range of enzymes were observed. High relative contributions of phosphatase, esterase, and aminopeptidase activities to the overall enzyme activity as observed in site 9 stressed the increased importance of peptides as source for heterotrophic communities and high in-stream carbon processing, which account for high nonspecific extracellular enzyme activities. In contrast, high contribution of glycosyl hydrolases occurred consistently across all sites, which highlights the significance of microbial detrital and plant biomass as carbon sources. Majority of the enzymes showed evidence of activity at various extents during spring and summer. However, higher activities of leucine aminopeptidase, valine aminopeptidase, -glucosidase, and -mannosidase were observed in the summer; and alkaline phosphatase and -glucosidase in the spring. The results presented here suggest a shift in organic carbon bioavailability across all sites of contrasting urbanization, despite similarities in DOC concentrations. Hence, API ZYM technique can be used as an effective indicator of river water and groundwater system health across an urban gradient.
4251290|Bacterial isolates from the subtropical southeastern continental shelf were cultured in a matrix of temperature and substrate concentrations encompassing a range of temperature and substrate concentrations equal to and exceeding natural ones. At the annual minimum temperature, marine heterotrophic bacterial isolates required higher concentrations of dissolved substrates for active growth than are usually found in seawater. We show this to result from a nonlinear interaction of the combined effects of temperature and substrate concentration on bacterial growth and respiratory rate. As a result, bacterial and protozoan utilization of phytoplankton production during winter and early spring is low, permitting greater energy flow to zooplankton and benthic animals, while in late spring, summer, and fall, the microbial loop dominates energy flux and organic carbon utilization. Escherichia coli shows a similar nonlinear response to temperature at minimal substrate concentrations, albeit at a higher range of concentrations than were utilized by the marine isolates. Thus, bacteria from subtropical regions are shown to have a differential growth response near the minimum temperature for growth, depending on the concentration of available substrates.
25153198|The population sizes of three bacterial species, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, Burkholderia cepacia, and Pseudomonas putida, were examined in water and sediment from nine streams in different parts of the United States using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). Population sizes were determined from three sites (upstream, midstream, and downstream) in each stream to compare differences in the occurrence and distribution of the species within each stream and among streams. Physical and chemical variables measured reflected differences in environmental conditions among the streams. In the water, B. cepacia numbers were highest in the agricultural, Iowa stream. P. putida numbers were highest in the southern coastal plain streams, Black Creek (GA) and Meyers Branch (SC). Compared to the other two species, the abundance of A. calcoaceticus was similar in all the streams. In sediment, the greatest abundance of all three species was found in the Iowa stream, while the lowest was in Hugh White Creek (NC). Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) explained 95.8% and 83.9% of the total variation in bacterial numbers in water and sediment of the streams, respectively. In sediments and water, B. cepacia numbers were related to nitrate concentrations. A. calcoaceticus in water clustered with several environmental variables (i.e., SRP, pH, and conductivity) but benthic populations were less well correlated with these variables. This study reveals the potential influence of various environmental conditions on different bacterial populations in stream communities.
4287575| Phytoplankton dynamics, bacterial standing stocks and living microbial biomass (derived from ATP measurements, 0.7-200 m size class) were examined in 1996 in the newly flooded (1995) Sep Reservoir ('Massif Central,' France), for evidence of the importance of the microbial food web relative to the traditional food chain. Phosphate concentrations were low, N:P ratios were high, and phosphate losses converted into carbon accounted for <50% of phytoplankton biomass and production, indicating that P was limiting phytoplankton development during the study. The observed low availability of P contrasts with the high release of "directly" assimilable P often reported in newly flooded reservoirs, suggesting that factors determining nutrient dynamics in such ecosystems are complex. The phosphate availability, but also the water column stability, seemed to be among the major factors determining phytoplankton dynamics, as (i) large-size phytoplankton species were prominent during the period of increasing water column stability, whereas small-size species dominated phytoplankton assemblages during the period of decreasing stability, and (ii) a Dinobryon divergens bloom occurred during a period when inorganic P was undetectable, coinciding with the lowest values of bacterial standing stocks. Indication of grazing limitation of bacterial populations by the mixotrophic chrysophyte D. divergens (in late spring) and by other potential grazers (mainly rotifers in summer) seemed to be confirmed by the Model II or functional slopes of the bacterial vs phytoplankton regressions, which were always <0.63. Phytoplankton biomass was not correlated with phosphorus sources and its contribution was remarkably low relative to the living microbial biomass which, in contrast, was positively correlated with total phosphorus in summer. We conclude that planktonic microheterotrophs are strongly implicated in the phosphorus dynamics in the Sep Reservoir, and thus support the idea that an important amount of matter and energy flows through the "microbial loop" and food web, shortly after the flooding of a reservoir. 
4250631|Gelatinous mats of blue-green algae (cyanobacteria) and bacteria in alkaline thermal springs of Yellowstone National Park add biomass at the surface more rapidly than material is degraded in the anaerobic layers underneath. This inequality leads to flow diversion and exposure of mat surface. The microenvironment of these cool exposed "islands" is drastically altered as adults and larvae of ephydrid fly species invade, feed on, and solubilize the mat. We studied the effect of this grazing by comparing hot and cool ungrazed controls with mat that was cooled and remained open to invasion by ephydrid flies. Mat community biomass changes (ash free dry weight-AFDW) and changes in bacterial numbers were determined. Mat biomass was essentially unchanged for 3 weeks in the controls. Numbers of bacteria remained unchanged in the cool ungrazed control but decreased by more than 90% in the hot-ungrazed control. Grazing by ephydrid flies initially increased both mat biomass and numbers of unicellular heterotrophic bacteria. When grazed mat was reexposed to flowing hot water, biomass and bacterial numbers per mg AFDW declined immediately and significantly. The long-term effect of grazing on the mat is solubilization with downstream biomass export and subsequent initiation of successional algal-bacterial mat regrowth. Our experimental results suggest an initial stimulation of net photosynthesis by grazing, possibly related to the promotion of bacterial activity resulting in the release of essential mineral nutrients and/or free CO
25153174| Ecological theory suggests that microbial communities with greater microbial diversity would be less susceptible to invasion by potential opportunistic pathogens. We investigated whether the survival of the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the wheat rhizosphere would be affected by the presence of natural and constructed microbial communities of various diversity levels. Three levels of microbial community diversity were derived from wheat roots by a dilution/extinction approach. These wheat rhizosphere inocula, as well as a gnotobiotic microbial community consisting of seven culturable wheat rhizobacterial isolates, were introduced into the nutrient solution of hydroponically grown wheat plants on the day of planting. Phenotypic characterization of the culturable microbial communities on R2A medium, Shannon microbial diversity index, community-level physiological profiles, and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms were used to assess the varying microbial diversity levels. At day 7 the roots were invaded with P. aeruginosa and the number of P. aeruginosa colony forming units per root were measured at day 14. The average number of surviving P. aeruginosa cells was 3.52, 4.90, 7.18, 6.65 log cfu/root in the high, medium, low, and gnotobiotic microbial community diversity level treatments, respectively. The invasibility of the rhizosphere communities by P. aeruginosa was inversely related to the level of diversity from the dilution extinction gradient. The gnotobiotic community did not confer protection against P. aeruginosa invasion. Although these data indicate that invasibility is inversely related to diversity, further study is needed to both reproduce these findings and define the specific mechanisms of the diversity effect. 
23469599|Coral health is under threat throughout the world due to regional and global stressors. White plague disease (WP) is one of the most important threats affecting the major reef builder of the Abrolhos Bank in Brazil, the endemic coral Mussismilia braziliensis. We performed a metagenomic analysis of healthy and WP-affected M. braziliensis in order to determine the types of microbes associated with this coral species. We also optimized a protocol for DNA extraction from coral tissues. Our taxonomic analysis revealed Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Cyanobacteria, and Actinomycetes as the main groups in all healthy and WP-affected corals. Vibrionales, members of the CytophagaFlavobacteriumBacteroides complex, Rickettsiales, and Neisseriales were more abundant in the WP-affected corals. Diseased corals also had more eukaryotic metagenomic sequences identified as Alveolata and Apicomplexa. Our results suggest that WP disease in M. braziliensis is caused by a polymicrobial consortium.
4250662|When a heterotrophic (Rhodotorula rubra) and a phototrophic (Selenastrum capricornutum) plankton were grown together in dilute phosphate (Pi) continuous cultures, coexistence occurred only when the heterotroph was growth-rate limited by organic carbon (C). Because of its higher affinity for Pi, and because C starvation does not affect the heterotrophic yeast's ability to transport Pi, the concentration of organic carbon indirectly controlled the biomass of the photograph. The results support a threshold model of microbial growth.
25153101| Large regions of temperate forest are subject to elevated atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition which can affect soil organic matter dynamics by altering mass loss rates, soil respiration, and dissolved organic matter production. At present there is no general model that links these responses to changes in the organization and operation of microbial decomposer communities. Toward that end, we studied the response of litter and soil microbial communities to high levels of N amendment (30 and 80 kg ha yr) in three types of northern temperate forest: sugar maple/basswood (SMBW), sugar maple/red oak (SMRO), and white oak/black oak (WOBO). We measured the activity of extracellular enzymes (EEA) involved directly in the oxidation of lignin and humus (phenol oxidase, peroxidase), and indirectly, through the production of hydrogen peroxide (glucose oxidase, glyoxal oxidase). Community composition was analyzed by extracting and quantifying phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA) from soils. Litter EEA responses at SMBW sites diverged from those at oak-bearing sites (SMRO, BOWO), but the changes were not statistically significant. For soil, EEA responses were consistent across forests types: phenol oxidase and peroxidase activities declined as a function of N dose (33-73% and 5-41%, respectively, depending on forest type); glucose oxidase and glyoxal oxidase activities increased (200-400% and 150-300%, respectively, depending on forest type). Principal component analysis (PCA) ordinated forest types and treatment responses along two axes; factor 1 (44% of variance) was associated with phenol oxidase and peroxidase activities, factor 2 (31%) with glucose oxidase. Microbial biomass did not respond to N treatment, but nine of the 23 PLFA that formed &gt;1 mol% of total biomass showed statistically significant treatment responses. PCA ordinated forest types and treatment responses along three axes (36%, 26%, 12% of variance). EEA factors 1 and 2 correlated negatively with PLFA factor 1 (r = -0.20 and -0.35, respectively, n = 108) and positively with PLFA factor 3 (r = +0.36 and +0.20, respectively, n = 108). In general, EEA responses were more strongly tied to changes in bacterial PLFA than to changes in fungal PLFA. Collectively, our data suggests that N inhibition of oxidative activity involves more than the repression of ligninase expression by white-rot basidiomycetes. 
25153380|The biological control bacterium Pseudomonas chlororaphis (aureofaciens) strain 30-84 employs two quorum sensing (QS) systems: PhzR/PhzI regulates the production of the antibiotics phenazine-1-carboxylic acid, 2-hydroxy-phenazine-1-carboxylic acid, and 2-hydroxy-phenazine, whereas CsaR/CsaI regulates currently unknown aspects of the cell surface. Previously characterized derivatives of strain 30-84 with mutations in each QS system and in the phenazine biosynthetic genes were screened for their ability to form surface-attached biofilm populations in vitro, using microtiter plate and flow cell biofilm assays, and on seeds and roots. Results from in vitro, seed, and root studies demonstrated that the PhzR/PhzI and the CsaR/CsaI QS regulatory systems contribute to the establishment of biofilms, with mutations in PhzR/PhzI having a significantly greater effect than mutations in CsaR/CsaI. Interestingly, phenazine antibiotic production was necessary for biofilm formation to the same extent as the PhzR/PhzI QS system, suggesting the loss of phenazines was responsible for the majority of the biofilm defect in these mutants. In vitro analysis indicated that genetic complementation or AHL addition to the growth medium restored the ability of the AHL synthase phzI mutant to form biofilms. However, only phenazine addition or genetic complementation of the phenazine biosynthetic mutation in trans restored biofilm formation by mutants defective in the transcriptional activator phzR or the phzB structural mutant. QS and phenazine production were also involved in the establishment of surface-attached populations on wheat seeds and plant roots, and, as observed in vitro, the addition of AHL extracts restored the ability of phzI mutants, but not phzR mutants, to form surface attached populations on seeds. Similarly, the presence of the wild type in mixtures with the mutants restored the ability of the mutants to colonize wheat roots, demonstrating that AHL and/or phenazine production by the wild-type population could complement the AHL- and phenazine-deficient mutants in situ. Together, these data demonstrate that both QS systems are involved in the formation of surface-attached populations required for biofilm formation by P. chlororaphis strain 30-84, and indicate a new role for phenazine antibiotics in rhizosphere community development beyond inhibition of other plant-associated microorganisms.
4251251| The relative importance of dispersion, physical straining, nonequilibrium sorption, and cell density on the dispersal of bacteria was examined in saturated, flow-dynamic sand columns. The bacterial breakthrough as a result of different size distributions of sand particles was followed by measuring the effluent concentration of
4251682|Nitrogen often limits primary production in marine ecosystems and its loading from terrestrial sources is the major cause of enhanced coastal eutrophication worldwide. About 70% of nitrogen transported by rivers globally is dissolved organic nitrogen (DON). Therefore, terrestrial DON is potentially an important component of the N dynamics in aquatic ecosystems, but the bioavailability of this organic nitrogen is poorly known. Bacterial extracellular hydrolysis of polymers is a bottleneck in the utilization of natural dissolved organic matter, mostly consisting of high molecular weight compounds. To study the bacterial utilization and extracellular enzymatic hydrolysis of DON, we developed a bioassay employing natural DON as the only N source, and N as the limiting nutrient. Bacterial cell density and activity of an unspecific aminopeptidase (AMPase) were followed in the cultures. Natural DON stimulated the cell-specific AMPase activity. Furthermore, refractory and humus-rich DOM caused a stronger stimulation than labile DOM. We propose that the previously reported inhibitory effect of humic substances on enzyme activity was outweighed by the induction of enzyme synthesis caused by refractory substrates. AMPase activity and the estimated DON bioavailability were more than twofold higher in seawater than in freshwater with identical substrate additions. This indicates that hydrolysis and turnover of land-derived DON is enhanced when it enters coastal marine waters, enabling it to support elevated bacterioplankton and phytoplankton growth.
4251782| The structure of root-associated bacterial populations in the legume common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), was studied in plants grown under nitrogen sufficiency and under conditions inducing nitrogen deficiency. Similar cell numbers were obtained in the rhizosphere of nitrogen-amended plants as compared to nitrogen-deficient plants and between various root parts-tip, elongation and branching zones-using DAPI staining. In contrast, a higher proportion of DAPI-stained cells from the nitrogen-amended plants hybridized with a fluorescence-labeled EUB338 probe for the Bacteria domain than cells originating from nitrogen-deficient plants. Shifts in the percentages of EUB338-reactive cells-as well as in absolute cell number-hybridizing to fluorescent rRNA-directed probes specific for the  and  Proteobacteria and for high GC content gram-positive bacteria in separated root segments were detected between the treatments. No such differences were found using  and  Proteobacteria or rRNA group I pseudomonad targeted probes. Denaturating gradient gel electrophoresis profiles of PCR products obtained from the same samples and amplified with Bacteria-domain targeted primers supported the results obtained with the whole cell hybridizations. The advantages and drawbacks of the techniques applied are discussed. 
4251048|Spatial sampling was used to investigate temporal density-dependent parasitism of the plant-parasitic nematode Criconemella xenoplax by Hirsutella rhossiliensis in three peach orchards on eight sample dates. The patches of soil in which the nematode and fungus interacted were assumed to possess similar density-dependent dynamics and to be small, independent, and asynchronous. Furthermore, sampling of separate patches was assumed to provide similar information with respect to density dependence as would temporal (repeated) sampling of the same patch. Percent parasitism was dependent on the number of C. xenoplax/100 cm<sup>3</sup> soil (P = 0.0001). The slope was unaffected by orchard or date but ranged from 0.0001 to 0.0043 depending on distance from the irrigation furrow. The relative shallowness of the slope and the large variation in percent parasitism not explained by nematode density suggest that H. rhossiliensis is a weak regulator of C. xenoplax population density.
41489209|Previous research had shown that three closely related species of Lysobacter, i.e., Lysobacter antibioticus, Lysobacter capsici, and Lysobacter gummosus, were present in different Rhizoctonia-suppressivQ soils. However, the population dynamics of these three Lysobacter spp. in different habitats remains unknown. Therefore, a specific primer-probe combination was designed for the combined quantification of these three Lysobacter spp. using TaqMan. Strains of the three target species were efficiently detected with TaqMan, whereas related non-target strains of Lysobacter enzymogenes and Xanthomonas campestris were not or only weakly amplified. Indigenous Lysobacter populations were analyzed in soils of 10 organic farms in the Netherlands during three subsequent years with TaqMan. These soils differed in soil characteristics and crop rotation. Additionally, Lysobacter populations in rhizosphere and bulk soil of different crops on one of these farms were studied. In acid sandy soils low Lysobacter populations were present, whereas pH neutral clay soils contained high populations (respectively, < 4.0-5.87 and 6.22-6.95 log gene copy numbers g soil). Clay content, pH and C/N ratio, but not organic matter content in soil, correlated with higher Lysobacter populations. Unexpectedly, different crops did not significantly influence population size of the three Lysobacter spp. and their populations were barely higher in rhizosphere than in bulk soil.
25153190| Bioremediation of perchlorate-contaminated groundwater can occur via bacterial reduction of perchlorate to chloride. Although perchlorate reduction has been demonstrated in bacterial pure cultures, little is known about the efficacy of using perchlorate-reducing bacteria as inoculants for bioremediation in the field. A pilot-scale, fixed-bed bioreactor containing plastic support medium was used to treat perchlorate-contaminated groundwater at a site in Southern California. The bioreactor was inoculated with a field-grown suspension of the perchlorate-respiring bacterium Dechlorosoma sp. strain KJ and fed groundwater containing indigenous bacteria and a carbon source amendment. Because the reactor was flushed weekly to remove accumulated biomass, only bacteria capable of growing in biofilms in the reactor were expected to survive. After 26 days of operation, perchlorate was not detected in bioreactor effluent. Perchlorate remained undetected by ion chromatography (detection limit 4 g L) during 6 months of operation, after which the reactor was drained. Plastic medium was subsampled from top, middle, and bottom locations of the reactor for shipment on blue ice and storage at -80C prior to analysis. Microbial community DNA was extracted from successive washes of thawed biofilm material for PCR-based community profiling by 16S-23S ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA). No DNA sequences characteristic of strain KJ were recovered from any RISA bands. The most intense bands yielded DNA sequences with high similarities to Dechloromonas spp., a closely related but different genus of perchlorate-respiring bacteria. Additional sequences from RISA profiles indicated presence of representatives of the low G+C gram-positive bacteria and the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides group. Confocal scanning laser microscopy and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) were also used to examine biofilms using genus-specific 16S ribosomal RNA probes. FISH was more sensitive than RISA profiling in detecting possible survivors from the initial inoculum. FISH revealed that bacteria hybridizing to Dechlorosoma probes constituted &lt;1% of all cells in the biofilms examined, except in the deepest portions where they represented 3-5%. Numbers of bacteria hybridizing to Dechloromonas probes decreased as biofilm depth increased, and they were most abundant at the biofilm surface (23% of all cells). These spatial distribution differences suggested persistence of low numbers of the inoculated strain Dechlorosoma sp. KJ in parts of the biofilm nearest to the plastic medium, concomitant with active colonization or growth by indigenous Dechloromonas spp. in the biofilm exterior. This study demonstrated the feasibility of post hoc analysis of frozen biofilms following completion of field remediation studies. 
4287758|We characterized, at millimeter resolution, bacterial biomass, diversity, and vertical stratification of biological soil crusts in arid lands from the Colorado Plateau. Microscopic counts, extractable DNA, and plate counts of viable aerobic copiotrophs (VAC) revealed that the top centimeter of crusted soils contained atypically large bacterial populations, tenfold larger than those in uncrusted, deeper soils. The plate counts were not always consistent with more direct estimates of microbial biomass. Bacterial populations peaked at the immediate subsurface (1-2 mm) in light-appearing, young crusts, and at the surface (0-1 mm) in well-developed, dark crusts, which corresponds to the location of cyanobacterial populations. Bacterial abundance decreased with depth below these horizons. Spatially resolved DGGE fingerprints of Bacterial 16S rRNA genes demonstrated the presence of highly diverse natural communities, but we could detect neither trends with depth in bacterial richness or diversity, nor a difference in diversity indices between crust types. Fingerprints, however, revealed the presence of marked stratification in the structure of the microbial communities, probably a result of vertical gradients in physicochemical parameters. Sequencing and phylogenetic analyses indicated that most of the naturally occurring bacteria are novel types, with low sequence similarity (83-93%) to those available in public databases. DGGE analyses of the VAC populations indicated communities of lower diversity, with most types having sequences more than 94% similar to those in public databases. Our study indicates that soil crusts represent small-scale mantles of fertility in arid ecosystems, harboring vertically structured, little-known bacterial populations that are not well represented by standard cultivation methods.
25256218|The impact of Dreissena (Dreissena polymorpha and D. bugensis) on the benthic bacterial community in lakes is largely unknown. Therefore, we quantified differences in the structure and activity of bacterial communities living in sediments (1) associated with Dreissena clusters, and (2) unassociated with established clusters (lake bottom sediments). Dreissena clusters and sediments were collected from locations in Lake Erie, Lake Ontario, and several inland lakes. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis of the benthic bacterial community showed that the bacterial populations selected for by Dreissena represent a subset of the bottom communities and are geographically distinct. Community-level physiological profiling (CLPP) showed that overall bacterial activity and metabolic diversity were enhanced by the presence of clusters in all samples, with the exception of those harvested from the two Lake Erie sites. Therefore, Dreissena appears to affect both structure and metabolic function of the benthic bacterial community and may have yet unexplored ecosystem and food web consequences.
41412399|The microbial community of a Colombian high mountain hot spring, El Coquito, was analyzed using three different culture-independent assessments of 16S ribosomal RNA genes: clone libraries, pyrosequencing of the V5-V6 hypervariable region, and microarray. This acidic spring had a diverse community composed mainly o Bacteria that shared characteristics with those from other hot springs and extreme acidic environments. The microbial community was dominated by Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, and Planctomycetes and contained chemotrophic bacteria potentially involved in cycling of ferrous and sulfur-containing minerals and phototrophic organisms, most of which were eukaryotic micro-algae. Despite the presence of a large proportion of novel, unclassified sequences, the taxonomic profiles obtained with each strategy showed similarities at higher taxonomic levels. However, some groups, such as Spirochaetes and Aquificae, were identified using only one methodology, and more taxa were detected with the gene array, which also shared more groups with the pyrosequencing data. Overall, the combined use of different approaches provided a broader view of the microbial community in this acidic hot spring.
4251433| The objectives of this study were to determine the role of microbial activity in inactivation of hepatitis A virus (HAV) and to learn how the virus is inactivated. Of 31 bacterial strains isolated from animal manure, 10 efficiently inactivated HAV in fluid thioglycollate medium, with D
4250969|A near-shore coastal mangrove island receiving untreated sewage and a coastal cove receiving rum distillery effluent in Puerto Rico were examined for their ability to support survival and activity of Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli. Pure cultures of both bacteria were monitored for 96 hours in situ at both locations using membrane diffusion chambers. K. pneumoniae survived at all sites as measured by AODC and Coulter Counter direct counts. However, at the mangrove island less than 20% of the K. pneumoniae population was active (AODC) after the first 3 hours and less than 10% of this population was respiring (INT). In contrast, the coastal area which was receiving rum distillery effluent was able to maintain 40% of the K. pneumoniae population in an active state with 90% respiring. The E. coli population declined by two orders of magnitude at the mangrove island, but remained unchanged at the rum distillery outfall. The E. coli population had a higher proportion of active cells and respiring cells than K. pneumoniae at all sites. At the rum distillery site, the E. coli population was remarkable in that 95% remained active and 99% were respiring. This study suggests that, when sufficient organic loading exists, E. coli, a "nonsurvivor," can overcome the bactericidal effects of tropical marine waters. K. pneumoniae, a "survivor," could survive under all conditions but could not maintain the activity or respiration that the E. coli population could, even when high organic loads were present. Morphological changes related to nutrient stress in the tropical marine environment were apparent in E. coli, but not in K. pneumoniae. Based on physiological activity E. coli is just as much a "survivor" as K. pneumoniae in tropical marine waters.
40605699|The occurrence of bloom-forming cyanobacteria is one of the most obvious sign of eutrophication in freshwaters. Although in eutrophic lakes water transparency in the ultraviolet (UV) region is strongly reduced, bloomforming cyanobacteria are exposed to high solar UV radiation at the surface. Here, we show that, in a natural phytoplankton community from a very eutrophic lake, Microcystis synthesizes UV sunscreen compounds identified as mycosporine-like amino acids (MAAs). The biomass-specific MAA concentration was significantly correlated with the occurrence of Microcystis but not with other algal groups, even though they were dominant in terms of biomass. Based on a photo-optical model, we estimated that the maximum MAA concentration per cell observed (2.5% dry weight) will confer only ~40% of internal screening to a single layer of Microcystis cells. Thus, the formation of a colony with several layers of cells is important to afford an efficient UV screening by internal self-shading. Overall, we propose that Microcystis uses a combination of photoprotective strategies (MAAs, carotenoids) to cope with high solar UV radiation at the water surface. These strategies include also the screening of UV radiation by D-galacturonic acid, one of the main chemical components of the slime layer in Microcystis.
40343494|Pathogenic microorganisms may survive the composting process in low numbers and subsequently regrow to high levels under favorable conditions. The objective of this study was to investigate the regrowth potential of Salmonella spp., Escherichia coli O157: H7, and Listeria monocytogenes in dairy-based composts under different environmental conditions. Water extract of commercially available dairy compost was used as a model system. Cocktails of five rifampin-resistant strains of each pathogen previously grown in reduced nutrient media (1/2 or 1/10 strength of tryptic soy broth, TSB) were inoculated into water extract of compost of different ratios (1:2,1:5, and 1:10, w/v) and then stored at 35C or 22C for 7 days. The strains exhibiting greatest survival or regrowth were identified by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). At 22C, both E. coli O157:H7 and L. monocytogenes multiplied in all compost extracts, whereas Salmonella spp. regrew in both 1:2 and 1:5 compost extracts but not in 1:10. For all three pathogens, incubation at 22C provides better conditions for regrowth than at 35C. Both Salmonella and E. coli O157:H7 previously adapted to nutrientlimited broth (1/10 strength of TSB) regrew in compost extracts to higher populations than the control cultures grown previously in full strength of TSB. In the absence of indigenous microorganisms, all three pathogens regrew even in the most diluted sterile compost extract (1:10) with growth potentials ranging from 2.30 to 3.59 log CFU/m1. In nonsterile compost extract with ca. 5 log CFU/m1 of background microorganisms, all three pathogens regrew only in the most concentrated compost extract (1:2) with much less population increases ranging from 0.70 to 1.43 log CFU/m1. Compost extract samples of all ages supported the regrowth of both Salmonella and E. coli O157:H7 with population increases ranging from 0.95 to 2.32 log CFU/m1. The PFGE patterns for E. coli O157: H7 isolates from sterile compost extracts matched with either the spinach outbreak strain or an avirulent B6914 strain. These results demonstrated that compost extract of dairy-based compost contained sufficient nutrients for pathogen regrowth. Cultures previously adapted to low nutrient media regrew to higher populations than control cultures; however, indigenous microflora suppressed the pathogen regrowth in compost extract, especially at 35C.
4251749|A greenhouse study with soil-plant microcosms was conducted in order to compare the effect of crop species, soil origin, and a bacterial inoculant on the establishment of microbial communities colonizing plant roots. Two crop species, alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and rye (Secale cereale), were grown separately in two soils collected from agricultural fields at different locations and with differing histories of leguminous crop rotation. A subset of microcosms was inoculated at 10
40605723|Delaware's Inland Bays (DIB) are subject to numerous mixed blooms of harmful raphidophytes each year, and Heterosigma akashiwo is one of the consistently occurring species. Often, Chattonella subsalsa, C. cf. verruculosa, and Fibrocapsa japnica co-occur with H akashiwo, indicating a dynamic consortium of raphidophyte species. In this study, microzooplankton grazing pressure was assessed as a top-down control mechanism on H akashiwo populations in mixed communities. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) with speciesspecific primers and probes were used in conjunction with the dilution method to assess grazing pressure on H akashiwo and other raphidophytes. As a comparison, we measured changes in chlorophyll a (chi a) to determine whole community growth and mortality caused by grazing. We detected grazing on H. akashiwo using QPCR in samples where chi a analyses indicated little or no grazing on the total phytoplankton community. Overall, specific microzooplankton grazing pressure on H. akashiwo ranged from 0.88 to 1.88 day" 1 at various sites. Experiments conducted on larger sympatric raphidophytes (C. subsalsa, C cf. verruculosa and F. japonica) demonstrated no significant microzooplankton grazing on these species. Grazing pressure on II. akashiwo may provide a competitive advantage to other raphidophytes such as Chattonella spp. that are too large to be consumed at high rates by microzooplankton and help to shape the dynamics of this harmful algal bloom consortium. Our results show that QPCR can be used in conjunction with the dilution method for evaluation of microzooplankton grazing pressure on specific phytoplankton species within a mixed community.
4287564| The green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) was inserted into the chromosome of Pseudomonas spp. Cam-1 and Sag-50G, two psychrotolerant polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-degrading bacteria. The gfp-transformed microorganisms, designated Cam-1-gfp1, Cam-1-gfp2, Sag-50G-gfp1, and Sag-50G-gfp2, exhibited green fluorescence under an epifluorescent microscope. The gfp was inserted into the chromosome of each psychrotolerant strain and was stable with no apparent adverse affects on the metabolism and growth of each organism. Activity of gfp-transformed microorganisms against biphenyl and 2,3-dichlorobiphenyl was determined by assaying for BphC activity and by resting cell assays. The patterns of BphC activity at two different growth temperatures in batch cultures were similar for each of the gfp-transformed microorganisms. Resting cell assays of both the parent strains (Cam-1, Sag-50G) and the gfp-transformed strains (Cam-1-gfp1, Cam-1-gfp2, Sag-50G-gfp1, Sag-50G-gfp2), grown on glycerol or glucose, exhibited BphC activity to a lesser extent and at a slower rate than those observed for biphenyl grown cells. In addition, all gfp-transformed microorganisms degraded 2,3-dichlorobiphenyl (2,3-DCB) in broth to the same extent as the parent strains. When Cam-1-gfp1 and Sag-50G-gfp1 were used as a bioremediation amendment in soil microcosms spiked with 2,3-DCB, both strains survived in high numbers (5.6 to 7.9 log cfu g
25153313| Acid mine drainage (AMD) contaminates thousands of kilometers of stream in the western United States. At the same time, nitrogen loading to many mountain watersheds is increasing because of atmospheric deposition of nitrate and increased human use. Relatively little is known about nitrogen cycling in acidic, heavy-metal-laden streams; however, it has been reported that one key process, denitrification, is inhibited under low pH conditions. The objective of this research was to investigate the capacity for denitrification in acidified streams. Denitrification potential was assessed in sediments from several Colorado AMD-impacted streams, ranging from pH 2.60 to 4.54, using microcosm incubations with fresh sediment. Added nitrate was immediately reduced to nitrogen gas without a lag period, indicating that denitrification enzymes were expressed and functional in these systems. First-order denitrification potential rate constants varied from 0.046 to 2.964 day. The pH of the microcosm water increased between 0.23 and 1.49 pH units during denitrification. Additional microcosm studies were conducted to examine the effects of initial pH, various electron donors, and iron (added as ferrous and ferric iron). Decreasing initial pH decreased denitrification; however, increasing pH had little effect on denitrification rates. The addition of ferric and ferrous iron decreased observed denitrification potential rate constants. The addition of glucose and natural organic matter stimulated denitrification potential. The addition of hydrogen had little effect, however, and denitrification activity in the microcosms decreased after acetate addition. These results suggest that denitrification can occur in AMD streams, and if stimulated within the environment, denitrification might reduce acidity. 
25153376|Shipboard enrichment incubation experiments were performed to elucidate the limiting resources for heterotrophic prokaryotic production and to discuss the potential impact of bottom water and sediment discharges in relation to manganese (Mn) nodule exploitation on the heterotrophic prokaryotes in the oligotrophic northeast equatorial Pacific. Compared to an unamended control, the production of heterotrophic prokaryotes increased 25-fold in water samples supplemented with amino acids (i.e., organic carbon plus nitrogen), whereas the production increased five and two times, respectively, in samples supplemented with either glucose or ammonium alone. These results indicate that heterotrophic prokaryote production in the northeast equatorial Pacific was co-limited by the availability of dissolved organic carbon and inorganic nitrogen. In samples from the nutrient-depleted surface mixed layer (10-m depth), the addition of a slurry of bottom water and sediment doubled heterotrophic prokaryote production rate. However, little difference was observed between an unamended control and slurry-amended samples in the subsurface chlorophyll a (Chl a) maximum (SCM) layer. Thus, the impact of slurry discharge is more significant at the nutrient-depleted surface mixed layer than at the high-nutrient SCM layer. The greatly enhanced prokaryote production resulting from the addition of sonicated slurry further suggests that dissociated organic carbon may directly stimulate heterotrophic prokaryote production in the surface mixed layer. Overall, the results suggest that the surface discharge of bottom water and sediments during manganese nodule exploitation could have a significant environmental impact on the production of heterotrophic prokaryotes that are currently resource limited.
4251767|The influence of isolation medium on the biodiversity of Burkholderia cepacia strains recovered from the rhizosphere of Zea mays was evaluated by comparing the genetic diversity of isolates obtained by plating serial dilutions of root macerates on the two selective media TB-T and PCAT. From each medium, 50 randomly chosen colonies were isolated. On the basis of the restriction patterns of DNA coding for 16S rRNA (16S rDNA) amplified by means of PCR (ARDRA), all strains isolated from TB-T medium were assigned to the B. cepacia species, whereas among PCAT isolates only 74% were assigned to the B. cepacia species. Genetic diversity among the PCAT and TB-T isolates was evaluated by the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technique. The analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) method was applied to determine the variance component for RAPD patterns. Most of the genetic diversity (90.59%) was found within the two groups of isolates, but an appreciable amount (9.41%) still separated the two groups (P < 0.001). Mean genetic distances among PCAT isolates (10.39) and TB-T isolates (9.36) were significantly different (P < 0.0001). The results indicate that the two different isolation media select for B. cepacia populations with a different degree of genetic diversity. Moreover, a higher degree of genetic diversity was observed among strains isolated from PCAT medium than among those isolated from TB-T medium.
25152981|Holdfast exopolymers of the dimorphic oligotrophic bacterium Seliberia stellata were examined using fluorescent lectins under light microscopy and colloidal gold lectins using transmission electron microscopy. Examination using fluorescent-labeled lectins revealed that lectins specific for polysaccharides and monosaccharides such as glucose and/or mannose, galactose, N-acetylgalactosamine, and N-acetylglucosamine (and its dimer) adhered to holdfast structure. Colloidal gold-labeled lectin assays also suggested the presence of these sugars. Both the holdfast that mediates swarmer cell adhesion and the holdfast that facilitates rosette formation gave similar results, suggesting the structures may be the same. Another exopolymer produced later in the growth cycle was observed using transmission electron microscopy. It appeared as an amorphous glycocalyx-like material very different from holdfast exopolymers. Retention of the gold lectin (Wheat Germ Agglutinin (WGA), suggested the presence of N-acetylglucosamine, but fluorescent analyses were unsuccessful. The data suggest that S. stellata produces at least two different exopolymers: (a) the exopolymer of the swarmer cell and rosette holdfast whose function is adhesion and whose composition is (but may not be limited to) polysaccharides and (b) a slime-like exopolymer whose composition and function remain unknown.
4250576| The influence of Ca homoionic clay minerals (montmorillonite, illite, and kaolinite) on the activity, K
41412432|The impact of fertilization regimes on sequential denitrifying communities was investigated in a rice paddy field with 17 years continuous fertilization, located in Taoyuan Agro-ecosystem Research Station (11072" E, 2852" N), China. The diversity, community composition, and size of denitrifying genes of narG 9 qnorB, and nosZ were determined using molecular tools including terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), cloning, and sequencing analysis. Soil samples were collected from the plots with no fertilizer (NF), urea (UR), balanced mineral fertilizers (BM), and BM combined with rice straw (BMR). UR and BM caused marked increase in the community size of the denitrifying genes; however, BMR resulted in the highest abundance. The community size of narG was the most affected by the fertilization regimes, while qnorB was the least. Fertilization also induced some shifts in the composition of denitrifying genes, but the responses of different genes varied. However, fertilization regimes caused no significant changes to the diversity of the denitrifying genes. Potential denitrification activity (PDA) was significantly correlated with the abundance of narG and nosZ rather than qnorB, but there were no such correlations between PDA and the composition and diversity of denitrifying communities. Conclusively, long-term fertilization significantly affected denitrifying community size and composition, but not diversity. Among the sequential denitrifying genes, narG was the most, while qnorB was the least sensitive communities to fertilization regimes.
41693737|Structure of fungal communities is known to be influenced by host plants and environmental conditions. However, in most cases, the dynamics of these variation patterns are poorly understood. In this work, we compared richness, diversity, and composition between assemblages of endophytic and rhizospheric fungi associated to roots of two plants with different lifestyles: the halophyte Inula crithmoides and the non-halophyte I. viscosa (syn. Dittrichia viscosa L.), along a spatially short salinity gradient. Roots and rhizospheric soil from these plants were collected at three points between a salt marsh and a sand dune, and fungi were isolated and characterized by ITS rDNA sequencing. Isolates were classified in a total of 90 operational taxonomic units (OTUs), belonging to 17 fungal orders within Ascomycota and Basidiomycota. Species composition of endophytic and soil communities significantly differed across samples. Endophyte communities of I. crithmoides and I. viscosa were only similar in the intermediate zone between the salt marsh and the dune, and while the latter displayed a single, generalist association of endophytes, I. crithmoides harbored different assemblages along the gradient, adapted to the specific soil conditions. In the lower salt marsh, root assemblages were strongly dominated by a single dark septate sterile fungus, also prevalent in other neighboring salt marshes. Interestingly, although its occurrence was positively correlated to soil salinity, in vitro assays revealed a strong inhibition of its growth by salts. Our results suggest that host lifestyle and soil characteristics have a strong effect on endophytic fungi and that environmental stress may entail tight plantfungus relationships for adaptation to unfavorable conditions.
40802169|The morphology of endolithic colonization in a limestone escarpment and surrounding rocky debris (termed float) at a high-altitude arid site in central Tibet was documented using scanning electron microscopy. Putative lichenized structures and extensive coccoid bacterial colonization were observed. Absolute and relative abundance of rRNA gene signatures using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and phylogenetic analysis of environmental phylotypes were used to characterize community structure across all domains. Escarpment endoliths were dominated by eukaryotic phylotypes suggestive of lichenised associations (a "Trebouxia" lichen phycobiont and "Leptodontidium" lichen mycobiont), whereas float endoliths were dominated by bacterial phylotypes, including the cyanobacterium "Chroococcidiopsis" plus several unidentified beta proteobacteria and crenarchaea. Among a range of abiotic variables tested, ultraviolet (UV) transmittance by rock substrates was the factor best able to explain differences in community structure, with eukaryotic lichen phylotypes more abundant under conditions of greater UV-exposure compared to prokaryotes. Variously pigmented float rocks did not support significantly different communities. Estimates of in situ carbon fixation based upon C radio-labelled bicarbonate uptake indicated endolithic productivity of approximately 2.01 g C/m/year, intermediate between estimates for Antarctic and temperate communities.
41412422|Bacterial degradation is an ecosystem service that offers a promising method for the remediation of contaminated soils. To assess the dynamics and efficiency of bacterial degradation, reliable microbial simulation models, along with the relevant processes, are required. We present an approach aimed at improving reliability by studying the relevance and implications of an important concept from theoretical ecology in the context of a bacterial system: conditional dispersal denoting that the dispersal strategy depends on environmental conditions. Different dispersal strategies, which either incorporate or neglect this concept, are implemented in a bacterial model and results are compared to data obtained from laboratory experiments with Pseudomonas putida colonies growing on glucose agar. Our results show that, with respect to the condition of resource uptake, the model's correspondence to experimental data is significantly higher for conditional than for unconditional bacterial dispersal. In particular, these results support the hypothesis that bacteria disperse less when resources are abundant. We also show that the dispersal strategy has a considerable impact on model predictions for bacterial degradation of resources: disregarding conditional bacterial dispersal can lead to overestimations when assessing the performance of this ecosystem service.
40605852|Many Gram-negative, cold-adapted bacteria from the Antarctic environment produce large amounts of extracellular matter, which has potential biotechnology applications. We examined the ultrastructure of extracellular matter from five Antarctic bacteria (Shewanella livingstonensis NF22 T , Shewanella vesiculosa M7 T , Pseudoalteromonas sp. M4.2, Psychrobacter fozii NF23 T , and Marinobacter guineae M3B T ) by transmission electron microscopy after highpressure freezing and freeze substitution. All analyzed extracellular matter appeared as a netlike mesh composed of a capsular polymer around cells and large numbers of membrane vesicles (MVs), which have not yet been described for members of the genera Psychrobacter and Marinobacter. MVs showed the typical characteristics described for these structures, and seemed to be surrounded by the same capsular polymer as that found around the cells. The analysis of MV proteins from Antarctic strains by SDS-PAGE showed different banding profiles in MVs compared to the outer membrane, suggesting some kind of protein sorting during membrane vesicle formation. For the psychrotolerant bacterium, S. livingstonensis NF22 T , the growth temperature seemed to influence the amount and morphology of MVs. In an initial attempt to elucidate the functions of MVs for this psychrotolerant bacterium, we conducted a proteomic analysis on membrane vesicles from S. livingstonensis NF22 T obtained at 4 and 18C. At both temperatures, MVs were highly enriched in outer membrane proteins and periplasmic proteins related to nutrient processing and transport in Gram-negative bacteria suggesting that MVs could be related with nutrient sensing and bacterial survival. Differences were observed in the expression of some proteins depending on incubation temperature but further studies will be necessary to define their roles and implications in the survival of bacteria in the extreme Antarctic environment.
23469188|Polluted aquifers contain indigenous microbial communities with the potential for in situ bioremediation. However, the effect of hydrogeochemical gradients on in situ microbial communities (especially at the plume fringe, where natural attenuation is higher) is still not clear. In this study, we used culture-independent techniques to investigate the diversity of in situ planktonic and attached bacterial communities in a phenol-contaminated sandstone aquifer. Within the upper and lower plume fringes, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles indicated that planktonic community structure was influenced by the steep hydrogeochemical gradient of the plume rather than the spatial location in the aquifer. Under the same hydrogeochemical conditions (in the lower plume fringe, 30 m below ground level), 16S rRNA gene cloning and sequencing showed that planktonic and attached bacterial communities differed markedly and that the attached community was more diverse. The 16S rRNA gene phylogeny also suggested that a phylogenetically diverse bacterial community operated at this depth (30 mbgl), with biodegradation of phenolic compounds by nitrate-reducing Azoarcus and Acidovorax strains potentially being an important process. The presence of acetogenic and sulphate-reducing bacteria only in the planktonic clone library indicates that some natural attenuation processes may occur preferentially in one of the two growth phases (attached or planktonic). Therefore, this study has provided a better understanding of the microbial ecology of this phenol-contaminated aquifer, and it highlights the need for investigating both planktonic and attached microbial communities when assessing the potential for natural attenuation in contaminated aquifers.
4250531| Enrichment cultures inoculated with black mud fermented benzoate according to the stoichiometric equation: 4
40343365|This study evaluated the effects of selected essential oils on archaeal communities using the ovine rumen model. Forty weaned Canadian Arcott ewes, fed with barley-based diet, were allotted to one of three essential oil supplementation treatments or a control (10 ewes per treatment) for 13 weeks. The treatments were cinnamaldehyde, garlic oil, juniper berry oil, and a control with no additive. Rumen content was sampled after slaughter and grouped by treatment by combining subsamples from each animal. DNA was extracted from the pooled samples and analyzed for methanogenic archaea using quantitative polymerase chain reaction, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, cloning, and sequencing. Our results suggest that the total copy number of archaeal 16S rRNA was not significantly affected by the treatments. The phylogenetic analysis indicated a trend toward an increased diversity of methanogenic archaea related to Methanosphaera stadtmanae, Methanobrevibacter smithii, and some uncultured groups with cinnamaldehyde, garlic, and juniper berry oil supplementation. The trends in the diversity of methanogenic archaea observed with the essential oil supplementation may have resulted from changes in associated protozoal species. Supplementation of ruminant diets with essential oils may alter the diversity of rumen methanogens without affecting the methanogenic capacity of the rumen.
41489071|The human gut is extremely densely inhabited by bacteria mainly from two phyla, Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes, and there is a great interest in analyzing wholegenome sequences for these species because of their relation to human health and disease. Here, we do whole genome comparison of 105 Bacteroidetes/Chlorobi genomes to elucidate their phylogenetic relationship and to gain insight into what is separating the gut living Bacteroides and Parabacteroides genera from other Bacteroidetes/Chlorobi species. A comprehensive analysis shows that Bacteroides species have a higher number of extracytoplasmic function  factors (ECF  factors) and two component systems for extracellular signal transduction compared to other Bacteroidetes/Chlorobi species. A whole-genome phylogenetic analysis shows a very little difference between the Parabacteroides and Bacteroides genera. Further analysis shows that Bacteroides and Parabacteroides species share a large common core of 1,085 protein families. Genome atlases illustrate that there are few and only small unique areas on the chromosomes of four BacteroideslParabacteroides genomes. Functional classification to clusters of othologus groups show that Bacteroides species are enriched in carbohydrate transport and metabolism proteins. Classification of proteins in KEGG metabolic pathways gives a detailed view of the genome's metabolic capabilities that can be linked to its habitat. Bacteroides pectinophilus and Bacteroides capillosus do not cluster together with other Bacteroides species, based on analysis of 16S rRNA sequence, whole-genome protein families and functional content, 16S rRNA sequences of the two species suggest that they belong to the Firmicutes phylum. We have presented a more detailed and precise description of the phylogenetic relationships of members of the Bacteroidetes/Chlorobi phylum by whole genome comparison. Gut living Bacteroides have an enriched set of glycan, vitamin, and cofactor enzymes important for diet digestion.
41489233|Protozoa are one of the most abundant groups of bacterivores within the soil and are responsible for mineralisation of bacterial biomass, having a large impact on C and N cycling. Little is known of their contribution to soil nutrient transfers or the identity of their consumers. Here, for the first time indigenous flagellates and ciliates, enriched to 83 atom% for C and 10 atom% for N, were introduced to soil cores from two different land managements, grassland and woodland with the same soil type, to trace the flow of protozoan C and  through the soil food web. Nematodes, Collembola, earthworms and insect larvae obtained the greatest amounts of C and N of protozoan origin, either through direct consumption or uptake of biomass post-cell death. Our results show that changes in management, affect the functioning of the soil food web and the utilisation of protozoa as a food source.
25153131| Methods have been explored for detection of methylotrophs in natural samples, using environmental primers based on genes involved in the tetrahydromethanopterin (HMPT)-linked C transfer pathway. The underlying hypotheses were that the HMPT-linked pathway is an ancient methylotrophy pathway, based on gene divergence, and that primers targeting more divergent genes will detect a broader variety of methylotrophs compared to the variety uncovered using probes and primers targeting highly conserved genes. Three groups of novel primer sets were developed targeting mch, mtdB, and fae, key genes in the HMPT-linked pathway, and these were used to assess the variety of microorganisms possessing these genes in sediments from Lake Washington in Seattle, WA. Environmental clone libraries were constructed for each of the genes and were analyzed by RFLP, and representatives of different RFLP groups were sequenced and subjected to phylogenetic analysis. A combination of all three sets of novel primers allowed detection of the two previously characterized groups of methylotrophs in the site: methanotrophs of the (- and the -proteobacterial groups, belonghg to genera Methylosinus, Methylocystis, Methylomonas, Methylobacter, Methylomicrobium, and Methylococcus. In addition to the genes belonging to known methanotroph populations, novel genes were identified, suggesting existence of previously undetected microbial groups possessing C transfer functions in this site. These included sequences clustering with the well-characterized methylotrophic phyla, Methylobacterium, Hyphomicrobium, and Xanthobacter. In addition, sequences divergent from those known for any groups of methylotrophs or methanogens were obtained, suggesting the presence of a yet unidentified microbial group possessing this HMPT-linked C transfer pathway. 
25152983| Phenanthrene-degrading bacteria were isolated from enrichment cultures of soils contaminated with creosote and jet fuel. The isolates from the creosote enrichments were classified by fatty acid methyl ester profiles as Acidovorax delafieldii and Sphingomonas paucimobilis; the bacterium from the jet fuel-contaminated soil was not identified and was designated strain JFD11. All three isolates used phenanthrene as a sole carbon and energy source, and two of the isolates used fluoranthene as a sole carbon and energy source. Anthracene and fluorene were cometabolized by all three strains, but pyrene was not transformed. Naphthalene inhibited all of the strains, and 28-h cultures of A. delafieldii were inhibited by naphthalene concentrations as low as 5 ppm. Short-term degradation experiments were undertaken with center-well flasks and concentrations of phenanthrene ranging from 1.2 to 12.0 M. Since initial degradation rates were not a function of phenanthrene concentration, it was inferred that the half-saturation constants were less than the lowest phenanthrene concentration tested. 
25153265| Between 1999 and 2002, a routine survey of water quality in the Lac du Bourget was performed to study the dynamics and microcystin (MC) production of Planktothrix rubescens. Using liquid chromatography coupled to diode array detection and mass spectrometry, we found that two main variants ([D-Asp] and [D-Asp, Dhb] microcystin-RR) were produced. The proportion of these two variants was not influenced by the depth or season of sampling. Expressed in microcystin-LR equivalents, high microcystin concentrations were recorded from August to December each year, reaching values of up to 6.7 g L. A significant correlation was found between the microcystin cell content and the cell densities of P. rubescens. Cellular quotas of microcystins ranged from 0.1 to 0.3 pg cell. Simultaneously, laboratory experiments were performed on a strain of P. rubescens isolated from the lake to assess the potential impact of various
4287745|The hyporheic zone of a river is characterized by being nonphotic, exhibiting chemical/redox gradients, and having a heterotrophic food web based on the consumption of organic carbon entrained from surface waters. Hyporheic microbial communities constitute the base of food webs in these environments and are important for maintaining a functioning lotic ecosystem. While microbial communities of rivers dominated by fine-grained sediments are relatively well studied, little is known about the structure and seasonal dynamics of microbial communities inhabiting the predominantly gravel and cobble hyporheic zones of rivers of the western United States. Here, we present the first molecular analysis of hyporheic microbial communities of three different stream types (based on mean base discharge, substratum type, and drainage area), in Montana. Utilizing 16S rDNA phylogeny, DGGE pattern analysis, and qPCR, we have analyzed the prokaryotic communities living on the 1.7 to 2.36 mm grain-size fraction of hyporheic sediments from three separate riffles in each stream. DGGE analysis showed clear seasonal community patterns, indicated similar community composition between different riffles within a stream (95.6-96.6% similarity), and allowed differentiation between communities in different streams. Each river supported a unique complement of species; however, several phylogenetic groups were conserved between all three streams including Pseudomonads and members of the genera Aquabacterium, Rhodoferax, Hyphomicrobium, and Pirellula. Each group showed pronounced seasonal trends in abundance, with peaks during the Fall. The Hyphomicrobium group was numerically dominant throughout the year in all three streams. This work provides a framework for investigating the effects of various environmental factors and anthropogenic effects on microbial communities inhabiting the hyporheic zone.
4251684|Interactions between natural bacterial assemblages and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) were investigated in two complementary batch experiments. In the first, a positive relationship was found between the proportion of electron transport system (ETS) active bacteria and the diversity of DOC in microcosms enriched with an increasing number of organic substrates. In a second experiment, bacterial and nutrient dynamics were measured in microcosms with natural bacterial populations and organic matter from rivers and lakes of different trophic levels. The interactions between the bacterial assemblages and DOC from different sources was investigated using source systems (rivers or lakes) and blended (different proportions of river and lake water) batch cultures. In each experiment, the number of total and ETS-active bacteria, the fluorescein diacetate (FDA)-hydrolytic activity, and the total (DOC), biodegradable (BDOC) and refractory (RDOC) dissolved organic carbon were measured four times during 5 days. The results suggested that the temperature, more than trophic level, controlled planktonic bacterial production. Furthermore, bacterial activity was stimulated in micrososms where river and lake waters were mixed. For the oligotrophic microcosms, this observation can be explained by a greater diversity of the organic nutrients ("qualitative" stimulation of bacteria), whereas for the meso-eutrophic microcosms, the production of new pools of dissolved organic carbon (both biodegradable and total) could account for the observed "quantitative" stimulation of the bacteria. These experiments suggest that the mixing of bacteria and organic matter from two different systems can give rise to novel nutrient and bacterial dynamics that are likely similar to those that occur in river-lake ecotones.
25152999|The structures of bacterial communities were studied in activated sludge samples obtained from the aerobic and anaerobic zones of a wastewater treatment plant showing enhanced phosphorous removal. Samples were analyzed by in situ hybridization with oligonucleotide probes complementary to selected regions of the 16S and 23S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) characteristic for defined phylogenetic entities (genera and larger groups). The microbial community structures revealed by molecular techniques were compared with the compositions of culturable bacterial communities, obtained from the characterization of 255 isolates from tryptone-soy (TS) agar and R2A agar. These isolates were characterized by 89 physiological tests and their cellular fatty acid patterns, and identified. Culture-dependent techniques indicated the following distribution: different Aeromonas spp. (2.7-8.3% on R2A agar; 45.0-63.7% on TS agar), Acinetobacter spp. (5.4-9.0% on R2A agar; 5.0-9.1% on TS agar), Pseudomonas spp. (up to 10% on R2A agar) and Shewanella putrefaciens (up to 3.0% on R2A agar), all members of the gamma subclass of Proteobacteria, were isolated most frequently. The relatively rare isolates of the beta subclass were identified as Acidovorax spp., Alcaligenes spp., and Comamonas spp.. The Gram-positive bacteria (high DNA G+C) were assigned mainly to Arthrobacter spp., Microbacterium spp., and Mycobacterium phlei. In order to assess the in situ abundance of the most frequently isolated genus, Aeromonas, two rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes were developed. The two gamma proteobacterial genera Aeromonas and Acinetobacter constituted less than 5% of all bacteria. In situ, Proteobacteria belonging to the beta subclass and high G+C Gram-positive bacteria were dominant. From filamentous bacteria, Sphaerotilus spp. and Leptothrix spp. could be detected occasionally. In addition, one sample contained a high proportion of the morphologically distinct filaments of Microthrix parvicella. As for the genus Acinetobacter, the relative abundance of the most frequently gamma-proteobacterial genus Aeromonas was overestimated by the intrinsic selectivity of cultivation. Cultivation on nutrient-rich medium (TS-agar) especially supported an enhanced isolation of bacteria belonging to these two genera.
4251713| In order to compare riverine bacteria input with lake water bacterial production and grazing loss with output loss, a bacterial cell budget was constructed for humic Lake rtrsket in northern Sweden. The riverine input of bacterial cells in 1997 represented 29% of the number of bacterial cells produced within the layer of the lake affected by inlet water. A large share of the in situ lake bacterial production was consumed by grazers, mainly flagellates, which stresses the importance of bacteria as energy mobilizers for the pelagic food web in the lake. The bacterial production in Lake rtrsket, which is almost entirely dependent on humic material as an energy source, was clearly stimulated by high flow episodes which brought high amounts of little degraded material into the lake. During base flow condition the bacterial production in the inlet rivers was high, which led to an input of more degraded material to the lake. This material did not stimulate the lake bacterial production. Internal factors that determined the utilization of the allochthonous DOC in the lake were the retention time and the exposure to light and high temperatures. Thus, the potential for in situ production of bacteria in Lake rtrsket was to a large extent a function of how precipitation and runoff conditions affected terrestrial losses and river transport of humic material. 
25153078|A mathematical model of predator-prey interactions was used to predict the relationship between population size and cellular growth rate in a two-tiered trophic system consisting of Synechococcus PCC 6301 and Tetrahymena pyriformis. As predicted, axenic chemostat cultures of Synechococcus responded to increased nutrient availability by expanding the equilibrium population size without a concurrent change in growth rate. Likewise, the addition of the predator Tetrahymena pyriformis decreased the Synechococcus population size by 85% and increased the Synechococcus growth rate. Synechococcus populations in the surface waters of the Gulf of Mexico were sampled to ascertain whether the relationship between population size and cellular 16S rRNA concentration conformed to that predicted by the model. Direct counts of autofluorescent cells in size-fractionated seawater samples provided an estimate of Synechococcus population size. The growth rate of in situ populations was estimated by measuring the extent of hybridization of an oligonucleotide probes complementary to Synechococcus 16S rRNA, based on evidence that ribosomal RNA content increases concurrently with growth rate. The comparison of in situ population sizes and specific growth rates revealed that relatively large Synechococcus populations were growing slowly, indicative of nutrient limitation, and that quickly growing populations were relatively small, as predicted for predator-limited populations.
40343396|Tricholoma scalpturatum is an ectomycorrhizal fungus that forms symbioses with roots of diverse trees and shrubs. It is commonly encountered in a wide range of habitats, across temperate ecosystems. A previous study has revealed a high genetic diversity at a local scale, and ruderal abilities. To examine genetic structure at a large geographical scale, a total of 164 basidiocarps were collected from 30 populations located in Western Europe, from Spain to Scandinavia. These samples were analyzed by three molecular methods with different levels of resolution: inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSRs), restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) in the rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS), and ITS sequence analysis. Considerable genetic variation was found, and the morphospecies was separated into two genetic groups that were distinct from each other. The ISSR data and the relatively low percentage value (96%) of shared sequence polymorphisms in the ITS between isolates from the two groups, strongly suggest cryptic species and long-lasting separation. No geographical exclusion was detected for these two widely distributed taxa. However, high estimates of population differentiation were observed in each group, including between populations less than a few kilometers apart. This result provides evidence for limited gene flow and/or founding effects. It also indicates that T. scalpturatum does not constitute a random mating population, and the hypothesis of endemism cannot be excluded for this cosmopolitan wind-dispersed fungus.
4250908|Methods were developed to quantify predatory and endoparasitic fungi in soil. The methods were based on previously developed detection techniques and combined with a most probable number estimation. The methods were applied to an agricultural soil fertilized with farmyard manure. Large amounts of farmyard manure resulted in increased amounts of organic matter, numbers of propagules of predatory and endoparasitic fungi, and numbers of bacteria and nematodes.
4251772|The microbial biomass and community structure of eight Chinese red soils with different fertility and land use history was investigated. Two community based microbiological measurements, namely, community level physiological profiling (CLPP) using Biolog sole C source utilization tests and phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiles, were used to investigate the microbial ecology of these soils and to determine how land use alters microbial community structure. Microbial biomass-C and total PLFAs were closely correlated to organic carbon and total nitrogen, indicating that these soil microbial measures are potentially good indices of soil fertility in these highly weathered soils. Metabolic quotients and C source utilization were not correlated with organic carbon or microbial biomass. Multivariate analysis of sole carbon source utilization patterns and PLFAs demonstrated that land use history and plant cover type had a significant impact on microbial community structure. PLFAs showed these differences more than CLPP methods. Consequently, PLFA analysis was a better method for assessing broad-spectrum community differences and at the same time attempting to correlate changes with soil fertility. Soils from tea orchards were particularly distinctive in their CLPP. A modified CLPP method, using absorbance readings at 405 nm and different culture media at pH values of 4.7 and 7.0, showed that the discrimination obtained can be influenced by the culture conditions. This method was used to show that the distinctive microbial community structure in tea orchard soils was not, however, due to differences in pH alone.
4251002|Surface-soil and subsurface microfloras at the site of a shallow aquifer in Oklahoma were examined and compared with respect to (1) total and viable cell numbers, (2) colony and cell types that grew on various plating media, (3) cell morphologies seen in flotation films stripped from sample particles, and (4) cellular ultrastructure. Appreciable numbers of microbial cells were present in the subsurface (total counts:
25153216|In the Western Canary Islands, Myrica faya and Myrica rivas-martinezii (Myricaceae) are phylogenetically close, endemic, actinorhizal species presumed to be remnants either of the European or the African Tertiary floras. Unisolated Frankia strains from field-collected nodules on Tenerife, Gomera, and La Palma Islands were compared by their rrs gene and 16S-23S intergenic spacer (IGS) restriction patterns. To compare the genetic diversity of Frankia strains from within and outside the host's native range, nodules of M. faya field plants were collected both in Canary Islands and in Hawaii, where this species is an exotic invasive. Myrica rivas-martinezii, endemic to the Canary Islands, was sparsely nodulated in the field. Frankia strains harbored in field-collected nodules of M. faya and M. rivas-martinezii belonged to the Elaeagnaceae strains genetic cluster and exhibited a high degree of diversity. Frankia genotypes were specific to each host species. In the Canary archipelago, we found no relationship between site of collection and Frankia genotype for M. faya. The only exceptions were strains from site 2 in Tenerife, a location with a geological history different from the other sites sampled. Hawaiian and Canarian M. faya strains had no genotypes in common, raising questions concerning the origin of M. faya-infective Frankia in Hawaii. Nodular strains of M. rivas-martinezii from nursery plants were genetically characterized and shown to be divergent from the strains of field-collected nodules and belong to the Alnus-Casuarina strains cluster. This suggests Myrica may have the potential to nodulate with a broader range of Frankia genotypes under artificial conditions than has been detected in field-collected nodules.
4250445| The prevalence of chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticide uptake by chemoorganotrophic bacteria has been investigated. Thirteen bacterial species were observed to sorb and concentrate (bioconcentrate) -chlordane, -chlordane, dieldrin, heptachlor epoxide, and lindane from aqueous systems. Bioconcentration, as expressed by the ratio of cellular insecticide in ng/mg (dry wt) to supernatant insecticide in ng/l, ranged from 10 for lindane by Enterobacter aerogenes to a high of 55,900 for -chlordane by Caulobacter vibrioides var. limonus. Amounts of cellular chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides (CHI) detected and the bioconcentration ratios were observed to have the following order in magnitude: - or -chlordane > dieldrin > heptachlor epoxide > lindane. This decreasing order was the inverse of reported water solubilities for the CHI and the inverse relationship was mathematically defined. The CHI were not easily removed from cells by washing (desorbing) and desorption was directly proportional to insecticide water solubility. Uptake of the CHI was rapid, near-maximum amounts being sorbed within 15 min, and pH 7 appeared optimal for bioconcentration as examined over the range pH 6 to 8. Implications of this investigation are that bioconcentration of CHI by bacteria might serve as a means of introducing these toxic compounds into aquatic food chains and that the bioconcentration phenomenon might lend itself as a treatment procedure for the intentional removal of residual CHI from water supplies and wastewater. 
4251415| Microcosms were designed to facilitate studies of the fate, functioning, and ecological effects of microorganisms released into the aquatic environment. The microcosms were three-phase systems (sediment/water/air) with three compartments (a primary producer component, a herbivore grazer component, and intact sediment cores). The microcosms were validated by comparing gross ecological parameters and microbial community structure between the microcosms and the eutrophic Lake Bagsvrd, which was simulated in the model. The photosynthetic potential and chlorophyll a concentrations were significantly lower in the microcosms than in the lake, which apparently was due to inorganic nutrient limitation. In the microcosms, total bacterial numbers and metabolic activity by [
4250457|The ultrastructure of developing and mature sclerotia of Sclerotium rolfsii was studied with a scanning electron microscope. The mature sclerotium is disconnected from the mycelium and well differentiated. The rind is composed of rather thick-walled empty cells. The cortex cells are large and almost completely filled with vesicles, whereas the medullar cells are smaller and some of them are very thickwalled.
23597826|This study investigated the change of CH4 production and methanogenic community in response to the presence of humic substances (humics) analogue, anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonate (AQDS). Anaerobic experiments used a Chinese paddy soil, and three concentration levels of 0.5, 5, and 20 mM AQDS were conducted. Results suggested that the effect of AQDS on methanogenesis was time-dependent and concentration-dependent. Twenty millimolars of AQDS was toxic for methanogenic activity almost for the entire experimental period. Slight inhibition of methanogenesis by AQDS respiration in the 0.5- and 5-mM AQDS-supplemented treatments occurred within the early period, while CH4 accumulated throughout the later period was approximately five and ten times greater than that of the controls without AQDS, respectively. AQDS reduction coupling to acetate oxidization enriched Geobacter species, and the mcrA-targeted T-RFLP profiles revealed significant increase of Methanosarcina at the expense of Methanobacterium in the 0.5- and 5-mM AQDS treatments. The enriched syntrophic association between Geobacter and Methanosarcina was deduced to be an effective methanogenic pathway for converting acetate to CH4 via direct interspecies electron transfer. This study implied the ecological importance of syntrophic interaction between methanogens and microorganisms enriched by anaerobic respiration of non-methanogenic terminal electron acceptors in paddy soils.
4251696|Previous studies have shown that inoculation of pea seeds with Pseudomonas fluorescens strains F113lacZY or F113G22 increased mineralization of organic nitrogen in the rhizosphere. In contrast, inoculation of the same strains onto wheat seeds reduced mineralization of N from organic residues incorporated into soil. In the present study, we report on a likely explanation of this phenomenon, which appears to be governed by the effect of plant-microbe interactions on bacterial-feeding nematodes and protozoa. In soil microcosm tests, inoculation of pea seeds with Pseudomonas fluorescens strains F113lacZY or F113G22 resulted in an increase in the number of nematodes and protozoa in the rhizosphere as compared to noninoculated controls. This trend was repeated using a model sand system into which the bacteriophagous nematode Caenorhabditis elegans was introduced. It was subsequently found that non-inoculated germinating pea seeds exerted a nematicidal effect on C. elegans, which was remedied by inoculation with either strain F113lacZY or F113G22. This suggests that nematicidal compounds released by the germinating pea seeds were metabolized by the microbial inoculants before they affected nematode populations in the spermosphere or rhizosphere of pea. In contrast, inoculation of wheat plants resulted in significantly lower nematode populations in the rhizosphere, whereas protozoan numbers were unaffected. No nematicidal effects of inoculated or noninoculated wheat seeds could be found, suggesting that microfaunal populations were affected at a later stage during plant growth. Because of their key roles in accelerating the turnover of microbially immobilized N and organic matter, plants that support a larger microfaunal population are likely to benefit from a higher availability of inorganic nitrogen. Therefore, an understanding of plant-microbe interactions and their effects on soil microfaunal populations is essential in order to assess the effects of microbial inocula on plant mineral nutrition.
40605875|Antibiotics have been added to animal feed for decades. Consequently, food animals and their wastes constitute a reservoir of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The objective of this work was to characterize the impact of an aerobic thermophilic biotreatment on aerobic, antibioticresistant bacteria in swine waste. The proportion of tylosinand chlortetracycline-resistant bacteria grown at 25C, 37C, and 60C decreased after treatment, but they were still abundant (10 to 10 most probable number ml) in the treated swine waste. The presence of 14 genes conferring resistance to tylosin and chlortetracycline was assessed by polymerase chain reaction in bacterial populations grown at 25C, 37C, and 60C, with or without antibiotics. In 22 cases, genes were detected before but not after treatment. The overall gene diversity was wider before [tet(BLMOSY), erm(AB)] than after [tet(LMOS), erm(B)] treatment. Analysis by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of amplified 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) fragments generally showed a reduction of the bacterial diversity, except for total populations grown at 60C and for tylosinresistant populations grown at 37C. The latter were further investigated by cloning and sequencing their 16S rDNA. Phylotypes found before treatment were all closely related to Enterococcus hirae, whereas six different phylotypes, related to Pseudomonas, Alcaligenes, and Pusillimonas, were found after treatment. This work demonstrated that the aerobic thermophilic biotreatment cannot be considered as a means for preventing-resistent bacteria and their resistence genes to the environment. However, since pathogens do not survive the biotreatment, the effluent does not represent an immediate threat to animal or human health.
41489114|A total of 215 rhizobial strains were isolated and analyzed with 16S rRNA gene, 16S-23S intergenic spacer, housekeeping genes atpD, recA, and glnII, and symbiotic genes nifH and nodC to understand the genetic diversity of soybean rhizobia in Hebei province, China. All the strains except one were symbiotic bacteria classified into nine genospecies in the genera of Bradyrhizobium and Sinorhizobium. Surveys on the distribution of these rhizobia in different regions showed that Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Bradyrhizobium elkanii strains were found only in neutral to slightly alkaline soils whereas Bradyrhizobium yuanmingense, Bradyrhizobium liaoningense-rlated strains and strains of five Sinorhizobium genospecies were found in alkaline-saline soils. Correspondence and canonical correspondence analyses on the relationship of rhizobial distribution and their soil characteristics reveal that high soil pH, electrical conductivity, and potassium content favor distribution of the B. yuanmingense and the five Sinorhizobium species but inhibit B. japonicum and B. elkanii. High contents of available phosphorus and organic matters benefit Sinorhizobium fredii and B. liaoningense-rolatQd strains and inhibit the others groups mentioned above. The symbiotic gene (nifH and nodC) lineages among elkanii, japonicum, B. yuanmingense, and Sinorhizobium spp. were observed in the strains, signifying that vertical gene transfer was the main mechanism to maintain these genes in the soybean rhizobia. However, lateral transfer of symbiotic genes commonly in Sinorhizobium spp. and rarely in Bradyrhizobium spp. was also detected. These results showed the genetic diversity, the biogeography, and the soil determinant factors of soybean rhizobia in Hebei province of China.
4251232| Community level interactions were studied in non-axenic sequencing batch reactors (SBRs) being used to treat 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP). Increasing the influent DNP concentrations from 1 to 10 g ml
4287496|The structure of microbial communities was examined as a function of community composition and the relative abundance of specific microbial groups to examine the effects that plant community composition and land-use history have on microbial communities in the soil. The sites sampled were part of the Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) project in agricultural ecology at the W.K. Kellogg Biological Station of Michigan State University (Hickory Corners, MI) and included both active and abandoned agricultural fields as well as nearby fields that had never been cultivated. Microbial community structure was assessed by extracting total RNA from soil samples and using 16S rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes to quantify the abundance of rRNA from the alpha, beta, and gamma Proteobacteria, the Actinobacteria (Gram positive bacteria with a high mol % G+C genome), the Bacteria, and the Eukarya. In addition, soil microbial communities were characterized by examining fluorescently tagged terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms (T-RFLP) in PCR amplified 16S rDNA. Microbial community structure was observed to be remarkably similar among plots that shared a long-term history of agricultural management despite differences in plant community composition and land management that have been maintained on the plots in recent years. In contrast, microbial community structure differed significantly between fields that had never been cultivated and those having a long-term history of cultivation.
4250762| Two equations, describing surface colonization, were evaluated and compared using suspended glass slides in a continuous culture of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. These equations were used to determine surface growth rates from the number and distribution of cells present on the surface after incubation. One of these was the colonization equation which accounts for simultaneous attachment and growth of bacteria on surfaces:
4287617|Anaerobic microbial oxidation of Fe(II) was only recently discovered and very little is known about this metabolism. We recently demonstrated that several dissimilatory perchlorate-reducing bacteria could utilize Fe(II) as an electron donor under anaerobic conditions. Here we report on a more in-depth analysis of Fe(II) oxidation by one of these organisms, Dechlorosoma suillum. Similarly to most known nitrate-dependent Fe(II) oxidizers, D. suillum did not grow heterotrophically or lithoautotrophically by anaerobic Fe(II) oxidation. In the absence of a suitable organic carbon source, cells rapidly lysed even though nitrate-dependent Fe(II) oxidation was still occurring. The coupling of Fe(II) oxidation to a particular electron acceptor was dependent on the growth conditions of cells of D. suillum. As such, anaerobically grown cultures of D. suillum did not mediate Fe(II) oxidation with oxygen as the electron acceptor, while conversely, aerobically grown cultures did not mediate Fe(II) oxidation with nitrate as the electron acceptor. Anaerobic washed cell suspensions of D. suillum rapidly produced an orange/brown precipitate which X-ray diffraction analysis identified as amorphous ferric oxyhydroxide or ferrihydrite. This is similar to all other identified nitrate-dependent Fe(II) oxidizers but is in contrast to what is observed for growth cultures of D. suillum, which produced a mixed-valence Fe(II)-Fe(III) precipitate known as green rust. D. suillum rapidly oxidized the Fe(II) content of natural sediments. Although the form of ferrous iron in these sediments is unknown, it is probably a component of an insoluble mineral, as previous studies indicated that soluble Fe(II) is a relatively minor form of the total Fe(II) content of anoxic environments. The results of this study further enhance our knowledge of a poorly understood form of microbial metabolism and indicate that anaerobic Fe(II) oxidation by D. suillum is significantly different from previously described forms of nitrate-dependent microbial Fe(II) oxidation.
40343428|The spatial and temporal patterns of resource distribution in a desert system have been shown to influence a number of soil biota components and processes. The pattern of possible different resources supplied by two typical halophyte shrubs with different ecophysiological adaptations, Atriplex halimus and Hammada scoparia, was found to be the trigger in the present study on the microbial community temporal and spatial (vertical) scale. The uniqueness of A. halimus, a saltbush plant, is in the creation of ' islands of salinity' in its rhizosphere system and the relatively high percentage of organic matter beneath its canopy, whereas the H. scoparia shrub has a leafless stem with a relatively lower amount of organic matter accumulation beneath its canopy. Soil samples from 0 to 50 cm depths were collected at 10-cm intervals during each of the four seasons. The vertical distribution of the microbial community was measured in the vicinity of the above plant shrubs and in the open spaces between them. The results obtained from the field study demonstrated that plant ecophysiological adaptation played an important role in the temporal and spatial distribution of abiotic conditions and microbial community levels such as microbial biomass, CO evolution, and colony-forming units (CFUs) of both bacteria and fungi. However, we did not find consistency in the positive effect of plant cover on the microbial community. The shrub effect was observed to have a major outcome on microbial variables not only on a temporal but also on a spatial (vertical) basis. This contributed to the understanding of the controversy regarding the difference between the shrubs.
4250934|Phase, darkfield, and computer-enhanced microscopy were used to observe the surface microenvironment of flow cells during bacterial colonization. Microbial behavior was consistent with the assumptions used previously to derive surface colonization kinetics and to calculate surface growth and attachment rates from cell number and distribution. Surface microcolonies consisted of closely packed cells. Each colony contained
41412439|Semi-natural grassland soils are frequently fertilised for agricultural improvement. This practice often comes at a loss of the indigenous flora while fast-growing nitrogen-responsive species, such as Lolium perenne, take over. Since soil microbial communities depend on plant root exudates for carbon and nitrogen sources, this shift in vegetation is thought to influence soil microbial community structure. In this study, we investigated the influence of different plant species, fertilisation and L. perenne ingression on microbial communities in soils from three semi-natural Irish grasslands. Bacterial and fungal community compositions were determined by automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis, and community changes were linked to environmental factors by multivariate statistical analysis. Soil type had a strong effect on bacterial and fungal communities, mainly correlated to soil pH, as well as soil carbon and nitrogen status. Within each soil type, plant species composition was the main influencing factor followed by nitrogen fertilisation and finally Lolium ingression in the acidic upland and mesotrophic grassland. In the alkaline grassland, however, Lolium ingression had a stronger effect than fertilisation. Our results suggest that a change in plant species diversity strongly influences the microbial community structure, which may subsequently lead to significant changes in ecosystem functioning.
25153416|A first study was made on the microbial community composition of the Indonesian crater lake Kawah Ijen (pH &lt; 0.3) and the Banyupahit-Banyuputih river (pH 0.4-3.5) originating from it. Culture-independent, rRNA gene-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis was used to profile microbial communities in this natural and ancient, extremely acidic environment. Similarity in community profiles of the different sampling locations was low, indicating heterogeneity in community composition. Archaea were present at all sampling locations; archaeal diversity was low at the most acidic locations and increased at pH &gt;2.6. Bacteria were not detected in the water column of the crater lake, but were found at all locations along the acidic river. Bacterial diversity increased with increasing pH. Eukarya were only present at pH &gt;2.6. Retrieved rRNA gene sequences of Bacteria and Archaea were not closely related to known acidophilic species. It is concluded that tolerance to extreme acidity in this system is developed most extensively among Archaea. The acidity gradient of the Banyupahit-Banyuputih river has a clear effect on microbial community composition and biodiversity.
4250819|Populations of Pseudomonas syringae pv. savastanoi on the surface of olive leaves were monitored quarterly from 1974 to 1981. Seven microbiological parameters were measured: the density of the bacteria on the leaves unfolded in March, in June, and in September; the density of the bacteria on random leaves; the mean vigor of bacterial isolates obtained at each sampling time; and the similarity between the isolates, based on both the simple matching coefficient and the pattern coefficient. Seven environmental parameters were also recorded: the mean temperature, the rainfall, and the frequency and velocity of east and west winds during a period of 30 days before each sampling; the rate of turnover of the leaves during the same period; the number of pollen grains on the leaves at the time of sampling; and the 5-day biochemical oxygen demand of the wash water of leaves in each sample. Factor analysis led to extraction of 7 factors that accounted for 70.69%-92.80% of the maximum variance of every microbiological parameter and 68.92%-96.62% of the maximum variance of every environmental parameter. The factors were identified as "cambial activity," "leaf age," "summertime," "time of blossoming," "summer rains," "winter rains," and "warm weather fronts." More than 43% of the total parameter variance was loaded in the first 2 factors. Higher communality values (>86% of maximum variance) were obtained for the microbiological parameters based on the distribution of phenotypic characters among the bacterial isolates than for those based on bacterial densities on the phylloplane.
4287572|The method based on characterization of microbial populations in terms of their growth rate in agar plates has been used for testing the prediction of the theory of r- and K-selection in a microbial community from a tropical soil. Conditions which could lead bacterial populations to grow exponentially or to enter into a stationary phase were obtained by growing soil microbial populations in a chemostat and in a chemostat with recycle, respectively. Significant differences in population distribution patterns were observed by comparing results from the two growth systems. When soil community was grown in a chemostat and subjected specifically to well-defined r- and K-conditions, stable associations of organisms with r- and K-type characteristics developed as a consequence of environmental pressure. In contrast, when cultivated in chemostat with recycle under the same r- and K-conditions imposed on chemostat cultures, distribution patterns of r- and K-selected populations appeared very little affected by changes in substrate availability.
25153311| The impact on the microbial community of long-term environmental exposure to metal and organic contamination was investigated. Twenty-four soil samples were collected along a transect dug in soils contaminated with road paint and paint solvents, mainly toluene. Chemical analysis along the transect revealed a range from high to low concentrations of metals (lead and chromium) and organic solvent compounds. Principal components analysis of microbial community structure based on denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of the V3 region of the 16S rRNA gene and fatty acid methyl esters derived from phospholipids (phospholipid fatty acid analysis) showing samples with similar fingerprints also had similar contaminant concentrations. There was also a weak positive correlation between microbial biomass and the organic carbon concentration. Results indicated that microbial populations are present despite some extreme contaminant levels in this mixed-waste contaminated site. Nucleotide sequence determination of the 16S rRNA gene indicated the presence of phylogenetically diverse bacteria belonging to the -, -, -, and -Proteobacteria, the high and low G + C Gram-positive bacteria, green nonsulfur, OP8, and others that did not group within a described division. This indicates that soils contaminated with both heavy metals and hydrocarbons for several decades have undergone changes in community composition, but still contain a phylogenetically diverse group of bacteria (including novel phylotypes) that warrant further investigation. 
4251692| The 16S rRNA:rDNA ratio is a useful parameter for measuring metabolic activity of a selected member of a complex microbial community, as in pulp effluent activated sludge systems. The RNA:DNA ratio of Sphingomonas sp. DhA-33, previously isolated from a sequencing batch reactor treating pulp mill effluent, is positively correlated with its growth rate () under steady-state conditions. DhA-33 was grown in a chemostat with growth rates ranging from 0.04 to 0.15 cell divisions per hour. DhA-33 was also able to degrade dehydroabietic acid in bleached kraft mill effluent (BKME) plus mineral medium in batch culture. Slot-blot hybridization with radioactively labeled species-specific oligonucleotide probes for 16S rRNA and 16S rDNA was used to measure rRNA, rDNA, and the RNA:DNA ratio of this strain when in a mixed sludge community. An increase in DhA-33 rDNA indicated growth of DhA-33 within the community. The RNA:DNA ratio of DhA-33 increased sharply during exponential growth and declined as cells entered stationary phase. The RNA:DNA ratio decreased earlier and faster in DhA- 33/sludge co-cultures than in DhA-33 pure cultures, presumably due to an earlier depletion of nutrients. The species-specific quantification of the RNA:DNA ratio makes it possible to estimate the metabolic activity of selected members of a microbial community in situ. 
41693732|Although sediments are the natural hydrocarbon sink in the marine environment, the ecology of hydrocarbondegrading bacteria in sediments is poorly understood, especially in cold regions. We studied the diversity of alkanedegrading bacterial populations and their response to oil exposure in sediments of a chronically polluted Subantarctic coastal environment, by analyzing alkane monooxygenase (alkB) gene libraries. Sequences from the sediment clone libraries were affiliated with genes described in Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria, with 67 % amino acid identity in average to sequences from isolated microorganisms. The majority of the sequences were most closely related to uncultured microorganisms from cold marine sediments or soils from high latitude regions, highlighting the role of temperature in the structuring of this bacterial guild. The distribution of alkB sequences among samples of different sites and years, and selection after experimental oil exposure allowed us to identify ecologically relevant alkB genes in Subantarctic sediments, which could be used as biomarkers for alkane biodegradation in this environment. 16 S rRNA amplicon pyrosequencing indicated the abundance of several genera for which no alkB genes have yet been described (Oleispira, Thalassospira) or that have not been previously associated with oil biodegradation (Spongiibacterformerly Melitea, Maribius, Robiginitomaculum, Bizionia and Gillisia). These genera constitute candidates for future work involving identification of hydrocarbon biodegradation pathway genes.
41489182|We investigated the top 30-cm sediment prokaryotic community structure in 5-cm spatial resolution, at an active site of the Amsterdam mud volcano, East Mediterranean Sea, based on the 16S rRNA gene diversity. A total of 339 and 526 sequences were retrieved, corresponding to 25 and 213 unique (98% similarity) phylotypes of Archaea and Bacteria, respectively, in all depths. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index H was higher for Bacteria (1.92-4.03) than for Archaea (0.99-1.91) and varied differently between the two groups. Archaea were dominated by anaerobic methanotrophs ANME-1, -2 and -3 groups and were related to phylotypes involved in anaerobic oxidation of methane from similar habitats. The much more complex Bacteria community consisted of 20 phylogenetic groups at the phylum/candidate division level. Proteobacteria, in particular -Proteobacteria, was the dominant group. In most sediment layers, the dominant phylotypes of both the Archaea and Bacteria communities were found in neighbouring layers, suggesting some overlap in species richness. The similarity of certain prokaryotic communities was also depicted by using four different similarity indices. The direct comparison of the retrieved phylotypes with those from the Kazan mud volcano of the same field revealed that 40.0% of the Archaea and 16.9% of the Bacteria phylotypes are common between the two systems. The majority of these phylotypes are closely related to phylotypes originating from other mud volcanoes, implying a degree of endemicity in these systems.
25256098|Molecular mechanisms underlying inducible cobalt and nickel resistance of a bacterial strain isolated from a Cuban serpentine deposit were investigated. This strain C-1 was assigned to Serratia marcescens by 16S rDNA analysis and DNA/DNA hybridization. Genes involved in metal resistance were identified by transposon mutagenesis followed by selection for cobalt- and nickel-sensitive derivatives. The transposon insertion causing the highest decrease in metal resistance was located in the ncrABC determinant. The predicted NcrA product was a NreB ortholog of the major facilitator protein superfamily and central for cobalt/nickel resistance in S. marcescens strain C-1. NcrA also mediated metal resistance in Escherichia coli and caused decreased accumulation of Co(II) and Ni(II) in this heterologous host. NcrB may be a regulatory protein. NcrC was a protein of the nickel-cobalt transport (NiCoT) protein family and necessary for full metal resistance in E. coli, but only when NcrA was also present. Without NcrA, NcrC caused a slight decrease in metal resistance and mediated increased accumulation of Ni(II) and Co(II). Because the cytoplasmic metal concentration can be assumed to be the result of a flow equilibrium of uptake and efflux processes, this interplay between metal uptake system NcrC and metal efflux system NcrA may contribute to nickel and cobalt resistance in this bacterium.
4251512| Two approaches employing 16S rRNA oligonucleotide probes, in situ hybridization combined with
40605863|Sialic acid (N-acetylneuraminic acid, NeuAc) plays an essential role in protecting gram-negative bacteria against the bactericidal activity of serum and may contribute to the pathogenicity of bacteria by mimicking epitopes that resemble host tissue components (molecular mimicry). The role of sialic acid (NeuAc)-containing lipopolysaccharides (LPS) of Salmonella 048 strains in the complement activation of normal human serum (NHS) was investigated. NeuAc-containing lipooligosaccharides cause a downregulation of complement activation and may serve to camouflage the bacterial surface from the immunological response of the host. Serotype 048 Salmonella strains have the O-antigen structure containing NeuAc while its serovars differ in outer membrane protein composition. In this study, the mechanisms of complement activation responsible for killing Salmonella 048 serumsensitive rods by NHS were established. Four of such mechanisms involving pathways, which are important in the bactericidal mechanism of complement activation, were distinguished: only the classical/lectin pathways, independent activation of the classical/lectin or alternative pathway, parallel activation of the classical/lectin and alternative pathways, and only the alternative pathway important in the bactericidal action of human serum. To further study the role of NeuAc, its content in bacterial cells was determined by gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry in relation to 3-deoxy-D-manno-2-octulosonic acid (Kdo), an inherent constituent of LPS. The results indicate that neither the presence of sialic acid in LPS nor the length of the O-specific part of LPS containing NeuAc plays a decisive role in determining bacterial resistance to the bactericidal activity of complement and that the presence of sialic acid in the structure of LPS is not sufficient to block the activation of the alternative pathway of complement. We observed that for three strains with a very high NeuAc/Kdo ratio the alternative pathways were decisive in the bactericidal action of human serum. The results indicated that those strains are not capable of inhibiting the alternative pathway very effectively. As the pathogenicity of most Salmonella serotypes remains undefined, research into the interactions between these bacterial cells and host organisms is indispensable.
41489228|The Acidobacteria show a widespread distribution in natural ecosystems. In this study, we analyzed the presence of Acidobacteria in freshwater ponds at Doana National Park (southwestern Spain). Nucleic acid sequence analysis, quantitative, real-time RT-PCR, and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) were carried out. Acidobacteria in these aquatic environments were investigated using their 16S and 23S rDNA sequences and acidobacterial specific primer pairs through phylogenetic approaches. The presence of up to five subdivisions of Acidobacteria was detected during this study. The analyzed ponds exhibited distinctive patterns of acidobacterial clades. In order to detect their role in ecosystem functions, metabolically active Acidobacteria were detected based upon rRNA analyses. Quantitative, real-time RT-PCR showed a low percentage of metabolically active Acidobacteria at suboxic zones within the water column covered by surface Fe-rich films. Oxygen-saturated areas showed around 4% of total bacterial RNA belonging to Acidobacteria both in the water column and the sediment surface. The morphology of the most abundant Acidobacteria was revealed by FISH as cocci generally in pairs or chains. Enrichment cultures were also obtained and indicated a putative metabolism based on aerobic and heterotrophic characteristics likely taking advantage of the abundant organic matter present at the investigated sites. These results represent a significant contribution toward understanding the distribution and ecological role of the phylum Acidobacteria in natural ecosystems, specifically at Doana National Park freshwater ponds.
41489761|Anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) has been recognized as an important process for the global nitrogen cycle. In this study, the occurrence and diversity of anammox bacteria in the deep-sea subsurface sediments of the South China Sea (SCS) were investigated. Results indicated that the anammox bacterial sequences recovered from this habitat by amplifying both 16S rRNA gene and hydrazine oxidoreductase encoding hzo gene were all closely related to the Candidatus Scalindua genus. A total of 96 16S rRNA gene sequences from 346 clones were grouped into five subclusters: two subclusters affiliated with the brodae and arabica species, while three new subclusters named zhenghei-I, -II, and -III showed 97.4% nucleic acid sequence identity with other known Candidatus Scalindua species. Meanwhile, 88 hzo gene sequences from the sediments also formed five distant subclusters within hzo cluster lc. Through fluorescent real-time PCR analysis, the abundance of anammox bacteria in deep-sea subsurface sediment was quantified by hzo genes, which ranged from 1.1910t to 7.1710 copies per gram of dry sediments. Combining all the information from this study, diverse Candidatus Scalindua anammox bacteria were found in the deep-sea subsurface sediments of the SCS, and they could be involved in the nitrogen loss from the fixed inventory in the habitat.
40343499|We investigated seasonal variation of grazing impact of the pigmented nanoflagellates (PNF) with different sizes upon Synechococcus in the subtropical western Pacific coastal waters using grazing experiments with fluorescently labeled Synechococcus (FLS). For total PNF, conspicuous seasonal variations of ingestion rates on Synechococcus were found, and a functional response was observed. To further investigate the impact of different size groups, we separated the PNF into four categories (<3, 3-5, 5-10, and >10 m). Our results indicated that the smallest PNF (<3 m PNF) did not ingest FLS and was considered autotrophic. PNF of 3-5 m in size made up most of the PNF community; however, their ingestion on Synechococcus was too low (0.1-1.9Syn PNF h) to support their growth, and they had to depend on other prey or photosynthesis to survive. The ingestion rate of the 3-5 m group exhibited no significant seasonal variation; by contrast, the ingestion rates of 5-10 and >10 m PNFs showed significant seasonal variation. During the warm season, 3-5 m PNF were responsible for the grazing of 12% of Synechococcus production, 5-10 m PNF for 48%, and >10 m PNF for 2%. Taken together, our results demonstrate that the PNF of 3-10 m consumed most Synechococcus during the warm season and exhibited a significant functional response to the increase in prey concentration.
25153072| A field study was initiated in December 2000 in two selected soils of The Grande Terre (Kerguelen Archipelago) with the objective of determining the long-term effects of fertilizer addition on the biodegradation rate and the toxicity of oil residues under severe sub-Antarctic conditions. Two soils were selected. The first site supports an abundant vegetal cover; the second one was desert soil, devoid of plant material. These two soils were located in the vicinity of the permanent station of Port-aux-Franais (69 42E; 49 19S). A series of five experimental plots (0.75  0.75 m) were settled firmly into each of the studied soils. Each plot received 500 mL of diesel or Arabian light crude oil, and some of them were treated with a bioremediation agent: slow-release fertilizer Inipol EAP-22 (Elf Atochem). All the plots were sampled on a regular basis over a 1 year period. Heterotrophic and hydrocarbon-degrading microorganisms increased by two orders of magnitude during the first month of the experimentation in all treated enclosures, but differences appeared between the different plots. The microbial response was improved by bioremediation treatments. However, fertilizer addition had a greater impact on the desert soil when compared to the vegetated one. All chemical indices show a reduction of alkanes and light aromatics. Toxicity results show a high variability between treatments and environmental conditions. As a conclusion, it is clear that the microbial response was rapid and efficient in spite of the severe weather conditions, and the rate of degradation was improved by bioremediation treatments. However, after 1 year of treatment, the signal of a relatively high toxicity of oiled residues remained present in the two studied soils. 
23361666|Little is known about the impacts of fecal polluted urban runoff inputs on the structure of enterococci communities in estuarine waters. This study employed a 23S rRNA gene-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay with newly designed genus-specific primers, Ent127F-Ent907R, to determine the possible impacts of Hurricane Katrina floodwaters via the 17th Street Canal discharge on the community structure of enterococci in Lake Pontchartrain. A total of 94 phylotypes were identified through the restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) screening of 494 clones while only 8 phylotypes occurred among 88 cultivated isolates. Sequence analyses of representative phylotypes and their temporal and spatial distribution in the lake and the canal indicated the Katrina floodwater input introduced a large portion of Enterococcus flavescens, Enterococcus casseliflavus, and Enterococcus dispar into the lake; typical fecal groups Enterococcus faecium, Enterococcus durans, Enterococcus hirae, and Enterococcus mundtii were detected primarily in the floodwater-impacted waters. This study provides a global picture of enterococci in estuarine waters impacted by Hurricane Katrina-derived urban runoff. It also demonstrates the culture-independent PCR approach using 23S rRNA gene as a molecular marker could be a good alternative in ecological studies of enterococci in natural environments to overcome the limitation of conventional cultivation methods.
25152989|Escherichia coli was grown in a defined medium at optimum temperature and then transferred to each of five different starvation regimes at 5C, 20C, or 37C, for 1000 hours. Cells were maintained with growth-limiting amounts of carbon or nitrogen, or without either or both nutrients. Bacterial cell viability was assessed by dilution plating, the reduction of 2-(p-indophenyl)-3-(p-nitrophenyl)-5-phenyl tetrazolium chloride (INT), direct viable counts (DVC), and microcolony development. The recoverability of cells on solid medium declined most rapidly, and to the greatest extent in most cases, in cultures maintained at 37C. Only nitrogen-starved cells maintained at 5C became completely nonculturable. The reduction of INT consistently indicated higher numbers of viable cells compared to the other methods in all cultures. The viabilities of carbon- and nitrogen-limited cells, assessed by all methods, were similar to one another at each of the temperatures. Viability was lowest at 37C. Nutrient-downshifted cells also followed a temperature-dependent pattern of survival with viability lowest at 37C. Morphological differences were noted at different temperatures but were most obvious for nitrogen-starved cells at 37C, which increased in length.
40343389|Unicellular fungi, commonly referred to as yeasts, were found to be components of the culturable soil fungal population in Taylor Valley, Mt. Discovery, Wright Valley, and two mountain peaks of South Victoria Land, Antarctica. Samples were taken from sites spanning a diversity of soil habitats that were not directly associated with vertebrate activity. A large proportion of yeasts isolated in this study were basidiomycetous species (89%), of which 43% may represent undescribed species, demonstrating that culturable yeasts remain incompletely described in these polar desert soils. Cryptococcus species represented the most often isolated genus (33%) followed by Leucosporidium (22%). Principle component analysis and multiple linear regression using stepwise selection was used to model the relation between abiotic variables (principle component 1 and principle component 2 scores) and yeast biodiversity (the number of species present at a given site). These analyses identified soil pH and electrical conductivity as significant predictors of yeast biodiversity. Species-specific PCR primers were designed to rapidly discriminate among the Dioszegia and Leucosporidium species collected in this study.
41489076|Tank-forming bromeliads, suspended in the rainforest canopy, possess foliage arranged in compact rosettes capable of long-term retention of rainwater. This large and unique aquatic habitat is inhabited by microorganisms involved in the important decomposition of impounded material. Moreover, these communities are likely influenced by environmental factors such as pH, oxygen, and light. Bacterial community composition and diversity was determined for the tanks of several bromeliad species (Aechmea and Werauhia) from northern Costa Rica, which span a range of parameters, including tank morphology and pH. These were compared with a nearby forest soil sample, an artificial tank (amber bottle), and a commercially available species (Aechmea). Bacterial community diversity, as measured by 16S rRNA analysis and tRFLP, showed a significant positive correlation with tank pH. A majority of 16S rRNA bacterial phylotypes found in association with acidic bromeliad tanks of pH< 5.1 were affiliated with the Alphaproteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Planctomycetes, and Bacteroidetes, and were similar to those found in acidic peat bogs, yet distinct from the underlying soil community. In contrast, bromeliads with tank pH> 5.3, including the commercial bromeliad with the highest pH (6.7), were dominated by Betaproteobacteria, Firmicutes, and Bacteroidetes. To empirically determine the effect of pH on bacterial community, the tank pH of a specimen of Aechmea was depressed, in the field, from 6.5 to 4.5, for 62 days. The resulting community changed predictably with decreased abundance of Betaproteobacteria and Firmicutes and a concomitant increase in Alphaproteobacteria and Acidobacteria. Collectively, these results suggest that bromeliad tanks provide important habitats for a diverse microbial community, distinct from the surrounding environment, which are influenced greatly by acid-base conditions. Additionally, total organic carbon (~46%) and nitrogen (~2%) of bromeliad-impounded sediment was elevated relative to soil and gene surveys confirmed the presence of both chitinases and nitrogenases, suggesting that bromeliad tanks may provide important habitats for microbes involved in the biological cycling of carbon and nitrogen in tropical forests.
23361667|The "Midichloria clade" is a recently discovered but well-established evolutionary lineage clustering inside the order Rickettsiales (Alphaproteobacteria). Not much is known about the biology of these organisms. The best characterized ones are endocellular symbionts of very different eukaryotic hosts, ranging from arthropods to protists. "Candidatus Midichloria mitochondrii", the most studied organism of the group, is an interesting object of study because of its unique capability to infect metazoans' mitochondria and the presence of flagellar genes in its genome. With this work, we aim at increasing the knowledge on the biodiversity and phylogeny of the "Midichloria group". We characterized according to the "full cycle rRNA approach" two novel endosymbionts of ciliated protozoa, i.e. Paramecium nephridiatum and Euplotes aediculatus. According to the nomenclatural rules for uncultivated prokaryotes, we established the novel taxa "Candidatus Defluviella procrastinata" and "Candidatus Cyrtobacter zanobii" for the two bacterial symbionts. Our phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences confirms that the evolutionary histories of "Midichloria clade" representatives and of their hosts are very different. This suggests that the symbiotic processes arose many times independently, perhaps through ways of transmission still not described in Rickettsiales.
40343386|Autotrophic ammonia-oxidizing communities, which are responsible for the rate-limiting step of nitrification in most soils, have not been studied extensively in semiarid ecosystems. Abundances of soil archaeal and bacterial amoA were measured with real-time polymerase chain reaction along an elevation gradient in northern Arizona. Archaeal amoA was the predominant form of amoA at all sites; however, ratios of archaeal to bacterial amoA ranged from 17 to more than 1,600. Although size of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria populations was correlated with precipitation, temperature, percent sand, and soil C/N, there were no significant relationships between ammoniaoxidizing archaea populations and any of the environmental parameters evaluated in this study. Our results suggest that in these soils, archaea may be the primary ammonia oxidizers, and that ammonia-oxidizing archaea and ammonia-oxidizing bacteria occupy different niches.
40802280|This study addresses the issues of spatial distribution, dispersal, and genetic heterogeneity in social groups of the cellular slime molds (CSMs). The CSMs are soil amoebae with an unusual life cycle that consists of alternating solitary and social phases. Because the social phase involves division of labor with what appears to be an extreme form of "altruism", the CSMs raise interesting evolutionary questions regarding the origin and maintenance of sociality. Knowledge of the genetic structure of social groups in the wild is necessary for answering these questions. We confirm that CSMs are widespread in undisturbed forest soil from South India. They are dispersed over long distances via the dung of a variety of large mammals. Consistent with this mode of dispersal, most social groups in the two species examined for detailed study, Dictyostelium giganteum and Dictyostelium purpureum, are multi-clonal.
25153298| The goal of the current research was to determine if the stringent nutrient limitation imposed by membrane-coupled bioreactors (MBRs) could be used to force mixed bacterial communities to exhibit a zero net growth rate over an extended time period. Mechanistically, this zero net growth rate could be achieved when the amount of energy available for growth is balanced by the maintenance requirements of the bacterial community. Bench-scale MBRs were fed synthetic feed medium containing gelatin as the major organic substrate. Biomass concentrations initially increased rapidly, but subsequently declined until an asymptote was reached. Leucine aminopeptidase activities concomitantly increased by at least 10-fold, suggesting that bacterial catabolic activity remained high even while growth rates became negligible. In contrast, -glucosidase and heptanoate esterase activities decreased, indicating that the bacterial community specifically adapted to the carbon source in the feed medium. Bacterial community analysis by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA gene fragments (PCR-DGGE) suggested that the bacterial community structure completely changed from the beginning to the end of each MBR. Excision and nucleotide sequence analysis of prominent PCR-DGGE bands suggested that many of the dominant populations were similar to novel bacterial strains that were previously uncultivated or recently cultivated during studies specifically targeting these novel populations. This research demonstrates that MBRs have substantial practical applications for biological wastewater treatment; in addition, MBRs are a useful tool to study the ecology of slow-growing bacteria. 
41412433|The rhizospheres of five different potato cultivars (including a genetically modified cultivar) obtained from a loamy sand soil and two from a sandy peat soil, next to corresponding bulk soils, were studied with respect to their community structures and potential function. For the former analyses, we performed bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA genebased PCR denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCRDGGE) on the basis of soil DNA; for the latter, we extracted microbial communities and subjected these to analyses in phenotype arrays (PM1, PM2, and PM4, Biolog), with a focus on the use of different carbon, sulfur and phosphorus sources. In addition, we performed bacterial PCR-DGGE on selected wells to assess the structures of these substrate-responsive communities. Effects of soil type, the rhizosphere, and cultivar on the microbial community structures were clearly observed. Soil type was the most determinative parameter shaping the functional communities, whereas the rhizosphere and cultivar type also exerted an influence. However, no genetically modified plant effect was observed. The effects were imminent based on general community analysis and also single-compound analysis. Utilization of some of the carbon and sulfur sources was specific per cultivar, and different microbial communities were found as defined by cultivar. Thus, both soil and cultivar type shaped the potato root-associated bacterial communities that were responsive to some of the substrates in phenotype arrays.
40926461|The pandemic bacterium Vibrio parahaemolyticus, isolated from seawater, sediment, and marine organisms, is responsible for gastroenteric illnesses in humans and also cause diseases in aquaculture industry in Chile and other countries around the world. In this study, bacterial flora with inhibitory activity against pathogenic V. parahaemolyticus were collected from egg capsules of Concholepas concholepas and evaluated. The 16S rRNA fragment was sequenced from each isolated strain to determine its identity using the GenBank database. A phylogenetic analysis was made, and tests for the productions of antibacterial substance were performed using the double-layer method. Forty-five morphotypes of bacterial colonies were isolated, 8 of which presented an inhibitory effect on the growth of V. parahaemolyticus. 16S rRNA sequence and phylogenetic analysis show that these strains constitute taxa that are phylogenetically related to the Bacillus genus and are probably sister species or strains of the species Bacillus pumilus, Bacillus licheniform, or Bacillus sp. It is important to determine the nature of the antibacterial substance to evaluate their potential for use against the pathogen species V. parahaemolyticus.
4287710|To test our hypothesis that microbial autotrophic CO
25153326| Laboratory studies on the ecological physiology of a coral pathogen were carried out to investigate growth potential in terms of environmental factors that may control coral diseases on reefs. The disease chosen for this study, white plague type II, is considered to be one of the major diseases of Caribbean scleractinian corals, affecting a wide range of coral hosts and causing rapid and widespread tissue loss. It is caused by a single pathogen, the bacterium Aurantimonas coralicida. A series of laboratory experiments using a pure culture of the pathogen was carried out to examine the roles of temperature, pH, and O concentration on growth rate. Results revealed optimal growth between 30 and 35C, and between pH values of 6 and 8. There was a distinctive synergistic relationship between pH and temperature. Increasing temperature from 25 to 35C expanded the range of pH tolerance from a minimum of 6.0 down to 5.0. O concentration directly affected growth rate, which increased with increasing with increasing O. The combined effects of increasing O and increasing temperature resulted in a synergistic effect of more rapid growth. These laboratory results are discussed in terms of the coral host and the range of the environmental factors that occur on coral reefs. We conclude that changing environmental conditions in the reef environment, in particular observed increases in water temperature, may be promoting coral diseases by allowing coral pathogens to expand their ecological niches. In the case of the white plague type II pathogen, elevated temperature would allow A. coralicida to colonize the low pH environment of the coral surface mucopolysaccharide layer as an initial stage of infection. The synergistic effect between temperature and oxygen concentration appeared to be less environmentally relevant for this coral pathogen. 
23469598|Marine microbes are capable of producing secondary metabolites for defense and competition. Factors exerting an impact on secondary metabolite production of microbial communities included bioactive natural products and co-culturing. These external influences may have practical applications such as increased yields or the generation of new metabolites from otherwise silent genes in addition to reducing or limiting the production of undesirable metabolites. In this paper, we discuss the metabolic profiles of a marine Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the presence of a number of potential chemical epigenetic regulators, adjusting carbon sources and co-culturing with other microbes to induce a competitive response. As a result of these stressors certain groups of antibiotics or antimalarial agents were increased most notably when treating P. aeruginosa with sceptrin and co-culturing with another Pseudomonas sp. An interesting cross-talking event between these two Pseudomonas species when cultured together and exposed to sceptrin was observed.
27770628|The capacity to study the content and resolve the dynamics of the proteome of diverse microbial communities would help to revolutionize the way microbiologists study the function and activity of microorganisms in soil. To better understand the limitations of a proteomic approach to studying soil microbial communities, we characterized extractable soil microbial proteins using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Two methods were utilized to extract proteins from microorganisms residing in a Quitman and Benfield soil: (1) direct extraction of bulk protein from soil and (2) separation of the microorganisms from soil using density gradient centrifugation and subsequent extraction (DGCEXT) of microbial protein. In addition, glucose and toluene amendments to soil were used to stimulate the growth of a subset of the microbial community. A bacterial culture and bovine serum albumin (BSA) were added to the soil to qualitatively assess their recovery following extraction. Direct extraction and resolution of microbial proteins using SDS-PAGE generally resulted in smeared and unresolved banding patterns on gels. DGCEXT of microbial protein from soil followed by separation using SDS-PAGE, however, did resolve six to 10 bands in the Benfield but not the Quitman soil. DGCEXT of microbial protein, but not direct extraction following the addition of glucose and toluene, markedly increased the number of bands (40) on the gels in both Benfield and Quitman soils. Low recoveries of added culture and BSA proteins using the direct extraction method suggest that proteins either bind to soil organic matter and mineral particles or that partial degradation takes place during extraction. Interestingly, DGC may have been preferentially selected for actively growing cells, as gauged by the 10100 lower cy19:0/18:17 ratio of the fatty acid methyl esters in the isolated community compared to that for the whole soil. DGC can be used to isolate soil communities and provide microbial protein that can be characterized using PAGE.
25153080|An analysis of the community composition of three previously undefined mixed cultures of moderately thermophilic bioleaching bacteria grown at 45C on pyrite, arsenical pyrite, and chalcopyrite has been carried out. The bacterial species present were identified by comparative sequence analysis of the 16S rRNA gene isolated from the bioleaching vessels and analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, cloning, and sequencing. The mixed cultures leached all three minerals, as shown by the increase in iron released from the mineral concentrates. The species identified from the mixed cultures during bioleaching of pyrite, arsenical pyrite, and chalcopyrite were clones closely related to Acidithiobacillus caldus C-SH12, Sulfobacillus thermosulfidoxidans AT-1, "Sulfobacillus montserratensis" L15, and an uncultured thermal soil bacterium YNP. It was also found that the same mixed culture maintained for over a year on chalcopyrite mineral selected approximately the same consortia of bacteria as the original mixed culture grown on chalcopyrite.
25256191|Diel and seasonal variations in abundance, activity, and structure of particle-attached vs free-living bacterial communities were investigated in offshore NW Mediterranean Sea (0-1000 m). Attached bacteria were always less abundant and less diverse but generally more active than free-living bacteria. The most important finding of this study was that the activity of attached bacteria showed pronounced diel variations in the upper mixed water column with higher activities at night. Under mesotrophic conditions, the contribution of attached bacteria to total bacterial activity increased from less than 10% at day time to 83% at night time. At high chlorophyll a concentration, the highest cell-specific activities and contribution to total bacterial activity were due to free-living bacteria at day and to attached bacteria at night. Under summer oligotrophic conditions, free-living bacteria dominated and contributed to the most important part of the bacterial activity at both day and night, whereas attached bacteria were much less abundant but presented the highest cell-specific activities. These diel and seasonal variations in activities were concomitant to changes in bacterial community structure, mainly in the upper layer. The number of attached ribotypes was fairly constant suggesting that particles are colonized by a relatively limited number of ubiquitous ribotypes. Most of these ribotypes were also free-living ribotypes suggesting that attached bacteria probably originate from colonization of newly formed particles by free-living bacteria in the upper layer. These results reinforce the biogeochemical role of attached bacteria in the cycling of particulate organic carbon in the NW Mediterranean Sea and the importance of diel variability in these processes.
4250896|Methods are described for the observation, enrichment and isolation (from various freshwater samples) of bacteria of the genera Planctomyces and Pirella. Because immature buds were easily dislodged by shearing forces, slide culture techniques and direct microscopy of the budding process are recommended. An "auxanographic" technique to detect possible stimulation by soluble substrates was based on the diffusion of these substrates from peripherally placed crystals into the agar of a slide culture. Nearly every water sample investigated contained representatives of the genera Planctomyces, Pirella, and Blastobacter, as well as budding cocci. Six enrichment techniques were tried; some enrichment experiments lasted several months. Allowing samples without added substrate to stand for a long time or generally employing nutrient-poor media were most successful. The "petri dish method," taking advantage of attachment of many budding bacteria to glass surfaces, was especially useful for increasing the numbers of Planctomyces spp. Pure cultures obtained from freshwater samples were tentatively placed in the genera Planctomyces, Pirella, and Blastobacter. One strain appeared to represent a new genus of gram-positive, budding, and nonprosthecate bacteria.
4251516|The response of a sediment microbial assemblage to a pulse of diatoms was studied over 36 days by measuring bacterial activity and biomass, ATP concentration, and overall community respiration in laboratory microcosms. Also, the contribution of macrofaunal chironomids to the decomposition of settling diatoms in benthic communities, and the relative importance of benthic meiofauna in community metabolism, were determined. The addition of diatoms resulted in an immediate response by sediment bacteria, with higher bacterial production recorded after only 2 h, and a more than tenfold increase within one day. The rapid response by sediment bacteria was accompanied by relatively high initial concentrations of dissolved organic carbon. In treatments receiving diatoms, higher bacterial production was sustained throughout the experiment. Surprisingly, neither these elevated production estimates, nor the starvation of controls affected bacterial abundance. Mean bacterial cell volume, however, was markedly affected by the addition of diatoms. Combining community respiration measurements and bacterial production estimates showed that growth efficiencies for sediment bacteria ranged from 14.6 to 34.5%. The contribution of ambient meiozoobenthos to carbon metabolism was less than 1%. Carbon budgets showed that 1.3 mg C was cooxidized along with 4.3 mg added diatom C. Sediment reworking by Chironomus larvae initially enhanced bacterial production, but the presence of Chironomus resulted in lower bacterial production estimates after 16 and 36 days. This was interpreted as a result of faster decomposition of diatoms in treatments with chironomids, which was validated by a faster decline of ATP and chlorophyll a in the sediment. Our results indicate that Chironomus larvae compete with sediment bacteria for available organic substrates.
25256192|Ecotoxicological studies usually focus on single microbial species under controlled conditions. As a result, little is known about the responses of different microbial functional groups or individual species to stresses. In an aim to assess the response of complex microbial communities to pollution in their natural habitat, we studied the effect of a simulated lead pollution on the microbial community (bacteria, cyanobacteria, protists, fungi, and micrometazoa) living on Sphagnum fallax. Mosses were grown in the laboratory with 0 (control), 625, and 2,500 g L of Pb diluted in a standard nutrient solution and were sampled after 0, 6, 12, and 20 weeks. The biomasses of bacteria, microalgae, testate amoebae, and ciliates were dramatically and significantly decreased in both Pb addition treatments after 6, 12, and 20 weeks in comparison with the control. The biomass of cyanobacteria declined after 6 and 12 weeks in the highest Pb treatment. The biomasses of fungi, rotifers, and nematodes decreased along the duration of the experiment but were not significantly affected by lead addition. Consequently, the total microbial biomass was lower for both Pb addition treatments after 12 and 20 weeks than in the controls. The community structure was strongly modified due to changes in the densities of testate amoebae and ciliates, whereas the relative contribution of bacteria to the microbial biomass was stable. Differences in responses among the microbial groups suggest changes in the trophic links among them. The correlation between the biomass of bacteria and that of ciliates or testate amoebae increased with increasing Pb loading. We interpret this result as an effect on the grazing pathways of these predators and by the Pb effect on other potential prey (i.e., smaller protists). The community approach used here complements classical ecotoxicological studies by providing clues to the complex effect of pollutant-affecting organisms both directly and indirectly through trophic effects and could potentially find applications for pollution monitoring.
25153014|The quantitation and characterization of indigenous bacteria of a deep aquifer, located in the southwestern United States and contaminated with halogenated aliphatic compounds, was undertaken. Water samples were obtained aseptically from depths of 45 to 151 m from four sites that ranged from 260 to 1,800 m in distance from the location of contaminant release. Sediment samples were also obtained from the proximal and distal sites for analyses. Results for aerobic and anaerobic colony-forming units were obtained on four agar media that were used to retrieve heterotrophs, oligotrophs, and pseudomonads. Most probable number estimates were obtained from a liquid medium favorable for oligotrophs. Representative isolates were tested against Biolog plates (Biolog, Inc., Hayward, Calif.) for patterns of carbon source utilization. Of 103 Gram-negative (GN) isolates, 48 could not be identified and the others were only tentatively identified via the Biolog database, and none of the 35 Gram-positive (GP) isolates were identifiable. However, the metabolic patterns were subjected to average cluster linkage analyses; the GN and GP bacteria were separable into eight and four groups, respectively. The oligotroph group comprised one-third of the GN and one-half of the GP isolates. The consensus carbon source utilization pattern for each group was determined and will be useful in future characterization of additional aquifer bacterial isolates. Although predominantly aerobic and oligotrophic, the microbial community of this aquifer was highly diverse with discernible viability and metabolic features of the microbiota distinctive to each of the four water and two sediment samples.
4287741|Repeated pesticide exposure may enhance biodegradation through selective enrichment of pesticide-metabolizing microorganisms, particularly when the compound is used as a C and energy source. The relationship between pesticide application history and degradation rate is unclear when the chemical is utilized as a nutrient source other than C. Atrazine, a poor source of C and energy, was chosen as a model compound because it can serve as an N source for some microorganisms. Soils with (H-soil) and without (NH-soil) prior s-triazine treatment history were repeatedly exposed to atrazine and a variety of C and N source amendments. Exposure to atrazine and inorganic-N availability were the dominant factors leading to the development of microbial communities with an enhanced capacity to degrade atrazine. The density of the atrazine-degrading microorganisms increased immediately, up to 1000-fold, with atrazine exposure in the H-soil, but comparable increases were not observed in the NH-soil until 12 weeks following laboratory acclimation, despite high rates of atrazine mineralization in these soils immediately following the acclimation period. Whole-soil fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) analysis showed that the application of alternative C and N sources in addition to atrazine resulted in a microbial community composition that was distinctly different from that in either the atrazine-alone treatment or water controls for both the H- and NH-soils. These data suggest that the microbial communities in both soils were altered differently in response to the treatments but developed a similar enhanced capacity to mineralize atrazine.
4251414| We investigated how benthic nanoflagellate communities in marine sediments respond to sedimentation of organic material and to the presence of macrofaunal organisms in controlled boxcosms. An input of 24 g C m
4251203|Microbial populations are composed of individual organisms each of which, if environmental circumstances are favorable, is undergoing change of its internal state through the operation of the set of processes that we call the cell cycle. The rate of progression through the cycle is subject to internal controls as well as external influences, and exhibits random as well as deterministic features. Microorganisms of the same species in different stages of the cell cycle have different internal states, and thus, the operation of the cell cycle is by itself sufficient to produce a distribution of states among the individual organisms of a population. In turn, the distribution of states produces distributions of the rates at which the cells of a population carry on their activities. Mathematical models of microbial growth that take the operation of the cell cycle and its consequences into account are more complicated than the kinds of models that are often used in microbial ecology. This paper gives some account of the nature, formulation, and uses of complex growth models. The account is illustrated by work done by the author and his collaborators H. M. Tsuchiya and more recently F. Srienc, as well as by others, on the filter-feeding ciliate Tetrahymena pyriformis.
4250436|Total ambient mercury concentrations and numbers of mercury resistant, aerobic heterotrophic bacteria at six locations in Chesapeake Bay were monitored over a 17 month period. Mercury resistance expressed as the proportion of the total, viable, aerobic, heterotrophic bacterial population reached a reproducible maximum in spring and was positively correlated with dissolved oxygen concentration and sediment mercury concentration and negatively correlated with water turbidity. A relationship between mercury resistance and metabolic capability for reduction of mercuric ion to the metallic state was established by surveying a number of HgCl
25153226| Phage abundance and infection of bacterioplankton were studied from March to November 2003 in the Sep Reservoir (Massif Central, France), together with temperature, chlorophyll, bacteria (abundance and production), and heterotrophic nanoflagellates (abundance and potential bacterivory). Virus abundance (VA) ranged from 0.6 to 13  10 viruses 1, exceeding bacterial abundance (BA) approximately sixfold on average. In terms of carbon, viruses corresponded to up to 25% of bacterial biomass. A multiple regression model indicated that BA was the best predictor for VA (R = 0.75). The frequency of infected bacteria (estimated from the percentage of visibly infected cells) varied from 1% to 32% and was best explained by a combination of temperature (R = 0.20) and bacterial production (R = 0.25). Viruses and flagellates contributed about equally to bacterial mortality. Both factors destroyed 55% of bacterial production, with a shift from phage bacteriolysis in early spring to protistan bacterivory in late summer. The vertical differences in most of the biological variables were not significant, contrasting with the seasonal differences (i.e., spring vs. summer-autumn). All biological variables under study were indeed significantly coupled to temperature. We regarded this to be the consequence of the enhanced discharge of the reservoir in 2003 (compared to previous years). This substantially weakened the stability and the thermal inertia of the water column, thereby establishing temperature as a stronger forcing factor in setting the conditions for optimal metabolic activity of microbial communities. 
4251813|This paper presents a standardized metric for quantifying the rate change in community structure of complex mixed microbial cultures such as those maintained in biological wastewater treatment systems. Quantifying the stability of microbial community structures is a first step toward more aggressive monitoring and control of biological systems for greater reliability in contaminant removal. Statistical analysis of compositions that uniquely specify the balance of populations of species in a mixed culture sample can be used to specify a biosolids community state as a unique position in an orthogonal coordinate system. Changes in biosolids state are observable as a trajectory within this coordinate space, and the rate of passage along this trajectory relates to the population dynamics. The geometric interpretation and the statistical analysis methods necessary for the proposed calculation methodology are introduced by way of simulated case studies with a simple model system. With the example of this model system, concepts of changing microbial community shape and size are contrasted. The rate change in community structure is defined geometrically in terms of a rate change in relative proportions of the characteristic community shape at constant biomass. A change in biomass is defined as the rate change in the quantity of biosolids at constant shape. The method robustness with respect to random measurement error was also demonstrated using the model system. The potential applications of the approach are presented with experimental data of microbial fatty acid compositions extracted from samples during the operation of bench-scale bioreactors degrading contaminants found in pulp mill wastewater. Scaling the level of population dynamics with a metric that is independent of chemotypic content presents a standard for direct comparisons of community responses between distinct cultures and experiments.
41489163|Bacteria have evolved mechanisms that allow them to grow and survive in highly competitive environments like soil and the rhizosphere. Using classical microbiological, physiological, and genetic analyses, we isolated and identified for the first time Duganella spp. associated with the rhizosphere of woody plants in Mediterranean environments that are able to produce violacein, a blue-purple secondary metabolite of considerable biotechnological interest. Based on physiological and biochemical characterization and phylogenetic analysis of different genes including 16S rRNA, gyrB, and vioA (implicated in the synthesis of violacein), the seven Duganella spp. strains isolated and studied were differentiated according to their host of origin (wild versus cultivated olives) and potentially might belong to new species. All the Duganella spp. strains produced violacein in vitro, with natural production levels significantly higher than that previously reported for other violacein-producing bacteria without optimizing growing conditions. The important biological, medical, and industrial applications of violacein make these bacteria good candidates for their biotechnological exploitation because low violacein yields are considered as one of the main limitations of using wildtype strains for extensive exploitation and pigment production. Independent of violacein production, purplepigmented strains from olives showed proteolytic and lipolytic activities and a weak siderophore production. No in vitro inhibitory activity was demonstrated for bacteria or crude violacein filtrates against plant-pathogenic Gramnegative bacteria and fungi, but they did inhibit Grampositive bacteria.
4251458|Microcosms containing an air-dried autoclaved loamy sand (Eufala A) with low salt and organic content were inoculated with a representative (obligately aerobic, encapsulated) soil yeast, Cryptococcus albidus var.
25153314|Sixteen Fusarium species were recovered from 52 asparagus commercial fields, representing all major ecological (edaphic and climatic) area of asparagus production in the province of Qubec, eastern Canada. This study extends our understanding of the geographic range of these species. It also provides climatological and edaphic properties linked to community changes and adaptations. Fusarium oxysporum and F. proliferatum were omnipresent and abundant in all five ecological area under study, whereas F. redolens was less frequently found. Species of Fusarium that produce carmine red pigmentation on potato dextrose agar, i.e., F. acuminatum, F. avenaceum, etc., were common at the northern limit of asparagus production. Abundance of red Fusarium species corresponded with a low isolation frequency of F. proliferatum. Nevertheless, F. proliferatum had a high recovery rate throughout Qubec asparagus growing areas, under climatic conditions as cold as those of northern Europe where this species is uncommon in asparagus fields. In the light of these results, redefinition of the geographical distribution of F. proliferatum in asparagus fields is proposed. Intraspecific molecular differences in F. proliferatum and F. oxysporum were detected in the EF-1 alpha sequences and compared with well-characterized strains of North America.
25256136|Biofilms, and other bacterial aggregations, are of significance in both environmental microbiology and in plant and human pathogenesis. Comparative single-cell Raman spectral analysis can differentiate between planktonic bacteria and those recovered from biofilms and appears to offer a new means by which to investigate bacterial cell physiology, metabolic status, and stress under different environmental conditions.
40926463|As extreme environmental conditions strongly affect bacterial community composition (BCC), we examined whether differences in pHeven at low pHand in iron and sulfate concentrations lead to changes in BCC of acidic mining lakes. Thereby, we tested the following hypotheses: (1) diversity of the bacterial community in acidic lakes decreases with reducing pH, (2) BCC differs between epilimnion and hypolimnion, and (3) BCC in extremely acidic environments does not vary much over time. Therefore, we investigated the BCC of three acidic lakes with different pH values (2.3, 2.7, and 3.2) by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and subsequent sequencing of DGGE bands as well as catalyzed reporter deposition-FISH (CARD-FISH). BCC did not significantly vary among the studied lakes nor differ much between water layers. In contrast, BCC significantly changed over time, which is contradictory to our hypotheses. Bacterial communities were dominated by Alpha-, Beta-, and Gammaproteobacteria, whereas Actino- and Acidobacteria rarely occurred. Cell numbers of both free and attached bacteria were positively related to DOC concentration. Overall, low pH and extreme chemical conditions of the studied lakes led to similar assemblages of bacteria with pronounced temporal differences. This notion indicates that temporal changes in environmental conditions including food web structure also affect unique communities of bacteria thriving at low pH.
4250530|Hydrogen and acetate inhibit the microbial degradation of propionate and ethanol in digesting sludge. Propionate oxidation is more sensitive than ethanol oxidation to product activities. This difference can be explained on thermodynamic grounds. It is concluded that the limiting factors for complete anaerobic mineralization of biodegradable organic matter in digesting sludge are to be sought in the boundary conditions for the exergonic oxidation of propionate. The different ecological significances of hydrogen and acetate as inhibitory agents of fatty acid degradation in sludge digestion are discussed. Hydrogen partial pressure and alkalinity are recommended as parameters in monitoring sludge digestion.
40343507|The quality of torrefied grass fibers (TGF) as a new potting soil ingredient was tested in a greenhouse experiment. TGF was colonized with previously selected microorganisms. Four colonization treatments were compared: (1) no inoculants, (2) the fungus Coniochaeta ligniaria F/TGF15 alone, (3) the fungus followed by inoculation with two selected bacteria, and (4) the fungus with seven selected bacteria. Cultivation-based and DNAbased methods, i.e., PCR-DGGE and BOX-PCR, were applied to assess the bacterial and fungal communities established in the TGF. Although colonization was not performed under sterile conditions, all inoculated strains were recovered from TGF up to 26 days incubation. Stable fungal and bacterial populations of 10 and 10CFU/g TGF, respectively, were reached. As a side effect of the torrefaction process that aimed at the chemical stabilization of grass fibers, potentially phytotoxic compounds were generated. These phytotoxic compounds were cold-extracted from the fibers and analyzed by gas chromatography mass spectrometry. Four of 15 target compounds that had previously been found in the extract of TGF were encountered, namely phenol, 2-methoxyphenol, benzopyran-2-one, and tetrahydro-5,6,7,7a-benzofuranone. The concentration of these compounds decreased significantly during incubation. The colonized TGF was mixed with peat (P) in a range of 100%:0%, 50%:50%, 20%:80%, and 0%:100% TGF/P (w/w), respectively, to assess suitability for plant growth. Germination of tomato seeds was assessed three times, i.e., with inoculated TGF that had been incubated for 12, 21, and 26 days. In these tests, 90-100% of the seeds germinated in 50%:50% and 20%:80% TGF/P, whereas on average only 50% of the seeds germinated in pure TGF. Germination was not improved by the microbial inoculants. However, plant fresh weight as well as leaf area of 28-day-old tomato plants were significantly increased in all treatments where C. ligniaria F/TGF15 was inoculated compared to the control treatment without microbial inoculants. Colonization with C. ligniaria also protected the substrate from uncontrolled colonization by other fungi. The excellent colonization of TGF by the selected plant-health promoting bacteria in combination with the fungus C. ligniaria offers the possibility to create disease suppressive substrate, meanwhile replacing 20% to 50% of peat in potting soil by TGF.
4251770| We measured bacterial growth on phototransformed dissolved organic matter (DOM) leached from eight different primary producers. Leachates (10 mg C liter
4250743|Published estimates of protozoan respiratory rates are reviewed with the object of clarifying their value in ecological studies. The data show a surprisingly large variance when similarly sized cells or individual species are compared. This is attributed to the range of physiological states in the cells concerned. The concept of basal metabolism has little meaning in protozoa. During balanced growth, energy metabolism is nearly linearly proportional to the growth rate constant; at the initiation of starvation, metabolic rate rapidly declines. Motility requires an insignificant fraction of the energy budget of protozoans. For growing cells, metabolic rate is approximately proportional to weight
41692862|The dominant factors controlling soil bacterial community variation within the tropics are poorly known. We sampled soils across a range of land use typesprimary (unlogged) and logged forests and crop and pasture lands in Malaysia. PCR-amplified soil DNA for the bacterial 16S rRNA gene targeting the V1-V3 region was pyrosequenced using the 454 Roche machine. We found that land use in itself has a weak but significant effect on the bacterial community composition. However, bacterial community composition and diversity was strongly correlated with soil properties, especially soil pH, total carbon, and C/N ratio. Soil pH was the best predictor of bacterial community composition and diversity across the various land use types, with the highest diversity close to neutral pH values. In addition, variation in phylogenetic structure of dominant lineages (Alphaproteobacteria, Beta/Gammaproteobacteria, Acidobacteria, and Actinobacteria) is also significantly correlated with soil pH. Together, these results confirm the importance of soil pH in structuring soil bacterial communities in Southeast Asia. Our results also suggest that unlike the general diversity pattern found for larger organisms, primary tropical forest is no richer in operational taxonomic units of soil bacteria than logged forest, and agricultural land (crop and pasture) is actually richer than primary forest, partly due to selection of more fertile soils that have higher pH for agriculture and the effects of soil liming raising pH.
23597854|Mycorrhizas are mutualistic associations between soil fungi and plant roots which usually improve water and nutrient uptake, influencing plant fitness. Nothofagus nervosa (Raul) is an ecologically and economically important species of South American temperate forests. Since this native tree species yields valuable timber, it was overexploited and its natural distribution area was critically reduced, so it is currently included in domestication and conservation programs. Among the factors that should be considered in these programs are the ectomycorrhizas (EcM), which would be important for the successful establishment and survival of outplanted seedlings. The aim of this work was to analyze the abundance and diversity of EcM in N. nervosa nursery-cultivated seedlings assessed by morphotyping, fungal isolation, and DNA sequencing. Arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) occurrence was also studied. A 2-year trial was conducted following the cultivation conditions used for domestication programs. Seedlings were cultivated under two different cultivation practices (greenhouse and nursery soil) without artificial inoculation of mycorrhizal fungi. Seedlings' roots were examined at different times. It was observed that they developed EcM between 6 and 12 months after germination and AMs were not detected in any plant. The most abundant ectomycorrhizal fungi present in seedlings' roots were Tomentella ellisii (Basidiomycota) and an unidentified fungus named Ascomicetous EcM sp. 1. Abundance and diversity of EcM varied between the two cultivation techniques analyzed in this study, since seedlings that continued growing in the greenhouse had higher colonization values, but those transplanted to the nursery soil were colonized by a higher diversity of fungal taxa.
41489185|Container-breeding mosquitoes, such as Aedes triseriatus, ingest biofilms and filter water column microorganisms directly to obtain the bulk of their nutrition. Scirtid beetles often co-occur with A. triseriatus and may facilitate the production of mosquito adults under lowresource conditions. Using molecular genetic techniques and quantitative assays, we observed changes in the dynamics and composition of bacterial and fungal communities present on leaf detritus and in the water column when scirtid beetles co-occur with A. triseriatus. Data from terminal restriction fragment polymorphism analysis indicated scirtid presence alters the structure of fungal communities in the water column but not leaf-associated fungal communities. Similar changes in leaf and water bacterial communities occurred in response to mosquito presence. In addition, we observed increased processing of leaf detritus, higher leaf-associated enzyme activity, higher bacterial productivity, and higher leaf-associated fungal biomass when scirtid beetles were present. Such shifts suggest beetle feeding facilitates mosquito production indirectly through the microbial community rather than directly through an increase in available fine particulate organic matter.
4250808| A pentachlorophenol (PCP)-degrading mixed bacterial population was enriched in a biofilter filled with soft wood bark chips. We found that bark chips were essential for the degradation to proceed at PCP concentrations higher than 10 M. PCP-degrading bacteria were found to be extremely sensitive to PCP. Bark chips absorbed PCP reversibly, thus detoxifying the medium and allowing degradation to proceed at higher concentrations of PCP (beyond 200 M). 
4250621|Transect studies were conducted to determine the relative effects of zinc, lead, and cadmium pollution on microorganisms occurring on hawthorn leaves at varying distances from a smelting complex. Sporobolomyces roseus was absent from the most heavily contaminated leaves but, although lead was inhibitory, other environmental factors were also important in determining its overall population level. Conversely, Aureobasidium pullulans and nonpigmented yeasts showed a significant partial positive correlation with lead but were inhibited by zinc and/or cadmium. Numbers of bacterial colonies were only slightly reduced by the combined effect of all three metals, but total numbers of bacteria were highly negatively correlated with lead. Filamentous fungi, isolated by leaf washing, were only slightly inhibited by all three metals, and the degree of mycelial proliferation on senescent leaves was little affected by heavy metal pollution. Computer-generated maps were produced of the distribution of A. pullulans in relation to zinc and lead fallout.
4250555|Ochreous sludge deposited in the course of aeration of ground water contained an assortment of bacterial forms and structures which were investigated by light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. Bacterial structures were often covered by iron deposition which could be removed by acidification of the samples. Sulfuric acid treatment was consistently better than hydrochloric acid to dissolve iron without a considerable damage to the bacterial cells. Partial dissolution of amorphous ferric iron was achieved by acidifying the samples with oxalic acid or citric acid prior to the preparation for electron microscopy.
4251279| Bacterial activity was measured in the river Seine by two methods,
4287577| Acidic volcanic waters are naturally occurring extreme habitats that are subject of worldwide geochemical research but have been little investigated with respect to their biology. To fill this gap, the microbial ecology of a volcanic acidic river (pH  0-1.6), Rio Agrio, and the recipient lake Caviahue in Patagonia, Argentina, was studied. Water and sediment samples were investigated for Fe(II), Fe(III), methane, bacterial abundances, biomass, and activities (oxygen consumption, iron oxidation and reduction). The extremely acidic river showed a strong gradient of microbial life with increasing values downstream and few signs of life near the source. Only sulfide-oxidizing the fermentative bacteria could be cultured from the upper part of Rio Agrio. However, in the lower part of the system, microbial biomass and oxygen penetration and consumption in the sediment were comparable to non-extreme aquatic habitats. To characterize similarities and differences of chemically similar natural and man-made acidic waters, our findings were compared to those from acidic mining lakes in Germany. In the lower part of the river and the lake, numbers of iron and sulfur bacteria and total biomass in sediments were comparable to those known from acidic mining lakes. Bacterial abundance in water samples was also very similar for both types of acidic water (around
4250453|Ion-specific electrodes were used to study the binding of Hg
4251814|Competition for nutrient and the ability of bacteria to colonize the gut wall are factors believed to play a role in the observed stability of the indigenous microbiota of the mammalian large intestine. These factors were incorporated into the two-strain continuous-stirred tank reactor (CSTR) model formulated and numerically investigated by Freter et al. In their model simulations, the reactor is parameterized using data for the mouse intestine. An invading bacterial strain is introduced into a CSTR that has already been colonized by a resident strain. The two strains compete for a single growth-limiting nutrient and for limited adhesion sites on the wall of the reactor. The mathematical model described in this paper is motivated in part by the CSTR model, but is based on the plug flow reactor (PFR). Parameter values and initial conditions are chosen so that the numerical performance of the PFR can be compared to that of the CSTR. In simulations bearing a remarkable qualitative and quantitative resemblance to those of the CSTR it is found that the invader is virtually eliminated, despite the fact that it has uptake rate and affinity for the wall identical to those of the resident. The PFR model is then parametrized using data for the human large intestine, and the two-strain simulations are repeated. Though obvious quantitative differences are noted, the more important qualitative outcome is preserved. It is also found that when three strains compete for a single nutrient and for adhesion sites there exists a steady-state solution characterized by the segregation of the bacterial strains into separate nonoverlapping segments along the wall of the reactor.
4287751|The incidence and diversity of methanogens in Priest Pot, a dynamic and active lake, were monitored by analysing mcrA gene sequences generated from total DNA samples obtained at different times of the year and amplified using the polymerase chain reaction. A number of mcrA clones were analysed by developing an RFLP-based protocol to generate a number of restriction patterns that were assigned to a number of classes. The RFLP patterns for each class were compared with published sequence information for mcrA from cultured methanogens as well as with those from other experimental studies. They could be used to assign tentative identification for some of the Priest Pot clones and also revealed the presence of a number of clones that could not be affiliated to any known methanogens. The limitations of using RFLP profiles of mcrA gene sequences for studying methanogen ecology are discussed.
25256235|The anaerobic free-living ciliate, Trimyema compressum, is known to harbor both methanogenic archaeal and bacterial symbionts in the cytoplasm. To clarify their phylogenetic belongings, a full-cycle rRNA approach was applied to this symbiosis. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the methanogenic symbiont was related to Methanobrevibacter arboriphilicus, which was distantly related to symbionts found in other Trimyema species. This result suggested that Trimyema species do not require very specific methanogenic symbionts, and symbiont replacement could have occurred in the history of Trimyema species. On the other hand, the bacterial symbiont was located near the lineage of the family Syntrophomonadaceae in the phylum Firmicutes. The sequence similarity between the bacterial symbiont and the nearest species was 85%, indicating that bacterial symbionts may be specific to the Trimyema species. The elimination of bacterial symbionts from the ciliate cell by antibiotic treatment resulted in considerably decreased host growth. However, it was not restored by stigmasterol addition (&lt;2 g ml), which was different from the previous report that showed that the symbiont-free strain required exogenous sterols for growth. In addition, the decline of host growth was not accompanied by host metabolism shift toward the formation of more reduced products, which suggested that the contribution of bacterial symbionts to the host ciliate was not a dispose of excessive reducing equivalent arising from the host's fermentative metabolism as methanogenic symbionts do. This study showed that bacterial symbionts make a significant contribution to the host ciliate by an unknown function and suggested that interactions between bacterial symbionts and T. compressum are more complicated than hitherto proposed.
4287511|Successional theory predicts that opportunistic species with high investment of energy in reproduction and wide niche width will be replaced by equilibrium species with relatively higher investment of energy in maintenance and narrower niche width as communities develop. Since the ability to rapidly grow into a detectable colony on nonselective agar medium could be considered as characteristic of opportunistic types of bacteria, the percentage of culturable cells may be an indicator of successional state in microbial communities. The ratios of culturable cells (colony forming units on R2A agar) to total cells (acridine orange direct microscopic counts) and culturable cells to active cells (reduction of 5-cyano-2,3-ditolyl tetrazolium chloride) were measured over time in two types of laboratory microcosms (the rhizosphere of hydroponically grown wheat and aerobic, continuously stirred tank reactors containing plant biomass) to determine the effectiveness of culturability as an index of successional state. The culturable cell:total cell ratio in the rhizosphere decreased from approximately 0.25 to less than 0.05 during the first 30-50 days of plant growth, and from 0.65 to 0.14 during the first 7 days of operation of the bioreactor. The culturable cell:active cell ratio followed similar trends, but the values were consistently greater than the culturable cell:total cell ratio, and even exceeded 1 in early samples. Follow-up studies used a cultivation-independent method, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms (TRFLP) from whole community DNA, to assess community structure. The number of TRFLP peaks increased with time, while the number of culturable types did not, indicating that the general decrease in culturability is associated with a shift in community structure. The ratio of respired to assimilated
40605738|The aim of the present study was to evaluate the alterations that may take place in the bacterial genital tract flora in the absence of ovarian hormones. The role of hormone replacement therapy was also assessed. For this purpose, various bacteria were identified from the vaginal flora of ovariectomized and sham operated female rats, following the Bergey's manual criteria. The data of this study showed that substantial differences exist in the vaginal bacterial microflora between ovariectomized and normal cyclic rats. Ovariectomy was associated with a lower total bacterial load that may be due mainly to the absence of Lactobacillus. Anaerobic bacteria were also absent. Streptococcus and Enterococcus were also not favored in an environment lacking the ovarian hormones. In contrast, C. perfringens, Bacteroides, S. epidermidis, and S. aureus were detected in high numbers in ovariectomized rats. In terms of the impact of hormone replacement therapy on vaginal flora, only estradiol (EE2) restored Lactobacillus levels in ovariectomized rats, whereas all hormonal schemes used brought Streptococcus, Clostridium lee (), and C. perfringens, the spore and vegetative forms, close to those detected in normal cyclic female rats. In conclusion, ovarian hormones appeared to be regulatory factors that favor the presence of a broad variety of bacteria, which are members of the normal genital tract flora. On the other hand, ovariectomy modifies the vaginal microbial profile, and hormone replacement therapy based mainly on schemes containing EE2 could alleviate this disturbance.
4251335| Nitrogen-fixing bacteria were isolated from sediments and water of a saltmarsh lagoon on the west coast of South Africa, and characterized according to factors that regulate nitrogen fixation in the marine environment. The majority of isolates were assigned to the Photobacterium or Vibrio genera on the basis of physiological and biochemical characteristics. One isolate was further assigned to the species Vibrio diazotrophicus. Carbohydrate utilization by each diazotrophic isolate was examined. Abilities of the isolates to utilize a range of mono-, di-, and polysaccharides largely reflected the predicted availability of organic carbon and energy in the lagoon, except that chitin was not utilized. Biochemical tests on the utilization of combined nitrogen showed that one isolate could utilize nitrate, and that this strain was susceptible to full repression of nitrogenase activity by 10mM nitrate. Urease activity was not detected in any of the isolates. In the absence of molybdenum two of the isolates, a Photobacterium spp. and V. diazotrophicus, reduced acetylene to ethylene and ethane, a property frequently associated with the activity of alternative nitrogenases. Addition of 25M molybdenum inhibited ethane production by V. diazotrophicus, but stimulated ethylene and ethane production by the Photobacterium isolate. Addition of 28M vanadium did not appear to regulate ethane production by either strain. Assays of nitrogenase activity in sediments from which some isolates were obtained indicated that molybdenum was not limiting nitrogenase activity at naturally-occurring concentrations. Southern hybridizations of the chromosomes of these strains with the anfH and vnfH genes of Azotobacter vinelandii and the nifH gene of Klebsiella pneumoniae indicated the presence of only one nitrogenase in these isolates. 
4287662| Very little is known about the spatial organization of soil microbes across scales that are relevant both to microbial function and to field-based processes. The spatial distributions of microbes and microbially mediated activity have a high intrinsic variability. This can present problems when trying to quantify the effects of disturbance, management practices, or climate change on soil microbial systems and attendant function. A spatial sampling regime was implemented in an arable field. Cores of undisturbed soil were sampled from a 3  3  0.9 m volume of soil (topsoil and subsoil) and a biological thin section, in which the in situ distribution of bacteria could be quantified, prepared from each core. Geostatistical analysis was used to quantify the nature of spatial structure from micrometers to meters and spatial point pattern analysis to test for deviations from complete spatial randomness of mapped bacteria. Spatial structure in the topsoil was only found at the microscale (micrometers), whereas evidence for nested scales of spatial structure was found in the subsoil (at the microscale, and at the centimeter to meter scale). Geostatistical ranges of spatial structure at the micro scale were greater in the topsoil and tended to decrease with depth in the subsoil. Evidence for spatial aggregation in bacteria was stronger in the topsoil and also decreased with depth in the subsoil, though extremely high degrees of aggregation were found at very short distances in the deep subsoil. The data suggest that factors that regulate the distribution of bacteria in the subsoil operate at two scales, in contrast to one scale in the topsoil, and that bacterial patches are larger and more prevalent in the topsoil. 
41693743|Microorganisms are very sensitive to environmental change and can be used to gauge anthropogenic impacts and even predict restoration success of degraded environments. Here, we report assessment of bauxite mining activities on soil biogeochemistry and microbial community structure using unmined and three post-mined sites in Jamaica. The post-mined soils represent a chronosequence, undergoing restoration since 1987,1997, and 2007. Soils were collected during dry and wet seasons and analyzed for pH, organic matter (OM), total carbon (TC), nitrogen (TN), and phosphorus. The microbial community structure was assessed through quantitative PCR and massively parallel bacterial ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequencing. Edaphic factors and microbial community composition were analyzed using multivariate statistical approaches and revealed a significant, negative impact of mining on soil that persisted even after greater than 20 years of restoration. Seasonal fluctuations contributed to variation in measured soil properties and community composition, but they were minor in comparison to long-term effects of mining. In both seasons, post-mined soils were higher in pH but OM, TC, and TN decreased. Bacterial rRNA gene analyses demonstrated a general decrease in diversity in post-mined soils and up to a 3-log decrease in rRNA gene abundance. Community composition analyses demonstrated that bacteria from the Proteobacteria (, , , ), Acidobacteria, and Firmicutes were abundant in all soils. The abundance of Firmicutes was elevated in newer post-mined soils relative to the un-mined soil, and this contrasted a decrease, relative to un-mined soils, in proteobacterial and acidobacterial rRNA gene abundances. Our study indicates long-lasting impacts of mining activities to soil biogeochemical and microbial properties with impending loss in soil productivity.
4251478| Monitoring strategies were developed to track non-genetically engineered Pseudomonas putida strains in the open environment. The strain E1 was used for four years for the biodegradation of phenolic compounds in industrial wastewater in Plva, Estonia. In this study we used the strain E2 which is a non-carbenicillin-resistant variant of the strain E1. Both strains have a deletion of approximately 34 kb in the TOL plasmid pWW0 which served as a basis for discrimination from indigenous bacteria by molecular analyses. Other targets used for PCR and DNA hybridization were the xylE gene and a sequence located in the left-handed region of to the transposon Tn4652. In laboratory tests we demonstrated that two cells inoculated into 20 ml of river water could be detected against a background of more than 10
4287606| We compared the characteristics of ingestion of Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus by the marine heterotrophic nanoflagellate Pseudobodo sp. and by a mixed nanoflagellate culture (around 3 m in size) obtained from an open sea oligotrophic area. Maximum ingestion rate on Synechococcus (2.7 Syn
25153422|The effects of interactions between Bacillus thuringiensis, a drought-adapted bacterium, and two isolates of Glomus intraradices, an arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus, on Retama sphaerocarpa, a drought-adapted legume, were investigated. The fungal isolates were an indigenous drought-tolerant and a nonindigenous drought-sensitive isolate. Shoot length and root growth, symbiotic parameters, water transport (in terms of percent relative plant water uptake), and volumetric soil moisture and soil enzymatic activities in response to microbial inoculations were evaluated. Retama plants colonized by G. intraradices plus Bacillus possessed similar shoot length after 30 days from sowing compared with noninoculated Retama plants after 150 days. Inoculation with drought-adapted bacterium increased root growth by 201%, but maximum root development was obtained by co-inoculation of B. thuringiensis and the indigenous G. intraradices. Nodules were formed only in plants colonized by autochthonous AM fungi. Relative water uptake was higher in inoculated than in noninoculated Retama plants, and these inoculants depleted soil water content concomitantly. G. intraradices-colonized Retama reached similar shoot length irrespective of the fungal origin, but there were strong differences in relative water uptake by plants colonized by each one of the fungi. Indigenous G. intraradices-colonized roots (evaluated as functional alkaline phosphatase staining) showed the highest intensity and arbuscule richness when associated with B. thuringiensis. The interactive microbial effects on Retama plants were more relevant when indigenous microorganisms were involved. Co-inoculation of autochthonous microorganisms reduced by 42% the water required to produce 1 mg of shoot biomass. This is the first evidence of the effectiveness of rhizosphere bacterium, singly or associated with AM fungus, in increasing plant water uptake, which represents a positive microbial effect on plants grown under drought environments.
40926431|Pleuronectiforms are an important group of fish, and one of their species, Solea senegalensis (Kaup1858), has been extensively studied at different levels, although information about its intestinal microbiota and the effects of different factors on it is very scarce. Modern aquaculture industry demands strategies which help to maintain a microbiologically healthy environment and an environmentally friendly aquaculture. In this context, probiotics seem to offer an attractive alternative. The intake of probiotics could modify the composition of the intestinal microbiota, which is a key component in excluding potential invaders and maintaining health. The aim of this study was to evaluate by 16S rRNA gene analysis using polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis the effect of administering fresh or lyophilized cells of Pdpll on the intestinal microbiota of farmed Senegalese sole, using sodium alginate to facilitate the incorporation of bacterial cells to the feed. The results obtained showed that the composition of fish intestinal microbiota was affected when fish received a diet supplemented with sodium alginate and fresh or lyophilized probiotic cells. In all cases, the dominant bacterial groups belonged to -Proteobacteria and mainly the Vibrio species. The use of sodium alginate reduced the incidence of populations with <97% 16S rRNA gene sequence identity to uncultured microorganisms in the intestinal microbiota until non-detected limits. On the other hand, the supplementation of the diet with probiotics produced an increase of the predominant species related to Vibrio genus.
4250495|A simulation model was developed for the carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P) content of bacteria and their medium in a chemostat. Cell components distinguished included the structural component, synthetic machinery, building blocks and intermediates, C reserves, ammonium ( NH
25153276|The ability of soil-living oribatid mites to disperse fungal propagules on their bodies was investigated. Classical plating methods were applied to cultivate these fungi and to study their morphology. Molecular markers were used for further determination. The nuclear ribosomal large subunit and the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer of DNA extracts of the cultured fungi as well as total DNA extracts of the mites themselves, also containing fungal DNA, were amplified and sequenced. Based on phylogenetic analysis, a total of 31 fungal species from major fungal groups were found to be associated with oribatid mites, indicating that mites do not selectively disperse specific species or species groups. The detected taxa were mainly saprobiontic, cosmopolitan (e.g., Alternaria tenuissima), but also parasitic fungi (Beauveria bassiana) for whose dispersal oribatid mites might play an important role. In contrast, no mycorrhizal fungi were detected in association with oribatid mites, indicating that their propagules are dispersed in a different way. In addition, fungi that are known to be a preferred food for oribatid mites such as the Dematiacea were not detected in high numbers. Results of this study point to the potential of oribatid mites to disperse fungal taxa in soil and indicate that co-evolutionary patterns between oribatid mites and their associated fungi might be rare or even missing in most cases, since we only detected ubiquitous taxa attached to the mites.
41489234|Internal bacterial communities of synanthropic mites Acarus siro, Dermatophagoides farinae, Lepidoglyphus destructor, and Tyrophagus putrescentiae (Acari: Astigmata) were analyzed by culturing and culture-independent approaches from specimens obtained from laboratory colonies. Homogenates of surface-sterilized mites were used for cultivation on non-selective agar and DNA extraction. Isolated bacteria were identified by sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. PCR amplified 16S rRNA genes were analyzed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis (T-RFLP) and cloning sequencing. Fluorescence in situ hybridization using universal bacterial probes was used for direct bacterial localization. T-RFLP analysis of 16S rRNA gene revealed distinct species-specific bacterial communities. The results were further confirmed by cloning and sequencing (284 clones). L. destructor and D. farinae showed more diverse communities then A. siro and T. putrescentiae. In the cultivated part of the community, the mean CFUs from four mite species ranged from 5.2  10 to 1.4  10 per mite. D. farinae had significantly higher CFUs than the other species. Bacteria were located in the digestive and reproductive tract, parenchymatical tissue, and in bacteriocytes. Among the clones, Bartonella-like bacteria occurring in A. siro and T. putresecentiae represented a distinct group related to Bartonellaceae and to Bartonella like symbionts of ants. The clones of high similarity to Xenorhabdus cabanillasii were found in L. destructor and D. farinae, and one clone related to Photorhabdus temperata in A. siro. Members of Sphingobacteriales cloned from D. farinae and A. siro clustered with the sequences of "Candidatos Cardinium hertigii" and as a separate novel cluster.
4250532|A most-probable-number (MPN) method is described for the enumeration of heterotrophic populations capable of utilizing chlorinated and nonchlorinated benzoates and phenols as sole carbon sources. A correlation coefficient of 0.91 was obtained between the numbers determined by the MPN technique and the standard plate count. The MPN method gave realistic cell counts when population densities were low, and the presence of oligocarbophiles did not give spurious results.
25153140|The existence of a culturing bias has long been known when sampling organisms from the environment. This bias underestimates microbial diversity and does not accurately reflect the most ecologically relevant species. Until now no study has examined the effects of culture bias on viral populations. We have employed culture-independent methods to assess the diversity of Sulfolobus spindle-shaped viruses (SSVs) from extremely hyperthermal environments. This diversity is then compared to the viral diversity of cultured samples. We detected a clear culturing bias between environmental samples and cultured isolates. This is the first study identifying a culture bias in a viral population.
40605697|We recently published a new method based on determining cyanobacterial biomass by confocal laser scanning microscopy image analysis (CLSM-IA) (Sol et al., Ultramicrosc 107: 669-673, 2007). CLSM-IA allows biomass calculation for microorganisms of a small size, since the limit of the technique's resolution is that generated by a voxel, the smallest unit of a three-dimensional digital image, equivalent to 1.18310 mgC/cm of sediment. This method is especially suitable for the quantitative analysis of a large number of CLSM images generated from benthic sediments in which complex populations of cyanobacteria are abundant, such as microbial mats. In order to validate the new CLSM approach, mats with varying structural characteristics were studied. We have grouped them into three types: Microcoleus mats (laminated), sandy mats (nonlaminated and composed of well-sorted quartz sands), and oil-polluted mats. In this work, we applied CLSM-IA in natural [the Ebro delta and Sant Jordi colony (Spain), Salins-de-Giraud and Etang de Berre (France), and Orkney Islands (Scotland)] and artificial [mesocosms (Israel)] microbial mats. A total of 4,103 confocal images were obtained in order to determine total and individual cyanobacteria biomass profiles, at microscale level. The data presented in this paper show the efficacy of the method, as it can be applied to highly diverse mat samples.
25153392| The incorporation of [H-methyl] thymidine (H-TdR) by Eubacteria, bacterial groups (- and -Proteobacteria, Cytophaga-Flavobacter), and Archaea was measured according to temperature (7 and 17C) and nutrient levels (nitrogen, phosphorus, and carbon) in a lacustrine system (Sep, France). Short-term incubation was performed using a combination of microautoradiography and fluorescent in situ hybridization. Irrespective of the temperatures and nutrients studied, all the major phylogenetic bacterial groups assimilated H-TdR, and in most of the treatments studied, the proportion of -Proteobacteria taking up H-TdR was higher than those in the other bacterial groups. The proportion of Bacteria and different bacterial groups studied incorporating H-TdR were significantly increased, approximately 1.5-fold, by temperature except for -Proteobacteria (7.6-fold). The nutrient effect was not the same for the different bacterial groups according to the temperatures studied. The proportions of -Proteobacteria (at both temperatures) and Cytophaga-Flavobacter (at 7C) taking up H-TdR were significantly decreased and increased by adding N and P, respectively. Also, adding N, P, and C increased and decreased the percentage of -Proteobacteria incorporating H-TdR at 7 and 17C, respectively. The archaeal community showed a similar proportion of active cells (i.e., H-TdR) to the bacterial community, and uptake of H-TdR by Archaea was significantly increased (P &lt; 0.05) by both temperature and nutrients. Thus, the assimilation of H-TdR by bacterial groups and Archaea in lacustrine system is significantly controlled by both temperature and nutrients. 
41489222|A recent study showed that ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) coexist in the process of cattle manure composting. To investigate their physiological characteristics, liquid cultures seeded with fermenting cattle manure compost were incubated at various temperatures (37C, 46C, or 60C) and ammonium concentrations (0.5, 1, 4, or 10 mM NH -N). The growth rates of the AOB and AOA were monitored using real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis targeting the bacterial and archaeal ammonia monooxygenase subunit A genes. AOB grew at 37C and 4 or 10 mM NH-N, whereas AOA grew at 46C and 10 mM NH -N. Incubation with allylthiourea indicated that the AOB and AOA grew by oxidizing ammonia. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and subsequent sequencing analyses revealed that a bacterium related to Nitrosomonas halophila and an archaeon related to Candidatus Nitrososphaera gargensis were the predominant AOB and AOA, respectively, in the seed compost and in cultures after incubation. This is the first report to demonstrate that the predominant AOA in cattle manure compost can grow and can probably oxidize ammonia under moderately thermophilic conditions.
4251236|Beetles (Coleoptera) harbor many species of Acholeplasma and Spiroplasma (division Tenericutes, class Mollicutes). Mollicutes were isolated from guts and/or hemocoels of firefly beetles (Lampyridae) from the United States (Maryland and West Virginia), Ecuador, and Tobago. Firefly beetles were frequent hosts for the group XIV spiroplasma, isolated from Ellychnia corrusca, and the group XIX spiroplasma, isolated from Photuris spp. The most unusual feature of the firefly-mollicute association is the carriage of four Mycoplasma species. Recent phylogenetic studies indicate that these species are members of a clade that includes a vertebrate pathogen, Mycoplasma mycoides. The high rate of occurrence of Mycoplasma species (which are, otherwise, infrequent in insects) in lampyrid beetles suggests that the association is significant. The unusual light-producing physiology of lampyrids (which is dependent on large pools of energy) and the production of large amounts of cardenolides from cholesterol (a critical growth factor for many mollicutes) may favor colonization by mollicutes.
41489202|Biological degreasing system is a new technology based on the degradation capabilities of microorganisms to remove oil, grease, or lubricants from metal parts. No data is available about the potential biological health hazards in such system. Thus, a health risk assessment linked to the bacterial populations present in this new degreasing technology is, therefore, necessary for workers. We performed both cultural and molecular approaches in several biological degreasing systems for various industrial contexts to investigate the composition and dynamics of bacterial populations. These biological degreasing systems did not work with the original bacterial populations. Indeed, they were colonized by a defined and restricted group of bacteria. This group replaced the indigenous bacterial populations known for degrading complex substrates. Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Pantoea agglomrons were important members of the microflora found in most of the biological degreasing systems. These bacteria might represent a potential health hazard for workers.
25153424| As a crucial step in the identification of possible association between bacteria and sponges, we investigated if a unique bacterial population community was consistently associated with the surface of the sponge Mycale adhaerens, irrespective of environmental conditions. The composition of bacterial communities associated with the surface of sponges at three geographically distinctive sites in Hong Kong waters over four seasons was examined by analyzing terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism of the bacterial 16S rRNA genes. Statistical analysis indicated that bacterial communities on inanimate reference surfaces (polystyrene dishes deployed in the close vicinity of the sponge colonies for 7 days) had a relatively high degree of both site and seasonal specificities (R statistics of pairwise comparisons 1), which might be attributed to the differences in environmental conditions at different sites and seasons. On the contrary, the sponge-surface-associated bacterial communities from different sites and seasons were hardly distinguishable from each other (lowest R = -0.16) but were rather distinctive from the reference bacterial communities (R  1), suggesting a highly stable and distinctive bacteria-sponge association irrespective of the environmental conditions. The occurrence of some unique bacterial types in the sponge-surface-associated communities over space and time suggests that the associations are consistent and specific. 
4251168|Forty-four terrestrial and aeroaquatic and aquatic fungi, including fifteen species causing white-rot, four species causing brown-rot, and some species causing soft-rot of wood, were tested for their ability to degrade the monomer syringic acid, which is released during decay of angiosperm lignin. None of the white- or brown-rot species caused any detectable degradation of syringic acid under the test conditions; however, six typical white-rot fungi strongly oligomerized syringic acid, both with and without cosubstrate. The main polymerization product was identified as a 1,3-dimethylpyrogallol oligomer by
40605733|Cool-season grasses often harbor obligate fungal symbionts from the genus Neotyphodium, and these symbiota can function as a single ecological unit. Previous studies have shown that gene flow in Neotyphodium in Festuca arizonica is low enough such that populations could diverge and form local adaptations. A reciprocal transplant experiment was performed between two F. arizonicalNeotyphodium populations in Arizona, Clint's Well and Flagstaff, using symbiota with the most common Neotyphodium genotypes in each population, to test for local adaptations. The genetic difference between populations is potentially large as Neotyphodium from Clint's Well are of hybrid origin. Local environmental variation was the most important source of variation for F. arizonicalNeotyphodium symbiota growth, with individuals at Flagstaff growing larger and individuals at Clint's Well not reproducing. Local environment and the source population of the symbiota interacted to affect vegetative growth. Symbiota from Clint's Well, which harbor hybrid Neotyphodium, had higher volume/wet mass and volume/dry mass ratios but only in the marginal Clint's Well habitat. The local environment also affected F. arizonicalNeotyphodium reproduction because only symbiota transplanted to Flagstaff reproduced. Symbiota from Clint's Well produced more panicles, whereas symbiota from Flagstaff with nonhybrid Neotyphodium produced greater seed mass per panicle. Overall seed mass production was not different, suggesting that the two strategies are functionally equivalent. We find that F. arizonicalNeotyphodium symbiota vary geographically, but potential local adaptations are only apparent in marginal habitats and may be related to the evolutionary history of the Neotyphodium part of the symbiota.
4250971|Twenty-four clones of Tracheleuglypha dentata were cultivated under different trophic conditions. Half were cultivated with soil extract which induced low bacterial growth. The other 12 were cultivated in the same medium with the addition of Cerophyl to enhance bacterial growth. The dynamics of each clone was followed for about 3 months by counting both live animals and empty shells. The rate of decomposition of empty shells was negligible. The number of empty shells are a direct measure for mortality. Parameters measured were densities, intrinsic rate of growth, generation time, production, and mortality. The densities increased in most of the clones until about the third week; it then reached a plateau or decreased slowly until the end of the experiment. After this initial period, the live animals closed their pseudostome with a thin membrane and remained quiescent until fresh food was given. The level of the plateau was significantly six times higher in the well-fed than in the starved clones, a difference due to a higher rate of growth induced by a shorter generation time during the first 10 days. This high growth produced giant shells, teratological forms created by the fusion of several shells. Mortality appeared at about the 20th day. Because it was higher in the well-fed clones than in the starved clones, it brought the densities of both clones to the same level after 3 months. The first empty shells were produced by either precocious mortality or abortion, as they did not contain reserve plates necessary for a new shell prior to reproduction. The mortality of adults came later and was probably linked with the age of the culture. The starved cells had an unusual morphology which disappeared when the medium was renewed.
25153248|We investigated the impact of fish farm biodeposition on benthic bacteria, thraustochytrid protists, and heterotrophic protozoa (nanoflagellates and ciliates) in an oligotrophic area of the Mediterranean Sea. The fish farm impact was investigated both on a seagrass (Posidonia oceanica) bed and on soft bottom sediments. In both systems, sediment samples were collected with a multicontrol sampling strategy (i.e., beneath the fish farm and at three control sites per system). The uneaten food pellets supplied to the fish determined the accumulation of sediment organic matter and the enhancement of protein content in impacted sediments (both seagrass bed and soft sediments). In both systems, the abundance and biomass of heterotrophic protists increased significantly beneath the fish farm, but the structure of the protist assemblages responded differently in vegetated and unvegetated sediments. Thraustochytrid abundance increased significantly in impacted seagrass. These results provide evidence that the structure of protist assemblages respond significantly to fish farm biodeposition and indicate that the monitoring of these benthic components provides complementary information for the assessment of the fish farm impact on the benthic systems.
4250438| Myxobacteria presumably produce extracellular bacteriolytic enzymes when they are growing in soil. In order to study their ecological significance, adsorption experiments were performed with lytic enzymes produced by Myxococcus virescens in casitone media. Different soils as well as montmorillonite and kaolinite can rapidly adsorb the bacteriolytic but not the proteolytic enzymes. About 1 gm of montmorillonite per liter of cell-free culture solution is enough for the adsorption of 97% of the bacteriolytic enzymes. The adsorption per unit weight is about 100 times greater on montmorillonite than on kaolinite. About 40% of the adsorbed enzymes can be eluted with solutions of high pH or high ionic strength. The only desorbed bacteriolytic enzyme is the alanyl--N-lysine endopeptidase. 
4251540|Acclimation of a marine sediment microbial community to the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was examined by comparing its ability to metabolize 2,4-D before and after exposure to the herbicide. The experimental treatments (control: 2-week exposure, seawater only; test: 2-week exposure, seawater plus 100 ppm 2,4-D) took place under simulated in situ conditions, in an incubation chamber, which maintained the physical and chemical gradient structure of the sediment community. The surface of the sediment was exposed to recirculating seawater on a tidal cycle. 2,4-D (100 ppm) was added to the seawater so that its availability to the sediment microbes mimicked the natural situation. Before and after treatment, bacterial abundance, productivity, and transformation of 2,4-D were determined. After 2 weeks, bacterial populations were similar in the 2,4-D treatment and the initial sediment sample, but higher in the seawater-only treatment. Bacterial productivity was higher in both 2-week treatments, compared to productivity measured before treatment, but rates were the same in 2,4-D and seawater treatments. In contrast, 2,4-D transformation rates increased 28% in the 2-week 100-ppm 2,4-D treatment, compared to the average of the seawater control and the initial sample. This increased transformation rate indicates that the sediment community acclimated to the selective pressure of 2,4-D treatment by increasing its ability to utilize this compound as a substrate.
25153258|The hypothesis tested in this present study was that the ectomycorrhizosphere effect on the bacterial community was not root-growth-dependent. The impacts of ectomycorrhizal infection (Pisolithus albus COI007) and a chemical fertilization to reproduce the fungal effect on root growth were examined on (1) the structure of bacterial community and (2) fluorescent pseudomonad and actinomycete populations in the mycorrhizosphere of Acacia auriculiformis using both culture-independent and culture-dependent methods. A. auriculiformis plants were grown in disinfested soil in pots with or without addition of the ectomycorrhizal fungus or N/P/K fertilization (to reproduce the fungal effect on root growth) for 4 months and then transferred to 20-L pots filled with nondisinfested sandy soil. The fungal and fertilizer applications significantly improved the plant growth after 4-month culture in the disinfested soil. In the nondisinfested cultural substrate, these positive effects on plant growth were maintained. The total soil microbiota was significantly different within the treatments as revealed from DNA analysis [denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)]. The structure of fluorescent pseudomonad populations was also affected by fungal and fertilizer applications. In contrast, no qualitative effect was observed for the actinomycete communities within each treatment, but fungal inoculation significantly decreased the number of actinomycetes compared to the fertilizer application treatment. These results show that the mycorrhizosphere effect is not root-growth-dependent but is mainly due to the presence of the ectomycorrhizal fungus and more particularly to the extramatrical mycelium.
4251432| The depth-dependent, seasonal, and diel variability of virus numbers, dissolved DNA (D-DNA), and other microbial parameters was investigated in the northern Adriatic Sea. During periods of water stratification, we found higher virus abundances and virus/bacterium ratios (VBRs) as well as a larger variability of D-DNA concentrations at the thermocline, probably as a result of higher microbial biomass. At the two investigated stations, virus densities were highest in summer and autumn (up to 9.5 
41692852|Microbial communities are responsible for important ecosystem processes, and their activities are regulated by environmental factors such as temperature and solar ultraviolet radiation. Here we investigate changes in aquatic microbial community structure, diversity, and evenness in response to changes in temperature and UV radiation. For this purpose, 15 mesocosms were seeded with both microbial mat communities and plankton from natural pools within the Cuatro Cienegas Basin (Mexico). Clone libraries (16S rRNA) were obtained from water samples at the beginning and at the end of the experiment (40 days). Phylogenetic analysis indicated substantial changes in aquatic community composition and structure in response to temperature and UV radiation. Extreme treatments with elevation in temperature or UV radiation reduced diversity in relation to the Control treatments, causing a reduction in richness and increase in dominance, with a proliferation of a few resistant operational taxonomic units. Each phylum was affected differentially by the new conditions, which translates in a differential modification of ecosystem functioning. This suggests that the impact of environmental stress, at least at short term, will reshape the aquatic bacterial communities of this unique ecosystem. This work also demonstrates the possibility of designing manageable synthetic microbial community ecosystems where controlled environmental variables can be manipulated. Therefore, microbial model systems offer a complementary approach to field and laboratory studies of global research problems associated with the environment.
4250805| The in situ rates of oxygen consumption by benthic nitrifiers were estimated at 11 study sites in 4 streams. Two methods were used: an in situ respiration chamber method and a method involving conversion of nitrifying potential measurements to in situ rates. Estimates of benthic nitrogenous oxygen consumption (BNOC) rate ranged from 0-380 mmol of
41412428|This study used a multiphasic approach, characterized by the simultaneous use of culture-dependent and culture-independent methods, to investigate endophytic bacterial communities in strawberry (Fragaria ananassa) fruit. A total of 92 bacterial endophytes were isolated and initially grouped by their repetitive extragenic palindromic (rep)-PCR banding pattern and biochemical features. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences of 45 representatives showed that the isolates belonged to the species Bacillus subtilis (eight isolates), Bacillus sp. (seven isolates), Enterobacter sp. (seven isolates), Enterobacter ludwigii (six isolates), Lactobacillus plantarum (six isolates), Pseudomonas sp. (five isolates), Pantoea punctata (three isolates), and Curtobacterium citreum (three isolates). Nucleic acids were extracted from the strawberry fruit and subjected to 16S rRNA gene directed polymerase chain reaction denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (16S rRNA PCR-DGGE). The species B. subtilis, Enterobacter sp., and Pseudomonas sp. were detected both by isolation and DGGE. The DGGE fingerprints of total bacterial DNA did not exhibit bands corresponding to several of the representative species isolated in the extinction dilution (L. plantarum, C. citreum, and P. punctata). In contrast, bands in the DGGE profile that were identified as relatives of Arthrobacter sp. and one uncultivable Erythrobacter sp. were not recovered by cultivation techniques. After isolation, the nitrogen fixation ability and the in vitro production of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) equivalents and siderophores were evaluated. A high percentage of isolates were found to possess the ability to produce siderophores and IAA equivalents; however, only a few isolates belonging to the genera Pseudomonas and Enterobacter showed the ability to fix nitrogen. Plant growth promotion was evaluated under greenhouse conditions and revealed the ability of the Bacillus strains to enhance the number of leaves, shoot length, root dry weight, and shoot dry weight. The activity of the bacterial isolate identified as B. subtilis NA-108 exerted the greatest influence on strawberry growth and showed a 42.8% increase in number of leaves, 15.26% for high shoot, 43.5% increase in root dry weight, and a 77% increase in shoot dry weight when compared with untreated controls.
40605860|Productivity gradients in the boreal forest are largely determined by regional-scale changes in soil conditions, and bacterial communities are likely to respond to these changes. Few studies, however, have examined how variation in specific edaphic properties influences the composition of soil bacterial communities along environmental gradients. We quantified bacterial compositional diversity patterns in ten boreal forest sites of contrasting fertility. Bulk soil (organic and mineral horizons) was sampled from sites representing two extremes of a natural moisture-nutrient gradient and two distinct disturbance types, one barren and the other vegetation-rich. We constructed 16S rRNA gene clone libraries to characterize the bacterial communities under phylogenetic- and speciesbased frameworks. Using a nucleo tide analog to label DNA-synthesizing bacteria, we also assessed the composition of active taxa in disturbed sites. Most sites were dominated by sequences related to the -Proteobacteria, followed by acidobacterial and betaproteobacterial sequences. Non-parametric multivariate regression indicated that pH, which was lowest in the natural sites, explained 34% and 16% of the variability in community structure as determined by phylogenetic-based (UniFrac distances) and species-based (Jaccard similarities) metrics, respectively. Soil pH was also a significant predictor of richness (Chao1) and diversity (Shannon) measures. Within the natural edaphic gradient, soil moisture accounted for 32% of the variance in phylogenetic (but not species) community structure. In the boreal system we studied, bacterial -diversity patterns appear to be largely related to "master" variables (e. g., pH, moisture) rather than to observable attributes (e. g., plant cover) leading to regional-scale fertility gradients.
4250538| The survival in seawater of several laboratory and field isolates of Candida albicans was investigated. Initial studies were made in "vitro" (flasks) to confirm previous reports. Frequent sampling of viable cells showed that flask experiments, even repeated, produced varied patterns of survival in this closed system. As an alternative, multiple experiments were run in untreated seawater in dialysis bags and plexiglas chambers at ambient temperature (17 to 22C) in flowing seawater. Die-off rates of all cultures tested in dialysis bags were very rapid in the first day and may have been related to high levels of dissolved organic carbon in the tubing. Distilled water- or acid-washed bags did not yield significantly higher survival rates in all cases. When plexiglas chambers closed with Nuclepore membranes were used, survival rates decreased to 5% to 15% of the original population after 6 days. Chamber data were more uniform and represented approximately a twofold increase in survival over that shown previously in in vitro (flask) studies. Some evidence was obtained in all three test systems for the greater survival rate of a field isolate of C. albicans compared with that noted for a laboratory (ATCC) strain. The results are considered to more accurately depict the survival of C. albicans in summer temperate recreational waters. 
40343441|Forefields of receding glaciers are unique and sensitive environments representing natural chronosequences. In such habitats, microbial nitrogen fixation is of particular interest since the low concentration of bioavailable nitrogen is one of the key limitations for growth of plants and soil microorganisms. Asymbiotic nitrogen fixation in the Damma glacier (Swiss Central Alps) forefield soils was assessed using the acetylene reduction assay. Free-living diazotrophic diversity and population structure were resolved by assembling four NifH sequence libraries for bulk and rhizosphere soils at two soil age classes (8-and 70-year ice-free forefield). A total of 318 NifH sequences were analyzed and grouped into 45 unique phylotypes. Phylogenetic analyses revealed a higher diversity as well as a broader distribution of NifH sequences among phylogenetic clusters than formerly observed in other environments. This illustrates the importance of free-living diazotrophs and their potential contribution to the global nitrogen input in this nutrient-poor environment. NifH diversity in bulk soils was higher than in rhizosphere soils. Moreover, the four libraries displayed low similarity values. This indicated that both soil age and the presence of pioneer plants influence diversification and population structure of free-living diazotrophs.
40343393|A marine Beggiatoa sp. was cultured in semisolid agar with opposing oxygen-sulfide gradients. Growth pattern, breakage of filaments for multiplication, and movement directions of Beggiatoa filaments in the transparent agar were investigated by time-lapse video recording. The initial doubling time of cells was 15.71.3 h (meanSD) at room temperature. Filaments grew up to an average length of 1.70.2 mm, but filaments of up to approximately 6 mm were also present. First breakages of filaments occurred approximately 19 h after inoculation, and time-lapse movies illustrated that a parent filament could break into several daughter filaments within a few hours. In>20% of the cases, filament breakage occurred at the tip of a former loop. As filament breakage is accomplished by the presence of sacrificial cells, loop formation and the presence of sacrificial cells must coincide. We hypothesize that sacrificial cells enhance the chance of loop formation by interrupting the communication between two parts of one filament. With communication interrupted, these two parts of one filament can randomly move toward each other forming the tip of a loop at the sacrificial cell.
40802164|A long-standing debate in microbial ecology is the extent to which free-living microorganisms exhibit cosmopolitan distributions. We use a comparison of testate amoebae communities in cold "polar" locations (Arctic, Antarctic, and Tibet) to investigate how a microorganism's size affects its probability of having a cosmopolitan distribution. We show that the probability a given taxa being reported in all three locations increases as testate size decreases. Likewise, excluding those testates found only in Tibet, very small testates (<20 m) are more likely to occur in both the Arctic and Antarctic than in either of these poles alone. Attempting to correct for phylogeny reduces the number of statistically significant relationshipsboth because of decreased sample size and potentially real phylogenetic patterns, although some size-dependent effects were still apparent. In particular, taxa found in both the Arctic and Antarctic poles were significantly smaller than congeneric taxa found only in Tibet. This pattern may in part be due to habitat effects, with the Tibetan samples being more likely to have come from aquatic sites which may be more suitable for larger taxa. Overall, our analysis suggests that, at least within testate amoebae, a cosmopolitan distribution becomes increasingly common as median taxon size decreases.
41692855|Genetic relatedness of enterococci from poultry litter to enterococci from nearby surface water and groundwater in the Lower Fraser Valley regions of British Columbia, Canada was determined. A new automated BOX-PCR and Pulsed-Field Gel Electrophoresis (PFGE) were used to subtype enterococcal isolates from broiler and layer litter and surface and groundwater. All surface water samples (n=12) were positive for enterococci, as were 11% (3/28) of groundwater samples. Enterococcus faecium (n=90) was isolated from all sources, while Enterococcus faecalis (n=59) was isolated from all sources except layer litter. The majority of E. faecalis originated from broiler litter (28/59; 47.5%) while the majority of E. faecium were isolated from layer litter (29/90; 32.2%). E. faecalis grouped primarily by source using BOX-PCR. Isolates from water samples were dispersed more frequently among PFGE groups containing isolates from poultry litter. E. faecium strains were genetically diverse as overall clustering was independent of source by both molecular methods. Subgroups of E. faecium isolates based upon source (layer litter) were present in BOX-PCR groups. Three individual E. faecalis groups and two individual E. faecium groups were 100% similar using BOX-PCR; only one instance of 100% similarity among isolates using PFGE was observed. Although enterococci from litter and water sources were grouped together using BOX-PCR and PFGE, isolates originating from water could not be definitively identified as originating from poultry litter. Automation of BOX-PCR amplicon separation and visualization increased the reproducibility and standardization of subtyping using this procedure.
4250437|A study was undertaken of the various factors affecting the recovery of heterotrophic bacteria from marine sediments. The dilution medium and culture medium were found to be of great importance in the recovery of heterotrophic colony forming units (CFU). Statistical analysis of the total viable counts obtained under the test conditions showed that artificial seawater (ASW) without further supplementation was equal to or superior to ASW plus 0.1% peptone or ASW plus 0.1% peptone and 0.1% glycerol. The addition of a surfactive agent, on the other hand, resulted in 95% inhibition of the recoverable CFU. The elapsed time (up to 12 hr) between recovery of a sedimentary core and completion of plating procedures was found to have little effect provided the sedimentary sample was removed from the core, placed in ASW, and stored in a refrigerator until actual plating occurred. It was further noted that lower organic nutrient concentrations, approximately one-tenth of those generally in use, resulted in significantly higher total viable counts. Finally, replicate contiguous sampling at three depths in a core resulted in no significant changes in the number of CFU from the surface samples, indicating a greater surface homogeneity than that previously suspected. The same pattern was not true, however, for samples obtained at lower positions in the core, thus indicating pockets of microbial concentration.
4251321| Incorporation of [
25153250|The localization, viability, and culturability of Pseudomonas fluorescens 92rkG5 were analyzed on three morphological root zones (root tip + elongation, root hair, and collar) of 3-, 5-, and 7-day-old tomato plants. Qualitative information about the localization and viability was collected by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Quantitative data concerning the distribution, viability, and culturability were obtained through combined dilution plating and flow cytometry. Colonization by P. fluorescens affected root development in a complex way, causing a general increase in the length of the collar and early stimulation of the primary root growth (3rd day), followed by a reduction in length (7th day). The three root zones showed different distribution, organization, and viability of the bacterial cells, but the distribution pattern within each zone did not change with time. Root tips were alwasy devoid of bacteria, whereas with increasing distance from the apex, microcolonies or strings of cells became more and more prominent. Viability was high in the elongation zone, but it declined in the older parts of the roots. The so-called viable but not culturable cells were observed on the root, and their proportion in the distal (root tip + elongation) zone dramatically increased with time. These results suggest the existence of a specific temporal and spatial pattern of root colonization, related to cell viability and culturability, expressed by the plant-beneficial strain P. fluorescens 92rkG5.
4251700|The influences of plant species and plant incubation conditions on the variability in bacterial population sizes among leaves were investigated in field and growth chamber studies. Pseudomonas syringae strains TLP2 and Cit7 were inoculated onto plants and population sizes were measured at intervals after inoculation. Total bacterial population sizes were also assessed in field studies. Levels of leaf-to-leaf variability in both P. syringae population size and bacterial community size differed significantly among plant species. For all plant species, variability among leaves in population sizes of inoculated bacteria was consistently greater than the leaf-to-leaf variability in numbers of total bacteria. Considering levels of variability in population size immediately prior to and following incubation under either wet or dry physical conditions, leaf-to-leaf variability in the population sizes of inoculated P. syringae strains increased significantly following incubation under dry, but not under wet, conditions. Measurements of leaf-to-leaf variability immediately prior to and following incubation were positively correlated regardless of whether the incubation was under wet or dry conditions, though the correlation was greater following dry incubation. These data provide insight into the biological and physical factors that may be important in generating variability in bacterial population sizes among leaves, and they have important implications for the design of appropriate strategies for sampling leaf surface microbial populations.
25153182|In order to assess the factors that determine the dynamics of bacteria with high nucleic acid content in aquatic systems, we (i) conducted 24-h in situ dialysis experiments, involving different fractions of plankton and unfiltered water and (ii) examined empirical relationships between bacteria and both abiotic factors and protists, in boreal humic freshwaters (reservoir and lakes) in the James Bay region (Qubec, Canada). Bacteria were subdivided into two subgroups on the basis of their nucleic acid content assessed by flow cytometry. The abundance of bacteria with the highest nucleic acid content and high light scatter (HNA-hs) was significantly correlated, across sites, to bacterial production, whereas bacteria with lower nucleic acid content (LNA) and total bacteria were not. In addition, HNA-hs growth was higher and more variable than LNA growth, indicating that HNA-hs were the most dynamic bacteria. Heterotrophic nanoflagellate and ciliate biomass represented, on average, 5 and 13% of bacterial biomass, respectively. Both in ambient waters and in experiments, ciliates were significantly and negatively correlated with bacteria, whereas heterotrophic nanoflagellates, likely under the grazing pressure from ciliates and metazooplankton, were not. Among ciliates, Cyclidium glaucoma appeared to play an important role. Its growth was significantly and negatively correlated to that of HNA-hs but not to that of LNA. In ambient waters, the abundance of this species explained 56% of the variations in HNA-hs abundance and only 27% of those for LNA. The abundances of total bacteria and LNA significantly increased with chlorophyll a, whereas those of HNA-hs did not. In addition, during the experiments, the estimated potential losses of HNA-hs significantly increased with the initial abundance of C. glaucoma. These results suggest selective removal of the most dynamic bacteria by C. glaucoma and indicate that ciliates may play an important role in the dynamics of active bacteria in natural waters. These findings suggest the existence, within the aquatic microbial food webs, of keystone species that are very important in regulating the activity structure of bacteria.
40926436|We have developed a new approach for the estimation of bacterial proportional compositions in microbiota based on terminal restriction length polymorphism (T-RFLP) data and a Monte Carlo algorithm. This program estimates proportional compositions by minimizing distances between peak values and the relative abundance of each group, containing several species, estimated from peak areas of capillary electrophoresis for T-RFLP analysis. Oral bacteria in 36 saliva samples obtained from three individuals were analyzed using the program. Upon comparison, the estimated proportional composition obtained from one of the samples matched that from a clone library. Additionally, comparisons among the bacterial proportional compositions of saliva samples obtained from three individuals four times per day for 3 days revealed that the types of microbiota present in each individual did not change within each 24-h time period and were distinguishable from those in other individuals.
4251691| To investigate growth of heterotrophic biofilm bacteria, a model biofilm reactor was developed to simulate a drinking water distribution system. Controlled addition of three different carbon sources (amino acids, carbohydrates, and humics) at three different concentrations (500, 1,000, and 2,000 ppb carbon) in the presence and absence of chlorine were used in separate experiments. An additional experiment was run with a 1:1:2 mixture of the above carbon sources. Biofilm and effluent total and culturable cells in addition to total and dissolved organic carbon were measured in order to estimate specific growth rates (SGRs), observed yields, population densities, and bacterial carbon production rates. Bacterial carbon production rates (g C/L day) were extremely high in the control biofilm communities (range = 295-1,738). Both growth rate and yield decreased with increasing carbon concentrations. Therefore, biofilm growth rates were zero-order with respect to the carbon concentrations used in these experiments. There was no correlation between growth rate and carbon concentration, but there was a significant negative correlation between growth rate and biofilm cell density (r = -0.637, p = 0.001 control and r = -0.57, p = 0.021 chlorinated biofilms). Growth efficiency was highest at the lowest carbon concentration (range = 12-4.5%, amino acids and humics respectively). Doubling times ranged from 2.3-15.4 days in the control biofilms and 1-12.3 days in the chlorinated biofilms. Growth rates were significantly higher in the presence of chlorine for the carbohydrates, humics, and mixed carbon sources (p = 0.004, < 0.0005, 0.013, respectively). The concept of r/K selection theory was used to explain the results with respect to specific growth rates and yields. Humic removal by the biofilm bacteria (78% and 56% for the control and chlorinated biofilms, respectively) was higher than previously reported literature values for planktonic bacteria. A number of control experiments indicated that filtration of drinking water was as effective as chlorination in controlling bacterial biofilm growth. 
4250753|Microbial diversity, numbers, and metabolic activities in Minnesota peatlands were investigated using a variety of microbial enrichment and enumeration procedures together with radioisotopic measurements of microbial degradative processes. Minnesota peatlands were shown to contain large microbial populations of wide metabolic diversity. Direct counts of bacteria using epifluorescence microscopy indicated bacterial populations of about
4287538|An oligotrophic clearwater lake, initially characterized by a pronounced dominance of autotrophic phytoplankton and mostly by one species, the green alga Botryococcus, was subject to additions of dissolved organic carbon in the form of white sugar (sucrose) during two consecutive years. The hypothesis tested was that it is organic carbon per se, and not other possible effects of humic substances, that determines the differences in structure of the planktonic ecosystem between humic and clearwater lakes. The additions of DOC resulted in a significant increase in bacterial biomass and a decrease in the biomass of autotrophic phytoplankton. The biomass of mixotrophic and heterotrophic flagellates instead increased significantly, whereas no effects were found to propagate to higher trophic levels. As a result of the changes among biota, total planktonic biomass also decreased to a level typical of nearby humic lakes. We suggest that it is the carbon component of humic material and its utilization by bacterioplankton that determines the structure and function of the pelagic food web in humic lakes.
25152966| The introduction of bacteriophages could potentially be used as a control method to limit the population size of engineered bacteria that have been introduced into soil. Hence, the ability of a species-specific phage, R2f, to infect and lyse its host, a Pseudomonas fluorescens R2f transposon Tn5 derivative, in soil, was studied. Control experiments in liquid media revealed that productive lysis of host cells by phage R2f occurred when cells were freely suspended, whereas cells present in alginate beads resisted lysis. The presence of nutrients enhanced the degree of lysis as well as the production of phage progeny, both with the suspended cells and with cells escaped from the alginate beads. Experiments in which host cells and phage R2f were introduced into two soils of different texture revealed that host cells were primarily lysed in the presence of added nutrients, and phage reached highest titres in these nutrient-amended soils. Encapsulation of the host cells in alginate beads inhibited lysis by the phage in soil. Populations of free host cells introduced into soil that colonized the rhizosphere of wheat were not substantially lysed by phage R2f. However, P. fluorescens R2f populations colonizing the rhizosphere after introduction in alginate beads were reduced in size by a factor of 1,000. Cells migrating from the alginate beads towards the roots may have been in a state of enhanced metabolic activity, allowing for phage R2f infection and cell lysis. 
41693871|The ancient association of figs (Ficus spp.) and their pollinating wasps (fig wasps; Chalcidoidea, Hymenoptera) is one of the most interdependent plant-insect mutualisms known. In addition to pollinating wasps, a diverse community of organisms develops within the microcosm of the fig inflorescence and fruit. To better understand the multipartite context of the fig-fig wasp association, we used a culture-free approach to examine fungal communities associated with syconia of six species of Ficus and their pollinating wasps in lowland Panama. Diverse fungi were recovered from surface-sterilized flowers of all Ficus species, including gall-and seed flowers at four developmental stages. Fungal communities in syconia and on pollinating wasps were similar, dominated by diverse and previously unknown Saccharomycotina, and distinct from leaf- and stem endophyte communities in the same region. Before pollination, fungal communities were similar between galland seed flowers and among Ficus species. However, fungal communities differed significantly in flowers after pollination vs. before pollination, and between anciently diverged lineages of Ficus with active vs. passive pollination syndromes. Within groups of relatively closely related figs, there was little evidence for strict-sense host specificity between figs and particular fungal species. Instead, mixing of fungal communities among related figs, coupled with evidence for possible transfer by pollinating wasps, is consistent with recent suggestions of pollinator mixing within syconia. In turn, changes in fungal communities during fig development and ripening suggest an unexplored role of yeasts in the context of the fig-pollinator wasp mutualism.
4250773| Anaerobic bacteria from a 55C methane-producing beef waste fermenter were enumerated, isolated, and characterized. Direct microscopic bacterial counts were 5.2-6.8  10
4251465| Methanotrophic bacteria possessing sMMO activity have gained notoriety in recent years due to their ability to oxidize a wide variety of halogenated aliphatic compounds, including trichloroethylene (TCE), and are being used as the basis for developing new bioremediation processes. PCR primers were designed from DNA sequences of the alpha and beta subunits of the hydroxylase component of the sMMO from Methylococcus capsulatus (Bath). The mmoY1-mmoY2 primer set was derived from the beta subunit and was specific for the mmoY gene from M. capsulatus, but failed to produce the expected 395-nucleotide (nt) fragment from Methylosinus sporium (ATCC 35069) or from Methylosinus trichosporium (ATCC 36070), even at low stringency. A second primer set, primers mmoX1-mmoX2, was derived from the alpha subunit and produced the expected 369-nt fragment from all three methanotrophic cultures tested at the highest stringency used (72C). Soil and groundwater samples were tested for the presence of sMMO-containing bacteria using these two primer sets. One diesel-contaminated soil sample and one TCE-contaminated groundwater sample gave positive results after amplification of total extracted DNA using the mmoX1-mmoX2 primers. Culture enrichment in small chemostats inoculated with the same positive samples led to the isolation of 13 cultures possessing sMMO activity and containing DNA amplifiable by the mmoX1-mmoX2 primers. Our results indicated that attempts to directly cultivate sMMO-positive bacteria may give false negative results with some environmental samples. We recommend that primers and/or gene probes based on the sMMO be used in parallel with the naphthalene oxidation test for any environmental assessment of the methanotrophic population. RAPD-PCR analysis revealed that half of these isolates appeared to be different from each other and from M. capsulatus, M. sporium, or M. trichosporium. 
4250423|Microorganisms associated with decomposing deciduous leaf litter in a woodland stream were examined by scanning electron microscopy. The use of a critical point drying method allowed the preservation of a wide variety of microorganisms as well as the decomposing litter with a minimum of distortion. The micrographs provide evidence that the aquatic hyphomycetes are the major fungal flora present during decomposition. Two distinct groups of these fungi were found during the seasonal cycle with one group occurring only in the summer while the other occurred throughout the rest of the year. The presence of all developmental stages of these organisms in the environment is considered further evidence of their active role in the decomposition of litter.
25153164|Three strains of Limnothrix (Cyanobacteria) isolated from Lake Kastoria, Greece, were characterized based on their morphological features and 16S rRNA gene sequences. The Limnothrix isolates 007a, 165a, and 165c can morphologically be assigned to Limnothrix redekei (Van Goor) Meffert. The 16S rRNA gene of the Limnothrix strains showed a 99% similarity to the 16S rRNA gene of Planktothrix sp. FP1. Limnothrix redekei strains 165a, 165c, 007a and Planktothrix sp. FP1 formed a separate cluster in the cyanobacterial 16S rRNA gene tree. It was distinct from the Pseudanabaena cluster, which included the other Limnothrix strains isolated from northern temperate lakes. This is the first report on the phylogeny of L. redekei strains originating from a Mediterranean lake (southern Europe) and provides new data about the genus Limnothrix.
4251500| Seasonal variation in bacterioplankton abundance, biomass, and bacterioplankton production was studied over eight years in hypertrophic Lake Sbygrd. Biologically, the lake is highly variable; this is due mainly to large interannual variation in fish recruitment. Bacterioplankton production was low during winter, typically 1-3  10
41489770|Although the structure and dynamics of planktonic viruses in freshwater and seawater environments are relatively well documented, little is known about the occurrence and activity of these viruses in estuaries, especially in the tropics. Viral abundance, life strategies, and morphotype distribution were examined in the Bach Dang Estuary (Vietnam) during the dry season in 2009. The abundance of both viruses and their prokaryotic hosts decreased significantly from upstream to downstream, probably as the result of nutrient dilution and osmotic stress faced by the freshwater communities. The antibiotic mitomycin-C revealed that the fraction of lysogenic cells was substantially higher in the lower seawater part of the estuary (max 27.1%) than in the upper freshwater area where no inducible lysogens were observed. The question of whether there is a massive, continuous induction of marine lysogens caused by the mixing with freshwater is considered. Conversely, the production of lytic viruses declined as salinity increased, indicating a spatial succession of viral life strategies in this tropical estuary. Icosahedral tailless viruses with capsids smaller than 60 nm dominated the viral assemblage throughout the estuary (63.0% to 72.1% of the total viral counts), and their distribution was positively correlated with that of viral lytic production. Interestingly, the gamma-proteobacteria explained a significant portion of the variance in the <60 nm and 60 to 90 nm tailless viruses (92% and 80%, respectively), and in the Myoviridae (73%). Also, 60% of the variance of the tailless larger viruses (>90 nm) was explained by the beta-proteobacteria. Overall, these results support the view that the environment, through selection mechanisms, probably shapes the structure of the prokaryotic community. This might be in turn a source of selection for the virioplankton community via specific affiliation favoring particular morphotypes and life strategies.
25153409| Decomposition of culms (sheaths and stems) of the emergent macrophyte Phragmites australis (common reed) was followed for 16 months in the litter layer of a brackish tidal marsh along the river Scheldt (the Netherlands). Stems and leaf sheaths were separately analyzed for mass loss, litter-associated fungal biomass (ergosterol), nutrient (N and P), and cell wall polymer concentrations (cellulose and lignin). The role of fungal biomass in litter nutrient dynamics was evaluated by estimating nutrient incorporation within the living fungal mass. After 1 year of standing stem decay, substantial fungal colonization was found. This corresponded to an overall fungal biomass of 49  8.7 mg g dry mass. A vertical pattern of fungal colonization on stems in the canopy is suggested. The litter bag experiment showed that mass loss of stems was negligible during the first 6 months, whereas leaf sheaths lost almost 50% of their initial mass during that time. Exponential breakdown rates were -0.0039  0.0004 and -0.0026  0.0003 day for leaf sheaths and stems, respectively (excluding the initial lag period). In contrast to the stem tissue-which had no fungal colonization-leaf sheaths were heavily colonized by fungi (93  10 mg fungal biomass g dry mass) prior to placement in the litter layer. Once being on the sediment surface, 30% of leaf sheath's associated fungal biomass was lost, but ergosterol concentrations recovered the following months. In the stems, fungal biomass increased steadily after an initial lag period to reach a maximal biomass of about 120 mg fungal biomass g dry mass for both plant parts at the end of the experiment. Fungal colonizers are considered to contain an important fraction of nutrients within the decaying plant matter. Fungal N incorporation was estimated to be 64  13 and 102  15% of total available N pool during decomposition for leaf sheaths and stems, respectively. Fungal P incorporation was estimated to be 37  9 and 52  15% of total available P during decomposition for leaf sheaths and stems, respectively. Furthermore, within the stem tissue, fungi are suggested to be active immobilizers of nutrients from the external environment because fungi were often estimated to contain more than 100% of the original nutrient stock. 
4251201|Construction of mathematical simulation models helps to organize current information and extend inferences from available data. During the past two decades, microbial ecology has undergone rapid developments in both quantity and quality of available data. In particular, considerable advances have been made in our knowledge of microbial food web dynamics in the Duplin River watershed at Sapelo Island, Georgia. Here we provide examples of how modeling and microbial ecology have interfaced. In the early 1970s, construction of a 14-compartment model of carbon flow through a salt marsh ecosystem aided in directing method development and field experiments on the sediment microbial community. In turn, the results of field experiments corroborated the model's postulated controls on the community. Also, during the past 12 years we have developed a series of simulation models reflecting the growing information on the aquatic microbial food web. Early models provided evidence for the microbial loop but illustrated the paucity of knowledge concerning controls for bacterial growth on detritus. Results from newer methods in microbial ecology and studies from the Duplin River have allowed us to construct a model which provides realistic simulations but is also highly sensitive to certain parameter value changes (e.g., in organic matter availability and grazing by protozoans). Thus improvements in model structure and corroboration of the models with extant data have been closely tied to methodological and conceptual advances in microbial ecology. The relationship is viewed as synergistic, as needs for model parameter values and equation forms have directed further development of methods, experimentation, and field observations.
40343355|Global climate change models indicate that storm magnitudes will increase in many areas throughout southwest North America, which could result in up to a 25% increase in seasonal precipitation in the Big Bend region of the Chihuahuan Desert over the next 50 years. Seasonal precipitation is a key limiting factor regulating primary productivity, soil microbial activity, and ecosystem dynamics in arid and semiarid regions. As decomposers, soil microbial communities mediate critical ecosystem processes that ultimately affect the success of all trophic levels, and the activity of these microbial communities is primarily regulated by moisture availability. This research is focused on elucidating soil microbial responses to seasonal and yearly changes in soil moisture, temperature, and selected soil nutrient and edaphic properties in a Sotol Grassland in the Chihuahuan Desert at Big Bend National Park. Soil samples were collected over a 3-year period in March and September (2004-2006) at 0-15 cm soil depth from 123 x 3 m community plots. Bacterial and fungal carbon usage (quantified using Biolog 96-well micro-plates) was related to soil moisture patterns (ranging between 3.0 and 14%). In addition to soil moisture, the seasonal and yearly variability of soil bacterial activity was most closely associated with levels of soil organic matter, extractable NH-N, and soil pH. Variability in fungal activity was related to soil temperatures ranging between 13 and 26 C. These findings indicate that changes in soil moisture, coupled with soil temperatures and resource availability, drive the functioning of soil-microbial dynamics in these desert grasslands. Temporal patterns in microbial activity may reflect the differences in the ability of bacteria and fungi to respond to seasonal patterns of moisture and temperature. Bacteria were more able to respond to moisture pulses regardless of temperature, while fungi only responded to moisture pulses during cooler seasons with the exception of substantial increased magnitudes in precipitation occurring during warmer months. Changes in the timing and magnitude of precipitation will alter the proportional contribution of bacteria and fungi to decomposition and nitrogen mineralization in this desert grassland.
23361607|Termites inhabit tropical and subtropical areas where they contribute to structure and composition of soils by efficiently degrading biomass with aid of resident gut microbiota. In this study, culture-independent molecular analysis was performed based on bacterial and archaeal 16S rRNA clone libraries to describe the gut microbial communities within Cornitermes cumulans, a South American litter-feeding termite. Our data reveal extensive bacterial diversity, mainly composed of organisms from the phyla Spirochaetes, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Fibrobacteres. In contrast, a low diversity of archaeal 16S rRNA sequences was found, comprising mainly members of the Crenarchaeota phylum. The diversity of archaeal methanogens was further analyzed by sequencing clones from a library for the mcrA gene, which encodes the enzyme methyl coenzyme reductase, responsible for catalyzing the last step in methane production, methane being an important greenhouse gas. The mcrA sequences were diverse and divided phylogenetically into three clades related to uncultured environmental archaea and methanogens found in different termite species. C. cumulans is a litter-feeding, mound-building termite considered a keystone species in natural ecosystems and also a pest in agriculture. Here, we describe the archaeal and bacterial communities within this termite, revealing for the first time its intriguing microbiota.
4251801|Microbial competition for limiting natural resources within a community is thought to be the selective force that promotes biosynthesis of antimicrobial compounds. The marine bacterium Streptomyces tenjimariensis produces the antibiotics istamycin A and B under select laboratory culture conditions; presumably these compounds serve an ecological role under natural conditions. Here we report results of a novel marine microbial competition experiment that examined the impact of co-culture of marine bacteria on istamycin production by S. tenjimariensis. Twelve of the 53 bacterial species tested (i.e., 22.6%) induced Istamycin production; this antibiotic also inhibited growth of the competitor colonies. These results suggest that marine bacterial metabolites serve an ecological role in countering competitive species.
23468258|One of the fascinating functions of mammalian intestinal microbiota is fermentation of plant cell wall components. Eight-week continuous culture enrichments of pig feces with cellulose and xylan/pectin were used to isolate bacteria from this community. A total of 575 bacterial isolates were classified phylogenetically using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Six phyla were represented in the bacterial isolates: Firmicutes (242), Bacteroidetes (185), Proteobacteria (65), Fusobacteria (55), Actinobacteria (23), and Synergistetes (5). The majority of the bacterial isolates had 97 % similarity to cultured bacteria with sequences in the RDP, but 179 isolates represent new species and/or genera. Within the Firmicutes isolates, most were classified in the families of Lachnospiraceae, Enterococcaceae, Staphylococcaceae, and Clostridiaceae I. The majority of the Bacteroidetes were most closely related to Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, Bacteroides ovatus, and B. xylanisolvens. Many of the Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes isolates were identified as species that possess enzymes that ferment plant cell wall components, and the rest likely support these bacteria. The microbial communities that arose in these enrichment cultures had broad bacterial diversity. With over 30 % of the isolates not represented in culture, there are new opportunities to study genomic and metabolic capacities of these members of the complex intestinal microbiota.
40343456|The distribution of culturable bacteria in the rhizosphere, rhizoplane, and interior root tissues of moso bamboo plants was investigated in this study. Of the 182 isolates showing different colony characteristics on Luria-Bertani and King B plates, 56 operational taxonomic units of 22 genera were identified by 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequence analysis. The majority of root endophytic bacteria were Proteobacteria (67.5%), while the majority of rhizospheric and rhizoplane bacteria were Firmicutes (66.3% and 70.4%, respectively). The most common genus in both the rhizosphere and on the rhizoplane was Bacillus (42.4% and 44.4%, respectively), while Burkholderia was the most common genus inside the roots, comprising 35.0% of the isolates from this root domain. The endophytic bacterial community was less diverse than the rhizoplane and rhizospheric bacterial communities. Members of Lysinibacillus, Bacillus, and Burkholderia were found in all three root domains, whereas many isolates were found in only a single domain. Our results show that the population diversity of culturable bacteria is abundant in the root domains of moso bamboo plants and that obvious differences exist among the rhizospheric, rhizoplane, and endophytic bacterial communities.
25256137|In the collective genomes (the metagenome) of the microorganisms inhabiting the Earth's diverse environments is written the history of life on this planet. New molecular tools developed and used for the past 15 years by microbial ecologists are facilitating the extraction, cloning, screening, and sequencing of these genomes. This approach allows microbial ecologists to access and study the full range of microbial diversity, regardless of our ability to culture organisms, and provides an unprecedented access to the breadth of natural products that these genomes encode. However, there is no way that the mere collection of sequences, no matter how expansive, can provide full coverage of the complex world of microbial metagenomes within the foreseeable future. Furthermore, although it is possible to fish out highly informative and useful genes from the sea of gene diversity in the environment, this can be a highly tedious and inefficient procedure. Microbial ecologists must be clever in their pursuit of ecologically relevant, valuable, and niche-defining genomic information within the vast haystack of microbial diversity. In this report, we seek to describe advances and prospects that will help microbial ecologists glean more knowledge from investigations into metagenomes. These include technological advances in sequencing and cloning methodologies, as well as improvements in annotation and comparative sequence analysis. More significant, however, will be ways to focus in on various subsets of the metagenome that may be of particular relevance, either by limiting the target community under study or improving the focus or speed of screening procedures. Lastly, given the cost and infrastructure necessary for large metagenome projects, and the almost inexhaustible amount of data they can produce, trends toward broader use of metagenome data across the research community coupled with the needed investment in bioinformatics infrastructure devoted to metagenomics will no doubt further increase the value of metagenomic studies in various environments.
40605726|The chromosomal genotype, as judged by multi locus sequence typing, and the episomal genotype, as judged by plasmid profile and cry gene content, were analyzed for a collection of strains of Bacillus thuringiensis. These had been recovered in vegetative form over a period of several months from the leaves of a small plot of clover (Trifolium hybridum). A clonal population structure was indicated, although greater variation in sequence types (STs) was discovered than in previous collections of B. cereus/B. thuringiensis. Isolates taken at the same time had quite different genotypes, whereas those of identical genotypes were recovered at different times. The profiles of plasmid content and cry genes generally bore no relation to each other nor to the STs. Evidently, although relatively little recombination was occurring in the seven chromosomal genes analyzed, a great deal of conjugal transfer, and perhaps recombination, was occurring involving plasmids. A clinical diarrheal isolate of B. cereus and the commercial biopesticide strain HD-1 of B. thuringiensis, both included as out-groups, were found to have very similar STs. This further emphasizes the role of episomal elements in the characteristics and differentiation of these two species.
40343449|The high degree of microbial diversity found in soils is attributed to the highly heterogeneous pore space and the dynamic aqueous microenvironments. Previous studies have shown that spatial and temporal variations in aqueous diffusion pathways play an important role in shaping microbial habitats and biological activity in unsaturated porous media. A new modeling framework was developed for the quantitative description of diffusiondominated microbial interactions focusing on competitive growth of two microbial species inhabiting partially saturated rough surfaces. Surface heterogeneity was represented by patches with different porosities and water retention properties, yielding heterogeneous distribution of water contents that varies with changes in relative humidity or soil matric potential. Nutrient diffusion and microbial growth on the variably hydrated and heterogeneous surface was modeled using a hybrid method that combines a reaction diffusion method for nutrient field with individual based model for microbial growth and expansion. The model elucidated the effects of hydration dynamics and heterogeneity on nutrient fluxes and mobility affecting microbial population growth, expansion, and coexistence at the microscale. In contrast with single species dominance under wet conditions, results demonstrated prolonged coexistence of two competing species under drier conditions where nutrient diffusion and microbial movement were both limited. The uneven distribution of resources and diffusion pathways in heterogeneous surfaces highlighted the importance of position in the landscape for survival that may compensate for competitive disadvantages conferred by physiological traits. Increased motility was beneficial for expansion and survival. Temporal variations in hydration conditions resulted in fluctuations in microbial growth rate and population size. Population growth dynamics of the dominant species under wet-dry cycles were similar to growth under average value of diffusion coefficients for dry and wet conditions, respectively, suggesting that the timeaveraged diffusion coefficient could serve as a useful indicator for estimation of microbial activities in a highly dynamic system such as that found in soils.
25153112| The impact of acid rock drainage (ARD) and eutrophication on microbial communities in stream sediments above and below an abandoned mine site in the Adelaide Hills, South Australia, was quantified by PLFA analysis. Multivariate analysis of water quality parameters, including anions, soluble heavy metals, pH, and conductivity, as well as total extractable metal concentrations in sediments, produced clustering of sample sites into three distinct groups. These groups corresponded with levels of nutrient enrichment and/or concentration of pollutants associated with ARD. Total PLFA concentration, which is indicative of microbial biomass, was reduced by &gt;70% at sites along the stream between the mine site and as far as 18 km downstream. Further downstream, however, recovery of the microbial abundance was apparent, possibly reflecting dilution effect by downstream tributaries. Total PLFA was &gt;40% higher at, and immediately below, the mine site (0-0.1 km), compared with sites further downstream (2.5-18 km), even after accounting for differences in specific surface area of different sediment samples. The increased microbial population in the proximity of the mine source may be associated with the presence of a thriving iron-oxidizing bacteria community as a consequence of optimal conditions for these organisms while the lower microbial population further downstream corresponded with greater sediments' metal concentrations. PCA of relative abundance revealed a number of PLFAs which were most influential in discriminating between ARD-polluted sites and the rest of the sites. These PLFA included the hydroxy fatty acids: 2OH12:0, 3OH12:0, 2OH16:0; the fungal marker: 18:26; the sulfate-reducing bacteria marker 10Me16:17; and the saturated fatty acids 12:0, 16:0, 18:0. Partial constrained ordination revealed that the environmental parameters with the greatest bearing on the PLFA profiles included pH, soluble aluminum, total extractable iron, and zinc. The study demonstrated the successful application of PLFA analysis to rapidly assess the toxicity of ARD-affected waters and sediments and to differentiate this response from the effects of other pollutants, such as increased nutrients and salinity. 
4251135| This study investigated the distribution of bacteria in groundwater from 16 different levels in five boreholes in granite bedrock down to a maximum of 860 m. Enrichment cultures were used to assay the groups of bacteria present. Autoradiographic studies with
4250823|Human clinical streptococcal isolates can be identified rapidly by means of commercially available miniaturized biochemical systems, in contrast to animal and environmental isolates which may require extensive characterization using conventional methods. Streptococcal isolates (n = 548) from fresh animal feces of cattle, swine, and broiler chickens were tested by means of conventional biochemical and physiological techniques, and also with a miniaturized technique in which conventional formulations were dispensed in 0.1 ml volume into microtiter plates. Agreement of the positive feature frequencies of the two methods were compared. Results from the tolerance tests in the two methods were generally in good agreement. However, the miniaturized method tended to give false negative results in some carbohydrate fermentation tests. Agreement between the 2 methods ranged from 100% for bile esculin tests to 71% for raffinose fermentation. Cluster analysis of the conventional method data indicated that there were 11 biochemically related groups of isolates, 2 of which were identified as Streptococcus faecalis, and S. morbillorum. Half of the isolates biochemically resembled S. faecium. Errors of miniaturized tests occurred mainly in certain tests and in certain biochemically related clusters of isolates. The data indicate that further investigation of experimental conditions such as medium formulation and inoculum size could lead to a successful miniaturized technique for testing animal streptococcal isolates.
4250444|An enrichment culture method is described for quantifying the activity of hydrocarbon oxidizing bacteria in water and sediments. Application of the procedure indicated that the hydrocarbon oxidizing potential of environmental samples reflects the hydrocarbon burden of the area, the ability of the microflora to utilize hydrocarbons, and that lakes with large aquatic plant communities contain populations of hydrocarbon bacteria comparable to those found in oil-polluted harbors.
25153255|Metabolic abilities and micrfiobial community structure were investigated through three semiarid Mediterranean soils of SE Spain. The soils were (1) a Typic Calcixerept under an adult pine plantation (PP), growing on abandoned agricultural terraces; (2) a Typic Calcixeroll under a native pinewood (NP); and (3) a Typic Haploxerept covered with a grass steppe (GS). PP and NP were similar as regards their genesis, but the former used to be tilled. NP and GS were undisturbed and supported natural and seminatural vegetation, respectively. Seven samples in 10-cm depth increments were taken in triplicate along each soil profile. Community-level physiological profiles based on sole-C-source use were determined to characterize the metabolic abilities. A 16S rDNA polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis was performed to investigate the microbial genetic structure. Plant cover and land-use history were major determinants of microbial community structure. Microbial communities residing in soils under a native pinewood, the most diverse and stable plant cover, were the most complex both metabolically and genetically. The microbial community structure distinctly changed with depth, related to the quantity and quality of total organic carbon. Both undisturbed soils showed falling gradients of metabolic and genetic complexity, which were invariably of a greater magnitude in the mature woodland than in the grass steppe. In the planted pinewood, however, the substrate-use diversity increased with depth, apparently a response to the depleted metabolic abilities within its upper layer (0-30 cm). Tilling and plant cover removal might be responsible for such a perturbation. In the same profile, molecular fingerprint patterns of the topsoil layer (0-10 cm) indicated a disturbed genetic structure that might underlie the loss of metabolic abilities. However, the genetic structure of the deeper layers of the planted and native pinewoods was not dissimilar, revealing that equivalent genetic resources perform different environmental functions under changing soil scenarios.
25256133|Stable isotope probing (SIP) is a method used for labeling uncultivated microorganisms in environmental samples or directly in field studies using substrate enriched with stable isotope (e.g., C). After consumption of the substrate, the cells of microorganisms that consumed the substrate become enriched in the isotope. Labeled biomarkers, such as phospholipid-derived fatty acid (PLFA), ribosomal RNA, and DNA can be analyzed with a range of molecular and analytical techniques, and used to identify and characterize the organisms that incorporated the substrate. The advantages and disadvantages of PLFA-SIP, RNA-SIP, and DNA-SIP are presented. Using examples from our laboratory and from the literature, we discuss important methodological considerations for a successful SIP experiment.
41489096|The rhizosphere bacterium Azospirillum brasilense produces the auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) through the indole-3-pyruvate pathway. As we previously demonstrated that transcription of the indole-3-pyruvate decarboxylase (ipdC) gene is positively regulated by IAA, produced by A. brasilense itself or added exogenously, we performed a microarray analysis to study the overall effects of IAA on the transcriptome of A. brasilense. The transcriptomes of A. brasilense wild-type and the ipdC knockout mutant, both cultured in the absence and presence of exogenously added IAA, were compared. Interfering with the IAA biosynthesis/homeostasis in A. brasilense through inactivation of the ipdC gene or IAA addition results in much broader transcriptional changes than anticipated. Based on the multitude of changes observed by comparing the different transcriptomes, we can conclude that IAA is a signaling molecule in A. brasilense. It appears that the bacterium, when exposed to IAA, adapts itself to the plant rhizosphere, by changing its arsenal of transport proteins and cell surface proteins. A striking example of adaptation to IAA exposure, as happens in the rhizosphere, is the upregulation of a type VI secretion system (T6SS) in the presence of IAA. The T6SS is described as specifically involved in bacterium-eukaryotic host interactions. Additionally, many transcription factors show an altered regulation as well, indicating that the regulatory machinery of the bacterium is changing.
23361677|Predatorprey interactions presumably play major roles in shaping the composition and dynamics of microbial communities. However, little is understood about the population biology of such interactions or how predation-related parameters vary or correlate across prey environments. Myxococcus xanthus is a motile soil bacterium that feeds on a broad range of other soil microbes that vary greatly in the degree to which they support M. xanthus growth. In order to decompose predatorprey interactions at the population level, we quantified five predation-related parameters during M. xanthus growth on nine phylogenetically diverse bacterial prey species. The horizontal expansion rate of swarming predator colonies fueled by prey lawns served as our measure of overall predatory performance, as it incorporates both the searching (motility) and handling (killing and consumption of prey) components of predation. Four other parameterspredator population growth rate, maximum predator yield, maximum prey kill, and overall rate of prey deathwere measured from homogeneously mixed predatorprey lawns from which predator populations were not allowed to expand horizontally by swarming motility. All prey species fueled predator population growth. For some prey, predator-specific prey death was detected contemporaneously with predator population growth, whereas killing of other prey species was detected only after cessation of predator growth. All four of the alternative parameters were found to correlate significantly with predator swarm expansion rate to varying degrees, suggesting causal interrelationships among these diverse predation measures. More broadly, our results highlight the importance of examining multiple parameters for thoroughly understanding the population biology of microbial predation.
41693751|The identification of specific bacterial species influenced by mannan oligosaccharide (MOS) supplementation may assist in the formulation of new and improved diets that promote intestinal health and improve bird performance, offering suitable alternatives to antimicrobials in feed for sustainable poultry production. This study has been conducted to evaluate the use of a MOS compound derived from the yeast cell wall of Saccharomyces cerevisiae on turkey performance, bacterial community structure and their phylogenetic associations. A 42-day turkey trial was carried out on birds fed control and MOS-supplemented diets. Bird performance data (weight gains, feed consumption and feed efficiency ratios) were collected, and caecal contents were extracted from randomly caught poults on days 28, 35 and 42 posthatch. Bird performance data showed no improvements as a result of dietary supplementation. Automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) revealed the bacterial community structure to be significantly altered on days 28 and 35 posthatch but not day 42 as a result of dietary supplementation. This technique was coupled with 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis to elucidate phylogenetic identities of bacteria. The dominant bacteria of the caecum on all days in both treatment groups were members of phylum Firmicutes, followed by the Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria phyla, respectively. Statistical analysis of the 16S rRNA gene libraries showed that the composition of the MOS clone library differed significantly to the control on day 35 posthatch. It can be concluded that MOS alters the bacterial community structure in the turkey caecum.
25153232|Multiplexed and quantitative analysis of nucleic acid sequences in complex mixtures is essential in various applications of microbiological research. We have developed a method based on solution hybridization between biotinylated nucleic acid targets and multiple fluorophore-labeled oligonucleotide probes of distinct sizes. The biotin-nucleic acid-probe complexes are captured on magnetic streptavidin-coated microparticles and washed. The hybridized probes are eluted and their identity and quantity are determined by capillary electrophoresis. The signal intensities of the recorded probes correspond to the amount of target nucleic acid in the mixture, and the size indicates the target. Based on this principle and 16S rRNA-specific oligonucleotide probes, we set up an application for the relative quantification of different groups of clostridia and related organisms in a mixed bacterial population. The lower detection limit is 0.05 ng of total RNA and the linear range of measurement is 10. The method allowed accurate and highly repeatable quantification of the proportion of clostridia in human feces. Further, we discuss other applications of the method such as quantitative transcriptional analysis of eukaryotic microorganisms, which can be performed without conversion of mRNA to cDNA.
4250533|Morphological details of bacteria collected at the air/seawater interface are greatly enhanced when transmission electron microscopy is coupled with critical point dried preparations. Few artifacts and minimal distortion permit a more accurate appraisal of an organism's cell characteristics and its relationship to its microenvironment. Cell surface and extracellular polymer materials are clearly distinguished in a manner not feasible with other preparations.
23361679|White grub larvae are important soil-dwelling pests in many regions of Mexico as they attack many important crops such as maize. The use of synthetic chemicals is currently the main control strategy, but they are not always effective; thus, other alternatives are needed. Microbial control using entomopathogenic fungi represents an important alternative strategy, and species within the genera Beauveria and Metarhizium are considered amongst the most promising candidates. Seventeen Beauveria spp. and two Metarhizium spp. isolates were obtained in surveys of white grub larvae from different regions of Guanajuato, Mexico. All isolates were capable of infecting healthy larvae of the white grub Phyllophaga polyphilla in laboratory assays, but mortality never exceeded 50 %. Isolates were identified using morphological and molecular methods. Based on elongation factor1- and ITS partial gene sequence data, all Beauveria isolates were identified as Beauveria pseudobassiana. Elongation factor1- and -tubulin sequence data identified the Metarhizium isolates to be Metarhizium pingshaense. In contrast, three additional Metarhizium isolates obtained the previous year in the same region were identified as M. pingshaense, Metarhizium anisopliae and Metarhizium robertsii. Microsatellite genotyping showed that all B. pseudobassiana isolates were the same haplotype. Enterobacterial Repetitive Intergenic Consensus fingerprinting information confirmed no significant variation amongst the B. pseudobassiana isolates. The ecological role of these isolates and their impact on white grub larvae populations are discussed.
4250446|Ecological relationships between sulfate-reducing and methane-producing bacteria in mud of Lake Vechten have been studied by continuous culture studies using the chemostat technique. The maximum specific growth rate (
25256220|Airborne bacteria are important biological components of bioaerosol and play an important role in ecosystem. Bacteria at a high concentration in the atmosphere can result in biological air pollution and all kinds of diseases. In this study, a systematical survey on the culturable airborne bacteria was carried out for 1 year at three sites in Beijing urban area. Results showed that concentrations of culturable bacteria ranged from 71 colony forming units (CFU)/m to 22,100 CFU/m, and the mean was 2,217 CFU/m. Bacterial concentrations at the human activity-enriched site (RCEES) and the highly trafficked site (XZM) were virtually the same point. They were significantly higher than those at the greener site (BBG). Significant variation in bacterial concentrations in different seasons was observed at RCEES and XZM with higher concentrations in summer and autumn. In a single day, significantly lower concentrations were detected at 13:00 hours through all sampling sites. In this study, 165 species in 47 genera of culturable bacteria were identified. Micrococcus was one of the most dominant bacterial groups and contributed to approximately 2030% of the total bacterial concentration, followed by Staphylococcus, Bacillus, Corynebacterium, and Pseudomonas. The bacterial species with a high concentration percentage included Micrococcus luteus and Micrococcus roseus.
4251685| Phytoplankton and bacterial biomass and productivities were investigated at four depths in the upper 500 m of the water column in the Gerlache Strait, Antarctica, during the prebloom period of early austral spring, from October 13 to November 4, 1995. The concentrations of all carbon pools were low, with the total particulate organic carbon (POC) concentration averaging 1.9  0.9 M. Bacterial, protozoan, and phytoplankton carbon accounted for 21% of the total POC, indicating that detritus or unenumerated organisms comprised the bulk of the POC during this period. Larger zooplankton or protozoa, such as ciliates, may account for this difference, since microzooplankton can represent a significant fraction of the total microbial biomass. Primary and bacterial secondary production rates were also low, less than 300 and 30 ng C
4250975|Nine gram-negative, thermophilic bacteria (LEH-1, CC-6, BI-1, NR-9, K-2, Thermus aquaticus, T. thermophilus, T. sp. X-1, and Thermomicrobium roseum) tolerated increased oxygen tensions (0.6-1.0 atm). All of the strains demonstrated catalase, peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase activity. Except for T. roseum, the specific activity of one or more of these enzymes was higher under aerated culture, as compared to static conditions. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) indicated that each organism possessed only one superoxide dismutase, and each was tentatively identified as having a manganese prosthetic group. PAGE also demonstrated that the number of isozymes of catalase varied from one to three, depending on the organism. Finally, the characterization of these enzymes supported previous tentative groupings of these thermophiles.
25153411| A field release experiment was carried out to study the fate of the isogenic, firefly luciferase (luc) gene-tagged Sinorhizobium meliloti strains L1 (RecA) and L33 (RecA) in the environment. Both strains were released at concentrations of approximately 10 cfu g soil in replicate and randomized field plots, which had been sown with alfalfa (Medicago sativa). The survival of both strains during the following 7 years could be subdivided into three phases: a sharp decline for more than two orders of magnitude within the first 4 months (phase I), followed by fluctuations around an average number of 10 cfu g soil for nearly 4 years (phase II), and a further decline to approximately 60 cfu g (phase III). At most sampling dates, no significant differences in the survival of both strains were detected, indicating that the recA gene function was dispensable under these environmental conditions. During the field inoculation, both strains were dispersed accidentally by wind in small numbers to noninoculated field plots. Strain L33 established at a concentration of more than 10 cfu g soil with subsequent seasonal fluctuations. Although strain L1 must have been disseminated to a similar extent, it could never be recovered from noninoculated field plots, indicating that the recA mutation interfered with the strain's capability to establish there. At the beginning of the field experiment, an indigenous alfalfa-nodulating population was below the limit of detection. In the following years, however, an indigenous population arose, which finally outcompeted both strains for saprophytic growth and alfalfa nodulation. RecA strain L1 was outcompeted for alfalfa nodulation slightly faster than its RecA counterpart L33. The diversity of the indigenous population was characterized by employing the Enterobacterial Repetitive Intergenic Consensus polymerase chain reaction fingerprint method. Typing of 2731 root nodule isolates revealed a total of 38 fingerprint groups. More than 80% of the isolates could be grouped into six dominant fingerprint groups, indicating that a few dominant bacterial strain types had outcompeted the released strains. 
41489086|We assessed the temporal dynamics of bacterial and fungal communities in a soil ecosystem supporting genetically modified (GM) rice (Oryza sativa L., ABCTPSP; fusion of trehalose-6-phosphate synthase and phosphatase). Using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and real-time quantitative PCR, we compared bacterial and fungal communities in the soils underlying GM rice (ABC-TPSP), and its host cultivar (Nakdong) during growing seasons and non-growing seasons. Overall, the soils supporting GM and non-GM rice did not differ significantly in diversity indices, including ribotype numbers, for either bacteria or fungi. The diversity index (H) in both the bacterial and fungal communities was correlated with water content, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), and ammonium nitrogen, and the correlation was stronger in fungi than in bacteria. Multivariate analysis showed no differences in microbial community structures between the two crop genotypes, but such differences did appear in time, with significant changes observed after harvest. Gene copy number was estimated as 10~ 10 and 10~10 per gram of soil for bacteria and fungi, respectively. As observed for community structure, the rice genotypes did not differ significantly in either bacterial-or fungal-specific gene copy numbers, although we observed a seasonal change in number. We summarize the results of this study as follows. (1) GM rice did not influence soil bacterial and fungal community structures as compared to non-GM rice in our system, (2) both bacterial and fungal communities changed with the growth stage of either rice genotype, (3) fungal communities were less variable than bacterial communities, and (4) although several environmental factors, including ammonium nitrogen and DOC correlated with shifts in microbial community structure, no single factor stood out.
23597865|Hartmannella vermiformis and Acanthamoeba polyphaga are frequently isolated from drinking water and permissive to Legionella pneumophila parasitization. In this study, extracellular factor(s) produced by H. vermiformis and A. polyphaga were assessed for their effects on cultivability of L. pneumophila. Page's amoeba saline (PAS) was used as an encystment medium for H. vermiformis and A. polyphaga monolayers, and the culture supernatants (HvS and ApS, respectively) were assessed against L. pneumophila growth. Compared to PAS and ApS, HvS significantly inhibited L. pneumophila strain Philadelphia-1 (Ph-1) cultivability by 3 log 10 colony forming unit (CFU) mL -1 after 3 days of exposure compared to <0.5 log 10 CFU mL -1 reduction of strain Lp02 (P<0.001). Flow cytometric analysis revealed changes in the percentage and cultivability of three bacterial subpopulations: intact/slightly damaged membrane (ISM), undefined membrane status (UD), and mixed type (MT). After 3 days of HvS exposure, the MT subpopulation decreased significantly (31.6 vs 67.2 %, respectively, P<0.001), while the ISM and UD subpopulations increased (+26.7 and +6.9 %, respectively) with the ISM subpopulation appearing as viable but nonculturable (VBNC) cells. HvS was separated into two fractions based on molecular weight, with more than 99 % of the L. pneumophila inhibition arising from the <5 kDa fraction (P<0.001). Liquid chromatography indicated the inhibitory molecule(s) are likely polar and elute from a Novapak C18 column between 6 and 15 min. These results demonstrate that H. vermiformis is capable of extracellular modulation of L. pneumophila cultivability and probably promote the VBNC state for this bacterium.
25153143| Microbial communities in subsurface environments are poorly characterized and the impacts of anthropogenic contamination on their structure and function have not been adequately addressed. The release of contaminant(s) to a previously unexposed environment is often hypothesized to decrease the diversity of the affected community. We characterized the structure of microbial communities along a gradient of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene (BTEX) and methyl-tert-butyl-ether (MTBE) contamination, resulting from a petroleum spill, within a shallow sandy aquifer at Vandenberg Air Force Base (VAFB) in Lompoc, CA. Differences in microbial community composition along the contaminant plume were assessed via a combinatorial approach utilizing denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), cloning and sequencing, intergenic transcribed spacer analysis (ITS), and comparative phylogenetic analysis of partial 16S rDNA sequences. Substantial bacterial sequence diversity, similar levels of species richness, and similar phylo-groups (including the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroidetes group and numerous members of the -, -, -, -, and -groups of the proteobacteria) were observed in both uncontaminated and contaminated regions of the aquifer. High-resolution measures (ITS fingerprinting and phylogenetic inference) readily separated communities impacted by the original petroleum spill (in source zone) from those in other parts of the aquifer and indicated that communities exposed to MTBE only were similar to communities in uncontaminated regions. Collectively, these data suggest that petroleum contamination alters microbial community structure at the species and subspecies level. Further study is required to determine whether these changes have an impact on the functioning of this subsurface ecosystem. 
4251528|A marine, multicellular, filamentous flexibacterium, Saprospira grandis Gross, can not only live heterotrophically on dissolved organic substrata, but can subsist on other microbes and can even catch motile bacteria by their flagella before killing and digesting them.
23597812|Brachyspira is associated with diarrhea and colitis in pigs, and control of these pathogens is complicated by their complex ecology. Identification of wildlife reservoirs of Brachyspira requires the discrimination of colonized animals and those simply contaminated through environmental exposure. Lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) were sampled in the Canadian arctic during the summer of 2011, and cloacal swabs were cultured on selective media. Brachyspira isolates were obtained from 15/170 (8.8 %) samples, and 12/15 isolates were similar to isolates previously recovered from pigs, including "Brachyspira hampsonii", a recently characterized species associated with dysentery-like disease in pigs in North America. A pilot inoculation study with one strongly -hemolytic B. hampsonii isolate resulted in fecal shedding of the isolate by inoculated pigs for up to 14 days post-inoculation, but no severe clinical disease. Results of this study indicate that lesser snow geese can be colonized by Brachyspira strains that can also colonize pigs. Millions of lesser snow geese (C. caerulescens caerulescens) travel through the major pork-producing areas of Canada and the USA during their annual migration, making them a potential factor in the continental distribution of these bacteria.
4251656|The short-term population dynamics of the culturable bacterial community from field-grown peanut (Arachis hypogeae L.) was analyzed over three 2-day periods. As in other phyllosphere studies, significant numbers of pigmented organisms were detected, suggesting the importance of pigmentation in the colonization of this habitat. Isolates were grouped according to pigmentation (orange, pink, yellow, nonpigmented), and the sensitivity of each isolate in the collection (n = 617) to ultraviolet radiation (UVR) was determined as the minimal inhibitory dose (
4287715| The usefulness of measuring neutral lipid fatty acids (NLFAs) and phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs) separately in order to interpret perturbation effects on soil and compost microorganisms has been studied. Initially the NLFA/PLFA ratios were studied in different soils. Low ratios were found for fatty acids common in bacteria, especially for cyclopropane fatty acids. Higher ratios were found for fatty acids common in eukaryotic organisms such as fungi (18:19 and 18:26,9) or in saturated fatty acids, common to many types of organisms. Adding glucose to a forest soil increased the amounts of the fungal NLFAs 18:19 and 18:26,9 up to 60 and 10 times, respectively, after 10 days, followed by a gradual decrease. After 3 months incubation, higher levels of these NLFAs were still found compared with the control samples. Adding glucose together with nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) resulted in no increase in NLFAs but a 10-fold increase in the PLFAs 18:19 and 18:26,9. Thus, the NLFA/PLFA ratios for these fatty acids were lower than in the no-addition control when glucose was added together with N and P, but higher when glucose was added alone, even 3 months after the addition. Adding N+P without glucose did not affect the NLFA/PLFA ratio for any fatty acid. Increasing NLFA/PLFA ratios for the fungal fatty acids were also found with time after the thermophilic phase in a compost, indicating increased availability of easily available carbon. 
40605846|Microbial fuel cell (MFC) systems employ the catalytic activity of microbes to produce electricity from the oxidation of organic, and in some cases inorganic, substrates. MFC systems have been primarily explored for their use in bioremediation and bioenergy applications; however, these systems also offer a unique strategy for the cultivation of synergistic microbial communities. It has been hypothesized that the mechanism(s) of microbial electron transfer that enable electricity production in MFCs may be a cooperative strategy within mixed microbial consortia that is associated with, or is an alternative to, interspecies hydrogen (H) transfer. Microbial fermentation processes and methanogenesis in ruminant animals are highly dependent on the consumption and production of H in the rumen. Given the crucial role that H plays in ruminant digestion, it is desirable to understand the microbial relationships that control H partial pressures within the rumen; MFCs may serve as unique tools for studying this complex ecological system. Further, MFC systems offer a novel approach to studying biofilms that form under different redox conditions and may be applied to achieve a greater understanding of how microbial biofilms impact animal health. Here, we present a brief summary of the efforts made towards understanding rumen microbial ecology, microbial biofilms related to animal health, and how MFCs may be further applied in ruminant research.
4251088|Strain ABS10, a Gram-negative, pleomorphic bacterium isolated from a pristine aquifer in Ada, Oklahoma, was studied as a candidate for the introduction and expression of plasmid DNA in a native groundwater isolate. This organism was originally typed as an Arthrobacter sp. due to its morphological phase change and Gram-variable reaction upon Gram staining. The fatty acid methyl ester profile of ABS10 revealed a high similarity with Pseudomonas putida. DNA-DNA hybridization showed 81% homology between ABS10 and P. putida. 16S rRNA sequence analysis showed ABS10 to be a member of the Gamma division of the purple photosynthetic bacteria. The organism has been designated Pseudomonas geomorphus due to its isolation from a subterranean sample and the morphological phase change from rods in young cultures to cocci in older cultures. The broad host range plasmid RP4 was introduced into ABS10 and stably maintained, indicating that RP4 may serve as a vehicle for the introduction of catabolic genes into this organism.
25256139|Although plasmids are ubiquitous amongst phytosphere pseudomonads, the advantage and costs of plasmids for the bacterial host remain unclear. The application of single-cell Raman spectral analysis to plasmid-bacterial systems under different environmental conditions offers a new means of determining the impact of plasmids on host cell physiology, metabolic status, and response to stress.
25153485| The impact and frequency of forest harvesting could significantly affect soil microbial community (SMC) structure and functioning. The ability of soil microorganisms to perform biogeochemical processes is critical for sustaining forest productivity and has a direct impact on decomposition dynamics and carbon storage potential. The Wind River Canopy Crane Research Forest in SW, WA, provided a unique opportunity to study a forest chronosequence and the residual effects of harvesting on the SMC in comparison to old-growth forests. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of clear-cutting and stand age on temporal dynamics of SMC and physiological stress markers using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiling. Soil microbial PLFA profiles were determined seven times over 22 months (Nov. 02 to Sep. 04) in old-growth coniferous forest stands (300-500 years) and 8 (CC8)- or 25 (CC25)-year-old replanted clear-cuts. PLFA patterns of the SMC shifted because of clear-cutting, but seasonal temporal changes had greater shifts than differences among stand age. The microbial biomass (total PLFA) and bacterial, fungal, and selected other PLFAs were significantly reduced in CC8 but not in CC25 sites relative to the old-growth sites. An increase in stress indicators [PLFA ratios of saturated/monsaturated and (cy17:0+cy19:0)/(16:17+18:17)] in late summer was related to water stress. Although the canopy and litter input are quite different for a 25-year clear-cut compared to virgin old-growth forest, we conclude that the composition of the microbial communities, 25 years after clear-cutting, has recovered sufficiently to be much more similar to old-growth forests than a recent clear-cut at this Pacific Northwest forest site. The study shows the potential of PLFA analysis for profiling microbial communities and their stress status under field conditions, but wide temporal shifts emphasize the need for sampling over seasons to fully interpret ecosystem management impacts on microbial populations. 
41489176|Candida albicans is the most notorious and the most widely studied yeast biofilm former. Design of experiments (DoE) showed that 10 mg/L zosteric acid sodium salt reduced C. albicans adhesion and the subsequent biofilm formation by at least 70%, on both hydrophilic and hydrophobic surfaces of 96-well plates. Indeed, biofilm imaging revealed the dramatic impact of zosteric acid sodium salt on biofilm thickness and morphology, due to the inability of the cells to form filamentous structures while remaining metabolically active. In the same way, 10 mg/L zosteric acid sodium salt inhibited C. albicans biofilm formation when added after the adhesion phase. Contrary to zosteric acid sodium salt, methyl zosterate did not affect yeast biofilm. In addition, zosteric acid sodium salt enhanced sensitivity to chlorhexidine, chlorine, hydrogen peroxide, and cis-2-decenoic acid, with a reduction of 0.5 to 8 log units. Preliminary in vitro studies using suitable primary cell based models revealed that zosteric acid sodium salt did not compromise the cellular activity, adhesion, proliferation or morphology of either the murine fibroblast line L929 or the human osteosarcoma line MG-63. Thus the use of zosteric acid sodium salt could provide a suitable, innovative, preventive, and integrative approach to preventing yeast biofilm formation.
27770604|In the container habitats of immature mosquitoes, catabolism of plant matter and other organic detritus by microbial organisms produces metabolites that mediate the oviposition behavior of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus. Public health agencies commonly use oviposition traps containing plant infusions for monitoring populations of these mosquito species, which are global vectors of dengue viruses. In laboratory experiments, gravid females exhibited significantly diminished responses to experimental infusions made with sterilized white oak leaves, showing that attractive odorants were produced through microbial metabolic activity. We evaluated effects of infusion concentration and fermentation time on attraction of gravid females to infusions made from senescent bamboo or white oak leaves. We used plate counts of heterotrophic bacteria, total counts of 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole-stained bacterial cells, and 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) polymerase chain reactiondenaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) to show that changes in the relative abundance of bacteria and the species composition of bacterial communities influenced attraction of gravid A. aegypti and A. albopictus mosquitoes to infusions. DGGE profiles showed that bacterial species composition in infusions changed over time. Principal components analysis indicated that oviposition responses to plant infusions were in general most affected by bacterial diversity and abundance. Analysis of bacterial 16S rDNA sequences derived from DGGE bands revealed that Proteobacteria (Alpha-, Beta-, Delta-, and Gamma-) were the predominant bacteria detected in both types of plant infusions. Gravid A. aegypti were significantly attracted to a mix of 14 bacterial species cultured from bamboo leaf infusion. The oviposition response of gravid mosquitoes to plant infusions is strongly influenced by abundance and diversity of bacterial species, which in turn is affected by plant species, leaf biomass, and fermentation time.
4251300|The decomposition of three different
4250479| In the Mammoth Springs (Yellowstone National Park) waters with near neutral pH and soluble sulfide ( H
25153156| Microbial communities were characterized during biodegradation of immobilized oil in seawater from the Statfjord field and the German Bight in the North Sea. Seawater samples were collected at different distances from pollution sources at the two locations. A Statfjord oil was immobilized on hydrophobic synthetic Fluortex fabrics and submerged in closed flasks (no headspace) with natural or sterile seawater and incubated at 13C for 56 days. Biodegradation of immobilized n-alkanes was measured by gas chromatography, total microbes were enumerated by epifluorescene microscopy, and culturable heterotrophic and oil-degrading microorganisms were quantified by most probable number (MPN) analysis. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of bacterial 16S rDNA in water samples was conducted during biodegradation experiments. The amplified 16S rDNA fragments were characterized by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), and by sequence analysis of cloned inserts. Biodegradation rates of alkanes in seawater collected at different distances from the pollution sources did not differ significantly (P &gt; 0.05). Concentrations of oil-degrading microorganisms showed a temporary peak after 7 days of degradation, with a subsequent decline later in the period. DGGE analysis of 16S rRNA genes showed that community diversity decreased during the first 2-3 weeks of biodegradation, with the emergence of a few dominant bands. Cloning, restriction analysis, and sequence analysis of the 16S rDNA fragments revealed &gt;30 different phylotypes. Abundant types during biodegradation belonged to the -Proteobacteria, in waters from both Statfjord and the German Bight. Cloning and sequencing studies indicated that the most abundant bacteria during biodegradation belonged to the family Rhodobacteraceae, with the closest relationship to the genera Sulfitobacter and Roseobacter. 
40343370|The presence of genetic determinants homologous to rulAB genes for ultraviolet (UV) radiation resistance was determined in a collection of Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae strains isolated from mango. The potential role of these plasmids in UV tolerance and ecological fitness in the mango phyllosphere was also evaluated. Nearly all of the 62-kb plasmids present in the  syringae pv. syringae strains hybridized with a rulAB probe, but these 62-kb plasmids showed differences in restriction patterns. In vitro assays of tolerance to UV radiation of P. syringae pv. syringae strains showed a higher survival of the strains harboring the 62-kb plasmids compared to strains lacking plasmids when exposed to UVC or UVA+ B fractions. Similar results were observed when transconjugants harboring the 62-kb plasmid were tested. Survival assays were carried out under field conditions, and a higher survival of P. syringae pv. syringae strains harboring 62-kb plasmids under direct solar radiation on the adaxial surface of leaves was also observed. When the assays were carried out in shady areas or on the abaxial surface of leaves, survival time was comparable for all the assayed strains, whether or not they contained a 62-kb plasmid hybridizing to rulAB. Our results indicate that P. syringae pv. syringae strains harboring 62-kb plasmids show an increase in ecological fitness when colonizing the mango phyllosphere.
23469152|The predatory Bacteriovorax are Gram-negative bacteria ubiquitous in saltwater systems that prey upon other Gram-negative bacteria in a similar manner to the related genus Bdellovibrio. Among the phylogenetically defined clusters of Bacteriovorax, cluster V has only been isolated from estuaries suggesting that it may be a distinct estuarine phylotype. To assess this hypothesis, the spatial and temporal distribution of cluster V and other Bacteriovorax phylogenetic assemblages along the salinity gradient of Chesapeake Bay were determined. Cluster V was expected to be found in significantly greater numbers in low to moderate salinity waters compared to high salinity areas. The analyses of water and sediment samples from sites in the bay revealed cluster V to be present at the lower salinity and not high salinity sites, consistent with it being an estuarine phylotype. Cluster IV had a similar distribution pattern and may also be specifically adapted to estuaries. While the distribution of clusters V and IV were similar for salinity, they were distinct on temperature gradients, being found in cooler and in warmer temperatures, respectively. The differentiation of phylotype populations along the salinity and temporal gradients in Chesapeake Bay revealed distinct niches inhabited by different phylotypes of Bacteriovorax and unique estuarine phylotypes.
23469183|Frequency and amplitude of temperature oscillations can profoundly affect structure and function of ecosystems. Unless the rate of a biological process changes linearly within the range of these fluctuations, the cumulative effect of temperature differs from the effect measured at the average temperature (Jensen's inequality). Here, we measured numbers and types of spores released by aquatic hyphomycetes from oak and alder leaves that had been exposed in a Portuguese stream for between 7 and 94 days. Recovered leaves were incubated at four temperatures between 5 and 20 C. Over this range, the sporulation response to temperature was decelerating, with an estimated optimum around 12.5 C. Assuming a linear response, therefore, overestimates spore release from decaying leaves. The calculated discrepancy was more pronounced with recalcitrant oak leaves (greater toughness, phenolics concentration, lower N and P concentration than alder), and reached 26.6 % when temperature was assumed to oscillate between 1 and 9 C, rather than remaining constant at 5 C. The maximum fluctuation of water temperature over 48 h during the field experiment was approximately 3 C, which would result in a discrepancy of up to 6 %. The composition of the fungal community (assessed by species identification of released spores) was significantly influenced by the state of decomposition, but not by leaf species or temperature. When quantifying the potential impact of global change on aquatic fungal communities, the average increase as well as fluctuations of the temperature have to be considered.
40802276|Nineteen fiingal strains having an ability to oxidize elemental sulfur in mineral salts medium were isolated from deteriorated sandstones of Angkor monuments. These fungi formed clearing zone on agar medium supplemented with powder sulfur due to the dissolution of sulfur. Representative of the isolates, strain THIF01, was identified as Fusarium solani on the basis of morphological characteristics and phylogenetic analyses. PCR amplification targeting 16S rRNA gene and analyses of full 16S rRNA gene sequence indicated strain THIF01 harbors an endobacterium Bradyrhizobium sp.; however, involvement of the bacterium in the sulfur oxidation is still unclear. Strain THIF01 oxidized elemental sulfur to thiosulfate and then sulfate. Germination of the spores of strain THIF01 was observed in a liquid medium containing mineral salts supplemented with elemental sulfur (rate of germinated spores against total spores was 60.2%), and the culture pH decreased from pH 4.8 to 4.0. On the contrary, neither germination (rate of germinated spores against total spores was 1.0%) nor pH decrease was observed without the supplement of elemental sulfur. Strain THIF01 could also degrade 30 ppmv and ambient level (approximate 500 pptv) of carbonyl sulfide.
41489219|We investigated the effect of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) on the uptake and partitioning of radiophosphate (PO) in size-fractionated plankton assemblages (0.2-0.8, 0.8-2.0 and > 2.0 m) collected from nine freshwater lakes located in Saskatchewan, Canada. A significant (p< 0.05) reduction in PO uptake by plankton was observed in seven of the nine lakes. Plankton > 2.0 m were generally unaffected by UVR, whereas the 0.2-0.8 m size fraction exhibited severe photoinhibition. The effect of UVR on the 0.8-2.0 m size fraction was variable, ranging from significant reductions to significant increases in PO uptake. The > 2.0 m size fraction was composed of a diversity of phytoplankton genera, suggesting that P uptake mechanisms for a range of phytoplankton are resistant to UVR. Our ability to detect a UVR effect on specific plankton size fractions was confounded by the resolution of the analysis. That is, only examining the <2.0 and >2.0 m size fractions concealed the effect of UVR on plankton <0.8 m. The magnitude of decrease in P uptake by plankton <0.8 m was significantly and negatively correlated with in situ UVA exposure. Our results underscore the need for studies to consider both the size resolution of their analysis (i.e., the size of target organisms) and the ambient light conditions under which organisms may have acclimated before generalizing results across limnetic systems.
4251595|Genetically engineered microorganisms (GEMs) released into the environment may persist and spread, depending on their features and conditions encountered. In streams, the extent of dispersion depends largely on cycles of attachment to, and detachment from, biofilms, because distribution of microorganisms is limited only by stream flow and settling rates, and because biofilms are the primary generator of bacterial cells. To simulate dissemination of introduced bacteria, multiple antibiotic-resistant bacteria (Chryseobacterium (Flavobacterium) indologenes) were introduced into microcosms containing water, sediments, and leaves. Marked bacteria reached greatest abundances in sediments, and contributions of bacteria from sediments to other habitats was relatively low. Bacterial attachment and detachment occurred rapidly, but the ability of marked bacteria to successfully exploit receiving habitats was comparatively low. Current speed influenced bacterial dissemination. A mechanistic model, using mortality and attachment/detachment rates, determined experimentally, was developed to predict bacterial exchanges in nature. The model was predictive of experimental results when only 5% of bacteria in sediments were available for detachment. Based on model results, an introduced bacterial strain, with mortality rates comparable to those of the model strain, is predicted to maintain highest abundances in sediments. However, within a month, abundance was predicted to be reduced by 98%; long-term persistence is possible if these low population sizes can be sustained.
25153437|This work builds on an earlier culture study where we determined that species diversity of competing saprotrophic phyllpolane fungi had only a negligible effect on the establishment and coexistence of a target fungus, Pestalotia vaccinii. Here, we explore preliminary evidence suggesting that spore density is a more important contributing factor to colonization and coexistence. We examine the influence of propagule density in vitro on establishment and growth of select members of the phylloplane of Vaccinium macrocarpon (American cranberry). To evaluate the response of the weak pathogen P. vaccinii to changes in competitors spore density, we chose saprotrophs from the previous investigation that had the greatest inhibitory effect on the establishment of P. vaccinii (Curvularia lunata), an intermediate inhibitory effect (Alternaria alternata) and the least inhibitory effect (Penicillium sp.). A constant target spore concentration of 50 viable spores of P. vaccinii was pit against densities of the three individual competitors ranging between 12 and 200 spores. As viable propagule density increased, establishment and coexistence of P. vaccinii significantly decreased, with C. lunata and A. alternata decreasing the growth of P. vaccinii more than Penicillium sp. Concomitantly, both C. lunata and Penicillium sp. were not significantly affected by overall spore density but were significantly affected by the presence of P. vaccinii. A. alternata, on the other hand, was not significantly influenced by the presence of P. vaccinii but was significantly affected by overall spore density. An in vitro investigation into the effect of interspecific competition on mycelial growth suggests how different survival strategies and community assembly rules might influence both growth and development. Growth of P. vaccinii was significantly less when interacting with C. lunata than when interacting with either A. alternata or Penicillium sp. Conversely, P. vaccinii had the greatest effect on the growth of C. lunata, less of an effect on the growth of A. alternata, and the least effect on Penicillium sp.
41489030|The Negev Desert is characterized by low soilwater availability and organic matter content, as well as important factors significantly influencing soil biological activity. In order to overcome the xeric environment, plant and soil biota have evolutionarily developed, over time, ecophysiological abilities that help them fulfill their biological role and function. Microorganisms are known as a major part of the ecosystem's total biomass and play an important role in decomposition processes and the nutrient cycle. Perennial shrubs have been found to play an important role as organic matter suppliers and as a physical barrier prolonging biological activity of microbial communities. Soil samples were collected monthly, from November 2006 to November 2007, from a 0 to 10-cm depth under the canopies o Reaumuria negevensis and from open areas (control) in order to evaluate abiotic components and microbial variables on a temporal basis. H values, evenness, and  diversity (Srensen's similarity) were determined by a molecular method based on sequencing. Water availability, organic matter content, and total soluble nitrogen were higher in soil samples collected in the vicinity of R. negevensis than in samples collected in open areas. Our study also indicated that, in spite of the similarity between H values of soil samples collected in the vicinity of R. negevensis and the open area, a low percentage of similarity was found between the soil bacterial populations. These results support the hypothesis that distribution of resources in the environment under R. negevensis shrubs varies in space and time and also influences soil microbial diversity and the abiotic environmental role.
4250809| All pith samples from 68 dead saguaro cacti in 3 plots and 11 isolated dead plants in Saguaro National Monument, Arizona, produced at least one species of myxomycete upon incubation at 20 or 30C. Three species, Badhamia gracilis (Macbr.) Macbr., Physarum straminipes Lister, and Didymium eremophilum M. Blackwell et Gilbertson, developed at high frequencies on the substrates in moist chamber culture. Perichaena corticalis (Batsch) Rost. and Protophysarum phloiogenum M. Blackwell et Alexopoulos were also present. Although previous literature reports [9] indicated that Myxomycetes grow best at low pH, these species all tolerated substrates of pH 8.7-10.4. Didymium eremophilum and P. phloiogenum had peaks in sporulation within 6 days; other species were slower. There was no difference in time of sporulation of B. gracilis or D. eremophilum at 20 and 30C; however, sporulation of P. straminipes was significantly later at 30C. Reduced spore germination and slower buildup of critically sized amoebal populations of P. straminipes at 30C may be a factor. 
41489763|The extensive use of nanometal-based products increases the chance of their release into aquatic environments, raising the question whether they can pose a risk to aquatic biota and the associated ecological processes. Aquatic microbes, namely fungi and bacteria, play a key role in forested streams by decomposing plant litter from terrestrial vegetation. Here, we investigated the effects of nanocopper oxide and nanosilver on leaf litter decomposition by aquatic microbes, and the results were compared with the impacts of their ionic precursors. Alder leaves were immersed in a stream of Northwest Portugal to allow microbial colonization before being exposed in microcosms to increased nominal concentrations of nanometals (CuO, 100, 200 and 500 ppm; Ag, 100 and 300 ppm) and ionic metals (Cu in CuCl, 10, 20 and 30 ppm; Ag in AgNO, 5 and 20 ppm) for 21 days. Results showed that rates of leaf decomposition decreased with exposure to nano-and ionic metals. Nano- and ionic metals inhibited bacterial biomass (from 68.6% to 96.5% of control) more than fungal biomass (from 28.5% to 82.9% of control). The exposure to increased concentrations of nano- and ionic metals decreased fungal sporulation rates from 91.0% to 99.4%. These effects were accompanied by shifts in the structure of fungal and bacterial communities based on DNA fingerprints and fungal spore morphology. The impacts of metal nanoparticles on leaf decomposition by aquatic microbes were less pronounced compared to their ionic forms, despite metal ions were applied at one order of magnitude lower concentrations. Overall, results indicate that the increased release of nanometals to the environment may affect aquatic microbial communities with impacts on organic matter decomposition in streams.
4287561|Bacterial communities from the rhizosphere of cucumber were characterized with respect to growth rates and carbon source utilization, in order to develop a selection strategy for biocontrol agents against Pythium aphanidermatum. Rhizosphere samples were collected from different root regions (root tips, the root base, and the intermediate region where lateral roots emerge) and developmental stages (the seedling, vegetative, and generative stage) from plants cultivated on reused rockwool. By colony counts on 1/10 strength TSA on subsequent days after plating, percentages of fast- and slow-growing isolates (i.e., forming visible colonies within 2 days, or after 3 or more days, respectively) were determined for each rhizosphere sample. At all plant developmental stages, root tips had the highest percentages of fast growing isolates, and root bases the lowest. During plant growth, the relative amounts of slowly growing bacteria increased. Community-level carbon source utilization was determined for the different rhizosphere samples with Biolog GN plates. Principal component analysis showed that rhizosphere samples from different developmental stages and root locations had distinct carbon source utilization patterns. Communities from root tips of seedlings showed the highest utilization of several monosaccharides. Communities from tips and intermediate regions of plants in the vegetative stage utilized relatively many amino acids and several organic acids, and in the generative stage, more di- and polysaccharides were used. Root base samples scored low with respect to carbon source utilization, except for some disaccharides. From the different rhizosphere samples, 826 bacteria, randomly collected from 1/10 strength TSA plates, were screened on the utilization of 9 carbon sources. The 9 selected carbon sources were chosen because they are reported to occur in the rhizosphere, to be used by the zoospores of Pythium in the infection process, or appeared to be discriminant in the analysis of community-level carbon source utilization performed in this study. It appeared that monosaccharides (glucose and fucose), amino acids (alanine and asparagine), and organic acids (galacturonic, succinic, and linoleic acid) were used for growth mainly by bacteria from the root tips, and to a lesser extent from the intermediate region, of young plants. Disaccharides were predominantly utilized by isolates from plants in the vegetative stage. Overall, the results indicated that growth rates and carbon source utilization reflect the adaptation of bacteria to the rhizosphere environment. The possibility of using these characteristics to screen for rhizosphere competent biocontrol agents that compete for substrates with P. aphanidermatum is discussed.
41489218|The cyanobacterial blooms in the Baltic Sea are dominated by diazotrophic cyanobacteria, the potentially toxic species Aphanizomenon sp. and the toxic species Nodularia spumigena. The seasonal succession with peaks of Aphanizomenon sp., followed by peaks N. spumigena, has been explained by the species-specific niches of the two species. In a three-factorial outdoor experiment, we tested if nutrient and radiation conditions may impact physiological and biochemical responses ofN. spumigena and Aphanizomenon sp. in the presence or absence of the other species. The two nutrient treatments were f/2 medium without NO and f/2 medium without PO (-P), and the two ambient radiation treatments were photosynthetic active radiation >395 nm (PAR) and PAR + UV-A + UV-B >295 nm. The study showed that Aphanizomenon sp. was not negatively affected by the presence of N. spumigena and that N. spumigena was better adapted to both N and P limitation in interaction with ultraviolet radiation (UVR, 280-400 nm). In the Baltic Sea, these physical conditions are likely to prevail in the surface water during summer. Interestingly, the specific growth rate of N. spumigena was stimulated by the presence of Aphanizomenon sp. We suggest that the seasonal succession, with peaks of Aphanizomenon sp. followed by peaks of N. spumigena, is a result from species-specific preferences of environmental conditions and/or stimulation by Aphanizomenon sp. rather than an allelopathic effect of N. spumigena. The results from our study, together with a predicted stronger stratification due to effects of climate change in the Baltic Sea with increased temperature and increased precipitation and increased UV-B due to ozone losses, reflect a scenario with a continuing future dominance of the toxic N. spumigena.
4251577| A low-biomass paleosol 188 m below the ground surface at the Department of Energy's Hanford Site in south-central Washington State was recovered and maintained at the in situ temperature (17C) as an intact core or homogenized sediment for 0, 1, 3, 10, and 21 weeks post-sampling. Bacterial and archaeal 16S rRNA genes were amplified by PCR and cloned. Of 746 bacterial and 190 archaeal clones that were categorized by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), 242 bacterial and 16 archaeal clones were partially sequenced and compared against the small subunit ribosomal RNA database (RDP) and GenBank. Six bacterial and 16 archaeal clones sequences, with little similarity to those in public databases, were sequenced in their entirety, and subjected to more detained phylogenetic analysis. The most frequently occurring clones types were related to Pseudomonas, Bacillus, Micrococcus, Clavibacter, Nocardioides, Burkholderia, Comamonas, and Erythromicrobium. Clone sequences whose RDP similarity value was 0.6 consistently grouped with their nearest RDP neighbor during phylogenetic analysis. Six truly novel eubacterial sequences were identified; they consistently cluster with or near the Chloroflexaceae and sequences recovered from the Sargasso Sea. Sixteen unique archaeal RFLP groups were identified from 190 randomly-sampled clones. The novel archaeal rDNA clones formed a coherent clade along the major Crenarchaea branch containing all previously described mesophilic crenarchae clones, but remained firmly associated with 16S rDNA clones previously obtained from a thermal Fe/S spring in Yellowstone National Park. The wealth of group-specific genetic information identified during this study will now allow us to address specific hypotheses related to in situ stimulation of these deep subsurface microorganisms and changes in microbial community composition resulting from subsurface contamination or remediation processes at the Hanford Site. 
4251802|Changes in cyanobacterial abundance and in the occurrence of bacteria capable of lysing cyanobacteria were monitored over a period of 6 months (May to October 1998) in eutrophic Brome Lake (Quebec, Canada), in which dense cyanobacterial blooms recur regularly. By screening lake water, we isolated two strains of lytic bacteria from the family Cytophagaceae. When tested on 12 cyanobacteria and 6 heterotrophic bacteria, strain 1 lysed only Anabaena flos-aquae and strain 2 lysed only Synechococcus cedorum, Synechococcus leopoliensis, Synechococcus elongatus, and Anacystis nidulans: both liquid and agar-grown cultures of these cyanobacteria were lysed. The number of plaqueforming units of bacteria increased dramatically during the decline of the bloom. The results are consistent with an important role for these host-specific lytic bacteria in control and elimination of cyanobacterial blooms in this lake.
25153107| A mechanistic model for activated sludge sewage treatment was developed to predict exploitative competition of six aerobic heterotrophic bacterial species competing for three essential resources. The central hypothesis of the model is that in a multispecies/limiting resource system the number of coexisting bacterial species, N, exceeds the number of limiting resources, K, available for them. The explanation for this is that for certain species combinations, the dynamics of the competition process generate oscillations in the abundances of species, and these oscillations allow the coexistence of greater number of species than the number of limiting resources (N &gt; K). This result is a direct contradiction of an existing activated sludge steady state competition theory, "the principle of competitive exclusion," which states that the competition process proceeds to equilibrium, allowing only N  K species to coexist. The model was used to investigate the effect of varying solids retention times on the diversity of species using the conventional, completely mixed activated sludge configuration. The results of model simulations showed that for a certain range of solids retention times (2.28-5.66 days) the competition of six species for three essential resources produces oscillations within the structure of the bacterial community allowing for the sustained growth of more than three species on three resources. 
40343373|The extent to which production methods alter intestinal microbial communities of livestock is currently unknown. As the intestinal microbiota may affect animal health, nutrition, and food safety, a baseline comparison of the cecal communities of domestic and wild turkeys was performed. Oligonucleotide fingerprinting of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes (OFRG) of 2,990 16S rRNA clones and dot blot quantification of dominant populations were used to identify the dominant bacterial taxa. Seventy-three percent of all the clones belonged to as yet uncultured genera. However, at a higher phylogenetic level, the OFRG library was composed of 54% Bacteroidetes clones (52% of the domestic library clones, 56% of the wild library clones), 30% Firmicutes clones (33% of the domestic library clones, 32% of the wild library clones), 3% Proteobacteria clones (5% domestic, 2% wild), and 3% Deferribacteres clones (4% domestic, 1% wild). Seven percent of the clones were unidentifiable (6% domestic, 9% wild). Bacteroidetes clones included the genera Alistipes, Prevotella, Megamonas, and Bactemides. Of the Clostridiales clones, groups IV, IX, and XIV including genera Faecalibacterium, Megasphaera, Phascolarctobacterium, and Papillibacter were predominant. Lactobacillus, Enterococcus, and Streptococcus bacilli were also identified, --and -proteobacterial genera included Acinetobacter, Sutterella, and Escherichia. Deferribacteres clones showed high similarity to Mucispirillum schaedleri. Statistical comparison of the domestic and wild turkey clone libraries indicated similar levels of community richness and evenness despite the fact that the two libraries shared only 30% of the total clone operational taxonomic units. Together these results indicate that although high level taxonomic community structure is similar, high-density turkey production causes considerable divergence of the genera found in the ceca of commercial birds from those of their wild counterparts.
4251623|Four nucleoid staining procedures were compared during the starvation-survival process of Escherichia coli in river water. Only the method performed as a modification of the standard acridine orange direct procedure allowed us to visualize nucleoids during the 95 days of experimentation. Moreover, with this method the total number of cells and nucleoid-containing cells can be simultaneously enumerated. The decrease of the chromosomal DNA content of population and of the nucleoid-containing cells indicates that ghosts form and cellular death occurs throughout the starvation-survival process. A long time (<30 days) is needed for non-nucleoid-containing cells to appear in river water; plasmid DNA is also negatively affected by environmental stress. After 4 days of storage in river water, the need to increase the volume of lysed cells used for the plasmid band visualization as well as the decrease in the plasmid band intensity would indicate a decrease in the plasmid DNA content during the starvation-survival process. According to our results, both chromosomal and plasmid DNA content decrease during the starvation-survival process of E. coli in river water.
4251031|The adhesion of bacteria to solid surfaces was studied using a physicochemical approach. Adhesion to negatively charged polystyrene was found to be reversible and could be described quantitatively using the DLVO theory for colloidal stability, i.e., in terms of Van der Waals and electrostatic interactions. The influence of the latter was assessed by varying the electrolyte strength. Adhesion increased with increasing electrolyte strength. The adhesion Gibbs energy for a bacterium and a negatively charged polystyrene surface was estimated from adhesion isotherms and was found to be 2-3 kT per cell. This low value corresponds to an adhesion in the secondary minimum of interaction as described by the DLVO theory. The consequences of these findings for adhesion in the natural environment are discussed.
4250787| Grazing on planktonic bacteria by microzooplankton was estimated by separating bacteria from the larger plankton with 1 m pore Nuclepore filtration and measuring changes in bacteria in filtered and unfiltered samples over 24 hours. In the absence of grazers, bacteria increased linearly. The regression coefficient of linear increase was used to estimate in situ bacterial production. When grazers were present, the changes in bacteria concentration usually took the form of a linear decline, and grazing was estimated by subtracting the regression coefficient of the unfiltered sample from that of the 1 m filtrate. Results from the Essex estuary-coastal system of northern Massachusetts show grazing and production at rates that indicate a daily turnover of the standing crop of bacteria, with highest values in mid-estuarine waters. Experiments on the size distribution of grazing showed that microzooplankton from 1-3 m were responsible for most of the observed decrease in bacteria. It was suggested that the basic pattern of linear increase of the bacteria in the absence of grazing reflects density-dependent limitation by substrate present at the outset of the incubation and is indicative of a population that has been maintained around the mid-point of the logistic growth curve by grazing. 
40343367|Knowledge of the distribution of Paenibacillus larvae spores, the causative agent of American foulbrood (AFB), among individual adult honey bees is crucial for determining the appropriate number of adult bees to include in apiary composite samples when screening for diseased colonies. To study spore distribution at the individual bee level, 500 honey bees were collected from different parts of eight clinically diseased colonies and individually analyzed for P. larvae. From the brood chamber and from the super, bees were randomly collected and individually put in Eppendorf vials. The samples were frozen as soon as possible after collection. Concurrently with sampling, each colony was visually inspected for clinical symptoms of AFB. The number of clinically diseased cells in the colony was visually estimated. All samples were cultured in the laboratory for P. larvae. The results demonstrate that the spores are not randomly distributed among the bees; some bees have much higher spore loads than others. It is also clear that as the proportion of contaminated bees increase, the number of spores from each positive bee also increases. The data also demonstrated a relationship between the number of clinically diseased cells and the proportion of positive bees in individual colonies. This relationship was used to develop a mathematical formula for estimating the minimum number of bees in a sample to detect clinical disease. The formula takes into account the size of the apiary and the degree of certainty with which one aims to discover clinical symptoms. Calculations using the formula suggest that adult bee samples at the colony level will detect light AFB infections with a high probability. However, the skewed spore distribution of the adult bees makes composite sampling at the apiary level more problematic, if the aim of the sampling is to locate lightly infected individual colonies within apiaries. The results suggest that false-negative culturing results from composite samples of adult bees from individual colonies with clinical symptoms of AFB are highly improbable. However, if single colonies have light infections in large apiaries, the dilution effect from uncontaminated bees from healthy colonies on the positive bees from diseased colonies may yield false-negative results at the apiary level.
25153074| The McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica form the coldest and driest ecosystem on Earth. Within this region there are a number of perennially ice-covered (3-6 m thick) lakes that support active microbial assemblages and have a paucity of metazoans. These lakes receive limited allochthonous input of carbon and nutrients, and primary productivity is limited to only 6 months per year owing to an absence of sunlight during the austral winters. In an effort to establish the role that bacteria and their associated viruses play in carbon and nutrient cycling in these lakes, indigenous bacteria, free bacteriophage, and lysogen abundances were determined. Total bacterial abundances (TDC) ranged from 3.80  10 to 2.58  10 cells mL and virus-like particle (VLP) abundances ranged from 2.26  10 to 5.56  10 VLP mL. VLP abundances were significantly correlated (P &lt; 0.05) with TDC, bacterial productivity (TdR), chlorophyll a (Chl a), and soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP). Lysogenic bacteria, determined by induction with mitomycin C, made up between 2.0% and 62.5% of the total population of bacteria when using significant decreases and increases in TDC and VLP abundances, respectively, and 89.5% when using increases in VLP abundances as the sole criterion for a successful induction event. The contribution of viruses released from induced lysogens contributed &lt;0.015% to the total viral production rate. Carbohydrate and protein based organic aggregates were abundant within the water column of the lakes and were heavily colonized by bacteria and VLPs. Alkaline phosphatase activity was detected within the matrix of the aggregates, implying phosphorus deficiency and consortial nutrient exchanges among microorganisms. 
41489215|Microfungi that inhabit floral nectar offer unique opportunities for the study of microbial distribution and the role that dispersal limitation may play in generating distribution patterns. Flowers are well-replicated habitat islands, among which the microbes disperse via pollinators. This metapopulation system allows for investigation of microbial distribution at multiple spatial scales. We examined the distribution of the yeast, Metschnikowia reukaufii, and other fungal species found in the floral nectar of the sticky monkey flower, Mimulus aurantiacus, a hummingbird-pollinated shrub, at a California site. We found that the frequency of nectar-inhabiting microfungi on a given host plant was not significantly correlated with light availability, nectar volume, or the percent cover of M aurantiacus around the plant, but was significantly correlated with the location of the host plant and loosely correlated with the density of flowers on the plant. These results suggest that dispersal limitation caused by spatially nonrandom foraging by pollinators may be a primary factor driving the observed distribution pattern.
4287750|The abundance, distribution, and phylogenetic diversity of members of the Fe(III)-reducing family Geobacteraceae were studied along a gradient of metal contaminants in Lake Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. Partial 16S rRNA gene fragments were amplified by PCR using primers directed toward conserved regions of the gene within the family Geobacteraceae. Analysis of amplicons separated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) suggested within-site variation was as great as between-site variation. Amplicons were cloned and grouped by RFLP type and DGGE migration distance and representatives were sequenced. Grouping clones with 3% or less sequence dissimilarity, 15 distinct phylotypes were identified compared to 16 distinct DGGE bands. Only 1 phylotype was recovered from all sites. This clone, B14, is most closely related to Geobacter metallireducens and constituted a greater portion of the pristine community than of the contaminated communities. A second phylotype, Q2, predominated in the contaminated communities and was notably absent from the pristine libraries. Clone Q2 presents a high degree of sequence similarity to two Geobacter spp. previously isolated from this region of Lake Coeur d'Alene. Six phylotypes were unique to the contaminated sediments, whereas two were found only in the pristine sediments. Indices of diversity (Shannon and Simpson) were consistently higher when calculated with DGGE data than when clone library data were used. Most-probable-number PCR and real-time PCR suggested that the Geobacteraceae phylotypes were spread relatively evenly across all three sites along the gradient. Our data indicate that the Geobacteraceae are diverse and abundant in Lake Coeur d'Alene sediments, regardless of metals content. These results provide insight into the ability of dissimilatory Fe(III)-reducing bacteria to colonize habitats with elevated metal concentrations, and they have important implications for the management and remediation of metal-contaminated sites.
4250467|Marine bdellovibrio isolates from the Israeli littoral of the Mediterranean Sea were screened and characterized in terms of host range, temperature and salinity ranges, cation requirement, mutation frequency, and G + C% mole content. Ten types of isolates were distinguished on the basis of these parameters.
41489775|Energy redistribution between growth and maintenance in salt-stressed cells is especially important for bacteria living in estuarine environments. In this study, Gram-negative bacterium Vibrio sp. DSM 14379, isolated from the estuarine waters of the northern Adriatic Sea, was grown aerobically in a peptone-yeast extract medium with different salt concentrations (ranging from 0.3% to 10% (w/v) NaCl). Carbon flux through the central metabolic pathways was determined at low and high salt concentrations. At low salt concentrations, total endogenous respiration, dehydrogenase activity, and net intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration significantly increased, the phosphofructokinase and pyruvate kinase activity decreased, whereas glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity remained unchanged. The carrying capacity of bacterial culture decreased dramatically, indicating a severe metabolic imbalance at low salt concentrations. At high salt concentrations, carrying capacity decreased gradually. There was a large increase in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity, which correlated with a 10-fold increase in concentration of osmoprotectant L-proline. There was no significant change of net intracellular ATP concentration, phosphofructokinase, or pyruvate kinase activity. The results indicate that Vibrio sp. DSM 14379 central metabolic pathways respond to low and high salt concentrations asymmetrically; cells are better adapted to high salt concentrations. In addition, cells in the stationary phase can tolerate induced salt stress without a significant change in dehydrogenase activity or endogenous respiration for at least 1 h, but need to alter their macromolecular composition and carbon flux distribution for long-term survival.
4251266| Motile Aeromonas hydrophila strains were recovered from several freshwater sources by spread-plating water samples on starch-ampicillin agar, originally described as a medium for recovering Aeromonas hydrophila quantitatively from foods. Starch-ampicillin agar was compared with membrane Aeromonas medium and Rimler-Shotts medium for selectivity for, and recovery of, Aeromonas strains from freshwater. Thirty-four Aeromonas strains thus isolated were identified to species level by their phenotypic characteristics, and the Mol% G+C of representative strains was determined. Although resistant to 10 g of the vibriostatic agent 0/129, all these strains showed sensitivity to 150 g 0/129, which brings into question the use of this agent for distinguishing aeromonads from vibrios. The ability of these strains to produce extracellular virulence factors was generally similar to that reported for environmental strains isolated by other methods from various geographical locations within and beyond Australia. Ten of the 20 A. sobria strains, but none of the A. hydrophila or A. caviae strains, produced enterotoxin as shown by the suckling mouse test. Haemolysin was produced by 9/10 of the enterotoxigenic A. sobria strains and 2/9 A. hydrophila strains. Hemagglutinating activity was detected in 5/20 A. sobria and 7/9 A. hydrophila strains, and was inhibited by fucose and mannose, but not by galactose. The characteristics of these strains were comparable with those of Aeromonas strains isolated from other freshwater environments apart from their sensitivity to 0/129. 
4251744|This minireview explores the energetics of the (anaerobic) oxidative and fermentative degradation of halogenated ethenes and ethanes. It is shown that these pathways are viable alternatives to the traditional routes that start with one or more reductive dechlorination steps. In contrast to reductive dehalogenation, oxidative and fermentative degradation pathways do not require an external source of reducing equivalents. This suggests that organisms that use these pathways are most likely to be found at high redox potentials, i.e, under conditions where competition for reducing equivalents is great.
40605700|Nodularia spumigena is one of the dominating species during the extensive cyanobacterial blooms in the Baltic Sea. The blooms coincide with strong light, stable stratification, low ratios of dissolved inorganic nitrogen, and dissolved inorganic phosphorus. The ability of nitrogen fixation, a high tolerance to phosphorus starvation, and different photo-protective strategies (production of mycosporine-like amino acids, MAAs) may give N. spumigena a competitive advantage over other phytoplankton during the blooms. To elucidate the interactive effects of ambient UV radiation and nutrient limitation on the performance of  spumigena, an outdoor experiment was designed. Two radiation treatments photosynthetic active radiation (PAR) and PAR +UV-A + UV-B (PAB) and three nutrient treatments were established: nutrient replete (NP), nitrogen limited (-N), and phosphorus limited (-P). Variables measured were specific growth rate, heterocyst frequency, cell volume, cell concentrations of MAAs, photosynthetic pigments, particulate carbon (POC), particulate nitrogen (PON), and particulate phosphorus (POP). Ratios of particulate organic matter were calculated: POC/PON, POC/POP, and PON/POP. There was no interactive effect between radiation and nutrient limitation on the specific growth rate of N. spumigena, but there was an overall effect of phosphorus limitation on the variables measured. Interaction effects were observed for some variables; cell size (larger cells in -P PAB compared to other treatments) and the carotenoid canthaxanthin (highest concentration in -N PAR). In addition, significantly less POC and PON (mol cell) were found in -P PAR compared to -P PAB, and the opposite radiation effect was observed in -N. Our study shows that despite interactive effects on some of the variables studied, N. spumigena tolerate high ambient UVR also under nutrient limiting conditions and maintain positive growth rate even under severe phosphorus limitation.
4251536|A polymerase chain reaction and an oligonucleotide probe method were developed for the specific detection and identification of the Gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas stutzeri. This is an important species in environmental studies and can also be present in clinical samples. The primers for the amplification and the probe were designed from the analysis of 16S rRNA sequences. The PCR/oligonucleotide probe method, in combination with a direct lysis DNA extraction and an effective purification method, is an alternative to viable methods for the detection of P. stutzeri in environmental samples.
4251530|Due to the increasing interest in the effects of exopolymers on microbial activities, two Pseudomonas sp. strains, JS1 (possesses capsular exopolymer) and JS150 (unencapsulated), were compared for their ability to degrade a variety of organic compounds under a number of different conditions. Degradation kinetics for citrate, salicylate, phenol, toluene, and 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene were identical for both strains in liquid media, regardless of cell density. JS1 and JS150 grew on citrate at the same rate in sand, sterile surface soil, and sterile subsurface sediments. The biodegradation curves for toluene by cells pregrown on citrate in any of the above matrices were indistinguishable. Twofold differences in water content and carbon-to-nitrogen ratios of 0.032 or 320 did not result in any apparent differences in phenol degradation by either encapsulated or unencapsulated cells in sand. These results indicate that generalizations about the effects of exopolymers on microbial processes may not be possible without further research.
4250800| Two urease-positive Vibrio spp. were isolated from a brown shark (Carcharhinus plumbeus) that died in captivity at a national aquarium. Morphological, biochemical, and molecular genetic studies revealed one of the isolates to be V. damsela; the other isolate was unique and has been classified as V. carchariae sp. nov. Both V. damsela and V. carchariae were found to be virulent for spiny dogfish (Squalus acanthias), causing death in less than 18 hours after intraperitoneal injection of ca. 4  10
4251026| The effects of temperature on rates of mineralization of
41412446|We have designed and utilized degenerate primers in the phylogenetic analysis of [FeFe] hydrogenase gene diversity in the gut ecosystems of roaches and lower termites. H is an important free intermediate in the breakdown of wood by termite gut microbial communities, reaching concentrations in some species exceeding those measured for any other biological system. The primers designed target with specificity the largest group of enzymatic H domain proteins previously identified in a termite gut metagenome. "Family 3" hydrogenase sequences were amplified from the guts of lower termites, Incisitermes minor, Zootermopsis nevadensis, and Reticulitermes hesperus, and two roaches, Cryptocercus punctulatus and Periplaneta americana. Subsequent analyses revealed that all termite and Cryptocercus sequences were phylogenetically distinct from non-termiteassociated hydrogenases available from public databases. The abundance of unique sequence operational taxonomic units (as many as 21 from each species) underscores the previously demonstrated physiological importance of H to the gut ecosystems of these wood-feeding insects. The diversity of sequences observed might be reflective of multiple niches that the enzymes have been evolved to accommodate. Sequences cloned from Cryptocercus and the lower termite samples, all of which are wood feeding insects, clustered closely with one another in phylogenetic analyses to the exclusion of aleles from R americana, an omnivorous cockroach, also cloned during this study. We present primers targeting a family of termite gut [FeFe] hydrogenases and provide results that are consistent with a pivotal role for hydrogen in the termite gut ecosystem and point toward unique evolutionary adaptations to the gut ecosystem.
4250520|Chemotaxis in marine bacteria is shown to be the basis for instream location in flowing water. The response is of importance in the location of prey by motile bacterial predators.
25256170|More and more studies have indicated that myxobacteria are able to live in seawater conditions, which, however, can decrease the fruiting body formation ability and also the adventurous (A) and social (S) motility systems of the myxobacteria. To learn the adaptation mechanism of the salt-tolerant myxobacteria to marine conditions, we analyzed 10 salt-tolerant Myxococcus strains of their fruiting body formation and motility. The isolates were from marine samples and possessed different levels of salt tolerance. They had the dual motility system and formed fruiting bodies in the presence of suitable seawater concentrations. Some high salt-tolerant strains even lost their fruiting abilities in the absence of seawater. In response to the presence of seawater, the S-motility was found to be increased in the high salt-tolerants but decreased in the low salt-tolerants. The A-motility, on the other hand, was observed in all the salt-tolerant Myxococcus strains, but increased or decreased in response to the presence of seawater. Perceived shifts of fruiting body formation abilities and motilities discovered in the salt-tolerant Myxococcus strains suggested an ecological adaptation of myxobacterial social behaviors to the marine environments.
4251340|Systematic sampling of 21 sites covering Hamilton Harbour (Lake Ontario, Canada) was carried out during the summer in 1990 and 1991 in order to study how well environmental factors, such as O
40926455|A microbial census on deep biosphere (1.34 km depth) microbial communities was performed in two soil samples collected from the Ross and number 6 Winze sites of the former Homestake gold mine, Lead, South Dakota using high-density 16S microarrays (PhyloChip). Soil mineralogical characterization was carried out using X-ray diffraction, X-ray photoelectron, and Mssbauer spectroscopie techniques which demonstrated silicates and iron minerals (phyllosilicates and clays) in both samples. Microarray data revealed extensive bacterial diversity in soils and detected the largest number of taxa in Proteobacteria phylum followed by Firmicutes and Actinobacteria. The archael communities in the deep gold mine environments were less diverse and belonged to phyla Euryarchaeota and Crenarchaeota. Both the samples showed remarkable similarities in microbial communities (1,360 common OTUs) despite distinct geochemical characteristics. Fifty-seven phylotypes could not be classified even at phylum level representing a hitherto unidentified diversity in deep biosphere. PhyloChip data also suggested considerable metabolic diversity by capturing several physiological groups such as sulfur-oxidizer, ammonia-oxidizers, iron-oxidizers, methane-oxidizers, and sulfate-reducers in both samples. High-density microarrays revealed the greatest prokaryotic diversity ever reported from deep subsurface habitat of gold mines.
4251142| We compared the metabolism of eight di- and trichlorobiphenyls by eight bacterial strains chosen to represent a broad range of degradative activity against polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). The PCB congeners used were 2,3-, 2,3-, 2,4-, 3,3-, 2,3,3-, 2,4,4-, 2,5,3-, and 3,4,2-chlorobiphenyl. The bacterial strains used were Corynebacterium sp. MB1, Alcaligenes strains A. eutrophus H850 and A. faecalis Pi434, and Pseudomonas strains LB400 and H1130, P. testosteroni H430 and H336, and P. cepacia H201. The results indicated that both the relative rates of primary degradation of PCBs and the choice of the ring attacked were dependent on the bacterial strain used. The bacterial strains exhibited considerable differences in their relative reactivity preferences for attack on mono- and dichlorophenyl groups and in the degree to which the attack was affected by the chlorine substitution pattern on the nonreacting ring. For MB1 the reactivity pattern was 3-4->>2-chlorophenyl with no attack on 2,4- or 2,5-chlorophenyl groups. This strain was relatively insensitive to the chlorine substitution pattern on the nonreacting ring. Strains H1130, H430, H201, and Pi434 exhibited the same reactivity preferences as MB1, but for these strains (and for all others tested) the chlorination pattern on the nonreacting ring had a strong effect. For strain H336 the reactivity preference was 4-2->2,4-3-chlorophenyl, with no evidence of attack on 2,5-chlorophenyl rings. For strains H850 and LB400 the relative reactivity was 2->2,5->3->>2,4->4-chlorophenyl. On this basis we propose that the eight bacterial strains represent four distinct classes of biphenyl/PCB-dioxygenase activity. The types of products formed were largely strain-independent and were determined primarily by the chlorine substitution pattern on the reacting ring. When the reacting ring was an unsubstituted phenyl or a 2-chlorophenyl group, the products were chlorobenzoic acids in high yields; for a 3-chlorophenyl ring, both chlorobenzoic acids and chloroacetophenones in moderate yields; and for a 4- or 2,4-chlorophenyl group, chlorobenzoic acids in low yields with an apparent accumulation of meta ring-fission product. Strains H850 and LB400 were able to degrade the 3-chlorobenzoic acid that they produced from the degradation of 2,3-chlorobiphenyl. We conclude that despite differences among strains in the specificity of the initial dioxygenase, the specificities of the enzymes responsible for the subsequent degradation to chlorobenzoic acid and/or chloroacetophenone are quite similar for all strains. 
4251069| Water is a critical ecological factor in substrate dense matric ecosystems, of which composting systems are an example. Excessive moisture inhibits aerobic metabolism because of oxygen diffusion limitations. How a lack of water impedes composting activity has not been previously considered. An investigation of the relationship of matric water potential (water held by physical attractions) to gravimetric water content was carried out in a laboratory composting system using a sewage sludge and wood chip substrate. The gravimetric-matric water relationship was best fit by a 2 polynomial regression of y = 64.049 - 0.142 x, and R = 0.95. It is proposed that the commonly observed failure of composting to occur under drier conditions is a physical limitation, that is bacteria progressively fail to physically colonize the substrate as matric potential decreases below approximately -20 kPa. In physically mixed systems, agitation and introduction of inoculum may promote colonization, permitting composting to be initiated and proceed at lower moisture contents. In nonmixed systems, promotion of thorough initial colonization may permit composting to continue in the presence of significant drying. 
4250895|Filibacter limicola is a filamentous gliding bacterium isolated from the profundal sediment of a eutrophic lake. It is an obligate amino acid utilizer. The kinetic parameters for the metabolism of four amino acids by F. limicola, Vitreoscilla spp. and the bacterial populations of water and sediment samples were compared. F. limicola exhibited low half-saturation constants (K) which were of the same order as those obtained with water samples. The K values for the Vitreoscilla spp. and the sediment were an order of magnitude higher. It would appear that the bacterium is a specialist, inhabiting a niche which is sufficiently nutrient rich to support an organism with a limited substrate range. It also possesses a high affinity uptake system for some amino acids which may permit it to compete effectively during periods of nutrient depletion.
41412423|Members of the rare microbiome can be important components of complex microbial communities. For example, pet dog ownership is a known risk factor for human campylobacteriosis, and Campylobacter is commonly detected in dog feces by targeted assays. However, these organisms have not been detected by metagenomic methods. The goal of this study was to characterize fecal microbiota from healthy and diarrheic pet dogs using two different levels of molecular detection. PCR amplification and pyrosequencing of the universal cpn60 gene target was used to obtain microbial profiles from each dog. To investigate the relatively rare epsilon-proteobacteria component of the microbiome, a molecular enrichment was carried out using a PCR that first amplified the cpn10-cpn60 region from epsilon-proteobacteria, followed by universal cpn60 target amplification and pyrosequencing. From the non-enriched survey, the major finding was a significantly higher proportion of Bactemidetes, notably Bacteroides vulgatus, in healthy dogs compared to diarrheic dogs. Epsilon-proteobacteria from the genera Helicobacter and Campylobacter were also detected at a low level in the non-enriched profiles of some dogs. Molecular enrichment increased the proportion of epsilon-proteobacteria sequences detected from each dog, as well as identified novel, presumably rare sequences not seen in the non-enriched profiles. Enriched profiles contained known species of Arcobacter, Campylobacter, Flexispira, and Helicobacter and identified two possibly novel species. These findings add to our understanding of the canine fecal microbiome in general, the epsilon-proteobacteria component specifically, and present a novel modification to traditional metagenomic approaches for study of the rare microbiome.
4287642|In laboratory experiments, bacterioplankton were incubated under different nutrient conditions, and the percentage of bacteria exhibiting a polysaccharidic capsule (capsulated bacteria) and that of CTC (cyanotetrazolium chloride)-positive and therefore metabolically highly active bacteria were determined. In these seawater cultures amended with nutrients more than 95% of the CTC-positive cells exhibited a capsule. During two cruises, one to the North Atlantic and one to the North Sea, we investigated the distribution of capsulated bacteria throughout the water column. Capsulated bacteria were generally more abundant in eutrophic surface waters than in deeper layers or more oligotrophic regions. In the upper 100 m of the North Atlantic, about 6-14% of the total bacterioplankton community was capsulated, while in the layers below 100 m depth, 97% of the bacteria lacked a visible capsule. The percentage of capsulated bacteria correlated with bacterial abundance and production, and chlorophyll a concentration. Also, the bioavailability of DOC (dissolved organic carbon), estimated by the ratio between bacterial production and DOC concentration, significantly correlated with the percentage of capsulated bacteria. In the North Sea, the contribution of capsulated bacteria to the total number of bacteria decreased from the surface (3 m depth) to the near-bottom (25-35 m) layers from 20% to 14% capsulated bacteria. In the nearshore area of the North Sea, about 27% of the bacteria exhibited a capsule. Overall, a pronounced decrease in the contribution of capsulated bacteria to the total bacterial abundance was detectable from the eutrophic coastal environment to the open North Atlantic. Using this epifluorescence-based technique to enumerate capsulated bacterioplankton thus allowed us to routinely assess the number of capsulated bacteria even in the oceanic water column. Based on the data obtained in this study we conclude that almost all metabolically highly active bacteria exhibit a capsule, but also some of the metabolically less active cells express a polysaccharide capsule detectable with this method.
25153118|Can diet have a significant impact on the ability of organisms to sense and locate food? Focusing on the bacterial feeder Caenorhabditis elegans, we investigated what effect preconditioning on a range of bacterial substrates had on the subsequent chemotaxis process involved in the nematode locating other bacterial populations. Remarkably, we found that C. elegans, initially fed on a diet of Escherichia coli OP50, was significantly impaired in finding E. coli OP50 populations, compared to other available bacterial populations (P &lt; 0.001). We found similar results for another bacterial feeding nematode species, suggesting that a general "substrate legacy" may operate across a wide range of organisms. We discuss this important finding with respect to the variation in response exhibited within a given nematode population, and the impact nematode migration has on bacterial dispersal in the environment.
4287509|To study the responses of forests to global change, model ecosystems consisting of beech and spruce trees were maintained in open top chambers for 4 years under four conditions, namely with normal and elevated CO
4251830|Microbial population changes were monitored immediately after the Nakhodka oil spill accident in January 1997 at the heavily oil-contaminated Mikuni coast along the Sea of Japan. The total cell number was almost stable for one year at
41489203|Small filter-feeding Zooplankton organisms like the cladoceran Daphnia spp. are key members of freshwater food webs. Although several interactions between Daphnia and bacteria have been investigated, the importance of the microbial communities inside Daphnia guts has been studied only poorly so far. In the present study, we characterised the bacterial community composition inside the digestive tract of a laboratory-reared clonal culture of Daphnia magna using 16S rRNA gene libraries and terminal-restriction length polymorphism fingerprint analyses. In addition, the diversity and stability of the intestinal microbial community were investigated over time, with different food sources as well as under starvation stress and death, and were compared to the community in the cultivation water. The diversity of the Daphnia gut microbiota was low. The bacterial community consisted mainly of Betaproteobacteria (e.g. Limnohabitans sp.), few Gammaproteobacteria (e. g. Pseudomonas sp.) and Bacteroidetes that were related to facultatively anaerobic bacteria, but did not contain typical fermentative or obligately anaerobic gut bacteria. Rather, the microbiota was constantly dominated by Limnohabitans sp. which belongs to the Lhab-Al tribe (previously called R-BT065 cluster) that is abundant in various freshwaters. Other bacterial groups varied distinctly even under constant cultivation conditions. Overall, the intestinal microbial community did not reflect the community in the surrounding cultivation water and clustered separately when analysed via the Additive Main Effects and Multiplicative Interaction model. In addition, the microbiota proved to be stable also when Daphnia were exposed to bacteria associated with a different food alga. After starvation, the community in the digestive tract was reduced to stable members. After death of the host animals, the community composition in the gut changed distinctly, and formerly undetected bacteria were activated. Our results suggest that the Daphnia microbiota consists mainly of an aerobic resident bacterial community which is indigenous to this habitat.
4250472|Yeasts were isolated from the rotting stems of 7 species of cereoid cacti and 4 species of Drosophila which utilize them as host plants. The yeast most common among 132 nonidentical isolates from the cacti and 187 nonidentical isolates from the flies, respectively, were: Pichia membranaefaciens (59 and 126), Candida ingens (22 and 8), Torulopsis sonorensis (16 and 20), and Cryptococcus cereanus (11 and 14). Isolates capable of utilizing D-xylose were recovered primarily from D. pachea and L. schotti. Adult flies were present on the substrates when P. membranaefaciens was at high concentrations. As the pH of the substrates increased, the percent of C. ingens cells increased relative to other yeast species. Larvae were detected mainly in alkaline substrates, and since adults did not yield C. ingens to the extent the substrates did, C. ingens may be important in larval nutrition. Torulopsis sonorensis was recovered mainly from D. mojavensis and its host plants, M. gummosus and L. thurberi. The concentration of T. sonorensis in the substrates was negatively correlated with the temperature of the substrate. Cryptococcus cereanus was found in high concentrations in suitable tissues for adult flies but most adults did not yield this species to any extent. The yeast habitat diversities from the substrates had the following order: L. thurberi> C. gigantea > C. gigantea soils >> M. gummosus > L. schotti > others. Habitat diversity is discussed in relation to the variation of the physical conditions and chemical composition of the substrates. The yeast habitat diversities from the flies had the order D. pachea > D. mojavensis >> D. nigrospiracula > undescribed Species M. The degree of habitat diversity is possibly a function of the surface feeding behavior of the flies.
27770612|The ecological importance of microbial symbioses in terrestrial soils is widely recognized, but their role in soils that accumulate in forest canopies is almost entirely unknown. To address this gap, this study investigated the FrankiaAlnus rubra symbiosis in canopy and forest floor roots at Olympic National Park, WA, USA. Sixteen mature A. rubra trees were surveyed and Frankia genetic diversity in canopy and forest floor nodules was assessed with sequence-based nifH analyses. A seedling bioassay experiment was conducted to determine Frankia propagule availability in canopy and forest floor soils. Total soil nitrogen from both environments was also quantified. Nodules were present in the canopies of nine of the 16 trees sampled. Across the study area, Frankia canopy and forest floor assemblages were similar, with both habitats containing the same two genotypes. The composition of forest floor and canopy genotypes on the same tree was not always identical, however, suggesting that dispersal was not a strictly local phenomenon. Frankia seedling colonization was similar in canopy soils regardless of the presence of nodules as well as in forest floor soils, indicating that dispersal was not likely to be a major limiting factor. The total soil nitrogen of canopy soils was higher than that of forest floor soils, but the presence of Frankia nodules in canopy soils did not significantly alter soil nitrogen levels. Overall, this study indicates that the FrankiaA. rubra symbiosis is similar in canopy and forest floor environments. Because canopy roots are exposed to different environmental conditions within very small spatial areas and because those areas can be easily manipulated (e.g., fertilizer or watering treatments), they present microbial ecologists with a unique arena to examine rootmicrobe interactions.
4250747|The occurrence of Candida albicans in fresh gull (Larus spp.) feces was compared in temperate and subtropical locations. Of 239 fresh samples, 133 were obtained in southeastern Connecticut and 106 from different sites on the southeastern and central western coasts of Florida. Overall, 60% of all feces contained C. albicans. Of the Connecticut samples, 78% were positive, whereas 38% of the Florida samples revealed the presence of the yeast. Only 1 of 24 samples of fresh brown pelican feces contained C. albicans. Differences in C. albicans occurrence in birds in various locations was ascribed to variations in habitat and feeding behavior. Samples of water from a municipal reservoir in Connecticut were routinely positive, with an average cell density of 20/liter. Two fresh gull samples obtained on the reservoir bank contained C. albicans at an average cell concentration of 5, 200/g. The frequency of C. albicans in gull droppings was higher than reported by others, and the yeast is common in temperate waters. These findings have important public health implications.
41489226|Nitrogen-fixing bacteria of the Bradyrhizobium genus are major symbionts of legume plants in American tropical forests, but little is known about the effects of deforestation and change in land use on their diversity and community structure. Forest clearing is followed by cropping of bean {Phaseolus vulgaris) and maize as intercropped plants in Los Tuxtlas tropical forest of Mexico. The identity of bean-nodulating rhizobia in this area is not known. Using promiscuous trap plants, bradyrhizobia were isolated from soil samples collected in Los Tuxtlas undisturbed forest, and in areas where forest was cleared and land was used as crop fields or as pastures, or where secondary forests were established. Rhizobia were also trapped by using bean plants. Bradyrhizobium strains were classified into genospecies by dnaK sequence analysis supported by recA, glnII and 16S-23S rDNA IGS loci analyses. A total of 29 genospecies were identified, 24 of which did not correspond to any described taxa. A reduction in Bradyrhizobium diversity was observed when forest was turned to crop fields or pastures. Diversity seemed to recover to primary forest levels in secondary forests that derived from abandoned crop fields or pastures. The shifts in diversity were not related to soil characteristics but seemingly to the density of nodulating legumes present at each land use system (LUS). Bradyrhizobium community composition in soils was dependent on land use; however, similarities were observed between crop fields and pastures but not among forest and secondary forest. Most Bradyrhizobium genospecies present in forest were not recovered or become rare in the other LUS. Rhizobium etli was found as the dominant bean-nodulating rhizobia present in crop fields and pastures, and evidence was found that this species was introduced in Los Tuxtlas forest.
25153094| Sediment-reworking macrofauna can stimulate nitrification by increasing the O penetration into sediments or it can reduce nitrification by grazing on nitrifying bacteria. We investigated the influence of Chironomus riparius larvae (Insecta: Diptera) on the in situ activity, abundance, and distribution of NH-oxidizing (AOB) and NO-oxidizing bacteria (NOB) in two freshwater sediments with microsensors and fluorescence in situ hybridization. In organic-poor sediment, nitrification activity was reduced by the presence of C. riparius larvae, whereas no such effect was detected in organic-rich sediment. We explain this difference with the variable larval burrowing and grazing behavior in the two sediment types: In organic-poor sediment larval activities were intense and evenly distributed across the whole sediment surface, whereas in organic-rich sediment larval activities were locally restricted to the microenvironment of animal burrows. Surprisingly, the animals did not cause any significant change of the abundance of AOB and NOB. This implies that the observed reduction of nitrification activity was not density-regulated, but rather was due to the lowered metabolic activity of the nitrifiers. Partial digestion and redeposition of particle-associated bacteria by C. riparius larvae are believed to have caused this loss of metabolic activity. 
4251529|CTC (5-cyano-2,3-ditolyl tetrazolium chloride) is a redox indicator that facilitates the detection of microbial electron transport activity due to the fluorescence and water insolubility of the reduced CTC-formazan (CTF). The goal of this work was to establish the relationship between the CTC response (both the numbers of CTF-containing cells and the fluorescence intensity of CTF per cell) and respiration in mixed microbial communities. To obtain CTF-containing cell numbers over a range of respiration rates, aerobic bioreactors with on-line CO
4287518|The change in colony-forming units (CFUs) in saline-stressed Escherichia coli cultures was examined. Exposure of E. coli cells to high saline stress decreased the number of CFUs significantly. When the culture was relieved from the stressful condition, the number of CFUs returned within 2 hr to the same level as before the stress. This recovery in the number of CFUs seemed to be independent of DNA synthesis and cell division, because the same phenomenon was also observed in the presence of nalidixic acid. However, the total cell number enumerated by microscopy was the same before and after relief from saline stress. This phenomenon was considered to be the result of the resuscitation of cells that had been in the VBNC state during saline stress. Our method, in which we examined CFU recovery in the presence of a DNA synthesis inhibitor, might be useful for further VBNC study.
41489098|Microorganisms have been shown to play an important role in shaping the life histories of animals, and it has recently been suggested that feather-degrading bacteria influence the trade-off between parental effort and selfpreening behavior in birds. We studied a wild breeding population of great tits (Parus major) to explore habitat-, seasonal-, and sex-related variation in feather-degrading and free-living bacteria inhabiting the birds' yellow ventral feathers and to investigate associations with body condition. The density and species richness of bacterial assemblages was studied using flow cytometry and ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis. The density of studied bacteria declined between the nest-building period and the first brood. The number of bacterial phylotypes per bird was higher in coniferous habitat, while bacterial densities were higher in deciduous habitat. Free-living bacterial density was positively correlated with female mass; conversely, there was a negative correlation between attached bacterial density and female mass during the period of peak reproductive effort. Bacterial species richness was sex dependent, with more diverse bacterial assemblages present on males than females. Thus, this study revealed that bacterial assemblages on the feathers of breeding birds are affected both by life history and ecological factors and are related to body condition.
25152961| Nickel (Ni) toxicity to growth and photosynthesis was studied in four strains of Scenedesmus acutus f. alternans. Effects of Ni dosage and duration of exposure on growth and photosynthesis were strain specific. Large differences in responses of both growth and photosynthesis to Ni were detected between three resistant strains (B4, Cu-Tol, and Ni-Tol) and one sensitive strain (UTEX 72). Growth of UTEX 72 was 18 times more sensitive to Ni than those of the three resistant strains. The order of Ni dosages (fmol Ni/pg cell dry weight) causing 50% inhibition (DI) of growth rates in the four strains was Ni-Tol (10.5) &gt; B4 (8.19) &gt; Cu-Tol (4.60) &gt; UTEX 72 (0.25). The effect of Ni dosage on photosynthetic rate as percentage of control corresponded to a saturation curve and was a strong function of duration of exposure. The DIs of photosynthetic rates were 3.5 times lower in UTEX 72 than in the three resistant strains, and in all four strains they decreased sharply with the increase in duration of exposure. The order of the four strains in DIs of photosynthetic rate was B4 (58.2) &gt; Cu-Tol (38.0) &gt; Ni-Tol (28.9) &gt; UTEX 72 (8.24) for 6-h exposure and Ni-Tol (2.88) &gt; Cu-Tol (1.30) &gt; B4 (1.01) &gt; UTEX 72 (0.15) for 24-h exposure. The DIs of photosynthetic rate for 6-h exposure were higher than those of growth rate in all four strains, and for 24-h exposure they were lower, except in UTEX 72. Thus, the relative Ni sensitivity of growth and photosynthesis of the four strains depends on the duration of exposure. The results of factorial analysis of variance suggested that Ni toxicity to photosynthesis is a consequence of a strong interaction among strain, Ni dosage, and duration of exposure. 
4287535|Sediment samples were collected monthly from Acton Lake, a eutrophic reservoir located in an agricultural region of southwestern Ohio, from three stations (River, Middle, and Dam) during the period May 1995 through January 1997. Sedimentary microbial biomass and community structures from these stations were studied using phospholipid analysis. At the River and Middle stations, the water column remained aerobic throughout the year, whereas the water overlying the Dam station sediments became anaerobic during summer stratification. Sedimentary microbial biomass at the River and Middle stations, as measured by the phospholipid phosphate (PLP) method, ranged from 225 to 450 nmol PLP g
25153113|We investigated the response of bacterial communities inhabiting two deglaciated soils (10 and 100 years post-deglaciation) to two stimuli: (i) physical disruption (mixing), and (ii) disruption plus nutrient addition. PCR/DGGE analysis of 16S rRNA genes extracted from soil during a 168-h incubation period following the stimuli revealed that more bacterial phylotypes were stimulated in the 10-y soil than in the 100-y soil. In addition to 10-y and 100-y soils, two additional soils (46 and 70 y) were further differentiated using colony-forming curve (CFC) analysis during a 168-h incubation period, which revealed that younger soils contained a higher proportion of rapidly colonizing bacteria than successively older soils. "Eco-collections" of CFC isolates that represented colonies that formed "fast" (during the first 24 h) and "slow" (final 36 h) were harvested from 10-y and 100-y soils and differentiated according to response to three stress parameters: (i) tolerance to nutrient limitation, (ii) tolerance to temperature change, and (iii) resistance to antibiotics. The tested parameters distinguished "fast" from "slow" bacteria regardless of the age of the soil from which they were isolated. Specifically, eco-collections of "fast" bacteria exhibited greater nutrient- and temperature-stress tolerance as well as more frequent antibiotic resistance than "slow" bacteria. Further DGGE analysis showed that several eco-collection phylotype bands matched (electrophoretically) those of soil phylotypes enriched by mixing and nutrient stimulus. Overall, the results of this study indicated that the succession of colony-forming bacteria was differentiated by bacterial opportunism and temporal response to stimuli. Furthermore, although stress tolerance strategies are associated with opportunistic bacteria regardless of successional age, it appears that the proportion of opportunistic bacteria distinguishes early vs late succession forefield bacterial populations.
41412414|The genus Burkholderia comprises more than 60 species isolated from a wide range of niches. Although they have been shown to be diverse and ubiquitously distributed, most studies have thus far focused on the pathogenic species due to their clinical importance. However, the increasing number of recently described Burkholderia species associated with plants or with the environment has highlighted the division of the genus into two main clusters, as suggested by phylogenetical analyses. The first cluster includes human, animal, and plant pathogens, such as Burkholderia glumae, Burkholderia pseudomallei, and Burkholderia mallei, as well as the 17 defined species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex, while the other, more recently established cluster comprises more than 30 nonpathogenic species, which in most cases have been found to be associated with plants, and thus might be considered to be potentially beneficial. Several species from the latter group share characteristics that are of use when associating with plants, such as a quorum sensing system, the presence of nitrogen fixation and/or nodulation genes, and the ability to degrade aromatic compounds. This review examines the commonalities in this growing subgroup of Burkholderia species and discusses their prospective biotechnological applications.
41412395|The viable but nonculturable (VBNC) state has been found to be a growth strategy used by many aquatic pathogens; however, few studies have focused on VBNC state on other aquatic bacterial groups. The purpose of this study was to explore the VBNC state of cyanobacterialysing bacteria and the conditions that regulate their VBNC state transformation. Three cyanobacteria-lysing heterotrophic bacterial strains (Fl, F2 and F3) were isolated with liquid infection method from a lake that has experienced a cyanobacterial bloom. According to their morphological, physiological and biochemical characteristics and results of 16SrDNA sequence analysis, Fl, F2 and F3 were identified as strains of Staphylococcus sp., Stappia sp. and Microbacterium sp., respectively. After being co-cultured with the axenic cyanobacterium, Microcystis aeruginosa 905, for 7 days, strains Fl, F2 and F3 exhibited an inhibition effect on cyanobacterial growth, which was expressed as a reduction in chlorophyll concentration of 96.0%, 94.9% and 84.8%, respectively. Both autoclaved and filtered bacterial cultures still showed lytic effects on cyanobacterial cells while centrifuged pellets were less efficient than other fractions. This indicated that lytic factors were extracelluar and heat-resistant. The environmental conditions that could induce the VBNC state of strain Fl were also studied. Under low temperature (4  C), distilled deionized water (DDW) induced almost 100% of Fl cells to the VBNC state after 6 days while different salinities (1%, 3% and 5% of NaCl solution) and lake water required 18 days. A solution of the cyanobacterial toxin microcystin-LR (MC-LR) crude extract also induced Fl to the VBNC state, and the effect was stronger than DDW. Even the lowest MC-LR concentration (10 g L -1 ) could induce 69.7% of Fl cells into VBNC state after 24 h. On the other hand, addition of Microcystis aeruginosa cells caused resuscitation of VBNC state Fl cells within 1 day, expressed as an increase of viable cell number and a decrease of VBNC ratio. Both VBNC state and culturable state Fl cells showed lytic effects on cyanobacteria, with their VBNC ratio varying during co-culturing with cyanobacteria. The findings indicated that VBNC state transformation of cyanobacteria-lysing bacteria could be regulated by cyanobacterial cells or their toxin, and the transformation may play an important role in cyanobacterial termination.
41489056|This study aimed to detect differences in the richness of total supragingival plaque microbiota as well as the species composition of oral streptococci involved in the different stages of dental caries. Forty-five plaque samples were collected from caries-moderate (CM, 4< dmfs< 6), caries-susceptible (CS, dmfs> 10), and age-matched caries-free children separately. Total DNA was isolated directly from each sample, and polymerase chain reactiondenaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) analyses using universal and primers specific for oral streptococci were carried out. Using 16S rDNA PCRDGGE, 34 different species of bacteria were identified in a culture-independent manner and classified into 11 genera according to phylogenetic analysis. Among them, Mitis group streptococci and Campylobacter, which were present in health status, no longer appeared in caries-susceptible samples. In addition, Capnocytophaga, Burkholderia, and Prevotella were found significantly less frequently in the CS group samples (P<0.05), while there were no significant differences among the prevalence of Neisseria, Leptotrichia, Haemophilus, Mutans group streptococci, Corynebacterium, and Actinomyces in the three groups. Further DGGE analysis of rnpB gene amplicons obtained with oral streptococci species-specific primers showed that a total of 23 species of oral streptococci were identified. Streptococcus sanguinis, Streptococcus mitis, and Streptococcus oralis showed a significantly higher prevalence in healthy children (P<0.05), while that of Streptococcus mutans and Streptococcus sobnnus did not vary among the three groups. Overall, these results suggest that supragingival plaque microbiota as a whole undergoes a more complicated shift in the caries process.
4250665|Solar salterns, based on a multi-pond system, give a discontinuous gradient of salt concentrations. The heterotrophic bacterial populations of ponds containing from 10% salt to saturation have been studied. Saltern samples were spread on agar plates containing different media for halophilic bacteria and one medium made with water of the pond plus nutrients. Replica plating was done to determine the salt range for growth of the colonies. We studied 150 strains to determine the salt spectra of growth, the morphology, and nutrient requirements. The following conclusions were reached: (a) In salt concentrations above 10% (total salts), most bacteria are halophilic and few are halotolerant; (b) the two types of halophilic bacteria, moderate and extreme, show different distributions; in these ponds a narrow overlap exists between 25% and 32% salts with moderate halophiles predominating below this interval and extreme halophiles above it; (c) the populations of moderate halophiles are highly heterogeneous, and the salt concentration of their habitat affects their taxonomic composition, salt range for growth, and nutrient requirements. The population composition of extreme halophiles is less affected by the salt concentrations at which these bacteria are found.
40343493|Caves offer a stable and protected environment from harsh and changing outside prevailing conditions. Hence, they represent an interesting habitat for studying life in extreme environments. Here, we report the presence of a member of the ancient eukaryote red algae Cyanidium group in a coastal cave of the hyperarid Atacama Desert. This microorganism was found to form a seemingly monospecific biofilm growing under extremely low photon flux levels. Our work suggests that this species, Cyanidium sp. Atacama, is a new member of a recently proposed novel monophyletic lineage of mesophilic "cave" Cyanidium sp., distinct from the remaining three other lineages which are all thermo-acidophilic. The cave described in this work may represent an evolutionary island for life in the midst of the Atacama Desert.
40926464|Unicellular microalgae generally grow in the presence of bacteria, particularly when they are farmed massively. This study analyzes the bacteria associated with mass culture of Botryococcus braunii: both the planktonic bacteria in the water column and those forming biofilms adhered to the surface of the microalgal cells (~10-10 culturable cells per gram microalgae). Furthermore, we identified the culturable bacteria forming a biofilm in the microalgal cells by 16S rDNA sequencing. At least eight different culturable species of bacteria were detected in the biofilm and were evaluated for the presence of quorumsensing signals in these bacteria. Few studies have considered the implications of this phenomenon as regards the interaction between bacteria and microalgae. Production of C4-AHL and C6-AHL were detected in two species, Pseudomonas sp. and Rhizobium sp., which are present in the bacterial biofilm associated with B. braunii. This type of signal was not detected in the planktonic bacteria isolated from the water. We also noted that the bacterium, Rhizobium sp., acted as a probiotic bacterium and significantly encouraged the growth of B. braunii. A direct application of these beneficial bacteria associated with B. braunii could be, to use them like inoculants for large-scale microalgal cultures. They could optimize biomass production by enhancing growth, particularly in this microalga that has a low growth rate.
4251631|To determine if spatial variation in soluble carbon sources along the root coincides with different trophic groups of bacteria, copiotrophic and oligotrophic bacteria were enumerated from bulk soil and rhizosphere samples at 2 cm intervals along wheat roots 2, 3, and 4 weeks after planting. There was a moderate rhizosphere effect in one experiment with soil rich in fresh plant debris, and a very pronounced rhizosphere effect in the second experiment with soil low in organic matter. We obtained wavelike patterns of both trophic groups of bacteria as well as water-soluble total organic carbon (TOC) along the whole root length (60 or 90 cm). TOC concentrations were maximal at the root tip and base and minimal in the middle part of the roots. Oscillations in populations of copiotrophic and oligotrophic bacteria had two maxima close to the root tip and at the root base, or three maxima close to the tip, in the middle section, and at the root base. The location and pattern of the waves in bacterial populations changed progressively from week to week and was not consistently correlated with TOC concentrations or the location of lateral root formation. Thus, the traditional view that patterns in bacterial numbers along the root directly reflect patterns in exudation and rhizodeposition from several fixed sources along the root may not be true. We attributed the observed wavelike patterns in bacterial populations to bacterial growth and death cycles (due to autolysis or grazing by predators). Considering the root tip as a moving nutrient source, temporal oscillations in bacterial populations at any location where the root tip passed would result in moving waves along the root. This change in concept about bacterial populations in the rhizosphere could have significant implications for plant growth promotion and bioremediation.
4287583|The abundance of heterotrophic bacteria and viruses, as well as rates of viral production and virus-mediated mortality, were measured in Discovery Passage and the Strait of Georgia (British Columbia, Canada) along a gradient of tidal mixing ranging from well mixed to stratified. The abundances of bacteria and viruses were approximately 10
41693733|Fungi in gorgonians are now known to cause gorgonian diseases, but little attention has been paid to the nature of fungal communities associated with gorgonians. The diversity of culturable fungi associated with six species of healthy South China Sea gorgonians were investigated using a culture-dependent method followed by analysis of fungal internal transcribed spacer sequences. A total of 121 fungal isolates were recovered and identified using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool search program. These belonged to 41 fungal species from 20 genera. Of these, 30 species and 12 genera are new reports for gorgonians, and the genera Aspergillus and Penicillium were the most diverse and common in the six gorgonian species. Comparison of the fungal communities in the six gorgonian species, together with results from previous relevant studies, indicated that different gorgonian species and the same gorgonian species living in different geographic locations had different fungal communities. The gorgonian Dichotella gemmacea harbored the most fungal species and isolates, while Echinogorgia aurantiaca had the least fungal diversity. Among the six media used for fungal isolation, potato glucose agar yielded the highest isolates (27 isolates), while glucose peptone starch agar had the best recoverability of fungal species (15 species). The antimicrobial activity of the 121 fungal isolates was tested against three marine bacteria and two marine gorgonian pathogenic fungi. A relatively high proportion (38 %) of fungal isolates displayed distinct antibacterial and antifungal activity, suggesting that the gorgonian-associated fungi may aid their hosts in protection against pathogens. This is the first report comparing the diversity of fungal communities among the South China Sea gorgonians. It contributes to our knowledge of gorgonian-associated fungi and further increases the pool of fungi available for natural bioactive product screening.
40605770|A microarray spotted with 369 different 16S rRNA gene probes specific to microorganisms involved in the degradation process of organic waste during composting was developed. The microarray was tested with pure cultures, and of the 30,258 individual probe-target hybridization reactions performed, there were only 188 false positive (0.62%) and 22 false negative signals (0.07%). Labeled target DNA was prepared by polymerase chain reaction amplification of 16S rRNA genes using a Cy5-labeled universal bacterial forward primer and a universal reverse primer. The COMPOCHIP microarray was applied to three different compost types (green compost, manure mix compost, and anaerobic digestate compost) of different maturity (2, 8, and 16 weeks), and differences in the microorganisms in the three compost types and maturity stages were observed. Multivariate analysis showed that the bacterial composition of the three composts was different at the beginning of the composting process and became more similar upon maturation. Certain probes (targeting Sphingobacterium, Actinomyces, Xylella/Xanthomonas/Stenotrophomonas, Microbacterium, Verrucomicrobia, Planctomycetes, Low G + C and Alphaproteobacteria) were more influential in discriminating between different composts. Results from denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis supported those of microarray analysis. This study showed that the COMPOCHIP array is a suitable tool to study bacterial communities in composts.
41489766|Non-lactating dairy cattle were transitioned to a high-concentrate diet to investigate the effect of ruminai pH suppression, commonly found in dairy cattle, on the density, diversity, and community structure of rumen methanogens, as well as the density of rumen protozoa. Four ruminally cannulated cows were fed a hay diet and transitioned to a 65% grain and 35% hay diet. The cattle were maintained on an high-concentrate diet for 3 weeks before the transition back to an hay diet, which was fed for an additional 3 weeks. Rumen fluid and solids and fecal samples were obtained prior to feeding during weeks 0 (hay), 1, and 3 (high-concentrate), and 4 and 6 (hay). Subacute ruminai acidosis was induced during week 1. During week 3 of the experiment, there was a significant increase in the number of protozoa present in the rumen fluid (P= 0.049) and rumen solids (P= 0.004), and a significant reduction in protozoa in the rumen fluid in week 6 (P=0.003). No significant effect of diet on density of rumen methanogens was found in any samples, as determined by real-time PCR. Clone libraries were constructed for weeks 0, 3, and 6, and the methanogen diversity of week 3 was found to differ from week 6. Week 3 was also found to have a significantly altered methanogen community structure, compared to the other weeks. Twenty-two unique 16S rRNA phylotypes were identified, three of which were found only during high-concentrate feeding, three were found during both phases of hay feeding, and seven were found in all three clone libraries. The genus Methanobrevibacter comprised 99% of the clones present. The rumen fluid at weeks 0, 3, and 6 of all the animals was found to contain a type A protozoal population. Ultimately, high-concentrate feeding did not significantly affect the density of rumen methanogens, but did alter methanogen diversity and community structure, as well as protozoal density within the rumen of nonlactating dairy cattle. Therefore, it may be necessary to monitor the rumen methanogen and protozoal communities of dairy cattle susceptible to depressed pH when methane abatement strategies are being investigated.
41489177|The method of continuous thermophilic composting (CTC) remarkably shortened the active composting cycle and enhanced the compost stability. Effects of CTC on the quantities of bacteria, with a comparison to the traditional composting (TC) method, were explored by plate count with incubation at 30,40 and 50C, respectively, and by quantitative PCR targeting the universal bacterial 16S rRNA genes and the Bacillus 16S rRNA genes. The comparison of cultivatable or uncultivatable bacterial numbers indicated that CTC might have increased the biomass of bacteria, especially Bacillus spp., during the composting. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis was employed to investigate the effects of CTC on bacterial diversity, and a community dominated by fewer species was detected in a typical CTC run. The analysis of sequence and phylogeny based on DGGE indicated that the continuously high temperature had changed the structure of bacterial commu- nity and strengthened the mainstay role of the thermophilic and spore-forming Bacillus spp. in CTC run.
41489239|In fungus-growing termites, fungi of the subgenus Pseudoxylaria threaten colony health through substrate competition with the termite fungus (Termitomyces). The potential mechanisms with which termites suppress Pseudoxylaria have remained unknown. Here we explore if Actinobacteria potentially play a role as defensive symbionts against Pseudoxylaria in fungus-growing termites. We sampled for Actinobacteria from 30 fungus-growing termite colonies, spanning the three main termite genera and two geographically distant sites. Our isolations yielded 360 Actinobacteria, from which we selected subsets for morphological (288 isolates, grouped in 44 morphotypes) and for 16S rRNA (35 isolates, spanning the majority of morphotypes) characterisation. Actinobacteria were found throughout all sampled nests and colony parts and, phylogenetically, they are interspersed with Actinobacteria from origins other than fungus-growing termites, indicating lack of specificity. Antibiotic-activity screening of 288 isolates against the fungal cultivar and competitor revealed that most of the Actinobacteria-produced molecules with antifungal activity. A more detailed bioassay on 53 isolates, to test the specificity of antibiotics, showed that many Actinobacteria inhibit both Pseudoxylaria and Termitomyces, and that the cultivar fungus generally is more susceptible to inhibition than the competitor. This suggests that either defensive symbionts are not present in the system or that they, if present, represent a subset of the community isolated. If so, the antibiotics must be used in a targeted fashion, being applied to specific areas by the termites. We describe the first discovery of an assembly of antibiotic-producing Actinobacteria occurring in fungus-growing termite nests. However, due to the diversity found, and the lack of both phylogenetic and bioactivity specificity, further work is necessary for a better understanding of the putative role of antibiotic-producing bacteria in the fungus-growing termite mutualistic system.
25153087| The influence of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) enrichments on cell-normalized carbon uptake rate, chlorophyll a content, and apparent cell size of a picoeukaryote (&lt;1 m) (Ostreococcus tauri, the smallest eukaryotic cell) from a natural summer phytoplanktonic assemblage (&lt;200 m) in a northern Mediterranean Lagoon (Thau Lagoon) was studied in 20-L enclosures in June 1995. The natural planktonic community was incubated in situ for 24 h with initial ammonium and nitrate enrichments and compared to a control without enrichment. O. tauri cell-normalized productivity was estimated from the combination of flow cytometric (FCM) enumeration and 2-h (radioactive) carbonate incorporation measured on post-incubation size fractions (&lt;1 m). No difference between the effects of the two DIN sources of enrichment on the studied biological parameters was measured during this experiment. Growth of natural O. tauri was perturbed by the low DIN availability in the control with drastic changes in cell productivity, chlorophyll content, and cell cycle (from the variations in apparent cell size) as compared to the DIN sufficiency conditions. On the other hand, a very high specific growth rate for natural O. tauri, up to 8 day under DIN enrichments, has been estimated from production and abundance data obtained during this experiment. This supports values measured in culture and suggests that the yearly high contribution of picophytoplankton to the total primary production in Thau Lagoon is likely to be due to their high growth rate rather than the previously suggested lack of grazing pressure. 
4251070|Five chemolithotrophic bacteria were tested for their ability to incorporate
23597815|Highly cellulolytic bacterial species such as Ruminococcus flavefaciens are regarded essential for the microbial breakdown of cellulose in the rumen. We have investigated the effect of ruminal dosing of R. flavefaciens strain 8/94-32 during realimentation of starved reindeer (males, n=3). Microbiome function measured as in situ digestion of cellulose and food pellets (percent DMD; dry matter disappearance) decreased after probiotic dosing. Microbial community analyses (>100,000 16S rDNA gene sequences for 27 samples) demonstrated that ruminal dosing influenced the microbiome structure; reflected by increased phylogenetic distances from background samples (unweighted UniFrac analysis) and reduced species diversity and evenness. Despite the inability to detect strain 8/94-32 post-dosing, the relative abundance of its affiliate family Ruminococcaceae remained consistent throughout the trial, whilst a dominant peak in the genus Prevotella and decline in uncharacterized Bacteroidetes (uBacNR) were observed in treatment samples. No clear relationships were observed between the relative abundance of Ruminococcaceae, Prevotella and uBacNR with cellulose DMD; however, Prevotella (negative) and uBacNR (positive) exhibited relationships with pellet DMD. These unexpected effects of ruminal dosing of a cellulolytic bacterium on digestibility are relevant for other studies on rumen manipulation.
23469149|To obtain genetic information and to evaluate the composition of T4-type bacteriophage (phage) communities in wetlands, environmental soil and water DNAs were obtained from two natural wetlands dominated by Carex lasiocarpa and Deyeuxia angustifolia plant species, and a neighboring paddy field in Sanjiang plain of northeast China. The biomarker gene of g23, which encodes the major capsid protein of T4-type phages, was amplified with primers MZIA1bis and MZIA6, and the PCR products were cloned and sequenced. In total, 96 and 50 different g23 clones were obtained from natural wetlands and a paddy field, respectively. A larger number of clones with low levels of identity to known sequences were found in water than in soil both in the natural wetlands and the paddy field, suggesting that many of T4-type phages in wetland water and paddy floodwater in Sanjiang plain are uncharacterized. Phylogenetic analyses showed that the g23 clones in natural wetlands, irrespective of water and soil, were distinctly different from those in marine waters, lake waters, and upland black soils, but were similar to those in paddy fields. The UniFrac analysis of g23 assemblages indicated that T4-type phage community compositions were different between soils and waters, and also were different between the natural wetlands and the paddy field. In general, the global analysis of g23 clone assemblages demonstrated that T4-type phage community compositions were different among natural wetlands, marines, lakes, paddy fields, and upland black soils.
4251009| Although the dynamic behavior of microbial populations in nonmixed systems is a central aspect of many problems in biochemical engineering and microbiology, the factors that govern this behavior are not well understood. In particular, the effects of bacterial chemotaxis (biased migration of cells in the direction of chemical concentration gradients) have been the subject of much speculation but very little quantitative investigation. In this paper, we provide the first theoretical analysis of the effects of bacterial chemotaxis on the dynamics of competition between two microbial populations for a single rate-limiting nutrient in a confined nonmixed system. We use a simple unstructured model for cell growth and death, and the most soundly based current model for cell population migration. Using numerical finite element techniques, we examine both transient and steady-state behavior of the competing populations, focusing primarily on the influence of the cell random motility coefficient, , and the cell chemotaxis coefficient, . We find that, in general, there are four possible steady-state outcomes: both populations die out, population 1 exists alone, population 2 exists alone, and the two populations coexist. We find that, in contrast to well-mixed systems, the slower-growing population can coexist and even exist alone if it possesses sufficiently superior motility and chemotaxis properties. Our results allow estimation of the value of  necessary to allow coexistence and predominance for reasonable values of growth and random motility parameters in common systems. An especially intriguing finding is that there is a minimum value of  necessary for a chemotactic population to have a competitive advantage over an immotile population in a confined nonmixed system. Further, for typical system parameter values, this minimum value of  is the range of values that can be estimated from independent experimental assays for chemotaxis. Thus, in typical nonmixed systems, cell motility and chemotaxis properties can be the determining factors in governing population dynamics. 
25153408|In the Iberian Pyrite Belt (IPB), acid rock drainage gives rise to aquatic habitats with low pH and high concentrations of heavy metals, a situation that causes important environmental problems. We investigated the occurrence and diversity of yeasts in two localities of the IPB: So Domingos (Portugal) and Rio Tinto (Spain). Yeast isolation was performed on conventional culture media (MYP), acidified (pH 3) media (MYP3), and on media prepared with water from the study sites (MYPw). The main goal of the study was to determine the structure of the yeast community; a combination of molecular methods was used for accurate species identifications. Our results showed that the largest fraction of the yeast community was recovered on MYPw rather than on MYP and MYP3. Twenty-seven yeast species were detected, 48% of which might represent undescribed taxa. Among these, an undescribed species of the genus Cryptococcus required low pH for growth, a property that has not been observed before in yeasts. The communities of S. Domingos and R. Tinto showed a considerable resemblance, and eight yeast species were simultaneously found in both localities. Taking into consideration the physicochemical parameters studied, we propose a hierarchic organization of the yeast community in terms of high-, intermediate-, or low- stress conditions of the environment. According to this ranking, the acidophile yeast Cryptococcus sp. 5 is considered the most tolerant species, followed by Cryptococcus sp. 3 and Lecytophora sp. Species occurring in situations of intermediate environmental stress were Candida fluviatilis, Rhodosporidium toruloides, Williopsis californica, and three unidentified yeasts belonging to Rhodotorula and Cryptococcus.
25256243|Wolbachia are obligatory, cytoplasmatically inherited -proteobacteria, which are common endosymbionts in arthropods where they may cause reproductive abnormalities. Many insects are well known to protect themselves from deleterious microorganisms by antibiotic components. In this study, we addressed the question whether Wolbachia are able to infect insects containing antimicrobial anthraquinones and anthrones, and if so, whether these genotypes of Wolbachia comprise a monophyletic cluster within one of the known supergroups. Leaf beetles of the taxon Galerucini (Galerucinae) are known to contain 1,8-dihydroxylated anthraquinones and anthrones. Also, the scale insect Dactylopius contains an anthraquinone glycoside, carminic acid. Our analyses revealed that a representative of the Galerucini, Galeruca tanaceti and Dactylopius, are indeed infected by endosymbiotic Wolbachia bacteria. Phylogenetic analysis of the wsp and ftsZ genes of these bacteria revealed that strains in G. tanaceti cluster in supergroup A, whereas those present in Dactylopius are distinctive from each other and from those of G. tanaceti. They are clustering in supergroups A and B. Wolbachia strains present in close, but anthraquinone-free relatives of G. tanaceti were shown to belong also to supergroup A. From these results, we can conclude (1) a double infection in Dactylopius, (2) that the presence of antimicrobial compounds such as anthraquinones does not necessarily protect insects from infection by Wolbachia, and (3) that genotypes of Wolbachia-infecting anthraquinone-containing insects most likely do not comprise a unique genotype. These results show that Wolbachia bacteria might be adapted to cope even with conditions usually detrimental to other bacteria and that these adaptations are widespread among Wolbachia supergroups.
4250818|In experiments with strains of poliovirus, reovirus, echovirus, and Coxsackievirus, overgrowth with exopolymer-forming bacteria reduced virus adsorption to mineral surfaces. Adsorption was improved when organic materials adsorbed to minerals were removed by low-temperature ashing. In a soil series, virus adsorption increased with soil depth. This paralleled a decrease in organic content, but differences in charge development of the soil particles may also be involved. Prolonged (40-year) irrigation with treated sewage effluents, leading to a buildup of organic coatings, also decreased adsorption. However, saturation of the virus-binding capacity of the soil as a result of continuous exposure to virus-containing effluents was not apparent.
4287705| The present study assessed the application of tritiated leucine incorporation into protein, as a measure of bacterial biomass production, within four benthic habitats of a littoral freshwater wetland dominated by emergent vegetation. Basic assumptions underlying the method, such as linearity of leucine incorporation, saturation level of incorporation rates, and specificity of incorporation for bacterial assemblages, were tested, and two procedures for extracting radiolabeled protein were compared. TCA precipitation followed by ultrasonication, and subsequent alkaline dissolution in 0.5 M NaOH, 25 mM EDTA, and 0.1% w/v SDS, gave best results in terms of both extraction efficiency and signal-to-noise ratio. Incorporation of leucine was linear for all habitats for up to 1 h. Saturation concentrations of leucine incorporation into protein were 150 nM for littoral surface waters, >960 nM for biofilms on plant surfaces, and 50 M for aerobic sediment and submerged plant litter. An experiment with prokaryotic and eukaryotic inhibitors designed to examine specificity of leucine incorporation into bacterial protein showed no significant leucine incorporation into eukaryotes during short-term incubations. Calculations based on kinetic parameters of fungal leucine uptake suggest, nevertheless, that significant leucine incorporation cannot be ruled out in all situations. Thus, the leucine methodology can be used for estimating bacterial production in benthic aquatic habitats, provided that substrate saturation and isotope dilution are determined and that the active biomass of eukaryotes, such as fungi, does not greatly exceed bacterial biomass. 
4251163| A new group of extremely thermophilic, obligately anaerobic, carboxydotrophic eubacteria is described. The organisms are characterized by a novel type of chemotrophic metabolism in thermophilic environments. They grow at temperatures up to 80-85C chemolithotrophically with 100% CO in the gas phase as the sole energy source. The CO oxidation is coupled to H
4251613|Nearly full-length, small subunit (SSU) rRNA was transcribed in vitro from clones of SSU rDNA genes. Comparing the use of in vitro-transcribed and native rRNA indicated that, when in vitro-transcribed rRNA was used as a standard for quantitative hybridizations with oligonucleotide probes, the population was consistently underestimated. The population abundance was expressed as a percentage of specific target SSU rRNA (determined with a specific oligonucleotide probe), relative to the total SSU rRNA (measured with a universal probe). Differences in hybridization signals could be related to specific probe target locations and rRNA denaturation conditions, suggesting that higher order structure is important in quantitative membrane hybridizations. Therefore, in vitro-transcribed rRNA cannot always be used for the absolute quantification of microbial populations, but can be employed as a standard to quantify shifts in population abundance over time, and to compare community structure in various environments.
4250726|Campylobacter jejuni is an important cause of human diarrheal disease throughout the world and like Salmonella enteritidis, has a large animal reservoir which includes most of man's domestic animals. Until recently, it has been difficult to trace the chain of transmission from animals to man because of inadequate environmental sampling techniques and means to distinguish strains. Recent improvements in these techniques have made environmental studies more feasible in 2 water-related outbreaks. In 1 study, C. jejuni was found to be an important cause of sporadic, summertime diarrheal disease among hikers in national wilderness areas of Wyoming. In this setting, illness was significantly associated with drinking untreated surface water. Subsequently C. jejuni was isolated from surface water, including mountain streams, and from animals in the area. Some of the environmental isolates were serotypically identical to strains isolated from humans. A second study occurred as a result of an outbreak of Campylobacter enteritis in a community in northern Illinois which was epidemiologically associated with the community water system. Campylobacter jejuni was isolated from several surface water sources and from the implicated water system. These studies demonstrate that environmental isolation of C. jejuni is now possible and may add to our understanding of disease transmission.
4287497|Aspects of denitrification and benzoate degradation were studied in two estuarine microbial mat communities on the California coast by measuring the depth distributions of potential denitrification rates, genetic potential for denitrification, nitrate concentration, benzoate mineralization rates, total bacterial abundance, and abundance of a denitrifying strain (TBD-8b) isolated from one of the sites. Potential denitrification was detected in microbial mat cores from both Elkhorn Slough and Tomales Bay. Maximum denitrification rates were more than two orders of magnitude higher at Elkhorn Slough (3.14 mmol N m
4250612|The spent carbide from acetylene-generating lamps used by spelunkers has long been assumed to be toxic. Pure cultures of E. coli, S. cerevisiae, and B. subtilis were inhibited within 15 minutes by addition of a 1% solution of waste carbide. The heterotrophic microorganisms which form the food base in caves were depressed 81% in 1 hour by the application of fresh carbide waste to a cave stream mudbank. The effects were temporary as the toxicity was lost when the extremely alkaline pH of the waste was neutralized. The reduction in pH occurs naturally over time by atmospheric and substrate buffering and is probably related to soil type and available moisture.
4250519|Three techniques were compared for the recovery of endoparasitic nematophagous fungi from soil. The Baermann funnel technique (32 species) was superior to differential centrifugation (19 species) or soil sprinkling (21 species) in terms of number of species found. The main advantage of the Baermann funnel was in the recovery of lower fungi, especially those with flagellate states. In all, 40 species of endoparasites (70% of the known flora) were recorded. Thirty-two of those were found capable of attacking the soil nematode Rhabditis terricola Dujardin.
4287650|We analyzed the strength of phytoplankton-bacterioplankton coupling by comparing the rate of particulate (PPP) and dissolved primary production (DPP) with bacterial carbon demand (BCD) in four contrasting marine regions: offshore and coastal waters of the Southern Ocean, a coastal area of the NE Atlantic, and a coastal-offshore transect in the NW Mediterranean. We measured bacterial heterotrophic production (BHP) and estimated BCD from a literature model. Average phytoplanktonic percent extracellular release [PER = DPP/(DPP + PPP)] was 18-20% in the Antarctic (offshore and coastal, respectively), 16% in the NW Mediterranean, and 7% in the NE Atlantic. A significant inverse relationship was found between PER and total system productivity with pooled data. On average BHP amounted to <5% of total primary production in all regions. However, the strength of phytoplankton-bacterioplankton coupling, estimated as the potential importance of DPP in meeting BCD, differed greatly in the four regions. DPP was highly correlated to BCD in offshore Antarctic waters and was sufficient to meet BCD. In contrast, BCD exceeded DPP and bore no significant relationship in the remaining regions. The data suggest that a strong dependence of bacteria on algal extracellular production is only expected in open-ocean environments isolated from coastal inputs of DOC.
4251475|The species composition of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria in aquatic environments was investigated using PCR primers for 16S rRNA genes to amplify specific subsets of the total ammonia-oxidizer population. The specificity of the amplification reactions was determined using total genomic DNA from known nitrifying strains and non-nitrifying strains identified as having similar rDNA sequences. Specificity of amplification was determined both for direct amplification, using the nitrifier specific primers, and with nested amplification, in which the nitrifier primers were used to reamplify a fragment obtained from direct amplification with Eubacterial universal primers. The present level of specificity allows the distinction between Nitrosomonas europaea, Nitrosomonas sp. (marine) and the other known ammonia-oxidizers in the beta subclass of the Proteobacteria. Using total DNA extracted from natural samples, we used direct amplification to determine presence/absence of different species groups. Species composition was found to differ among depths in vertical profiles of lake samples and among samples and enrichments from various other aquatic environments. Nested PCR yielded several more positive reactions, which implies that nitrifier DNA was present in most samples, but often at very low levels.
40605873|Previously published experimental work by other authors has shown that certain motile marine bacteria are able to track free-swimming algae by executing a zigzag path and steering toward the algae at each turn. Here, we propose that the apparent steering behaviour could be a hydrodynamic effect, whereby an algal cell's vorticity and strain-rate fields rotate a pursuing bacterial cell in the appropriate direction. Using simplified models for the bacterial and algal cells, we numerically compute the trajectory of a bacterial cell and demonstrate the plausibility of this hypothesis.
25153011| Nitrogen fixation in the sea has attracted the attention of ecologists for decades. Much is known about the habitats in which it occurs and some of the factors that limit N fixation activity in different environments, but we still know little about the organisms that fix nitrogen, and what limits the growth and distribution of these organisms in marine environments. Molecular biology technological developments have provided tools for detecting and characterizing N-fixing organisms in the environment. These techniques hold great promise for unraveling the mysteries and paradoxes of N fixation in the sea. In this review, we address the theoretical basis for the use of a molecular approach to N fixation, highlight the strengths and weaknesses of the approach, and provide case studies that demonstrate the potential contribution of molecular biology approaches to studies of N fixation in the sea. 
27770614|The analysis and results presented in this paper provide conclusive evidence to distinguish between the delay effect and the lag as two biologically distinct phenomena. It therefore dispels the incorrect notion that delay effects represented by delay differential equations are the biological reason behind the lag phase in microorganism growth. The resulting consequence so far is that the only other reason for the lag phase is the existence of unstable stationary states. The latter are a result of accounting for the microbial metabolic mass transfer in the population growth process.
27770615|All physico-chemical parameters that affect bacterial growth rate will also affect bacterial molecular composition, which in turn influences the chemical composition of bacterial lysate and its turnover rate in the ecosystem. To produce qualitatively different lysates, Vibrio sp. cells were grown under different pH, salt, or temperature conditions in rich growth media and then washed and lysed by autoclaving. Both the absolute concentrations and the ratios between elements in the lysates varied with different growth conditions, implying differences in lysate quality. Either Pseudoalteromonas sp. or Vibrio sp. was grown on the lysates at non-limiting lysate concentrations. Different lysates supported growth rates of Pseudoalteromonas sp. in the range from 0.25 to 1.53 h 1 . On the other hand, growth rates of Vibrio sp. grown on its own lysates were around 0.4 h 1 and were not dependent on lysate quality. Two orders of magnitude decrease in Zn concentration in Vibrio sp. cells grown on different lysates as compared to cells grown on rich growth medium suggested that Zn might be a factor limiting growth. In the simple microbial loop studied, the initial difference in lysate quality was preserved in Pseudoalteromonas sp., whereas Vibrio sp. decreased the initial differences in lysate quality, thereby neutralizing the primary effect of environmental conditions on carbon turnover.
4251781|The sizes and compositions of bacterial populations found on leaves of greenhouse and field grown tomato plants were studied by dilution plating, fatty acid methyl ester analysis (FAME), and BIOLOG plates of isolates in pure cultures. In the greenhouse, overhead-irrigated plants sustained higher microbial populations (up to 10
4287648| River biofilms are a valuable food resource for many invertebrates. In the present study biofilms were cultivated in a rotating annular bioreactor with river water as sole source of inoculum. The resulting biofilms were then presented to starved snails, ostracods, and mayflies as sole food source. The biofilms were then removed and microscopically examined to determine areas that had been grazed. The grazed and ungrazed areas were marked and analyzed for the effects of grazing using confocal laser scanning microscopy and image analyses. Samples were treated with fluorescent probes for nucleic acids to quantify bacterial biomass and fluor-conjugated lectins to quantify exopolymer, and far red autofluorescence was imaged to quantify algal or photosynthetic biomass. Grazing by snails significantly reduced algal biomass (1.1  0.6  m
4250458|Continuous cultures of Tetrahymena pyriformis in the infradian ("slow-exponential") growth mode can be entrained to give circadian rhythms of cell division by the application of thermal cycles with periods of 24 hr. The degree of synchronization (phasing index) is dependent on the cycling of other environmental agents, particularly food in the form of the defined medium used. The phase angles of these multiple zeitgebers to one another and to the circadian cell cycle markedly influence the quality of synchronization achieved. In well-synchronized oxygen-limited cultures, a circadian cytotoxia (circadian chronotypic death) is observed when the culture's oxygen requirements periodically exceed the oxygen support limit of the environment.
4251562| The influence of sediment properties and groundwater geochemistry on microbial abundance and activity was examined in a Gulf Coast aquifer system. Three boreholes were drilled into the sands, silts, clays, and lignite of the Eocene Yegua formation, and wells were installed in all water-bearing sands. Total numbers of microorganisms ranged from 10
25153467|The effects of phototransformation of dissolved organic matter (DOM) on bacterial growth, production, respiration, growth efficiency, and diversity were investigated during summer in two lagoons and one oligotrophic coastal water samples from the Northwestern Mediterranean Sea, differing widely in DOM and chromophoric DOM concentrations. Exposure of 0.2-m filtered waters to full sun radiation for 1 d resulted in small changes in optical properties and concentrations of DOM, and no changes in nitrate, nitrite, and phosphate concentrations. After exposure to sunlight or dark (control) treatments, the water samples were inoculated with the original bacterial community. Phototransformation of DOM had contrasting effects on bacterial production and respiration, depending on the water's origin, resulting in an increase of bacterial growth efficiency for the oligotrophic coastal water sample (120%) and a decrease for the lagoon waters (20 to 40%) relative to that observed in dark treatments. We also observed that bacterial growth on DOM irradiated by full sun resulted in changes in community structure of total and metabolically active bacterial cells for the three locations studied when compared to the bacteria growing on un-irradiated DOM, and that changes were mainly caused by phototransformation of DOM by UV radiation for the eutrophic lagoon and the oligotrophic coastal water and by photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) for the mesoeutrophic lagoon. These initial results indicate that phototransformation of DOM significantly alters both bacterial metabolism and community structure in surface water for a variety of coastal ecosystems in the Mediterranean Sea. Further studies will be necessary to elucidate a more detailed appreciation of potential temporal and spatial variations of the effects measured.
40926457|Sponge-mediated nitrification is an important process in the nitrogen cycle, however, nothing is known about how nitrification and symbiotic Archaea may be affected by sponge disease and bleaching events. The giant barrel sponge Xestospongia muta is a prominent species on Caribbean reefs that contains cyanobacterial symbionts, the loss of which results in two types of bleaching: cyclic, a recoverable condition; and fatal, a condition associated with the disease-like sponge orange band (SOB) syndrome and sponge death. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) analyses, clone libraries, and relative mRNA quantification of ammonia monooxygenase genes (amoA) were performed using a RNA transcript-based approach to characterize the active ammonia-oxidizing Archaea (AOA) community present in bleached, non-bleached, and SOB tissues of cyclically and fatally bleached sponges. We found that non-bleached and cyclically bleached tissues of X. muta harbored a unique Crenarchaeota community closely related to those reported for other sponges. In contrast, bleached tissue from the most degraded sponge contained a Crenarchaeota community that was more similar to those found in sediment and sand. Although there were no significant differences in amoA expression among the different tissues, amoA expression was higher in the most deteriorated tissues. Results suggest that a shift in the Crenarchaeota community precedes an increase in amoA gene expression in fatally bleached sponges, while cyclic bleaching did not alter the AOA community structure and its amoA gene expression.
4287736|The ability of facultative anerobes to respire nitrate has been ascribed mainly to the activity of a membrane-bound nitrate reductase encoded by the narGHJI operon. Respiratory nitrate reduction is the first step of the denitrification pathway, which is considered as an important soil process since it contributes to the global cycling of nitrogen. In this study, we employed direct PCR, cloning, and sequencing of narG gene fragments to determine the diversity of nitrate-reducing bacteria occurring in soil and in the maize rhizosphere. Libraries containing 727 clones in total were screened by restriction fragment analysis. Phylogenetic analysis of 128 narG sequences separated the clone families into two main groups that represent the Gram-positive and Gram-negative nitrate-reducing bacteria. Novel narG lineages that branch distinctly from all currently known membrane bound nitrate-reductase encoding genes were detected within the Gram-negative branch. All together, our results revealed a more complex nitrate-reducing community than did previous culture-based studies. A significant and consistent shift in the relative abundance of the nitrate-reducing groups within this functional community was detected in the maize rhizosphere. Thus a substantially higher abundance of the dominant clone family and a lower diversity index were observed in the rhizosphere compared to the unplanted soil, suggesting that a bacterial group has been specifically selected within the nitrate-reducing community. Furthermore, restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of cloned narG gene fragments proved to be a powerful tool in evaluating the structure and the diversity of the nitrate-reducing community and community shifts therein.
41489181|Compared with sponge-associated bacteria, the phylogenetic diversity of fungi in sponge and the association of sponge fungi remain largely unknown. Meanwhile, no detection of polyketide synthase (PKS) or non-ribosomal peptide synthase (NRPS) genes in sponge-associated fungi has been attempted. In this study, diverse and novel cultivable fungi including 10 genera (Aspergillus, Ascomycete, Fusarium, Isaria, Pnicillium, Plectosphaerella, Pseudonectria, Simplicillium, Trichoderma, and Volutella) in four orders (Eurotiales, Hypocreales, Microascales, and Phyllachorales) of phylum Ascomycota were isolated from 10 species marine sponges in the South China Sea. Eurotiales and Hypocreales fungi were suggested as sponge generalists. The predominant isolates were Pnicillium and Aspergillus in Eurotiales followed by Volutella in Hypocreales. Based on the conserved Beta-ketosynthase of PKS and A domain of NRPS, 15 polyketide synthases, and four non-ribosomal peptides synthesis genes, including non-reducing and reducing PKSs and hybrid PKS-NRPS, were detected in these fungal isolates. A lateral gene transfer event was indicated in the comparison between the phylogenetic diversity of 18S rRNA genes and -ketoacyl synthase domain sequences. Some fungi, especially those with PKS or NRPS genes, showed antimicrobial activity against P. fluorescens, S. aureus and B. subtilis. It was the first time to investigate PKS and NRPS genes in sponge-associated fungi. Based on the detected antibiotics biosynthesis-related PKS and NRPS genes and antimicrobial activity, the potential ecological role of sponge-associated fungi in the chemical defense for sponge host was suggested. This study extended our knowledge of sponge-associated fungal phylogenetic diversity and their potential roles in the chemical defense.
4250587|The accumulation of exogenous hydrocarbons by the marine diatom Cyclotella cryptica grown in culture has been studied using gas chromatography. Exposure of the alga to paraffins for 10 days results in accumulation of n-alkanes having between
23469581|The implementation of molecular techniques has been widely adopted throughout the life sciences except in the marine sciences. The latter trend is quickly being reversed as even more cutting-edge molecular platforms, referred to collectively as 'omics-related technologies, are being used in a number of laboratories that study various aspects of life in the marine environment. This review provides a brief overview of just a few representative studies that have used genomics, transcriptomics, or proteomics approaches to deepen our understanding, specifically, about the underlying molecular biology of harmful algae. The examples of the studies described here are particularly relevant in showing how the information gleaned from these technologies can uncover the genetic capacity of harmful algal bloom-forming species, can generate new hypotheses about mechanistic relationships that bridge geneenvironment interactions, and can impinge on our understanding surrounding the ecology of these organisms.
41489175|Microbiological contamination from runoff is a human health concern in urbanized coastal environments, but the contamination sources are often unknown. This study quantified fecal indicator bacteria and compared the distributions of human-specific genetic markers and bacterial community composition during dry and wet weather in urban creeks draining two neighboring watersheds in Santa Barbara, CA. In a prior study conducted during exclusively dry weather, the creeks were contaminated with human waste as indicated by elevated numbers of the humanspecific Bacteroidales marker HF183 (Sercu et al. in Environ Sci Technol 43: 293-298, 2009). During the storm, fecal indicator bacterial numbers and loads increased orders of magnitude above dry weather conditions. Moreover, bacterial community composition drastically changed during rainfall and differed from dry weather flow by (1) increased bacterial diversity, (2) reduced spatial heteroge- neity within and between watersheds, and (3) clone library sequences more related to terrestrial than freshwater taxa. Finally, the spatial patterns of human-associated genetic markers (HF183 and Methanobrevibacter smithii nifH gene) changed during wet weather, and the contribution of surface soils to M. smithii niffH gene detection was suspected. The increased fecal indicator bacteria numbers during wet weather were likely associated with terrestrial sources, instead of human waste sources that dominated during dry weather flow.
41489087|In all terrestrial ecosystems, testate amoebae (TA) encounter fungi. There are strong indications that both groups engage in multiple interactions, including mycophagy and decomposition of TA shells, processes which might be fundamental in nutrient cycling in certain ecosystems. Here, we present the results of an experiment focusing on interactions between TA and saprotrophic microfungi colonizing Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) litter needles. The needles were collected from a temperate pine forest and cultivated in damp chambers. Over a few weeks, melanized mycelium of Anavirga laxa Sutton started to grow out of some needles; simultaneously, the common forest-soil TA Phryganella acropodia (Hertwig and Lesser) Hopkinson reproduced and spread around the mycelium. We investigated whether a potential relationship between TA and saprotrophic microfungi exists by comparing the composition of TA communities on and around the needles and testing the spatial relationship between the A. laxa mycelium and P. acropodia shells in the experimental microcosm. Additionally, we asked whether P. acropodia utilized the A. laxa mycelium as a nutrient source and screened whether P. acropodia shells were colonized by the microfungi inhabiting the experimental microcosm. Our results indicate that saprotrophic microfungi may affect the composition of TA communities and their mycelium may affect distribution of TA individuals in pine litter. Our observations suggest that P. acropodia did not graze directly on A. laxa mycelium, but rather fed on its exudates or bacteria associated with the exudates. The fungus Pochonia bulbillosa (Gams & Malla) Zare & Gams was often found parasitising encysted shells or decomposing already dead individuals of P. acropodia. TA and pine litter microfungi engage in various direct and indirect interactions which are still poorly understood and deserve further investigation. Their elucidation will improve our knowledge on fundamental processes influencing coexistence of soil microflora and microfauna.
23468247|Global warming is causing ice retreat in glaciers worldwide, most visibly over the last few decades in some areas of the planet. One of the most affected areas is the region of Tierra del Fuego (southern South America). Vascular plant recolonisation of recently deglaciated areas in this region is initiated by Gunnera magellanica, which forms symbiotic associations with the cyanobacterial genus Nostoc, a trait that likely confers advantages in this colonisation process. This symbiotic association in the genus Gunnera is notable as it represents the only known symbiotic relationship between angiosperms and cyanobacteria. The aim of this work was to study the genetic diversity of the Nostoc symbionts in Gunnera at three different, nested scale levels: specimen, population and region. Three different genomic regions were examined in the study: a fragment of the small subunit ribosomal RNA gene (16S), the RuBisCO large subunit gene coupled with its promoter sequence and a chaperon-like protein (rbcLX) and the ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region. The identity of Nostoc as the symbiont was confirmed in all the infected rhizome tissue analysed. Strains isolated in the present study were closely related to strains known to form symbioses with other organisms, such as lichen-forming fungi or bryophytes. We found 12 unique haplotypes in the 16S rRNA (small subunit) region analysis, 19 unique haplotypes in the ITS region analysis and 57 in the RuBisCO proteins region (rbcLX). No genetic variability was found among Nostoc symbionts within a single host plant while Nostoc populations among different host plants within a given sampling site revealed major differences. Noteworthy, interpopulation variation was also shown between recently deglaciated soils and more ancient ones, between eastern and western sites and between northern and southern slopes of Cordillera Darwin. The cell structure of the symbiotic relationship was observed with low-temperature scanning electron microscopy, showing changes in morphology of both cyanobiont cells (differentiate more heterocysts) and plant cells (increased size). Developmental stages of the symbiosis, including cell walls and membranes and EPS matrix states, were also observed.
25153452|The effects of the inoculant strain Sphingomonas paucimobilis 20006FA (isolated from a phenanthrene-contaminated soil) on the dynamics and structure of microbial communities and phenanthrene elimination rate were studied in soil microcosms artificially contaminated with phenanthrene. The inoculant managed to be established from the first inoculation as it was evidenced by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis, increasing the number of cultivable heterotrophic and PAH-degrading cells and enhancing phenanthrene degradation. These effects were observed only during the inoculation period. Nevertheless, the soil biological activity (dehydrogenase activity and CO production) showed a late increase. Whereas gradual and successive changes in bacterial community structures were caused by phenanthrene contamination, the inoculation provoked immediate, significant, and stable changes on soil bacterial community. In spite of the long-term establishment of the inoculated strain, at the end of the experiment, the bioaugmentation did not produce significant changes in the residual soil phenanthrene concentration and did not improve the residual effects on the microbial soil community.
25153167|Microorganisms differ in their effectiveness in uptake and selection of substances that they bring in from the environment. They also differ in how they balance the allocation of nutrients for immediate and for delayed use. Moreover, they may not take up resources as fast as they seemingly could, and they may extrude derivatives of substances just pumped in. A good deal of these apparent choices must reside in the uptake systems and the linkage of these with the cell's intermediate metabolism. An important feature is that a resource may vary in concentration from time to time, nutrient to nutrient, and habitat to habitat. This variation must have been critical to the evolution of regulatory processes. Some possibilities for the combined uptake and consumption are considered for substrates serving the same (homologous) and different (heterologous) roles for the bacterium. From the membrane transport processes diagrammed in Fig. 1c and Fig. 2 and corresponding computer program given in Appendix A, the combined effect of uptake processes and cell growth can be studied. The model can be modified for various alternate models to study the possible control of cellular uptake and metabolism for the range of ecological roles of the bacterium.
4251253|Within a nitrate-reducing bacterial community, a niche differentiation between denitrifying and nitrate ammonifying bacteria may be determinated by a complex of environmental parameters, such as the availability of carbon, nitrate, and oxygen. Hence, oxygen- and carbon-releasing aerenchymatous plants may affect the composition of the nitrate-reducing community in waterlogged sediment. The composition of the nitrate-reducing community in the rhizosphere of the aerenchymatous plant species Typha angustifolia was compared with the community in nonrhizospheric sediment. All three functional groups ( NO
4250869| Haloperoxidases are enzymes that have the ability to halogenate a broad range of substrates [10]. To find a biologically produced haloperoxidase that could function at a pH greater than 3.0 and at a temperature greater than 19C, dematiaceous hyphomycetes were isolated from the Death Valley desert and screened for their ability to produce such an enzyme. A qualitative assay using bromophenol red was employed in situ over a 12-day fermentation period. Several dematiaceous hyphomycetes, such as Dreschlera haloides and Ulocladium chartarum, produced haloperoxidases that were active in broth culture at 19, 25, and 34C at pH 7.0 and 8.0. 
25153400|Soil microbial communities are closely associated with aboveground plant communities, with multiple potential drivers of this relationship. Plants can affect available soil carbon, temperature, and water content, which each have the potential to affect microbial community composition and function. These same variables change seasonally, and thus plant control on microbial community composition may be modulated or overshadowed by annual climatic patterns. We examined microbial community composition, C cycling processes, and environmental data in California annual grassland soils from beneath oak canopies and in open grassland areas to distinguish factors controlling microbial community composition and function seasonally and in association with the two plant overstory communities. Every 3 months for up to 2 years, we monitored microbial community composition using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis, microbial biomass, respiration rates, microbial enzyme activities, and the activity of microbial groups using isotope labeling of PLFA biomarkers (C-PLFA). Distinct microbial communities were associated with oak canopy soils and open grassland soils and microbial communities displayed seasonal patterns from year to year. The effects of plant species and seasonal climate on microbial community composition were similar in magnitude. In this Mediterranean ecosystem, plant control of microbial community composition was primarily due to effects on soil water content, whereas the changes in microbial community composition seasonally appeared to be due, in large part, to soil temperature. Available soil carbon was not a significant control on microbial community composition. Microbial community composition (PLFA) and C-PLFA ordination values were strongly related to intra-annual variability in soil enzyme activities and soil respiration, but microbial biomass was not. In this Mediterranean climate, soil microclimate appeared to be the master variable controlling microbial community composition and function.
41412449|We investigated the association between a gall midge, Illiciomyia yukawai, and its symbiotic fungi on Japanese star anise, Illicium anisatum. The number of fungal species isolated from the galls increased with development of the galls, whereas those from the leaves showed a different trend. Botryosphaeria dothidea was dominant in the galls from June to October, and after that Phomopsis sp. 1, Colletotrichum sp., and Pestalotiopsis sp. became dominant. Although B. dothidea was not isolated from the leaves, it was detected from mycangia (abdominal sternite VII) of egg-laying adults at a high isolation frequency (>90%). However, B. dothidea was not isolated from mycangia of adults emerging from galls that were enclosed by plastic bags. This indicates that I. yukawai is closely associated with B. dothidea and that its newly emerged adults do not take the fungus into mycangia directly from the galls where they had developed. Also, the fungus from the fungal layers of ambrosia galls has less ability to propagate on artificial media despite the presence of its mycelial mass in mature galls.
25153098| The building and foraging activities of termites are known to modify soil characteristics such as the heterogeneity. In tropical savannas the impact of the activity of soil-feeding termites (Cubitermes niokoloensis) has been shown to affect the properties of the soil at the aggregate level by creating new soil microenvironments (aggregate size fractions) [13]. These changes were investigated in greater depth by looking at the microbial density (AODC) and the genetic structure (automated rRNA intergenic spacer analysis: ARISA) of the communities in the different aggregate size fractions (i.e., coarse sand, fine sand, coarse silt, fine silt, and dispersible clays) separated from compartments (internal and external wall) of three Cubitermes niokoloensis mounds. The bacterial density of the mounds was significantly higher (1.5 to 3 times) than that of the surrounding soil. Within the aggregate size fractions, the termite building activity resulted in a significant increase in bacterial density within the coarser fractions (&gt;20 m). Multivariate analysis of the ARISA profiles revealed that the bacterial genetic structures of unfractionated soil and soil aggregate size fractions of the three mounds was noticeably different from the savanna soil used as a reference. Moreover, the microbial community associated with the different microenvironments in the three termite mounds revealed three distinct clusters formed by the aggregate size fractions of each mound. Except for the 2-20 m fraction, these results suggest that the mound microbial genetic structure is more dependent upon microbial pool affiliation (the termite mound) than on the soil location (aggregate size fraction). The causes of the specificity of the microbial community structure of termite mound aggregate size fractions are discussed. 
27770622|Atmospheric pollution has become a major problem for modern societies owing to its fatal effects on both human health and ecosystems. We studied the relationships of nitrogen dioxide atmospheric pollution and metal trace elements contained in atmospheric particles which were accumulated in bryophytes to microbial communities of bryophytes at three differently polluted sites in France (rural, urban, and industrial) over an 8-month period. The analysis of bryophytes showed an accumulation of Cr and Fe at the rural site; Cr, Fe, Zn, Cu, Al, and Pb at the urban site; and Fe, Cr, Pb, Al, Sr, Cu, and Zn at the industrial site. During this study, the structure of the microbial communities which is characterized by biomasses of microbial groups evolved differently according to the site. Microalgae, bacteria, rotifers, and testate amoebae biomasses were significantly higher in the rural site. Cyanobacteria biomass was significantly higher at the industrial site. Fungal and ciliate biomasses were significantly higher at the urban and industrial sites for the winter period and higher at the rural site for the spring period. The redundancy analysis showed that the physico-chemical variables ([NO2], relative humidity, temperature, and site) and the trace elements which were accumulated in bryophytes ([Cu], [Sr], [Pb]) explained 69.3% of the variance in the microbial community data. Moreover, our results suggest that microbial communities are potential biomonitors of atmospheric pollution. Further research is needed to understand the causal relationship underlined by the observed patterns.
4250768|A continuous flow soil respirometer was used to evaluate the effect of nutrient addition, application rate, and application frequency on biodegradation of 2 complex oily sludges in soil. The most rapid biodegradation of the refinery sludge occurred when nitrogen was added to reduce the carbon to nitrogen (C:N) ratio to 9:1. The petrochemical sludge was degraded most rapidly when nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium were added at a rate of 124:1, C:NPK; CO
4251689|This review revisits anabiosis (cryptobiosis or latent life); but more specifically with the discrepancy (time factor) between the finding of viable bacteria in ancient material and the racemization of amino acids and depurination of DNA that would have contributed to their death. The omnipresence of H
4251138| In an attempt to understand the significance of predation in the evolution of prey species, the ecological and morphological characteristics of bacterial species under predation by a ciliated protozoa, Cyclidium sp., were investigated. Serial transfer at 7 day intervals was applied to the bacterial populations in the presence or absence of Cyclidium. Although cells of the parental bacterial strain are typically short rods up to 1.5 m long, cells of much greater length, up to 20 m long (type L) were found in populations exposed to predation from Cyclidium. However, the wild-type, shorter length bacteria persisted even after the appearance of type L. Type L was not observed in the single bacterial culture throughout the serial transfers. Type L appeared to improve the ability to escape predation by elongating cell size, but growth rate and saturation density were decreased. 
25256221|In this study, the microbial community in a mangrove ecosystem was surveyed and used to test the eligibility of 16S rDNA library and neighbor-joining method for the purpose of estimating microbial composition. Genetic diversity () and four other diversity indices (Simpson's unbiased, Shannon-Wiener, Evenness, and Chao1 indices) were applied to estimate the adaptive lineages of microorganisms in the mangrove ecosystem. The results indicated that -Proteobacteria is the most diverse taxon, while the most abundant family is Rhodobacteraceae (-Proteobacteria), followed by Comamonadaceae (-Proteobacteria). This result may imply the existence of a graded distribution of microbial diversity across a spectrum of different salinities in the waterbody of this estuary ecosystem. Furthermore, at least 500-1,000 bps of the posterior portion of 16S rDNA is required as a marker to profile the microbial diversity in a microcosm of interest using phylogenetic methods, according to the results of our sliding window analyses for the measurements of , consistency index, and retention index.
4251014| The effect of growth rate, growth phase, pH, and temperature on the permanent adhesion of a gliding Flexibacter sp. and three nongliding bacteria, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Enterobacter cloacae, and Chromobacterium sp., to polystyrene substrata was investigated. The permanent adhesion of the flexibacter appeared to be related to growth, as levels of adhesion increased with increased growth rate in continuous culture and declined rapidly with death phase in batch culture. With the three nongliding bacteria, there was no relationship between growth rate and levels of permanent adhesion. The permanent adhesion of the nongliding bacteria was maximum between pH 5.5 and pH 7 and between 20 and 30C, whereas the adhesion of the flexibacter progressively decreased with increasing temperature and pH. The effect of different nutrient conditions on the gliding motility of the flexibacter across agar was also investigated. Gliding motility was inhibited by increased nutrient concentration and was affected by carbon source. Inhibition appeared to be related to the accumulation of a viscous exopolymer. It is proposed that the differences in the permanent adhesion of the gliding and nongliding bacteria may be related to their adaptation to different ecological niches. 
4287492| The diversity of endophytic bacterial populations of potato (Solanum tuberosum cv Desire) was assessed using a combination of dilution plating of plant macerates followed by isolation and characterization of isolates, and direct PCR-DGGE on the basis of DNA extracted from plants. The culturable endophytic bacterial communities detected in potato stem bases as well as in roots were in most cases on the order 10
27770600|Vegetation cover plays a major role in providing organic matter and in acting as a physical barrier, with both together contributing to the formation of "fertile islands," which play an active role in prolonging biological activity in desert ecosystems. By undertaking this study, a long-term research, we designed an experiment to separate the two componentsthe physical and biotic parts of the perennial plantsand to identify the factor that contributes the most to the ecosystem. The study site was located in the northern Negev Desert, Israel, where 50 Hammada scoparia shrubs and 50 artificial plants were randomly marked. Soil samples were collected monthly over 3 years of research at three locations: under the canopy of H. scoparia shrubs, in the vicinity of the artificial plants, and between the shrubs (control). The contribution to microbial activity was measured by evaluation of the microbial community functions in soil. The functional aspects of the microbial community that were measured were CO2 evolution, microbial biomass, microbial functional diversity, and the physiological profile of the community. The results of this study are presented in two ways: (1) according to the three locations/treatments; and (2) according to the phenological situation of the vegetation (annual and perennial plants) in the research field: the growing phase, the drying process, and the absence of annual plants. The only parameters that were found to affect microbial activity were the contribution of the organic matter of perennial shrubs and the growth of vegetation (annual and perennial) during the growing seasons. The physical component was found to have no effect on soil microbial functional diversity, which elucidates the important contribution of the desert shrub in enhancing biological multiplicity and activity.
25153273| Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are ubiquitous pollutants of the environment. But is their microbial degradation equally wide in distribution? We estimated the PAH degradation capacity of 13 soils ranging from pristine locations (total PAHs  0.1 mg kg) to heavily polluted industrial sites (total PAHs  400 mg kg). The size of the pyrene- and phenanthrene-degrading bacterial populations was determined by most probable number (MPN) enumeration. Densities of phenanthrene degraders reflected previous PAH exposure, whereas pyrene degraders were detected only in the most polluted soils. The potentials for phenanthrene and pyrene degradation were measured as the mineralization of C-labeled spikes. The time to 10% mineralization of added C phenanthrene and C pyrene was inversely correlated with the PAH content of the soils. Substantial C phenanthrene mineralization in all soils tested, including seven unpolluted soils, demonstrated that phenanthrene is not a suitable model compound for predicting PAH degradation in soils. C pyrene was mineralized by all Danish soil samples tested, regardless of whether they were from contaminated sites or not, suggesting that in industrialized areas the background level of pyrene is sufficient to maintain pyrene degradation traits in the gene pool of soil microorganisms. In contrast, two pristine forest soils from northern Norway and Ghana mineralized little C pyrene within the 140-day test period. Mineralization of phenanthrene and pyrene by all Danish soils suggests that soil microbial communities of inhabited areas possess a sufficiently high PAH degradation capacity to question the value of bioaugmentation with specific PAH degraders for bioremediation. 
4251395|Geochemical and biological estimates of in situ microbial activities were compared from the aerobic and microaerophilic sediments of the Atlantic Coastal Plain. Radioisotope time-course experiments suggested oxidation rates greater than millimolar quantities per year for acetate and glucose. Geochemical analyses assessing oxygen consumption, soluble organic carbon utilization, sulfate reduction, and carbon dioxide production suggested organic oxidation rates of nano- to micromolar quantities per year. Radiotracer timecourse experiments appeared to overestimate rates of organic carbon oxidation, sulfate reduction, and biomass production by a factor of
4250486|The generic composition of the heterotrophic bacterial population of Tokyo Bay, which is now highly polluted and eutrophic, was compared with that of the adjacent, less polluted regions of Sagami Bay and Suruga Bay. Members of Vibrionaceae predominated in the bacterial flora of seawater and zooplankton samples from Sagami Bay, Suruga Bay, and the mouth of Tokyo Bay. However, Vibrio spp. formed only a small proportion of the bacterial population of the water and sediment samples from the inner Tokyo Bay; there the Gram-negative, nonmotile, nonpigmented bacteria, which were tentatively identified as Acinetobacter, were predominant. The result of experiments, in which seawater samples from Tokyo Bay were incubated under various experimental conditions, indicated that two significant factors apparently control the growth of Vibrio spp. in seawater; (1) a direct antagonism between Vibrios and phytoplankton undergoing rapid growth, and (2) a limiting organic nutrient for vibrios.
40605763|Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA; n-20:53) was found to be a constituent of phospholipids in three mesophilic strains of Gammaproteobacteria, which were isolated from anoxic most probable number series prepared with sediments from an intertidal flat of the German North Sea coast. Their partial 16S rRNA gene sequences identified the isolates as close relatives of Shewanella colwelliana, Vibrio splendidus, and Photobacterium lipolyticum. So far, eicosapentaenoic acid has mainly been reported to occur in eukaryotes and some piezophilic or psychrophilic bacteria. With decreasing temperature, relative contents of EPA (up to 14% of total fatty acids) increased in all strains. Additionally, Shewanella and Vibrio spp. showed a significant increase in monounsaturated fatty acids with lower growth temperature. Analysis of the phospholipid compositions revealed that EPA was present in all three major phospholipid types, namely, phosphatidyl glycerol (PG), cardiolipin and phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE). However, EPA was enriched in PG and cardiolipin relative to PE. In the tidal flat sediments from which the isolates were obtained, substantial amounts of EPAcontaining PG were detected, whereas other typical microeukaryotic phospholipids being also a possible source of EPA were abundant at the sediment surface but were present in clearly lower amounts in the anoxic layers beneath 5 cm depth. Therefore, the EPA-containing PG species in the deeper layers in these sediments may indicate the presence of Gammaproteobacteria closely related to the isolates. These bacteria appear to be an important source of EPA in buried, anoxic sediments beneath the layers harboring significant populations of benthic eukaryotes.
25153296|Constructed wetlands are used to treat acid drainage from surface or underground coal mines. However, little is known about the microbial communities in the receiving wetland cells. The purpose of this work was to characterize the microbial population present in a wetland that was receiving acid coal mine drainage (AMD). Samples were collected from the oxic sediment zone of a constructed wetland cell in southeastern Ohio that was treating acid drainage from an underground coal mine seep. Samples comprised Fe(III) precipitates and were pretreated with ammonium oxalate to remove interfering iron, and the DNA was extracted and purified by agarose gel electrophoresis prior to amplification of portions of the 16S rRNA gene. Amplified products were separated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and DNA from seven distinct bands was excised from the gel and sequenced. The sequences were matched to sequences in the GenBank bacterial 16S rDNA database. The DNA in two of the bands yielded matches with Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans and the DNA in each of the remaining five bands was consistent with one of the following microorganisms: Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans, strain TRA3-20 (a eubacterium), strain BEN-4 (an arsenite-oxidizing bacterium), an Alcaligenes sp., and a Bordetella sp. Low bacterial diversity in these samples reflects the highly inorganic nature of the oxic sediment layer where high abundance of iron- and sulfur-oxidizing bacteria would be expected. The results we obtained by molecular methods supported our findings, obtained using culture methods, that the dominant microbial species in an acid receiving, oxic wetland are A. thiooxidans and A. ferrooxidans.
4250757|Dialysis was employed as a method of speciating heavy metals in cultures of an extracellular polymer forming strain of Klebsiella aerogenes. A noncapsulated strain of the same bacterium was used as a control, and a mass balance of copper, cadmium, cobalt, nickel, and managanese in batch culture at pH 4.5 and pH 6.8 and in continuous culture at pH 6.8 was constructed. Copper and cadmium were accumulated by the cell during rapid proliferation whereas all 5 metals were bound nonspecifically by extracellular polymer produced during stationary phase and at low dilution rates. The presence of extracellular polymer appeared to inhibit cellular uptake of nickel. At the lower pH, metal uptake was considerably reduced. The results are discussed in the context of metal removal in the activated sludge process of waste water treatment.
4250601| Gram-negative rod-shaped bacteria (1.5-2 m long and 0.5 m wide) have been found associated with green hydra. They are always present on the hydra surface delineating the ectodermal cells, on animals in culture, and also on those sampled from a natural habitat. The bacteria could be removed by a 30-min treatment with antibiotics (50 g/ml polymyxin B and 50 g/ml streptomycin). Antibiotic-treated hydra took up 55% less phosphate from the medium than control hydra. The nutritional relationship between the bacteria and green hydra and possible routes of infection of the hydra by these prokaryotic symbionts are discussed. Their importance in interpreting results of certain types of physiological experiments using aquatic organisms is emphasized. 
4250756|A survey was made of yeast species associated with the decaying pads of 3 prickly pear cacti (Opuntia phaeacantha, O. ficus-indica, and O. lindheimeri) in Arizona and Texas. Yeast communities from 12 localities were compared among localities, among Opuntia species, and with previous data on yeast communities associated with columnar cacti. The results indicate that Opuntia necroses contain relatively more yeast species with broader physiological abilities in their communities than columnar necroses. It is argued that differences in chemistry of the opuntias and columnar forms in concert with the insect vectors specific for these cacti account for the differences in yeast community structure. It is further hypothesized that the differences in yeast community structure have been important in the evolution and maintenance of species diversity for Drosophila species which live in the decaying stems or cladodes of various cacti. Most of the yeast community evolution in the cacti is postulated to have proceeded by evolution in situ and not by additions and replacements from outside of the system.
25256131|Single-cell Raman microspectroscopy has the potential to report on the whole-cell chemical composition of bacteria, reflecting metabolic status as well as growth history. This potential has been demonstrated through the discriminant functional analysis of Raman spectral profiles (RSP) obtained from the soil and plant-associated bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25, grown in vitro using defined media, and in planta using 3-month-old sugar beets (Beta vulgaris var. Roberta). SBW25 in vitro RSP data showed significant variation between those cells grown on different amino acids, sugars, TCA cycle intermediates, rich King's B, and culture media derived from the sugar beet phytosphere. Raman analysis was also able to follow the transition of SBW25 starved of carbon over a period of days, and SBW25 in planta RSP data also showed variation with significant differences between bacteria recovered from soil and the rhizosphere. SBW25 whole-cell chemical composition, and therefore growth and metabolic history, could be interpreted by coanalyzing in vitro and in planta RSP data. SBW25 recovered from the phytosphere was found to be more similar to SBW25 grown in vitro on Fru or Asp, rather than on Glc or Arg, and quite dissimilar to that resulting from carbon starvation. This suggests that SBW25 growth in the phytosphere is generally neither carbon-catabolite-repressed nor carbon-limited. These findings demonstrate that the analysis of single-cell RSP can differentiate between isogenic populations of bacteria with different metabolic histories or after recovery from different parts of their natural environment. In addition, Raman analysis is also capable of providing biologically relevant biochemical inferences, which might then be tested to uncover the mechanistic basis (biochemical-metabolic-genetic) differentiating bacteria growing in complex environments and exposed to different conditions.
4250588|Lead-influenced changes of the composition of seawater and sediment bacteria were studied in two flow cultures run with lead-contaminated artificial seawater (1 mg
23469141|A fundamental issue in ecology is whether communities are random assemblages or, alternatively, whether there are rules that determine which combinations of taxa can co-occur. For microbial systems, in particular, the question of whether taxonomic groups exhibit differences in community organization remains unresolved but is critical for our understanding of community structure and function. Here, we used presenceabsence matrices derived from bar-coded pyrosequencing data to evaluate the assembly patterns of eight bacterial divisions distributed along two Yellowstone National Park hot spring outflow channels. Four divisions (Cyanobacteria, Chloroflexi, Acidobacteria, and CytophagaFlavobacteriumBacteroides) exhibited less co-occurrence than expected by chance, with phototrophic taxa showing the strongest evidence for nonrandom community structure. We propose that both differences in environmental tolerance and competitive interactions within divisions contribute to these nonrandom assembly patterns. The higher degree of nonrandom structure observed for phototrophic taxa compared with the other divisions may be due in part to greater overlap in resource usage, as has been previously proposed for plant communities.
4251667| Dilution bioassays were performed to examine the seasonal and vertical difference in the relative importance of factors limiting growth of heterotrophic bacteria in Lake Biwa. The lake water diluted by 0.2 m lake filtrate (1:6.6) was enriched either with glucose (C), inorganic phosphorus (P), ammonium nitrogen (N), amino acids (AA), or a combination of these, and incubated for 2 days at the depths where lake water was collected (2.5, 20 and 30 m depths). Experiments showed that at 2.5 m, P was the most deficient resource for bacterial growth, but the magnitude of P limitation depended on water temperature. Among others, amino acids showed a slight but significant stimulation of bacterial growth rates during the fall. At 20 and 30 m, however, growth stimulation by resource addition was rarely detected. Vertically reciprocal translocation experiments revealed that the growth rate was limited by low temperature rather than resource supply at the greater depths. The results support a simple view that bacterial growth rate is basically regulated by water temperature, but high growth rate is not realized in summer because of resource depletion. The present study suggests that both temperature and P supply play a crucial role in biogeochemical cycling of organic matter in Lake Biwa through the bacterial growth rate. 
25153246| Biomanipulation measures in lakes, taken to diminish algal blooms, have mainly been restricted to the reduction of zooplanktivorous fish with the aim to stimulate the grazing pressure by native filter feeders such as Daphnia. However, larger filter feeders like the exotic zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha, have been suggested as an optional tool because of their high filtering capacity. We compared grazing by two filter feeders, D. polymorpha and Daphnia galeata, offered seston from Lake Ijsselmeer, the Netherlands in two consecutive years: 2002 and 2003. The seston in both years was dominated by the colony-forming cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa. The grazing studies were performed under controlled conditions in the laboratory and samples were analyzed on a flow cytometer, making it possible to quantify grazing on different seston components and size fractions, including cyanobacteria, other phytoplankton (green algae, diatoms, etc.), and detritus. No differences in clearance rates, on a per weight basis, were found between the two grazer species. The clearance rate on cyanobacteria (especially &lt;20 m) was lower in 2003 than in 2002. In 2003, the microcystin concentration of cyanobacteria was higher than in 2002, suggesting that the observed lower clearance rate in 2003 was due to the enhanced toxin content of the cyanobacteria. Zebra mussels, although indiscriminately filtering all seston groups out of the water, positively selected for phytoplankton in their mantle cavity, irrespective of its toxicity, and rejected detritus. Since no differences in clearance rates were found between the two grazer species, we conclude that for biomanipulation purposes of shallow lakes, native species like the daphnids should be preferred over exotic species like zebra mussels. When the seston is dominated by phytoplankton that cannot be filtered out of the water column by Daphnia, however, the use of zebra mussels may be considered. Care should be taken, however, in the choice of the lakes since the mussels may have severe ecological and economic impacts. 
41693740|While oyster mushroom (Pleurotus spp.) is one of the most popular cultivated edible mushrooms, there is scanty information about the microbial community taking part in mushroom substrate production. In this study, an improved sequence-aided terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) was used to identify and (semi-)quantify the dominant bacteria of oyster mushroom substrate preparation. The main features of the improved T-RFLP data analysis were the alignment of chromatograms with variable clustering thresholds, the visualization of data matrix with principal component analysis ordination superimposed with cluster analysis, and the search for stage-specific peaks (bacterial taxa) with similarity percentage (analysis of similarity) analysis, followed by identification with clone libraries. By applying this method, the dominance of the following bacterial genera was revealed during oyster mushroom substrate preparation: Pseudomonas and Sphingomonas at startup, Bacillus, Geobacillus, Ureibacillus, Pseudoxanthomonas, and Thermobispora at the end of partial composting, and finally several genera of Actinobacteria, Thermus, Bacillus, Geobacillus, Thermobacillus, and Ureibacillus in the mature substrate. As the proportion of uncultured bacteria increased during the process, it is worth establishing strain collections from partial composting and from mature substrate for searching new species.
40605704|Anthropogenic release of biologically available N has increased atmospheric N deposition in forest ecosystems, which may slow decomposition by reducing the lignolytic activity of white-rot fungi. We investigated the potential for atmospheric N deposition to reduce the abundance and alter the composition of lignolytic basidiomycetes in a regional network of four northern hardwood forest stands receiving experimental NO deposition (30 kg NO-N ha year) for a decade. To estimate the abundance of basidiomycetes with lignolytic potential, we used PCR primers targeting lacease (polyphenol oxidase) and quantitative fluorescence PCR to estimate gene copy number. Natural variation in lacease gene size permitted use of length heterogeneity PCR to profile basidiomycete community composition across two sampling dates in forest floor and mineral soil. Although past work has identified significant and consistent negative effects of NO deposition on lignolytic enzyme activity, microbial biomass, soil respiration, and decomposition rate, we found no consistent effect of NO deposition on basidiomycete lacease gene abundance or community profile. Rather, lacease abundance under NO deposition was lower (-52%), higher (+223%), or unchanged, depending on stand. Only a single stand exhibited a significant change in basidiomycete lacease gene profile. Basidiomycete lacease genes occurring in mineral soil were a subset of the genes observed in the forest floor. Moreover, significant effects on lacease abundance were confined to the forest floor, suggesting that species composition plays some role in determining how lignolytic basidiomycetes are affected by N deposition. Community profiles differed between July and October sampling dates, and basidiomycete communities sampled in October had lower lacease gene abundance in the forest floor, but higher lacease abundance in mineral soil. Although experimental N deposition significantly suppresses lignolytic activity in these forests, this change is not related to the abundance or community composition of basidiomycete fungi with lacease genes. Understanding the expression of laceases and other lignolytic enzymes by basidiomycete fungi and other lignin-decaying organisms appears to hold promise for explaining the consistent decline in lignolytic activity elicited by experimental N deposition.
40343348|The fungal species involved in the decomposition of needle litter and their response to intraspecific genetic variation of trees are poorly known. First, we compared the needle decomposition and fungal decomposers underneath eight different Norway spruce clones in situ. This experiment revealed 6070% loss of needle mass in two years. Although spruce clones differed considerably in growth (twofold height difference) and their needles differed in chemical composition, no significant difference was found for loss of needle mass under the spruce clones. Furthermore, the spruce clones did not affect the community structure of the fungal decomposers. Fungi inhabiting needle litter were identified by extracting ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and sequencing complementary DNA (cDNA) of internal trascribed spacer 1 (ITS1) region. The most frequent identifications were Lophodermium, Pezizales, Mycena, and Marasmius, suggesting that endophytic fungi were involved in the decomposition process. Second, we evaluated the potential of endophytes to decompose needle material in a microcosm experiment in which all other fungi than endophytes were excluded. Within 2 years, the endophytes had decomposed 35-45% of the needle mass. Sequences of Mollisia, Lophodermium, Lachnum, and Phialocephala were most frequently found in rRNA and rDNA extracted from the needles at the end of the microcosm experiment. The dominant needle endophyte in fresh, green needles was Lophodermium piceae, and this species was also found frequently in the needle material after 2 years of decay both in the field and laboratory experiments. Moreover, the relative abundance of Lophodermium-derived denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) bands correlated positively with the decomposition in the microcosm experiment. Hence, our results suggest a significant role of endophytic fungi, and particularly L. piceae, in the process of needle decomposition in boreal forests.
23597810|Denitrification is a major biological process to reduce nitrate to molecular nitrogen (N 2 ). In shallow eutrophic lakes, this process can remove the largest portion of fixed nitrogen and plays an important role in self-purification of this ecosystem. To understand the structure of denitrifying communities in a shallow eutrophic lake, denitrifier communities in four sub-lakes of East Lake in Wuhan, China, were explored by restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP) analysis and sequencing of nirS gene clone libraries. nirS is a functional marker gene for denitrification encoding cytochrome cd 1-containing nitrite reductase, which catalyzes the reduction of nitrite to nitric oxide. Both RFLP fingerprints clustering analysis and phylogeny analysis based on the amino acid sequences of NirS revealed that NirS-type communities in East Lake sediment could be roughly divided into three clusters. Cluster I accounted for 7482 % of clones from the moderately eutrophic sub-lakes Tuan, Tang Ling, and Guo Zheng. Cluster II accounted for 76 % of the communities in hypertrophic sub-lake Miao Lake and cluster III as a minor group (7 % of the total), mainly presented in Miao Lake. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that cluster I was related to the reference clones from a broad range of ecological environments, and clusters II and III were more phylogenetically related to the reference clones from entrophic environments. Canonical correspondence analysis indicated that total nitrogen, total phosphate, total organic carbon, and NH 4 N and NO 2 N were important environmental factors affecting the dispersion of NirS-type denitrifier in the sediments. Cluster I showed a weak relationship with the nutrient content, while cluster II and III were positively related with the nutrient content. Principal coordinates analysis indicated that NirS-type communities from Tuan Lake, Tang Ling Lake, and Guo Zheng Lake sediments were divergent from those found in river, estuary sediment, and forest soil but similar to communities in constructed wetland sediment despite large geographic distances. The communities from the hypertrophic sub-lake Miao Lake deviated from other sub-lakes and the reference communities and clustered independently. Our results support the argument that environmental factors regulate the composition and distribution of the functional bacterial groups.
4250544| Bacteria (Pseudomonas), amoebae (Acanthamoeba), and nematodes (Mesodiplogaster) were raised in soil microcosms with and without glucose additions. Nematode and amoebal grazing on bacteria significantly reduced bacterial populations by the end of a 24-day incubation period. Amoebal numbers decreased in the presence of nematodes with a corresponding increase in nematode numbers which reached a maximum of 230 nematodes/g of soil in the treatment with amoebae and glucose additions. After 24 days the nematode populations in the treatments without carbon additions were dominated by resistant dauer larvae indicating the unavailability of food. Although larval numbers were high in the treatments with glucose additions, the adult component of the population was still increasing at the end of the 24-day experiment. The effect of the presence of amoebae on nematode abundance was of the same magnitude as addition of 600 g glucose-C. 
23469572|The marine environment has been a source of more than 20,000 inspirational natural products discovered over the past 50 years. From these efforts, 9 approved drugs and 12 current clinical trial agents have been discovered, either as natural products or as molecules inspired from the natural product structure. To a significant degree, these have come from collections of marine invertebrates largely obtained from shallow-water tropical ecosystems. However, there is a growing recognition that marine invertebrates are oftentimes populated with enormous quantities of "associated" or symbiotic microorganisms and that microorganisms are the true metabolic sources of these most valuable of marine natural products. Also, because of the inherently multidisciplinary nature of this field, a high degree of innovation is characteristic of marine natural product drug discovery efforts.
25153431|Bacterial communities associated with sheaths of Thioploca spp. from two freshwater lakes (Lake Biwa, Japan, and Lake Constance, Germany) and one brackish lake (Lake Ogawara, Japan) were analyzed with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of 16S rRNA gene fragments. The comparison between the DGGE band patterns of bulk sediment and Thioploca filaments of Lake Biwa suggested the presence of specific bacterial communities associated with Thioploca sheaths. As members of sheath-associated communities, bacteria belonging to Bacteroidetes were detected from the samples of both freshwater lakes. A DGGE band from Thioploca of Lake Biwa, belonging to candidate division OP8, was quite closely related to another DGGE band detected from that of Lake Constance. In contrast to the case of freshwater lakes, no bacterium of Bacteroidetes or OP8 was detected from Thioploca of Lake Ogawara. However, two DGGE bands from Lake Ogawara, belonging to Chloroflexi, were quite closely related to a DGGE band from Lake Constance. Two DGGE bands obtained from Lake Biwa were closely related to phylogenetically distant dissimilatory Fe(III)-reducing bacteria. Cloning analyses for a dissimilatory sulfite reductase gene were performed on the same samples used for DGGE analysis. The results of the analyses suggest that sheaths of freshwater/brackish Thioploca have little ecological significance for the majority of sulfate reducers.
41412425|Diatom blooms occur in many water bodies worldwide, causing significant ecological and social concerns. In order to understand the mechanisms of diatom blooms formation, the effects of varying phosphorus (P) concentration and hydrodynamics on the growth of diatoms were studied by combining results from field observations and laboratory experiments. The field investigation showed that spring diatom blooms (Cyclotella meneghiniana and Stephanodiscus hantzschii) occurred in Lake Taihu and Hanjiang River with similar environmental factors such as water temperature, pH, and dissolved oxygen in 2008. Concentrations of total phosphorus (TP), total nitrogen, and ammonia nitrogen (NH-N) in Lake Taihu were significantly higher than the concentrations in the Hanjiang River. Laboratory experiments were conducted to evaluate growth and physiological responses of four lotic diatoms (Cyclotella atomus, Fraguaria crotonensis, Nitzschia palea, and S. hantzschii, isolated from the Hanjiang River) and three lentic diatoms (C. meneghiniana, Melosira varians, and Stephanodiscus minutulus, isolated from Lake Taihu, Lake Donghu, and Guanqiao Pond, respectively) to various P concentrations under smallscale turbulent and standing conditions. Our results showed that, with turbulence, lotie diatoms C. atomus, F crotonensis, N. palea, and S. hantzschii demonstrated a significant increase in affinity for P compared with lentic diatoms C. meneghiniana, M. varians, and S. minutulus. Moreover, lotic diatoms C. atomus, F crotonensis, and N. palea had higher growth rates and photosynthetic efficiencies with small-scale turbulence than with standing conditions both in P-limited and P-replete conditions. Lotic species S. hantzschii and three lentic diatoms (C. meneghiniana, M. varians, and S. minutulus) grew well under standing conditions. Our results may explain our field observation that the occurrence of diatom blooms in lakes is often associated with higher TP concentrations whereas in rivers, diatom blooms occur at a wide range of TP concentrations under flows. Therefore, different hydrodynamics and nutrient concentrations determined the dominant diatom species, according to their habitat-dependent physiological characteristics.
4251622|The relationships between bacterial concentration, bacterial production, and cell-specific activity of both free and attached bacteria and environmental factors such as suspended solids, nutrients, and temperature were examined in four lakes, two in New Zealand and two in Switzerland. Estimates of cell-specific production were obtained by microautoradiographic counts of [
4251342|A copper-resistant Anabaena variabilis strain was obtained after repeated culturing in progressively higher concentrations of
23597864|A description of the bacterial communities associated with the Mediterranean pennatulids (sea pens) Pennatula phosphorea and Pteroeides spinosum from the Straits of Messina (Italy) is reported. The automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis showed a marked difference between coral (tissues and mucus) and non-coral (underlying sediment and surrounding water) habitats. The diversity of the coral-associated communities was more deeply analysed by sequencing the 16S rRNA genes of bacterial clones. P. phosphorea and P. spinosum harbour distinct bacterial communities, indicating the occurrence of species-specific coral-associated bacteria. In addition, only few phylotypes were shared between mucus and tissues of the same pennatulid species, suggesting that there might be a sort of microhabitat partitioning between the associated microbial communities. The predominance of Alphaproteobacteria was observed for the communities associated with both tissues and mucus of P. phosphorea (84 and 58.2 % of total sequences, respectively). Conversely, the bacterial community in the mucus layer of P. spinosum was dominated by Alphaproteobacteria (74.2 %) as opposed to the tissue library that was dominated by the Gammaproteobacteria and Mollicutes (40.6 and 35.4 %, respectively). The antibacterial activity of 78 bacterial isolates against indicator organisms was assayed. Active isolates (15.4 %), which predominantly affiliated to Vibrio spp., were mainly obtained from coral mucus. Results from the present study enlarge our knowledge on the composition and antibacterial activity of coral-associated bacterial communities.
25153126|Aquatic hyphomycete species produce large numbers of conidia which rapidly colonize the leaf litter that falls into rivers during autumn. Our objective was to understand how a species which produces many fewer conidia than another in laboratory conditions can nevertheless be codominant in a natural setting. In microcosm studies with two pioneer dominant species, Flagellospora curvula and Tetrachaetum elegans, inoculated on alder leaves, we first verified that the ratio of the conidium production of both species (6 to 7:1) was inverse to that of individual conidial masses (1:7) as previously described. Calculating the percentage of leaf mass loss that corresponds to 1 mg of conidial mass produced, the combination of the two species produced 2.9-fold more loss than the mean of each species. By contrast, the reproductive biomasses of F. curvula and T. elegans were 5.2- and 2.6-fold lower, respectively. As a result, the conidium production of F. curvula in the combination was only 3.2-fold that of T. elegans instead of 6- to 7-fold in pure culture. In a mixed culture of the two species, T. elegans conidia had a high germination potential (&gt;90%) whereas the proportion of germinated F. curvula conidia was only 50%. Moreover, T. elegans reduced the area on which F. curvula could grow on poor and rich solid media. These results indicate that the dominance of F. curvula conidia in the river may be partly controlled by T. elegans and suggest that a negative interaction between microfungi may have a positive effect on the ecosystem functioning.
4287699|Quorum sensing enables bacteria to regulate expression of certain genes according to population density. N-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL)-based quorum sensing is known to be widespread among gram-negative bacteria. Several bacterial whole-cell biosensors for AHL detection have been developed and some were used in in situ studies of AHL production. From these studies our knowledge of the significance of quorum sensing in various environments has been improved. However, very little is known about production of AHLs in soil environments. In the present study, an approach for detecting AHL production in bulk soil was developed. A whole-cell biosensor based on the regulatory region of the lux-operon from Vibrio fischeri fused to gfp was constructed, resulting in a
4250566|Adenosine triphosphate in soil is measured by the luciferin-luciferase bioluminescence method. Cation exchange in the ATP extraction procedure is used to reduce the content of, e.g., Fe, Al, and Cations in extracts. The efficiency of the cation exchange is determined by measuring the concentration of Fe by X-ray fluorescence spectrometry. The time dependence of the light emission from the bioluminescence process is investigated, and a method for correlating the ATP content and the light emission is proposed.
4251022| Microbial activity in the Antarctic cryptoendolithic habitat is regulated primarily by temperature. Previous field studies have provided some information on the thermal regime in this habitat, but this type of information is limited by the remoteness of the site and the harsh climatic conditions. Therefore, a mathematical model of the endolithic thermal regime was constructed to augment the field data. This model enabled the parameters affecting the horizontal and altitudinal distribution of the community to be examined. The model predicts that colonization should be possible on surfaces with zenith angle less than 15. At greater zenith angles, colonization should be restricted to surfaces with azimuth angles less than 135 or greater than 225. The upper elevational limit of the community should be less than 2,500 m. The thermal regime probably does not influence the zonation of the community within a rock. 
4250629|Effects of hydrocarbons on the marine diatom Cyclotella cryptica have been studied in laboratory experiments. Low hydrocarbon concentrations (100
23469193|The bacterial community structure of the rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soil of Pinus patula, found in the Nilgiris region of Western Ghats, was studied by constructing 16S rRNA gene clone libraries. In the rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soil clone libraries constructed, 13 and 15 bacterial phyla were identified, respectively. The clone libraries showed the predominance of members of culturally underrepresented phyla like Acidobacteria and Verrucomicrobia. The Alphaproteobacteria and Acidobacteria clones were predominant in rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soil samples, respectively. In rhizosphere, amongst Alphaproteobacteria members, Bradyrhizobium formed the significant proportion, whereas in non-rhizosphere, members of subdivision-6 of phylum Acidobacteria were abundant. The diversity analysis of P. patula soil libraries showed that the phylotypes (16S rRNA gene similarity cutoff, 97 %) of Acidobacteria and Bacteroidetes were relatively predominant and diverse followed by Alphaproteobacteria and Verrucomicrobia. The diversity indices estimated higher richness and abundance of bacteria in P. patula soil clone libraries than the pine forest clone libraries retrieved from previous studies. The tools like principal co-ordinate analysis and Jackknife cluster analysis, which were under UniFrac analysis indicated that variations in soil bacterial communities were attributed to their respective geographical locations due to the phylogenetic divergence amongst the clone libraries. Overall, the P. patula rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere clone libraries were found significantly unique in composition, evenly distributed and highly rich in phylotypes, amongst the biogeographically distant clone libraries. It was finally hypothesised that the phylogenetic divergence amongst the bacterial phylotypes and natural selection plays a pivotal role in the variations of bacterial communities across the geographical distance.
25153275|Previously, we showed that bacterial populations oscillate in response to a moving substrate source such as a root tip, resulting in moving wavelike distributions along roots. For this article, we investigated if bacterial communities fluctuate as a whole or if there is a succession in bacterial composition from peak to peak or within peaks. Rhizosphere microbial communities along roots of wheat Triticum aestivum L. were studied in detail (20-25 rhizosphere and bulk soil samples along the total root length) in two related soils by colony enumeration and culture-independent DNA analysis. Similar to our previous findings, the numbers of copiotrophic and oligotrophic bacteria oscillated with significant harmonics along each root, independent of soil moisture or lateral roots. Shifts in amplified eubacterial 16S rDNA fragments from denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis were detected along the roots. The most abundant and intensively amplified fragments fluctuated in phase with colony-forming unit (CFU) oscillations; fewer amplified fragments with less intensive bands fluctuated out of phase or were restricted to certain root zones. The bacterial species richness along the root was negatively correlated with the numbers of oligotrophic bacterial CFUs. Discriminant analyses on DGGE patterns distinguished between soil types, rhizosphere and bulk soil, and waxing and waning phases in the oscillations along roots. Bacterial compositions shifted within oscillations but were repeated from oscillation to oscillation, supporting the idea that the most abundant bacterial taxa were growing and dying over time and consequently in space, whereas other taxa counterfluctuated or hardly responded to the substrate supplied by the passing root tip.
4287491| We have generated new sensors for the specific detection and studies of bioavailability of metals by engineering Pseudomonas fluorescens with reporter gene systems. One broad host range mercury (pTPT11) and two arsenite (pTPT21 and pTPT31) sensor plasmids that express metal presence by luminescence phenotype were constructed and transferred into Escherichia coli DH5 and Pseudomonas fluorescens OS8. The maximal induction was reached after 2 h of incubation in metal solutions at room temperature (22C). In optimized conditions the half maximal velocity of reaction was achieved at acidic pH using a D-luciferin substrate concentration that was nearly sixfold lower for P. fluorescens OS8 than for E. coli DH5. When using a luciferin concentration (150 M) that was optimal for E. coli the luminescence declined rapidly in the case of Pseudomonas, for which the substrate level 25 M gave a stable reading between about 20 min and 3 h. The ability of the strain OS8 to quantitatively detect specific heavy metals in spiked soil and soil extracts is as good, or even better in being a real-time reporter system, than that of a traditional chemical analysis. The Pseudomonas strain used is an isolate from pine rhizosphere in oil and heavy metal contaminated soil. It is also a good humus soil colonizer and is therefore a good candidate for measuring soil heavy metal bioavailability. 
40802166|In order to characterize the bacterial community diversity associated to mucus of the coral "Mussismilia hispida", four 16S rDNA libraries were constructed and 400 clones from each library were analyzed from two healthy colonies, one diseased colony and the surrounding water. Nine bacterial phyla were identified in healthy "M. hispida", with a dominance of "Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Lentisphaerae", and "Nitrospira". The most commonly found species were related to the genera "Azospirillum, Hirschia, Fabibacter, Blastochloris, Stella, Vibrio, Flavobacterium, Ochrobactrum, Terasakiella, Alkalibacter, Staphylococcus, Azospirillum, Propionibacterium, Arcobacter, and Paenibacillus". In contrast, diseased "M. hispida" had a predominance of one single species of "Bacteroidetes", corresponding to more than 70% of the sequences. Rarefaction curves using evolutionary distance of 1% showed a greater decrease in bacterial diversity in the diseased "M. hispida", with a reduction of almost 85% in OTUs in comparison to healthy colonies. -Libshuff analyses show that significant p values obtained were < 0.0001, demonstrating that the four libraries are significantly different. Furthermore, the sympatric corals "M. hispida" and "Mussismilia braziliensis" appear to have different bacterial community compositions according to Principal Component Analysis and Lineage-specific Analysis. Moreover, lineages that contribute to those differences were identified as -Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Firmicutes. The results obtained in this study suggest hostmicrobe co-evolution in "Mussismilia", and it was the first study on the diversity of the microbiota of the endemic and endangered of extinction Brazilian coral "M. hispida" from Abrolhos bank.
4250941|Nitrate-reducing bacteria (Pseudomonas fluorescens and Alcaligenes sp.) as well as extracellular compounds from these bacteria increased the dissolution rate of iron and phosphorus sorbed to iron precipitates during anaerobic, nitrate-free conditions in experimental sediment-water systems. It is suggested that the influence of the bacteria is due to enzymatic catalyzation of chemical iron reduction.
4287674|The relative contributions of fungi and bacteria to carbon flow from submerged decaying plant litter at different levels of inorganic nutrients (N and P) were studied. We estimated leaf mass loss, fungal and bacterial biomass and production, and microbial respiration and constructed partial carbon budgets for red maple leaf disks precolonized in a stream and then incubated in laboratory microcosms at two levels of nutrients. Patterns of carbon flow for leaf disks colonized with the full microbial assemblage were compared with those colonized by bacteria but in which fungi were greatly reduced by placing leaf disks in colonization chambers sealed with membrane filters to exclude aquatic hyphomycete conidia but not bacterial cells. On leaves colonized by the full microbial assemblage, elevated nutrient concentrations stimulated fungi and bacteria to a similar degree. Peak fungal and bacterial biomass increased by factors of 3.9 and 4.0; cumulative production was 3.9 and 5.1 times higher in the high nutrient in comparison with the low nutrient treatment, respectively. Fungi dominated the total microbial biomass (98.4 to 99.8%) and cumulative production (97.3 and 96.5%), and the fungal yield coefficient exceeded that of bacteria by a factor of 36 and 27 in low- and high-nutrient treatments, respectively. Consequently, the dominant role of fungi in leaf decomposition did not change as a result of nutrient manipulation. Carbon budgets indicated that 8% of leaf carbon loss in the low-nutrient treatment and 17% in the high-nutrient treatment were channeled to microbial (essentially fungal) production. Nutrient enrichment had a positive effect on rate of leaf decomposition only in microcosms with full microbial assemblages. In treatments where fungal colonization was reduced, cumulative bacterial production did not change significantly at either nutrient level and leaf decomposition rate was negatively affected (high nutrients), suggesting that bacterial participation in carbon flow from decaying leaf litter is low regardless of the presence of fungi and nutrient availability. Moreover, 1.5 and 2.3 times higher yield coefficients of bacteria in the reduced fungal treatments at low and high nutrients, respectively (percentage of leaf carbon loss channeled to bacterial production), suggest that bacteria are subjected to strong competition with fungi for resources available in leaf litter.
25153324|Alcohol production from corn is gaining importance in Ontario, Canada, and elsewhere. A major cost of corn production is the cost of chemical fertilizers and these continue to increase in price. The competitiveness of alcohol with fossil fuels depends on access to low-cost corn that allows growers to earn a sustainable income. In this study we set out to determine if we can identify root-associated microorganisms from Ontario-grown corn that can enhance the nutrient flow to corn roots, directly or indirectly, and help minimize the use of extraneous fertilizer. Bacteria were isolated from corn rhizosphere and screened for their capacity to enhance corn growth. The bacteria were examined for their ability to fix nitrogen, solubilize phosphate, and produce indole acetic acid (IAA) and antifungal substances on potato dextrose agar. Bacterial suspensions were applied to pregerminated seed of four corn varieties (39D82, 39H84, 39M27, and 39T68) planted in sterilized sand and unsterilized cornfield soil. The plants were grown under greenhouse conditions for 30 days. Three isolates were identified as having growth-promoting effect. These bacteria were identified as to species by biochemical tests, fatty acid profiles, and 16S rDNA sequence analysis. Corn rhizosphere isolates, Gluconacetobacter azotocaptans DS1, Pseudomonas putida CQ179, and Azospirillum lipoferum N7, provided significant plant growth promotion expressed as increased root/shoot weight when compared to uninoculated plants, in sand and/or soil. All strains except P. putida CQ179 were capable of nitrogen fixation and IAA production. Azospirillum brasilense, however, produced significantly more IAA than the other isolates. Although several of the strains were also able to solubilize phosphate and produce metabolites inhibitory to various fungal pathogens, these properties are not considered as contributing to growth promotion under the conditions used in this study. These bacteria will undergo field tests for their effect on corn growth.
4251103| The time scales involved in the transition between phototrophic and phagotrophic modes of nutrition were examined in the mixotrophic chrysophyte Poterioochromonas malhamensis. Phagotrophy began almost immediately when bacteria were added to phototrophically growing cultures of the alga, and chlorophyll a concentration per cell in these cultures decreased over a 24-hour period. Chlorophyll concentrations per cell began to increase when bacteria were grazed to a density of approximately
25153435|Four experiments were conducted to assess the effect of foliar applications of various nutrient solutions on the phylloplane yeast community of tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.). In the first three experiments, increasing concentrations of sucrose (2-16%), yeast extract (0.5-2.5%), and sucrose plus yeast extract (2.5-18.5% total) were applied and the yeast colony forming units (cfu) enumerated 14 h later by dilution plating. Significant positive linear relationships were observed between the number of yeast cfu and applications of both yeast extract and sucrose plus yeast extract. Foliar applications of sucrose alone had no significant effect on yeast community abundance, indicating that phylloplane yeasts of turfgrass are not limited by the amount or availability of carbohydrates. In the fourth experiment, five different solutions were applied to tall fescue to investigate the response of the yeast community to organic and inorganic nitrogen sources. Tryptone or yeast extract, both with considerable amino acid composition, significantly increased the yeast population, while yeast nitrogen base (with or without amino acids) and ammonium sulfate had no affect on yeast abundance. These results suggest that organic nitrogen stimulate yeast community growth and development on the phylloplane of tall fescue, while carbohydrates, inorganic nitrogen, and non-nitrogenous nutrients have little positive effect.
4251243|Nitrification and denitrification were studied in a millimeter-scale microenvironment using a two-phase system with a liquid manuresaturated layer. Samples consisted of liquid cattle manure and air-dried soil stabilized with silica gel, placed between two aerobic soil phases with a water content near field capacity. A high potential for NH
41489107|Common agricultural practices result in accumulation of copper in agricultural soils worldwide. The effect of bioavailable copper ([Cu] bio ) on colonization of soil by the AM fungus Glomus intraradices and other soil microorganisms was investigated in microcosms containing copper-amended soil. To avoid indirect effects through the plant, copper was only added to root-free microcosm compartments. [Cu] bio was measured using a Pseudomonas fluorescens biosensor strain. In the range of 0-1.5 g g [Cu] bio , a log-log linear relationship between added copper and [Cu] bio was found. Microbial colonization of the rootfree compartment was evaluated by whole-cell fatty acid analysis (WCFA) and amplified rDNA restriction analysis (ARDRA). The WCFA analysis showed that the AM fungus soil colonization was severely inhibited by Cu with a 50% reduction of mycorrhizal growth at 0.26 g g [Cu] bio . The growth of other main microbial groups was not significantly affected by copper. However, ARDRA analysis showed a very strong effect of copper on the bacterial community composition probably caused by an increased proportion of Cu-resistant bacteria. Our results suggest that problems with plant yield may arise when converting slightly copper-contaminated soils to land uses such as low-input and sustainable agriculture that are dependent on AM fungal symbiosis.
41489774|Endophytic bacteria can colonize various plants and organs. However, endophytes colonizing plant reproductive organs have been rarely analyzed. In this study, endophytes colonizing flowers as well as berries and seeds of grapevine plants grown under natural conditions were investigated by cultivation as well as by fluorescence in situ hybridization. For comparison, bacteria were additionally isolated from other plant parts and the rhizosphere and characterized. Flowers, fruits, and seeds hosted various endophytic bacteria. Some taxa were specifically isolated from plant reproductive organs, whereas others were also detected in the rhizosphere, endorhiza or grape inflo/infructescence stalk at the flowering or berry harvest stage. Microscopic analysis by fluorescence in situ hybridization of resin-embedded samples confirmed the presence of the isolated taxa in plant reproductive organs and enabled us to localize them within the plant. Gammaproteobacteria (including Pseudomonas spp.) and Firmicutes (including Bacillus spp.) were visualized inside the epidermis and xylem of ovary and/or inside flower ovules. Firmicutes, mainly Bacillus spp. were additionally visualized inside berries, in the intercellular spaces of pulp cells and/or xylem of pulp, but also along some cell walls inside parts of seeds. Analysis of cultivable bacteria as well as microscopic results indicated that certain endophytic bacteria can colonize flowers, berries, or seeds. Our results also indicated that some specific taxa may not only derive from the root environment but also from other sources such as the anthosphere.
25153230| Global atmospheric CO levels are expected to double within the next 50 years. To assess the effects of increased atmospheric CO on soil ecosystems, cloned trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) seedlings were grown individually in 1 m open bottom root boxes under either elevated (720 ppm, ELEV) or ambient CO (360 ppm, AMB). After 5 years, soil cores (40 cm depth) were collected from the root boxes and divided into 0-20 cm and 20-40 cm fractions. ELEV treatment resulted in significant decreases in both soil nitrate and total soil nitrogen in both the 0-20 cm and 20-40 cm soil fractions, with a 47% decrease in soil nitrate and a 50% decrease in total soil nitrogen occurring in the 0-20 cm fraction. ELEV treatment did not result in a significant change in the amount of soil microbial biomass. However, analysis of indicator phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA) indicated that ELEV treatment did result in significant increases in PLFA indicators for fungi and Gram-negative bacteria in the 0-20 cm fraction. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis was used to analyze the composition of the soil bacterial communities (using primers targeting the 16SrRNA gene) and the soil fungal communities (using primers targeting the intergenic transcribed spacer region). T-RFLP analysis revealed shifts in both bacterial and fungal community structure, as well as increases in both bacterial and fungal species richness with ELEV treatment. These results indicated that increased atmospheric CO had significant effects on both soil nutrient availability and the community composition of soil microbes associated with aspen roots. 
4251657|The increase in atmospheric CO
40343343|Top-down control of lower trophic levels, e.g., bacteria, has been suggested to increase along aquatic productivity gradients. The response by the bacterial community may be to become more predation resistant in highly productive environments. To test this hypothesis, samples were taken from 20 aquatic systems along a productivity gradient (dissolved organic carbon from 7 to 71 mg/L), during late summer. The results showed that the biomass of bacteria, phytoplankton, and ciliates increased along the gradient (r=0.532, 0.426, and 0.758, P<0.01, respectively). However, the organisms did not increase equally, and the ratio of protozoan to bacterial biomass showed a 100-fold increase along the gradient. Ciliates dominated the protozoan biomass in the more nutrient-rich waters. The edibility of colony-forming bacteria was tested using a ciliate predator, Tetrahymena pyriformis. Bacterial edibility was found to decrease with increases in nutrient richness and ciliate biomass in the aquatic systems (r=0.358, P<0.01; r=0.242, P<0.05, respectively). Quantile regression analysis indicated that the selection pressures on edible bacteria were increasing along the productivity gradient. Thus, inedible forms of bacteria were selected for in the transition from oligotrophic to eutrophic conditions. Isolated bacteria were distributed among the -, -, and - Proteobacteria and the Actinobacteria and Firmicutes taxa. We conclude that bacterial predation resistance increases in nutrient-rich waters with high protozoan predation.
25153173|Limitation of bacterioplankton production by nutrients and temperature was investigated in eight temperate lakes in summer. Six of the lakes were resampled in autumn. The lakes differ in nutrient content, water color, and concentration of dissolved organic carbon. Nutrients (phosphorus, nitrogen, and organic carbon) were added alone and in all possible combinations to filtered lake water inoculated with bacteria from the lake. After incubation for 36-40 h at in situ temperatures (ranging from 7 to 20C), the response in bacterioplankton production was determined. The effect of increased temperature on bacterioplankton growth was also tested. Bacterioplankton production was often limited by phosphorus alone, organic carbon alone, or the two in combination. Phosphorus limitation of bacterioplankton production was more common in the summer, whereas limitation by organic carbon was more frequently observed in the autumn. There was a close balance between limitation by phosphorus and organic carbon in the epilimnion in the summer. In the hypolimnion in the summer, bacterioplankton growth was primarily phosphorus-limited. The effect of phosphorus additions decreased with increasing phosphorus concentrations in the lakes. However, there were no correlations between the effect of added organic carbon and water color, dissolved organic carbon concentration, or phosphorus concentration. When temperature was low (in the hypolimnion in the summer, and throughout the water column in the autumn) temperature also limited bacterioplankton production. Thus, temperature and inorganic nutrients or organic compounds can limit bacterioplankton growth both alone and simultaneously. However, at low temperatures, temperature is the most important factor influencing bacterioplankton growth.
41489225|Thirty-three endophytic diazotrophs were isolated from surface-sterilized leaves, stem, and roots of wild rice Oryza alta. The SDS-PAGE profile of total protein and insertion sequence-based polymerase chain reaction (ISPCR) fingerprinting grouped the isolates into four clusters (I-IV). The 16S rRNA gene sequence homology of the representative strains B21, B31, B1, and B23 of clusters I, II, III, and IV were assigned to Pseudomonas oleovorans (99.2% similarity), Burkholderia fungorum (99.4% similarity), Enterobacter cloacae (98.9% similarity), and Adnetobacter johnsonii (98.4% similarity), respectively. The results showed wide genetic diversity of the putative diazotrophic strains of the wild rice, O. alta, and the strains of cluster IV are the first report of nitrogen-fixing Adnetobacter species. The cell size, phenotypic characters, total protein profile, genomic DNA fingerprinting, DNA-DNA hybridization, and antibiotic resistance differentiated strain B23 T from its closest relatives A. johnsonii LMG999 T and Acinetobacter haemolyticus LMG996 T . The DNA-DNA hybridization also distinguished the strain B23 T from the closely related Adnetobacter species. Based on these data, a novel species, Adnetobacter oryzae sp. nov., and strain B23 T (=LMG25575 T = CGMCC1.10689 T ) as the type strain were proposed.
40343508|We investigated microbial interactions of aquatic bacteria associated with hyphae (the hyphosphere) of freshwater fungi on leaf litter. Bacteria were isolated directly from the hyphae of fungi from sedimented leaves of a small stream in the National Park "Lower Oder," Germany. To investigate interactions, bacteria and fungi were pairwise co-cultivated on leaf-extract medium and in microcosms loaded with leaves. The performance of fungi and bacteria was monitored by measuring growth, enzyme production, and respiration of mono-and co-cultures. Growth inhibition of the fungus Cladosporium herbarum by Ralstonia pickettii was detected on leaf extract agar plates. In microcosms, the presence of Chryseobacterium sp. lowered the exocellulase, endocellulase, and cellobiase activity of the fungus. Additionally, the conversion of leafmeterial into microbaial biomass was retarded in co-cultures. The respirration of the fungus was uninfluenced by the presence of the bacterium.
4287615| Experiments were done to test the hypothesis that atmospheric CH
4250853|The quantitative and qualitative development of a heterotrophic bacterial community in seawater was studied throughout an experimental rearing of the prawn Penaeus japonicus. The maturation of juvenile prawns had been carried out for 8 months in aerated tanks of seawater without any water renewal. Bacteria (337 strains) were isolated from seawater, which had been sampled at different times. Samples from one of the mussels used to feed the prawns and from the digestive tract of one prawn each supplied 40 more strains. 101 tests were performed on each strain, and cluster analysis showed the existence of 4 different groups containing 95% of the sampled strains. Characteristics of the various samples and groups were described in terms of ecotype diversities, catabolic potentialities, nutritional capacities, and morpho-physiological groups. Until nitrification attained a steady state, the heterotrophic community clearly decreased in number and was composed mostly of auxotrophic bacteria (pseudomonads and Moraxella-Acinetobacter groups). These bacteria needed growth factors and were unable to use amino acids (group B). At the end of the experiment (7 months) the bacteria isolated from the water were vibrios and enterobacteria, as were those isolated from the prawn and the mussel. They clustered together in group A. The number of strains that clustered with those of natural seawater (group E) decreased steadily during the experimental period.
4251518|Protozoan abundance, nitrification potential, and related factors in saturated subsurface sediments and the overlying soil were compared at a nonfertilized grassland and an agricultural cropland site. In a 6-week laboratory experiment, DOC, ammonium, and protozoan abundance were manipulated in flasks containing groundwater-sediment slurries. Microbial abundance (protozoa, actively respiring bacteria, and total bacteria) and nutrient concentrations (extractable ammonium and nitrate) were measured. Results from the soil profile analysis showed that protozoan abundance declined with depth at both sites, but significant numbers (392 cells
4287547|Populations of soil amoebas were monitored in two salt marshes in Staten Island, NY for 2 years. One site, Gulfport Reach on the Arthur Kill, has been highly impacted by numerous oil spills. In particular, in 1990 a massive no. 2 fuel oil spill from a ruptured pipe flooded the area; its sediments had total petroleum hydrocarbon (TPH) concentrations in the range 800-46,000 ppm. A reference site 11 km away, on the Atlantic coast, had low TPH levels. Amoeba population densities were in general higher in the impacted sediments. In laboratory microcosm experiments, sediment samples from unimpacted sites were treated with added fresh (unweathered) hydrocarbons (no. 2 fuel oil) and cultured; these also yielded higher amoeba numbers than untreated controls. Four distinct amoeba morphotypes were monitored. Changes in population levels of total amoebas were correlated in the two sites, particularly for morphotype 2 (r = 0.83). The ratios of total amoebas to total bacterial numbers were also correlated (r = 0.85) between the sites. This suggests the amoebas may function as generalists, and that their trophic relation to bacterial prey is not much affected by the presence of petroleum hydrocarbons, but rather may reflect regional parameters such as ambient temperature or other physical factors.
4251803| Temporal changes in - and -glucosidase activities, dissolved organic matter content, and bacterial biomass were studied in the superficial sediment layer of a eutrophic lake during the period of anoxia. The mean - and -glucosidase activities were 30.7  11.0 and 15.1  6.2 nmol
4251309|A rifampicin-nalidixic acid mutant of Pseudomonas viridiflava (PV) was studied in the field and greenhouse with respect to its epiphytic survival on the roots and foliage of a susceptible (FM 6203) and resistant (Ontario 7710) tomato cultivar and 16 weed species. In the field, populations varied between years, which was attributed to differences in environmental conditions. Hot, dry conditions caused rapid decline or elimination of populations. Some hosts were more conducive than others in promoting epiphytic growth, and generally, roots were better survival sites than foliage. Some hosts such as johnsongrass, lambsquarters, pigweed, prickly sida, and red sorrel had no detectable populations of PV on foliage 2 weeks after inoculation. (Plants had been misted with a 10
25153136|The extent to which free-living microorganisms exist in geographically isolated, genetically distinct populations is a subject of continuing debate. Some authorities content that many microorganisms have cosmopolitan distributions, while others provide evidence that more limited geographical distribution of genetically distinct populations can occur. We report the occurrence of two morphologically similar, but genetically distinct, populations of the microbial eukaryote Peridinium limbatum (Stokes) Lemmermann from neighboring Northern Wisconsin freshwater bodies. Five strains of P. limbatum were cultured by single-cell isolation from both Crystal Lake and Crystal Bog (Oneida Co., WI). Genetic variation between the two populations encompassed 8.9% (mean of 35.4 of 397 nucleotides) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS1 and ITS2) region. In contrast, 0.5% (mean of 2.25 of 397 nucleotides) variation was observed within the Crystal Lake population and 0.3% (mean of 1.21 of 397 nucleotides), within the Crystal Bog population. This difference between the two populations was highly statistically significant (p-value &lt;&lt; 0.001). The extent of genetic variation between the two P. limbatum populations was greater than that reported in the literature for some morphologically distinguishable microalgal species, suggesting the occurrence of cryptic sister species. On the other hand, hybrid sequences obtained from one of the Crystal Lake strains suggest that the two populations may still be members of a single sexually compatible biological species. Our data suggest that the two neighboring P. limbatum populations may be diverging genetically under conditions of limited gene flow, suggesting a mechanism for the origin of geographically isolated, genetically distinct populations of microbial eukaryotes.
4251594|A total of 285 strains of Azospirillum were isolated from soils from seven geographic regions in New South Wales, Australia, using an immunomagnetic separation procedure which does not select strains according to their nitrogen-fixing ability. By combining amplification and restriction analysis of 16S rDNA (ARDRA) patterns with serological, morphological and biochemical results, we found that almost all isolates were A. brasilense and A. lipoferum. There was wide variation in the nitrogenase (acetylene reduction) activity of isolates grown in nitrogen-free, semisolid medium, with differences in average activities between regions. Isolates with zero or negligible nitrogenase activity were found in samples from only two regions, one of which had two out of 26 strains with no activity. Representative isolates, having the highest, the lowest, and intermediate nitrogen fixation rates for each site, were used to inoculate the roots of wheat plants in a model system. Most of the isolates, in association with wheat roots, reduced between 1 and 5 nmol
27770581|Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis and plant-growth-promoting rhizobacterium (PGPR) can alleviate the effects of water stress in plants, but it is unknown whether these benefits can be maintained at elevated CO2. Therefore, we carried out a study where seedlings of Lactuca sativa were inoculated with the AM fungus (AMF) Glomus intraradices N.C. Schenk & G.S. Sm. or the PGPR Pseudomonas mendocina Palleroni and subjected to two levels of watering and two levels of atmospheric CO2 to ascertain their effects on plant physiological parameters and gene expression of one PIP aquaporin in roots. The inoculation with PGPR produced the greatest growth in lettuce plants under all assayed treatments as well as the highest foliar potassium concentration and leaf relative water content under elevated [CO2] and drought. However, under such conditions, the PIP2 gene expression remained almost unchanged. G. intraradices increased significantly the AMF colonization, foliar phosphorus concentration and leaf relative water content in plants grown under drought and elevated [CO2]. Under drought and elevated [CO2], the plants inoculated with G. intraradices showed enhanced expression of the PIP2 gene as compared to P. mendocina or control plants. Our results suggest that both microbial inoculation treatments could help to alleviate drought at elevated [CO2]. However, the PIP2 gene expression was increased only by the AMF but not by the PGPR under these conditions.
41489204|Invasion of alien species has been shown to cause detrimental effects on habitats of native species. Insect pollinators represent such examples; the introduction of commercial bumble bee species for crop pollination has resulted in competition for an ecological niche with native species, genetic disturbance caused by mating with native species, and pathogen spillover to native species. The European honey bee, Apis mellifera, was first introduced into Japan for apiculture in 1877, and queen bees have been imported from several countries for many years. However, its effects on Japanese native honey bee, Apis cerana japnica, have never been addressed. We thus conducted the survey of honey bee viruses and Acarapis mites using both A. mellifera and A. c. japonica colonies to examine their infestation in native and non-native honey bee species in Japan. Honey bee viruses, Deformed wing virus (DWV), Black queen cell virus (BQCV), Israeli acute paralysis virus (IAPV), and Sacbrood virus (SBV), were found in both A. mellifera and A. c. japonica colonies; however, the infection frequency of viruses in A. c. japonica was lower than that in A. mellifera colonies. Based on the phylogenies of DWV, BQCV, and SBV isolates from A. mellifera and A. c. japonica, DWV and BQCV may infect both honey bee species; meanwhile, SBV has a clear species barrier. For the first time in Japan, tracheal mite (Acarapis woodi) was specifically found in the dead honey bees from collapsing A. c. japonica colonies. This paper thus provides further evidence that tracheal-mite-infested honey bee colonies can die during cool winters with no other disease present. These results demonstrate the infestation of native honey bees by parasite and pathogens of non-native honey bees that are traded globally.
4251211|Three groups of physiological processes in microorganisms are considered the physiological basis of oligotrophy: the greater substrate affinity of the oligotrophs' transport systems, efficient or "economical" metabolism, and existence of a "master reaction" or "rate-determining steps" controlling the rate of metabolism. Heterotrophic microorganisms are divided into three unequal groups according to "reaction norma." Two groups representing the extremes are small groups with the "narrow" reaction norma, regarding the concentrations and structure of the assimilated organic compounds and variability limits of the physiological characteristics mentioned above. The third, intermediate group includes the majority of microorganisms with the "wide" reaction norma.
4287653| Using 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses we investigated the bacterial diversity of winter bacterioplankton of two eutrophic Siberian reservoirs. These reservoirs show similarity in phytoplankton community composition in spring and autumn but tend to differ in summer in exhibiting cyanobacterial bloom. Forty-eight unique partial 16S RNA gene sequences retrieved from two libraries were mostly affiliated with the class Actinobacteria,  subdivision of the class Proteobacteria, and the phylum Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides. The clone library of the pond exhibiting summer cyanobacterial bloom showed more diversity in sequence composition. A significant number of bacterial 16S rRNA gene clones were closely related to freshwater bacteria previously found in different aquatic ecosystems. This finding confirms the assumption that some bacterial clades are globally distributed. 
4250878|Microbial activity of stream sediments has been determined by three distinct methods: phosphatase levels, maximum uptake velocity of radiolabeled glucose, and carbon dioxide production rates. These methods have been applied to different types of sediment (mud, sand, gravel) from the same stream and to 5 samples from two different streams for comparison. Temperature, discharge, and 8 other abiotic variables for each sample were also determined. The 3 activity methods correlated closely with each other and were measured with a similar precision. Phosphatase activity could be predicted for all sites from bulk density. The largest proportion of the variance associated with carbon dioxide production was explained by variations in percent of organic matter, but the relationship did not hold for all streams. Maximum uptake velocity, compared with the other 2 activity measurements, was poorly explained by any of the abiotic variables.
41489795|Persistence or degradation of synthetic antibiotics in soil is crucial in assessing their environmental risks. Microbial catabolic activity in a sandy loamy soil with pig manure using C-and C-labelled sulfamethazine (SMZ) respirometry showed that SMZ was not readily degradable. But after 100 days, degradation in sulfadiazine-exposed manure was 9.2%, far greater than soil and organic manure (0.5% and 0.11%, respectively, p<0.05). Abiotic degradation was not detected suggesting microbial catabolism as main degradation mechanism. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism showed biodiversity increases within 1 day of SMZ spiking and especially after 200 days, although some species plummeted. A clone library from the treatment with highest degradation showed that most bacteria belonged to ,  and  classes of Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes and Acidobacteria. Proteobacteria (, and ), Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes which were the most abundant classes on day 1 also decreased most following prolonged exposure. From the matrix showing the highest degradation rate, 17 SMZ-resistant isolates biodegraded low levels of C-labelled SMZ when each species was incubated separately (0.2-1.5%) but biodegradation was enhanced when the four isolates with the highest biodegradation were incubated in a consortium (Bacillus licheniformis, Pseudomonas putida, Alcaligenes sp. and Aquamicrobium defluvium as per 16S rRNA gene sequencing), removing up to 7.8% of SMZ after 20 days. One of these species (B. licheniformis) was a known livestock and occasional human pathogen. Despite an environmental role of these species in sulfonamide bioremediation, the possibility of horizontal transfer of pathogenicity and resistance genes should caution against an indiscriminate use of these species as sulfonamide degraders.
4251385|A major controlling factor for bacterial growth is their ability to hydrolyze high molecular weight molecules too complex to be transported directly across the cell's membrane. The utility of such an extracellular enzyme hydrolysis system, location of the enzymes (free or attached), environmental controls of enzyme production, and implications of multiple hydrolysis-uptake systems are explored in relation to free-living oceanic bacteria and bacteria attached to rapidly sinking aggregates.
40343500|Rising sea levels and excessive water withdrawals upstream are making previously freshwater coastal ecosystems saline. Plant and animal responses to variation in the freshwater-saline interface have been well studied in the coastal zone; however, microbial community structure and functional response to seawater intrusion remains relatively unexplored. Here, we used molecular approaches to evaluate the response of the prokaryotic community to controlled changes in porewater salinity levels in freshwater sediments from the Altamaha River, Georgia, USA. This work is a companion to a previously published study describing results from an experiment using laboratory flow-through sediment core bioreactors to document biogeochemical changes as porewater salinity was increased from 0 to 10 over 35 days. As reported in Weston et al. (Biogeochemistry, 77: 375-408, 62), porewater chemistry was monitored, and cores were sacrificed at 0, 9, 15, and 35 days, at which time we completed terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and 16S rRNA clone library analyses of sediment microbial communities. The biogeochemical study documented changes in mineralization pathways in response to artificial seawater additions, with a decline in methanogenesis, a transient increase in iron reduction, and finally a dominance of sulfate reduction. Here, we report that, despite these dramatic and significant changes in microbial activity at the biogeochemical level, no significant differences were found between microbial community composition of control vs. seawater-amended treatments for either Bacterial or Archaeal members. Further, taxa in the seawater-amended treatment community did not become more "marine-like" through time. Our experiment suggests that, as seawater intrudes into freshwater sediments, observed changes in metabolic activity and carbon mineralization on the time scale of weeks are driven more by shifts in gene expression and regulation than by changes in the composition of the microbial community.
4250821|Seven known species of rumen ciliates and mixed Entodinium spp. showed association with plant particles in rumen fluid in vitro. Association was greater with fresh particles than with hay, and substantially decreased when the water-soluble components of the particles were removed, suggesting that the water-soluble components may be responsible for the association. The association was rapid and maximal between 5 and 35 min (depending on the ciliate species) after exposure to the particles, and involved major transfers of ciliate populations and biomass from the liquid phase to the solid phase of the system. The most rapid and largest population transfers to the particles from the rumen fluid were shown by the holotrich ciliates, where transfers of up to 97% of the population were recorded. Association with plant particles by all species examined occurred within the pH range 5.5-7.5, and decreased with time when the particles were incubated in rumen contents in vivo. The ciliate biomass transferring from the liquid to the solid phase varied with the composition of the ciliate population.
25256167|Bacterial communities mediate many of the processes in boreal forest floors that determine the functioning of these ecosystems, yet it remains uncertain whether the composition of these communities is distributed non-randomly across the landscape. In a study performed in the southern boreal mixed wood forest of Qubec, Canada, we tested the hypothesis that stand type (spruce/fir, aspen, paper birch), stand age (57, 78-85, and 131 years old), and geologic parent material (clay and till) were correlated with forest floor bacterial community composition. Forest floors in 54 independent forest stands were sampled to comprise a full factorial array of the three predictor variables. Bacterial community structure was examined by terminal restriction fragment (T-RF) length polymorphism analysis of genes encoding for 16S rRNA. Distance-based redundancy analysis of T-RF assemblages revealed that each predictor variable, as well as their interaction terms, had a significant effect on bacterial community composition, geologic parent material being the most discriminating factor. A survey of the 15 T-RFs with the highest percentage fit on the first two ordination axes describing the main effects indicated that each landscape feature correlated to a distinct group of bacteria. A survey of the most discriminant T-RFs describing the effect of stand type within each combination of stand age and geologic parent material indicated a strong dependency of several T-RFs on geologic parent material. Given the possible link between bacterial community composition and forest floor functioning, we also assessed the effects of the same three landscape features on community-level catabolic profiles (CLCP) of the extractable forest floor microbiota. Geologic parent material and stand type had significant effects on CLCPs. On clay plots, the effects of landscape features on T-RF patterns were highly consistent with their effects on CLCPs. In light of our results, we suggest that future research examine whether bacterial community composition or CLCPs can be used to detect latent environmental changes across landscape units.
25256225|This study compared the effectiveness of four arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal isolates (two autochthonous presumably drought-tolerant Glomus sp and two allochthonous presumably drought-sensitive strains) on a drought-adapted plant (Lavandula spica) growing under drought conditions. The autochthonous AM fungal strains produced a higher lavender biomass, specially root biomass, and a more efficient N and K absorption than with the inoculation of similar allochthonous strains under drought conditions. The autochthonous strains of Glomus intraradices and Glomus mosseae increased root growth by 35% and 100%, respectively, when compared to similar allochthonous strains. These effects were concomitant with an increase in water content and a decline in antioxidant compounds: 25% glutathione, 7% ascorbate and 15% HO by G. intraradices, and 108% glutathione, 26% ascorbate and 43% HO by G. mosseae. Glutathione and ascorbate have an important role in plant protection and metabolic function under water deficit; the low cell accumulation of these compounds in plants colonized by autochthonous AM fungal strains is an indication of high drought tolerance. Non-significant differences between antioxidant activities such as glutathione reductase (GR), catalase (CAT) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in colonized plants were found. Thus, these results do not allow the generalization that GR, CAT and SOD were correlated with the symbiotic efficiency of these AM fungi on lavender drought tolerance. Plants colonized by allochthonous G. mosseae (the less efficient strain under drought conditions) had less N and K content than those colonized by similar autochthonous strain. These ions play a key role in osmoregulation. The AM symbiosis by autochthonous adapted strains also produced the highest intraradical and arbuscular development and extraradical mycelial having the greatest fungal SDH and ALP-ase activities in the root systems. Inoculation of autochthonous drought tolerant fungal strains is an important strategy that assured the greatest tolerance water stress contributing to the best lavender growth under drought.
4251632|Rhizosphere bacterial communities of parental and two transgenic alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) of isogenic background were compared based on metabolic fingerprinting using Biolog GN microplates and DNA fingerprinting of bacterial communities present in Biolog GN substrate wells by enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus sequence-PCR (ERIC-PCR). The two transgenic alfalfa expressed either bacterial (Bacillus licheniformis) genes for alpha-amylase or fungal (Phanerochaete chrysosporium) genes for Mn-dependent lignin peroxidase (Austin S, Bingham ET, Matthews DE, Shahan MN, Will J, Burgess RR, Euphytica 85:381-393). Cluster analysis and principal components analysis (PCA) of the Biolog GN metabolic fingerprints indicated consistent differences in substrate utilization between the parental and lignin peroxidase transgenic alfalfa rhizosphere bacterial communities. Cluster analysis of ERIC-PCR fingerprints of the bacterial communities in Biolog GN substrate wells revealed consistent differences in the types of bacteria (substrate-specific populations) enriched from the rhizospheres of each alfalfa genotype. Comparison of ERIC-PCR fingerprints of bacterial strains obtained from substrate wells to substrate community ERIC-PCR fingerprints suggested that a limited number of populations were responsible for substrate oxidation in these wells. Results of this study suggest that transgenic plant genotype may affect rhizosphere microorganisms and that the methodology used in this study may prove a useful approach for the comparison of bacterial communities.
4287552|Interpreting the large amount of data generated by rapid profiling techniques, such as T-RFLP, DGGE, and DNA arrays, is a difficult problem facing microbial ecologists. This study compares the ability of two very different ordination methods, principal component analysis (PCA) and self-organizing map neural networks (SOMs), to analyze 16S-DNA terminal restriction-fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) profiles from microbial communities in glucose-fed methanogenic bioreactors during startup and changes in operational parameters. Our goal was not only to identify which samples were similar, but also to decipher community dynamics and describe specific phylotypes, i.e., phylogenetically similar organisms, that behaved similarly in different reactors. Fifteen samples were taken over 56 volume changes from each of two bioreactors inoculated from river sediment (S2) and anaerobic digester sludge (M3) and from a well-established control reactor (R1). PCA of bacterial T-RFLP profiles indicated that both the S2 and M3 communities changed rapidly during the first nine volume changes, and then became relatively stable. PCA also showed that an HRT of 8 or 6 days had no effect on either reactor communtity, while an HRT of 2 days changed community structure significantly in both reactors. The SOM clustered the terminal restriction fragments according to when each fragment was most abundant in a reactor community, resulting in four clearly discernible groups. Thirteen fragments behaved similarly in both reactors, eight of which composed a significant proportion of the microbial community as judged by the relative abundance of the fragment in the T-RFLP profiles. Six Bacteria terminal restriction fragments shared between the two communities matched cloned 16S rDNA sequences from the reactors related to Spirochaeta, Aminobacterium, Thermotoga, and Clostridium species. Convergence also occurred within the acetoclastic methanogen community, resulting in a predominance of Methanosarcina siciliae-related organisms. The results demonstrate that both PCA and SOM analysis are useful in the analysis of T-RFLP data; however, the SOM was better at resolving patterns in more complex and variable data than PCA ordination.
4250793|Four ectomycorrhizal fungi were tested for their ability to grow (i.e., mycelial mat radial extension and fungal biomass) on nutrient media either supplemented with ammonium-nitrogen or nitrate-nitrogen or in the absence of an inorganic nitrogen source. Pisolithus tinctorius, Cenococcum geophilum and Thelephora terrestris exhibited greater growth on ammonium-nitrogen. Suillus granulatus grew better on the nitrate-nitrogen nutrient medium. Regardless of inorganic nitrogen form preference (i.e., ammonium-nitrogen or nitrate-nitrogen), all 4 species showed some growth on each of the 3 nutrient media. Growth rate maxima varied by fungal species as well as by inorganic nitrogen source. Maximum growth rate for T. terrestris exceeded rates exhibited by the other 3 fungi by 2-5 times.
40926467|Within the same human gastrointestinal tract, substantial differences in the bacterial species that inhabit oral cavity and intestinal tract have been noted. Previous research primarily attributed the differences to the influences of host environments and nutritional availabilities (" host habitat" effect). Our recent study indicated that, other than the host habitat effect, an existing microbial community could impose a selective pressure on incoming foreign bacterial species independent of host-mediated selection (" community selection" effect). In this study, we employed in vitro microbial floras representing microorganisms that inhabit the oral cavities and intestinal tract of mice in combination with Escherichia coli as a model intestinal bacterium and demonstrated that E. coli displays a striking community preference. It thrived when introduced into the intestinal microbial community and survived poorly in the microbial flora of foreign origin (oral community). A more detailed examination of this phenomenon showed that the oral community produced oxygen-free radicals in the presence of wild-type E. coli while mutants deficient in lipopolysaccharides (LPS) did not trigger significant production of these cell-damaging agents. Furthermore, mutants of E. coli defective in the oxidative stress response experienced a more drastic reduction in viability when cocultivated with the oral flora, while the exogenous addition of the antioxidant vitamin was able to rescue it. We concluded that the oral-derived microbial community senses the E. coli LPS and kills the bacterium with oxygenfree radicals. This study reveals a new mechanism of community invasion resistance employed by established microflora to defend their domains.
4251269|Analyses of microbial community dynamics are often constrained by the destructive, indirect, and incomplete nature of most sampling techniques. These methodological constraints compel assumptions that are rarely verified about the relationships among separate communities. We evaluated the consequences for community analysis of the common assumption that separate microbial communities are described by the same species abundance distribution. Sample data were generated from simulated communities in which the species abundance distributions were the same or were different. Samples from communities that had the same number of species or were described by the same species abundance distribution sometimes had significantly different numbers of species. Samples from simulated communities that had different species number-species abundance distribution combinations sometimes contained indistinguishable numbers of species. When sampling from independent communities described by unknown distributions (e.g., microbial communities on plant surfaces), the simulations showed that standardization of sample size (number of individuals or colony-forming units) does not guarantee samples of equal proportions of the total species in a community. Sample sizes that are logistically feasible for many microbial systems will provide only limited information for differentiating species numbers or species abundance distributions among separate communities over time. For ecologists studying destructively or incompletely sampled communities this seriously influences both the sample designs that are reasonable and the questions that can be addressed in such systems.
40605855|Rumen bacterial communities in forage-fed and grazing cattle continually adapt to a wide range of dietary composition, nutrient density, and environmental conditions. We hypothesized that very distinct assemblages would develop between the fiber and fractions of rumen contents in animals transitioned from bermudagrass hay diet to a grazed wheat diet. To address this hypothesis, we designed an experiment utilizing bTEFAP pyrosequencing technique to characterize and elucidate changes in bacterial diversity among the fiber and liquid rumen fractions and whole rumen contents of 14 (Angus  Hereford) ruminally cannulated steers sequentially fed bermudagrass hay (Cynodon dactylon; 34 days) and grazing wheat forage (28 days). Bermudagrass hay was a conserved C4 perennial grass lower in protein and higher in fiber (11% and 67%, respectively) content than grazed winter wheat (Triticum aestivum), a C3 annual grass with higher protein (20%) and a large (66%) soluble fraction. Significant differences in the OTU estimates (Chaol, Ace, and Rarefaction) were detected between fractions of both diets, with bermudagrass hay supporting greater diversity than wheat forage. Sequences were compared with a 16S database using BLASTn and assigned sequences to respective genera and genera-like units based on the similarity value to known sequences in the database. Predominant genera were Prevotella (up to 33%) and Rikenella-like (up to 28%) genera on the bermudagrass diet and Prevotella (up to 56%) genus on the wheat diet irrespective of the fractions. Principle component analyses accounted for over 95% of variation in 16S estimated bacterial community composition in all three fractions and clearly differentiated communities associated with each diet. Overall, bermudagrass hay diets clustered more clearly than wheat diets.
41692857|Predicted changes in climate associated with increased greenhouse gas emissions can cause increases in global mean temperature and changes in precipitation regimes. These changes may affect key soil processes, e.g., microbial CO evolution and biomass, mineralization rates, primary productivity, biodiversity, and litter decomposition, which play an important role in carbon and nutrient cycling in terrestrial ecosystems. Our study examined the changes in litter microbial communities and decomposition along a climatic gradient, ranging from arid desert to humid Mediterranean regions in Israel. Wheat straw litter bags were placed in arid, semi-arid, Mediterranean, and humid Mediterranean sites. Samples were collected seasonally over a 2-year period in order to evaluate mass loss, litter moisture, C/N ratio, bacterial colony-forming units (CFUs), microbial CO evolution and biomass, microbial functional diversity, and catabolic profile. Decomposition rate was the highest during the first year of the study at the Mediterranean and arid sites. Community-level physiological profile and microbial biomass were the highest in summer, while bacterial CFUs were the highest in winter. Microbial functional diversity was found to be highest at the humid Mediterranean site, whereas substrate utilization increased at the arid site. Our results support the assumption that climatic factors control litter degradation and regulate microbial activity.
4251037|Dilution grazing experiments were conducted to determine growth and loss rates of glucose-metabolizing and total bacteria. Bacterial growth rates were low and losses to grazers negligible in samples collected from the Celtic Sea in June 1986. Growth and loss rates of glucose-metabolizing bacteria were higher than growth and loss rates of total bacteria in a sample collected from the North Sea in October 1986.
4250721| The systematic study of Legionella as a human pathogen and a bacterium widely disseminated in the environment requires simplification of present methodology. We describe a highly sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of serum antibodies that can also be used for the detection of antigen. Legionella pneumophila serogroups 1 and 3 (Philadelphia 2 and Bloomington 2), L. bozemanii (WIGA), and L. micdadei (TATLOCK) were grown in diphasic medium consisting of charcoal yeast extract agar (CYE) overlayed with yeast extract medium (YEM) for the production of whole cell antigen and CYE for the extraction of carbohydrate antigen. The whole cells were inactivated with 0.5% formalin. The carbohydrate was obtained from the supernatant of cells resuspended twice in phosphate buffered saline (PBS). The antigen was sterilized and concentrated by filtration and purified by chromatography through a Sepharose 4B column. The highest molecular weight fractions were used for chemical characterization, which confirmed the carbohydrate nature of the antigen, and for micro-ELISA. Titers ranging from 5  10
23597818|The dissolved organic carbon (DOC) pool is composed of several organic carbon compounds from different carbon sources. Each of these sources may support different bacterial growth rates, but few studies have specifically analyzed the effects of the combination of different carbon sources on bacterial metabolism. In this study, we evaluated the response of several metabolic parameters, including bacterial biomass production (BP), bacterial respiration (BR), bacterial growth efficiency (BGE), and bacterial community structure, on the presence of three DOC sources alone and in combination. We hypothesized that the mixture of different DOC sources would increase the efficiency of carbon use by bacteria (BGE). We established a full-factorial substitutive design (seven treatments) in which the effects of the number and identity of DOC sources on bacterial metabolism were evaluated. We calculated the expected metabolic rates of the combined DOC treatments based on the single-DOC treatments and observed a positive interaction on BP, a negative interaction on BR, and, consequently, a positive interaction on BGE for the combinations. The bacterial community composition appeared to have a minor impact on differences in bacterial metabolism among the treatments. Our data indicate that mixtures of DOC sources result in a more efficient biological use of carbon. This study provides strong evidence that the mixture of different DOC sources is a key factor affecting the role of bacteria in the carbon flux of aquatic ecosystems.
4251291|The timing of lytic phage development and the relationship between host generation times and latent periods were investigated by electron microscopy of one-step growth experiments in two strains of marine Vibrio species. Results were used in a correction factor developed to interpret field studies of phage-infected marine bacteria. Both the number of mature phage per average cell section and the percentage of cells with mature phage increased exponentially by 73-86% into the latent periods. Assuming that bacterial infection and lysis take place continually in the ocean, conversion factors for relating the percentage of visibly infected bacteria to the total percentage of the bacterial community that are phage-infected were calculated as 3.70-7.14. When this range of factors was applied to previously-collected field data [Proctor LM, Fuhrman JA (1990) Nature (Lond) 343:60-62; Proctor LM, Fuhrman JA (1991) Mar Ecol Prog Ser 69:133-142] from 3 to 31% of the free-living bacteria and 3 to 26% of particulate-associated bacteria appeared to be phage-infected at any given time. Based upon a steady-state model in which half the daughter cells survive to divide again, the percent of total mortality would be twice the total percentage of phage-infected cells. From 6 to 62% and from 6 to 52% of mortality for the free-living and particulate-associated bacterial community, respectively, may be due to viruses.
4250429|Selenite, selenate, and tellurate inhibited the conversion of arsenate to trimethylarsine by Candida humicola. Trimethylarsine disappeared from the gas phase when incubated with C. humicola in the presence of selenium or tellurium salts. The fungus generated dimethylselenide from selenite and selenate and an unidentified gas from tellurate. Sulfate but not arsenate, tellurate, or phosphate inhibited the conversion of selenate to dimethylselenide. Arsenate-grown cells generated trimethylarsine from arsenate, and selenate-grown cells formed dimethylselenide from selenate with almost no lag phase. Cells grown in media with selenate or with no additions only formed the alkylarsine from arsenate after a lag phase, and those grown in solutions with arsenate or no additions produced dimethylselenide slowly from selenate.
23597813|Thraustochydrids has been known for their ubiquitous distribution in the ocean. However, a few efforts have been made to investigate their ecology. In this study, we have applied molecular method, acriflavine direct detection, and classical oceanographic methods to investigate the abundance and diversity of thraustochytrids in the North Pacific subtropical gyre. Our results revealed interesting temporal and spatial variations of their population. Out of three seasons (spring, summer, and fall), cruise Hawaii Ocean Time-series (HOT)-216 during November 2009 obtained the highest abundance of thraustochytrids ranging from 1,890 (Station S1C1, 45 m) to 630,000 (Station S2C12, 100 m)cells L -1 of seawater, which accounted for a 0.79 to 281.0 % biomass ratio to that of bacteria in terms of gram carbon per liter. A patchy distribution of these organisms was widely observed in the water column and they were somehow related to the maximum chlorophyll layers. A total of 25 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) from cruise HOT-216 formed four phylogroups in the specific labyrinthulomycetes 18S rRNA-based phylogenetic tree, with the largest group of 20 OTUs fell into the Aplanochytrium cluster and the others aligned with uncultured clones or none, thus appeared to be undescribed. This study indicates the presence of new thraustochytrids lineages and their quantitative importance in the marine water column.
23597851|We employed a Lagrangian-like sampling design to evaluate bacterial community composition (BCCusing temporal temperature gel gradient electrophoresis), community-level physiological profiles (CLPPusing the EcoPlate assay), and influencing factors in different salinity waters in the highly dynamic Patos Lagoon estuary (southern Brazil) and adjacent coastal zone. Samples were collected monthly by following limneticoligohaline (01), mesohaline (1416), and polyhaline (2831) waters for 1 year. The BCC was specific for each salinity range, whereas the CLPPs were similar for mesohaline and polyhaline waters, and both were different from the limneticoligohaline samples. The limneticoligohaline waters displayed an oxidation capacity for almost all organic substrates tested, whereas the mesohaline and polyhaline waters presented lower numbers of oxidized substrates, suggesting that potential activities of bacteria increased from the polyhaline to oligohaline waters. However, the polyhaline samples showed a higher utilization of some simple carbohydrates, amino acids, and polymers, indicating a shortage of inorganic nutrients (especially nitrogen) and organic substrates in coastal saltwater. The hypothesis of bacterial nitrogen limitation was corroborated by the higher Nuse index (an EcoPlate-based nitrogen limitation indicator) in the polyhaline waters and the importance of NO2, NO3, low-molecular-weight substances, and the lowmolecular-weight:high-molecular-weight substances ratio, indicated by the canonical correspondence analyses (CCAs). Our results demonstrate the important stability of microbial community composition and potential metabolic activity in the different water salinity ranges, which are independent of the region and time of the year of sample collection in the estuary. This is a quite unexpected result for a dynamic environment such as the Patos Lagoon estuary.
4251715| Salt marshes dominated by Spartina alterniflora (smooth cordgrass) are among the most productive ecosystems known, despite nitrogen limitation. Rhizoplane/rhizosphere diazotrophy (nitrogen fixation) serves as a significant source of combined nitrogen in these systems. Several recent studies have demonstrated remarkable physiological and phylogenetic macro- and microdiversity within this important functional group of organisms. However, the ecological significance of this diversity is presently unknown. The physiological characteristics of the culturable, oxygen-utilizing fraction of the rhizoplane diazotroph assemblages from Spartina alterniflora and from another salt marsh grass, the black needle rush Juncus roemerianus, were examined in combination with an assessment of the phylogenetic relatedness by whole genome DNA-DNA hybridization. Analysis of substrate utilization data permitted quantitative evaluation of fully cross-hybridizing strain groups and physiological clusters. Phylogenetically related strains, defined by DNA homology 90% relative to the positive control, displayed extensive physiological diversity. Seven bootstrap-supported physiological clusters, composed largely of phylogenetically dissimilar strains, showed similar utilization patterns for at least one class of ecologically relevant substrates (carbohydrates, carboxylic acids, or amino acids). These diazotrophs appear to be physiologically adapted for utilization of specific substrates or classes of substrates, lending support to diazotrophic functional redundancy. Micro-environmental heterogeneity is credited for promoting this diversity by selecting for physiologically specialized diazotroph populations to occupy defined niches in situ. One outcome of this physiological diversity is maintenance of a crucial environmental function (nitrogen fixation) over a broad range of environmental conditions. 
25153346|This study exploited the contrasting major element chemistry of a pegmatitic granite to investigate mineralogical influences on bacterial community structure. Intact crystals of variably weathered muscovite, plagioclase, K-feldspar, and quartz were extracted, together with whole-rock granite. Environmental scanning electron microscopy revealed a diversity of bacterial structures, with rods and cocci clearly visible on surfaces of all mineral types. Bacterial automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis was used to generate a ribotype profile for each mineral. A randomization test revealed that community fingerprints differed between different mineral types, whereas canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) showed that mineral chemistry affected individual bacterial ribotypes. CCA also revealed that Al, Si, and Ca had a significant impact on bacterial community structure within the system, which contrasts with the finding within fungal communities that although Al and Si also had a significant impact, K rather than Ca was important. The bacterial populations associated with different minerals were different. Members of each of these populations were found almost exclusively on a single mineral type, as was previously reported for fungal populations. These results show that bacterial community structure was driven by the chemical composition of minerals, indicating selective pressure by individual chemical elements on bacterial populations in situ.
25153353|The diterpenoid kaurenoic acid is the main component of the resin from the medicinal plant Pseudognaphalium vira vira. As some diterpenoids have antimicrobial properties, the effect of this resin and the kaurenoic acid on soil bacteria was studied. The resin of P. vira vira and purified kaurenoic acid were two to four times more effective as antibacterial agents with Gram-positive than with Gram-negative soil isolates. The chemical stability of kaurenoic acid and the antibacterial activity of both the resin and the diterpenoid were studied in microcosms containing plant-associated soil. After 15 days of incubation, the diterpenoid was stable, as determined by H nuclear magnetic resonance and thin-layer chromatography, and soil extracts still exhibited antibacterial activity. However, after 30 days of incubation, loss of antibacterial activity of soil extracts correlated with removal or chemical modification of kaurenoic acid. The effect of the resin or this diterpenoid on the soil bacteria community was analyzed by the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms technique. After 15 days of incubation, the resin and the pure compound caused significant changes in the soil bacterial community. The relative abundance of specific bacterial groups was differentially affected by the resin components, being the effects with the resin stronger than with the kaurenoic acid. After 30 days of incubation, these changes mostly reverted. These results indicate that a plant resin containing diterpenoid compounds plays a significant role controlling specific groups of micro-organisms in the soil associated with the plant.
40926432|Dominant colonie bacteria in wild hooded (n=9), harbour (n=1) and grey (n=1) seals were identified using 16S rRNA gene clone libraries (313 clones), revealing 52.7% Bacteroidetes, 41.5% Firmicutes, 4.5% Proteobacteria and 1.0% Fusobacteria. Thirty (77%) of the 39 phylotypes identified were novel, showing <97% sequence similarity to their nearest cultivated relatives. Mean colonie bacterial cell density, determined by real-time PCR, was high (12.8 log 10 cells/g wet wt) for the hooded seals, while the number of methanogenic Archea was low (4.0 log 10 cells/g wet wt). The level of ampicillin (amp) and tetracycline-resistant (tet r ) isolates was investigated by cultivation. Aerobic amp r isolates were only detected in colon contents from four hooded seals, whereas aerobic tet r isolates were found in seven of the nine hooded seals. These data provide novel insight to the gut microbiota of Arctic and sub-Arctic seals living in the wild.
4287531|We describe the genomic DNA diversity and divergence of the cyanobacterium Nostoc linckia from "Evolution Canyon," a microsite consisting of ecologically contrasting slopes, south-facing slope (SFS) and north-facing slope (NFS), at lower Nahal Oren, Mt. Carmel, Israel. The opposing slopes share their limestone lithology but vary greatly in their ecology, primarily because of different levels of solar radiation (which is six times higher on the SFS than on the NFS). The warm and xeric SFS displays a tropical African savanna, whereas the cool and mesic NFS displays a temperate South European Mediterranean live-oak maquis shrub forest. The cyanobacterium Nostoc linckia tested here is a sessile microorganism, growing as a carpet on rock surfaces and constantly exposed to environmental fluctuations of solar radiation, temperature, and desiccation. We demonstrate remarkable interslope and intraslope genetic divergence of the genome (including both coding and noncoding regions) of Nostoc linckia, by using 211 AFLP (amplified fragment length polymorphism) DNA molecular marker loci. Genetic polymorphism of N. linckia subpopulations on the ecologically harsher SFS was significantly (p < 0.05) higher (P = 99.53%) than was that of the subpopulations on the climatically milder NFS (P = 85.78%). Genetic polymorphism (P) and gene diversity (He) were significantly correlated with variables influencing aridity stress: solar radiation (Sr) (r
4250959|Composting can eliminate pathogenic organisms, including salmonellae, from sewage sludge. However, if salmonellae are present in the compost at undetectable levels or are inoculated into the compost by infected animals or from other sources, they may regrow presenting a health hazard for certain uses of compost. In this study, we examined dilute mineral-salt extracts of three composts from widely separate composting sites in the United States and found that they supported growth of Salmonella typhimurium. From kinetic studies of the growth of the organism on these extracts, we concluded that each compost produced on extraction a single water-soluble substrate and that the substrates from the different composts were very similar, if not identical.
40343461|Degradation of soil properties following deforestation and long-term soil cultivation may lead to decreases in soil microbial diversity and functional stability. In this study, we investigated the differences in the stability (resistance and resilience) of microbial community composition and enzyme activities in adjacent soils under either native tropical forest (FST) or in agricultural cropping use for 14 years (AGR). Mineral soil samples (0 to 5 cm) from both areas were incubated at 40C, 50C, 60C, or 70C for 15 min in order to successively reduce the microbial biomass. Three and 30 days after the heat shocks, fluorescein diacetate (FDA) hydrolysis, cellulase and laccase activities, and phospholipid-derived fatty acids-based microbial community composition were measured. Microbial biomass was reduced up to 25% in both soils 3 days after the heat shocks. The higher initial values of microbial biomass, enzyme activity, total and particulate soil organic carbon, and aggregate stability in the FST soil coincided with higher enzymatic stability after heat shocks. FDA hydrolysis activity was less affected (more resistance) and cellulase and laccase activities recovered more rapidly (more resilience) in the FST soil relative to the AGR counterpart. In the AGR soil, laccase activity did not show resilience to any heat shock level up to 30 days after the disturbance. Within each soil type, the microbial community composition did not differ between heat shock and control samples at day 3. However, at day 30, FST soil samples treated at 60C and 70C contained a microbial community significantly different from the control and with lower biomass regardless of high enzyme resilience. Results of this study show that deforestation followed by long-term cultivation changed microbial community composition and had differential effects on microbial functional stability. Both soils displayed similar resilience to FDA hydrolysis, a composite measure of a broad range of hydrolases, supporting the concept of high functional redundancy in soil microbial communities. In contrast, the resilience of the substrate-specific activities of laccase and cellulase were lower in AGR soils, indicating a less diverse community of microorganisms capable of producing these enzymes and confirming that specific microbial functions are more sensitive measurements for evaluating change in the ecological stability of soils.
25153036|An evaluation of the microbiota from air, water, and surface samples provided a baseline of microbial characterization onboard the International Space Station (ISS) to gain insight into bacterial and fungal contamination during the initial stages of construction and habitation. Using 16S genetic sequencing and rep-PCR, 63 bacterial strains were isolated for identification and fingerprinted for microbial tracking. Of the bacterial strains that were isolated and fingerprinted, 19 displayed similarity to each other. The use of these molecular tools allowed for the identification of bacteria not previously identified using automated biochemical analysis and provided a clear indication of the source of several ISS contaminants. Strains of Bradyrhizobium and Sphingomonas unable to be identified using sequencing were identified by comparison of rep-PCR DNA fingerprints. Distinct DNA fingerprints for several strains of Methylobacterium provided a clear indication of the source of an ISS water supply contaminant. Fungal and bacterial data acquired during monitoring do not suggest there is a current microbial hazard to the spacecraft, nor does any trend indicate a potential health risk. Previous spacecraft environmental analysis indicated that microbial contamination will increase with time and will require continued surveillance.
25153157|Phenotypic mechanisms that enhance bacterial UVR survival typically include pigmentation and DNA repair mechanisms which provide protection from UVA and UVB wavelengths, respectively. In this study, we examined the contribution of pigmentation to field survival in Clavibacter michiganensis and evaluated differences in population dynamics and leaf colonization strategies. Two C. michiganensis pigment-deficient mutants were significantly reduced in UVA radiation survival in vitro; one of these mutants also exhibited reduced field populations on peanut when compared to the wild-type strain over the course of replicate 25-day experiments. The UVR-tolerant C. michiganensis strains G7.1 and G11.1 maintained larger epiphytic field populations on peanut compared to the UVR-sensitive C. michiganensis T5.1. Epiphytic field populations of C. michiganensis utilized the strategy of solar UVR avoidance during leaf colonization resulting in increased strain survival on leaves after UVC irradiation. These results further demonstrate the importance of UVR tolerance in the ability of bacterial strains to maintain population size in the phyllosphere. However, an examination of several bacterial species from the peanut phyllosphere and a collection of environmental Pseudomonas spp. revealed that sensitivity to UVA and UVC radiation was correlated in some but not all of these bacteria. These results underscore a need to further understand the biological effects of different solar wavelength groups on microbial ecology.
41489164|Fungal root endophytes colonize root tissue concomitantly with mycorrhizal fungi, but their identities and host preferences are largely unknown. We cultured fungal endophytes from surface-sterilized Cenococcum geophilum ectomycorrhizae of Betula papyrifera, Abies balsamea, and Picea glauca from two boreal sites in eastern Canada. Isolates were initially grouped on the basis of cultural morphology and then identified by internal transcribed spacer ribosomal DNA sequencing or by PCR restriction fragment length polymorphism. Phylogenetic analysis of the sequence data revealed 31 distinct phylotypes among the isolates, comprising mainly members of the ascomycete families Helotiaceae, Dermateaceae, Myxotrichaceae, and Hyaloscyphaceae, although other fungi were also isolated. Multivariate analyses indicate a clear separation among the endophyte communities colonizing each host tree species. Some phylotypes were evenly distributed across the roots of all three host species, some were found preferentially on particular hosts, and others were isolated from single hosts only. The results indicate that fungal root endophytes of boreal trees are not randomly distributed, but instead form relatively distinct assemblages on different host tree species.
41489113|Heavy water (HO) has been used to label DNA of soil microorganisms in stable isotope probing experiments, yet no measurements have been reported for the O content of DNA from soil incubated with heavy water. Here we present the first measurements of atom% O for DNA extracted from soil incubated with the addition of HO. Four experiments were conducted to test how the atom% O of DNA, extracted from Ponderosa Pine forest soil incubated with heavy water, was affected by the following variables: (1) time, (2) nutrients, (3) soil moisture, and (4) atom% O of added HO. In the time series experiment, the atom% O of DNA increased linearly (R = 0.994, p<0.01) over the first 72 h of incubation. In the nutrient addition experiment, there was a positive correlation (R = 0.991, p= 0.006) between the log of the amount of tryptic soy broth, a complex nutrient broth, added to soil and the logio of the atom% O of DNA. For the experiment where soil moisture was manipulated, the atom% O of DNA increased with higher soil moisture until soil moisture reached 30%, above which 18 O enrichment of DNA declined as soils became more saturated. When the atom% O for HO added was varied, there was a positive linear relationship between the atom% O of the added water and the atom% O of the DNA. Results indicate that quantification of O incorporated into DNA from HO has potential to be used as a proxy for microbial growth in soil.
4251271|The effect of methane oxidation in aerobic sediment on oxygen consumption and phosphate flux was investigated in diffusion chambers. The diffusion chambers consisted of two compartments separated by a Teflon membrane. In the upper chamber a thin sediment layer was present and the lower chamber was continuously flushed with gas. The hydrophobic membrane allowed for diffusion of gases from the lower chamber through the sediment layer toward the headspace of the upper chamber. In experiments with a methane oxidation rate of 9.8 mmol m
25256158|The effects of soil organic management on indigenous microorganisms were studied by comparing mulching straw (S), conifer compost (CC), and conifer bark (CB) as well as grass landing with grass (G), clover (Cl), and fescue (F) in a silty-clay soil (Mcon), and by incorporating vine shoot (VS) and single and double doses of farmyard manure (FM) and mushroom manure (MM) in a calcareous sandy soil (Chinon). Soil physicochemical and microbial characteristics were assessed at each site at two depths by sampling at 0-5 and 5-20 cm for the Mcon site and 0-10 and 10-20 cm for the Chinon site. Changes in the quantity of soil organic matter (SOM), through an increase in
40926451|Neotyphodium endophytes are asexual, seedborne fungal symbionts that are thought to interact mutualistically with their grass hosts. Benefits include increased growth, reproduction, and resistance to herbivores via endophytic alkaloids. Although these benefits are well established in infected introduced, agronomic grasses, little is known about the cost and benefits of endophyte infection in native grass populations. These populations exist as mosaics of uninfected and infected plants, with the latter often comprised of plants that vary widely in alkaloid content. We tested the costs and benefits of endophyte infections with varying alkaloids in the native grass Achnatherum robustum (sleepygrass). We conducted a 4-year field experiment, where herbivory and water availability were controlled and survival, growth, and reproduction of three maternal plant genotypes [uninfected plants (E-), infected plants with high levels of ergot alkaloids (E+A+), and infected plants with no alkaloids (E+ A-)] were monitored over three growing seasons. Generally, E+A+ plants had reduced growth over the three growing seasons and lower seed production than E-or E+ A-plants, suggesting a cost of alkaloid production. The reduction in vegetative biomass in E+A+ plants was most pronounced under supplemented water, contrary to the prediction that additional resources would offset the cost of alkaloid production. Also, E+A+ plants showed no advantage in growth, seed production, or reproductive effort under full herbivory relative to E- or E+A-grasses, contrary to the predictions of the defensive mutualism hypothesis. However, E+A+ plants had higher overwintering survival than E+A- plants in early plant ontogeny, suggesting that alkaloids associated with infection may protect against below ground herbivory or harsh winter conditions. Our results suggest that the mosaic of E-, E+A+, and E+A- plants observed in nature may result from varying biotic and abiotic selective factors that maintain the presence of uninfected plants and infected plants that vary in alkaloid production.
4250672| The distribution of nitrification potential (NP) with depth in sediment and season was investigated in a shallow sandy sediment (0.5 m water) and a deeper muddy sediment (17 m water). In both sediments, nitrifying bacteria were present in the anoxic strata (oxygen penetration was 5 mm below the surface). The NP at 6-8 cm depth in the sediment was 50% and 10% of the surface NP at the sandy and muddy sediment, respectively. It is suggested that bioturbation and physical disturbance of the sediment were the most likely reasons for this distribution. The NP increased as sediment temperature decreased. This effect was less marked in the muddy sediment. It is concluded that during the summer, the numbers or specific activity of nitrifying bacteria diminished for the following reasons: There was decreased O
40926494|Fungal endophytes of grasses are often included in agricultural management and in ecological studies of natural grass populations. In European agriculture and ecological studies, however, grass endophytes are largely ignored. In this study, we determined endophyte infection frequencies of 13 European cultivars and 49 wild tall fescue (Schedonorus phoenix) populations in Northern Europe. We then examined seed production and seed predation of endophyte-infected (E+) and endophyte-free (E-) tall fescue (in wild grass populations and in a field experiment) and meadow fescue (Schedonorus pratensis; in a field experiment only). Endophytes were detected in only one of the 13 cultivars. In contrast, >90% of wild tall fescue plants harbored endophytes in 45 wild populations but were absent in three inland populations in Estonia. In three wild tall fescue study sites, 17%, 22%, and 56% of the seeds were preyed upon by the cocksfoot moth. Endophyte infection did not affect seed mass of tall fescue in the field experiment. However, seed prdation was lower in E+ than E grasses in the two tall fescue populations with higher prdation rates. For meadow fescue, the mean number of seeds from E+ plants was higher than E plants, but E and E+ seeds had equal rates of predation by the moth. Our results suggest that the effects of grass endophytes on seed production and cocksfoot moth seed predation vary considerably among grass species, and the effects may depend on herbivore pressure and other environmental conditions.
40926468|The gastrointestinal (GI) tract is home to trillions of microbes. Within the same GI tract, substantial differences in the bacterial species that inhabit the oral cavity and intestinal tract have been noted. While the influence of host environments and nutritional availability in shaping different microbial communities is widely accepted, we hypothesize that the existing microbial flora also plays a role in selecting the bacterial species that are being integrated into the community. In this study, we used cultivable microbial communities isolated from different parts of the GI tract of mice (oral cavity and intestines) as a model system to examine this hypothesis. Microbes from these two areas were harvested and cultured using the same nutritional conditions, which led to two distinct microbial communities, each with about 20 different species as revealed by PCR-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis. In vitro community competition assays showed that the two microbial floras exhibited antagonistic interactions toward each other. More interestingly, all the original isolates tested and their closely related species displayed striking community preferences: They persisted when introduced into the bacterial community of the same origin, while their viable count declined more than three orders of magnitude after 4 days of coincubation with the microbial flora of foreign origin. These results suggest that an existing microbial community might impose a selective pressure on incoming foreign bacterial species independent of host selection. The observed inter-flora interactions could contribute to the protective effect of established microbial communities against the integration of foreign bacteria to maintain the stability of the existing communities.
4287498| Elevated levels of nitrogen input into various terrestrial environments in recent decades have led to increases in soil nitrate production and leaching. However, nitrifying potential and nitrifying activity tend to be highly variable over space and time, making broad-scale estimates of nitrate production difficult. This study investigates whether the high spatiotemporal variation in nitrate production might be explained by differences in the structure of ammonia-oxidizing bacterial communities in nitrogen-saturated coniferous forest soils. The diversity of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria of the -subgroup Proteobacteria was therefore investigated using two different PCR-based approaches. The first targeted the 16S rRNA gene and involved temporal temperature gradient electrophoresis (TTGE) of specifically amplified PCR products, with subsequent band excision and nucleotide sequence determination. The second approach involved the cloning and sequencing of PCR-amplified amoA gene fragments. All recovered 16S rDNA sequences were closely related to the culture strain Nitrosospira sp. AHB1, which was isolated from an acid soil and is affiliated with Nitrosospira cluster 2, a sequence group previously shown to be associated with acid environments. All amoA-like sequences also showed a close affinity with this acid-tolerant Nitrosospira strain, although greater sequence variation could be detected in the amoA analysis. The ammonia-oxidizing bacterial community in the nitrogen-saturated coniferous forest soil was determined to be very stable, showing little variation between different organic layers and throughout the year, despite large differences in the total Bacterial community structure as determined by 16S rDNA DGGE community fingerprinting. These results suggest that environmental heterogeneity affecting ammonia oxidizer numbers and activity, and not ammonia oxidizer community structure, is chiefly responsible for spatial and temporal variation in nitrate production in these acid forest soils. 
23469160|Wolbachia are endosymbiotic bacteria that commonly infect arthropods and cause reproductive disorders in host. Within several Tetranychus species, Wolbachia have been detected and shown to affect their reproduction. However, little is known about their transmission and distribution patterns in natural populations of Tetranychus species. Here, we used multilocus sequence typing to confirm Wolbachia infection status and examined the relationship between Wolbachia infection status and host phylogeny, mitochondrial diversity, and geographical range in five Tetranychus species (Tetranychus truncatus, Tetranychus urticae, Tetranychus pueraricola, Tetranychus phaselus, and Tetranychus kanzawai) from 21 populations in China. The prevalence of Wolbachia within the five Tetranychus species ranged from 31.4 to 100 %, and the strains were remarkably diverse. Together, these observations indicate that Wolbachia was introduced to these populations on multiple separate occasions. As in other arthropods, the same Tetranychus species can accommodate very different strains, and identical Wolbachia occasionally infect different species. These observations suggest that Wolbachia are transmitted both vertically and horizontally. Horizontally, transmission is probably mediated by the host plants. The distribution patterns of Wolbachia were quite different among populations of the same species, suggesting that the dynamics of Wolbachia in nature may be affected by ecological and other factors.
4287530|The Baltic Sea is an estuarine ecosystem where denitrification in the low oxic and anoxic parts of the deep water contributes significantly to the nitrogen budget. Seventy-six heterotrophic, denitrifying, strains have been isolated by four cultivation procedures from the water column of the Gotland Deep, the main anoxic basin of the Central Baltic. Phylogenetic positions of representative strains of 10 different genotypes, grouped beforehand by low molecular weight (LMW) RNA profiling, were estimated by 16S rRNA sequence analysis. The 10 genotypes consisted of two members of the alpha subclass of the Proteobacteria and eight members of the gamma subclass. The major fraction of the genotypes was considered to be novel species or even genera. The gamma-Proteobacteria were the most abundant of the denitrifying isolates (96% of the total isolates) with a predominance of Shewanella baltica (77%), whereas the alpha-Proteobacteria were represented by single isolates. The diversity spectrum of Baltic sea denitrifying isolates was rather distinct from that previously described for marine and freshwater environments. Denitrifying bacteria could be isolated from all depths of the water column with the highest diversity and abundance of genotypes detected in samples of the oxic-anoxic interface, the layer of high in situ denitrification. For success of isolation of phylogenetically divers denitrifiers, both sample origin and cultivation procedure were observed to have an impact.
23361591|Waterways should be considered in the migration routes of Campylobacter, and the genus has been isolated from several water sources. Inferences on migration routes can be made from tracking genetic types in populations found in specific habitats and testing how they are linked to other types. Water samples were taken over a 4-year period from waterways in the Upper Oconee River Watershed, Georgia, to recover isolates of thermophilic Campylobacter. The isolates were typed by multilocus sequence typing (MLST) and analyzed to determine the overall diversity of Campylobacter in that environment. Forty-seven independent isolates were recovered from 560 samples (8.4 %). Two (4 %) isolates were Campylobacter coli, three (6 %) isolates were putatively indentified as Campylobacter lari, and the remaining 42 (90 %) were Campylobacter jejuni. The C. jejuni and C. coli isolates were typed by the Oxford MLST scheme. Thirty sequence types (STs) were identified including 13 STs that were not found before in the MLST database, including 24 novel alleles. Of the 17 previously described STs, 10 have been isolated from humans, 6 from environmental water, and 6 from wild birds (five types from multiple sources). Seven sites had multiple positive samples, and on two occasions, the same ST was isolated at the same site. The most common type was STST61 with four isolates, and the most common clonal complex was CC179 with nine isolates. CC179 has been commonly associated with environmental water. Although some Campylobacter STs that were found in the Oconee River engage in widespread migration, most are tightly associated with or unique to environmental water sources.
4251556|Exposure of the aquatic hyphomycete Heliscus lugdunensis to the herbicide Mecoprop did not significantly affect production of the antigen recognized by the specific monoclonal antibody NG-CF10. Therefore, an ELISA method, developed in a previous study, could be used to quantify the biomass of H. lugdunensis colonizing leaves exposed to this herbicide. Exposure to Mecoprop significantly reduced the mycelial biomass associated with alder leaves. This was shown to be a threshold response rather than a dose response, with higher biomass recorded on control leaves. No significant differences were found over the range of Mecoprop concentrations used. In laboratory experiments, Gammarus pseudolimnaeus was offered a choice of alder leaves exposed to a range of Mecoprop concentrations. The animals were able to discriminate between the exposed and control leaves, and between inoculated and sterile leaves. Presence of the fungus resulted in increased leaf consumption, but no interaction between the Mecoprop concentrations and fungal colonization was observed. The major factor affecting food choice was the concentration of Mecoprop that the leaves were exposed to-not the Mecoprop-mediated effects on fungal biomass.
40343446|This study was conducted to identify an indicator organism(s) in evaluating the pathogen-reducing capacity of biogas plants. Fresh cow manure containing 10 to 10 colony forming unit (CFU) per milliliter of Escherichia coli and Enterococcus faecalis along with an inoculated Clostridium perfringens strain were exposed to 37C for 15 days, 55C for 48 h, and 70C for 24 h. C. perfringens was the most heat-resistant organism followed by E. faecalis, while E. coli was the most heat-sensitive organism. E. coli was reduced below detection limit at all temperatures with logio reductions of 4.94 (10 s), 4.37 (40 min), and 2.6 (5 days) at 70C, 55C, and 37C, respectively. Maximum logio reductions for E. faecalis were 1.77 at 70C (1 day), 1.7 at 55C (2 days) and 3.13 at 37C (15 days). For C. perfringens, maximum logio reduction at 37C was 1.35 logio units (15 days) compared to less than 1 unit at 55 and 70C. Modeling results showed that E. faecalis and C. perfringens had higher amount of heat-resistant fraction than E. coli. Thus, E. faecalis and C. perfringens can be used as indicator organisms to evaluate pathogen-reducing capacity in biogas plants at high temperatures of 55C and 70C while at 37C E. coli could also be included as indicator organism.
4287697|The oceans of the world are nutrient-limited environments that support a dynamic diversity of microbial life. Heterotrophic prokaryotes proliferate in oligotrophic regions and affect nutrient transformation and remineralization thereby impacting directly on the all marine biota. An important challenge in studying the microbial ecology of oligotrophic environments has been the isolation of ecologically important species. This goal has been recognized not only for its relevance in defining the dynamics of community composition, but for enabling physiological studies of competitive species and inferring their impact on the microbial food web. This review describes the successful isolation attempts of the ultramicrobacterium, Sphingopyxis alaskensis (formerly described as Sphingomonas alaskensis) using extinction dilution culturing methods. It then provides a comprehensive perspective of the unique physiological and genetic properties that have been identified that distinguish it from typical copiotrophic species. These properties are described through studies of the growth phase and growth rate control of macromolecular synthesis, stress resistance and global gene expression (proteomics). We also discuss the importance of integrating ecological and physiological approaches for studying microorganisms in marine environments.
41489104|The prevalence and diversity of salmonellae from domestic animal hosts were investigated in the Culiacan Valley, Mexico. A total of 240 farm animal feces (cows, chicken, and sheep) were evaluated for Salmonella spp. presence from July 2008 to June 2009. Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica strains were isolated from 76 samples (31.7%), and 20 serotypes were identified being Salmonella Oranienburg (25%), Salmonella Give (14%), Salmonella Saintpaul (12%), and Salmonella Minnesota (11%) the most frequent isolates. Twenty-four percent (18/76) of the isolates were resistant to ampicillin. Salmonella Oranienburg, Salmonella Minnesota, Salmonella Give, Salmonella Agona, Salmonella Weltevreden, and Salmonella Newport serotypes showed multiple pulsed-field electrophoresis patterns. Salmonella Oranienburg was the dominant serotype in the Culiacan Valley; however, no specific distribution patterns were detected in animal sources or sampling sites. The genetic diversity of salmonellae could be an evidence of the continuous animal exposition to the bacteria. Also, Salmonella adaptation in asymptomatic animals could be justified by the development of natural host immunity. This study provides novel information about Salmonella population distribution in domestic animals living at tropical areas. The presence of asymptomatic carriers may be critical to understand the routes of transmission of Salmonella in areas of high disease prevalence.
27770602|Trichoderma asperellum strain T34 has been reported to control the disease caused by Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici (Fol) on tomato plants. To study the importance of iron concentration in the growth media for the activity and competitiveness of T34 and the pathogen, we tested four iron concentrations in the nutrient solution [1, 10, 100, and 1000M provided as EDTA/Fe (III)] in a biological control experiment with T34 and Fol in tomato plants. The reduction of the Fusarium-infected shoot by T34 was only significant at 10M Fe. We hypothesized that Fe competition is one of the key factors in the biocontrol activity exerted by T34 against Fol, as an increase in Fe concentration over 10M would lead to the suppression of T34 siderophore synthesis and thus inhibition of Fe competition with Fol. T34 significantly reduced the populations of Fol at all the doses of Fe assayed. In contrast, Fol enhanced the populations of T34 at 1 and 10M Fe. Nevertheless, several plant physiological parameters like net CO2 assimilation (A), stomatal conductance (gs), relative quantum efficiency of PSII (PSII), and efficiency of excitation energy capture by open PSII reactive centers (Fv/Fm) demonstrated the protection against Fol damage by treatment with T34 at 100M Fe. The first physiological parameter affected by the disease progression was gs. Plant dry weight was decreased by Fe toxicity at 100 and 1,000M. T34-treated plants had significantly greater heights and dry weights than control plants at 1,000M Fe, even though T34 did not reduce the Fe content in leaves or stems. Furthermore, T34 enhanced plant height even at the optimal Fe concentration (10M) compared to control plants. In conclusion, T. asperellum strain T34 protected tomato plants from both biotic (Fusarium wilt disease) and abiotic stress [Fe(III) toxic effects].
4250877|A method for enumerating protozoa (ciliates, flagellates, and amoebae) in fine, freshwater sediments is described. The results, using fixed material, are compared with two published techniques: a culture method (most probable number) and a direct count method.
25153418|A basic understanding of abundance and diversity of antibiotic-resistant microbes and their genetic determinants is necessary for finding a way to prevent and control the spread of antibiotic resistance. For this purpose, chloramphenicol and multiple antibiotic-resistant bacteria were screened from a mariculture farm in northern China. Both sea cucumber and sea urchin rearing ponds were populated with abundant antibiotic-resistant bacteria, especially marine vibrios. Sixty-five percent chloramphenicol-resistant isolates from sea cucumber harbored a cat gene, either cat IV or cat II, whereas 35% sea urchin isolates harbored a cat gene, actually cat II. The predominant resistance determinant cat IV gene mainly occurred in isolates related to Vibrio tasmaniensis or Pseudoalteromonas atlantica, and the cat II gene mainly occurred in Vibrio splendidus-like isolates. All the cat-positive isolates also harbored one or two of the tet genes, tet(D), tet(B), or tet(A). As no chloramphenicol-related antibiotic was ever used, coselection of the cat genes by other antibiotics, especially oxytetracycline, might be the cause of the high incidence of cat genes in the mariculture farm studied.
4251426|The unsaturated subsurface (vadose zone) receives significant amounts of hazardous chemicals, yet little is known about its microbial communities and their capacity to biodegrade pollutants. Trichloroethylene (TCE) biodegradation occurs readily in surface soils; however, the process usually requires enzyme induction by aromatic compounds, methane, or other cosubstrates. The aerobic biodegradation of toluene and TCE by indigenous microbial populations was measured in samples collected from the vadose zone at unpolluted and gasoline-contaminated sites. Incubation at field moisture levels showed little activity on either TCE or toluene, so samples were tested in soil suspensions. No degradation occurred in samples suspended in water or phosphate buffer solution; however, both toluene and TCE were degraded in samples suspended in mineral salts medium. TCE degradation depended on toluene degradation, and little loss occurred under sterile conditions. Studies with specific nutrients showed that addition of ammonium sulfate was essential for degradation, and addition of other mineral nutrients further enhanced the rate. Additional studies with vadose sediments amended with nutrients showed similar trends to those observed in sediment suspensions. Initial rates of biodegradation in suspensions were faster in uncontaminated samples than in gasoline-contaminated samples, but the same percentages of chemicals were degraded. Biodegradation was slower and less extensive in shallower samples than deeper samples from the uncontaminated site. Two toluene-degrading organisms isolated from a gasoline-contaminated sample were identified as Corynebacterium variabilis SVB74 and Acinetobacter radioresistens SVB65. Inoculation with 10
25153244|Quorum sensing, mediated by acylated homoserine lactones (AHLs), is well described for pure culture bacteria, but few studies report detection of AHL compounds in natural bacterial habitats. In this study, we detect AHL production during a degradation process in soil by use of whole-cell biosensor technology and flow cytometry analysis. An indigenous soil bacterium, belonging to the family of Enterobacteriaceae, was isolated and transformed with a low-copy plasmid harboring a gene encoding an unstable variant of the green fluorescent protein (gfpASV) fused to the AHL-regulated
4287680|A collection of 821 rhizobacteria from cucumber, originating from different root locations and stages of plant development, was screened for potential biocontrol agents of Pythium aphanidermatum (Edson) Fitzp. The screening procedure exploited carbon source utilization profiles and growth rates of bacteria as indicators of a partial niche overlap with the pathogen. The bacteria were tested for growth on nine carbon sources (glucose, fucose, sucrose, maltose, asparagine, alanine, galacturonic acid, succinic acic, and linoleic acid), most of which are reported to be used by the zoospores of P. aphanidermatum in the infection process. The isolates were classified as fast- or slow-growing, depending on their growth rate in 1/10 strength TSB. By nonhierarchical cluster analysis, 20 clusters were generated of bacteria with similar profiles of carbon source utilization. Redundancy analysis showed that the type of root sample explained 47% of the variance found in the relative abundance of bacteria from the clusters. Bacteria from clusters using none or few of the carbon sources, e.g., maltose and linoleic acid, with many slow-growing isolates, showed a preference for plants in the vegetative or generative stage, or for old root regions (root base). Bacteria from clusters with fast-growing isolates, using many carbon sources, were relatively abundant in the seedling stage. A selection of 127 bacteria from the different clusters was tested for disease suppressive capabilities in bioassays on young cucumber plants in nutrient solution, inoculated with zoospores of P. aphanidermatum. Nine of these bacteria produced biosurfactants, and 27 showed antibiosis against mycelial growth in plate assays. For 31 isolates, significant positive effects on plant biomass were shown, as analyzed with a general linear regression model. For most isolates, these effects occurred only in one of two replicate assays and no reductions in the degree of root and crown rot were found. Of the isolates that used many of the tested carbon sources, only four had positive effects on plant biomass. The majority of the isolates that positively affected plant biomass used few to moderate numbers of carbon sources and did not produce antibiotics or biosurfactants. In conclusion, competition for the tested carbon sources with the zoospores did not play a decisive role in disease suppression, and no clear relation was found between ecophysiological traits and disease suppression. Only isolate 3.1T8, isolated from root tips in the generative stage of plant growth, significantly increased plant biomass and suppressed root and crown rot symptoms in five out of six bioassays. The isolate produced an antifungal substance in plate assays and showed biosurfactant production in several (cucumber-derived) media.
25256130|The bacterial community in soil was screened by using various molecular approaches for bacterial populations that were activated upon addition of different supplements. Plasmodiophora brassicae spores, chitin, sodium acetate, and cabbage plants were added to activate specific bacterial populations as an aid in screening for novel antagonists to plant pathogens. DNA from growing bacteria was specifically extracted from the soil by bromodeoxyuridine immunocapture. The captured DNA was fingerprinted by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP). The composition of the dominant bacterial community was also analyzed directly by T-RFLP and by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). After chitin addition to the soil, some bacterial populations increased dramatically and became dominant both in the total and in the actively growing community. Some of the emerging bands on DGGE gels from chitin-amended soil were sequenced and found to be similar to known chitin-degrading genera such as Oerskovia, Kitasatospora, and Streptomyces species. Some of these sequences could be matched to specific terminal restriction fragments on the T-RFLP output. After addition of Plasmodiophora spores, an increase in specific Pseudomonads could be observed with Pseudomonas-specific primers for DGGE. These results demonstrate the utility of microbiomics, or a combination of molecular approaches, for investigating the composition of complex microbial communities in soil.
4251122| Vibrio sp. DI9, recently isolated from Tampa Bay, FL, has been found to be naturally transformed by the broad host range plasmid pKT230 in both filter transformation assays and sterile sediment microcosms. This is the first report of natural transformation by plasmid DNA of a Vibrio sp. and of a marine bacterial isolate. Transformation frequencies ranged from 0.3 to 3.1  10
4250632|Plate counts, scanning electron microscopy, and direct observations were utilized to determine successional trends of different groups of microorganisms on Procambarus versutus (Hagen) exoskeletons incubated in situ in a second-order, acidic woodland stream in Northwest Florida. Plate counts and SEM observations indicated a definite successional pattern dominated in numbers initially by the nonbranching bacteria, followed by the actinomycetes. The greatest number of fungal propagules coincided with the least number of bacterial colony-forming units. Chitinoclastic bacterial colonizers increased on the substrate throughout the study, comprising as much as 88% of the total bacterial community during the final stages of chitin decomposition. Scanning electron micrographs taken over the duration of the study revealed the abundance of an actinomycete, identified as a species of Streptomyces, on the exoskeleton. Enumeration of microorganisms in the stream sediment was also performed in conjunction with the exoskeleton analysis. Relatively constant numbers of bacteria and fungi were observed, with chitinoclastic bacteria comprising between 3 and 11% of the total sediment bacterial community.
23597863|Fungi from the genus Geosmithia (Ascomycota: Hypocreales) are associated with bark beetles (Coleoptera: Scolytinae), though little is known about ecology, diversity, and distribution of these fungi across beetle and its host tree species. This study surveyed the diversity, distribution and vector affinity of Geosmithia isolated from subcortical insects that colonized trees from the family Pinaceae in Central and Northeastern Europe. Twelve Geosmithia species were isolated from 85 plant samples associated with 23 subcortical insect species (including 14 bark beetle species). Geosmithia community composition was similar across different localities and vector species; although the fungal communities associated with insects that colonized Pinus differed from that colonizing other tree species (Abies, Larix, and Picea). Ten Geosmithia species from four independent phylogenetic lineages were not reported previously from vectors feeding on other plant families and seem to be restricted to the vectors from Pinaceae only. We conclude that presence of such substrate specificity suggests a long and stable association between Geosmithia and bark beetles.
41489227|The Zoige wetland of the Tibetan Plateau is a high-altitude tundra wetland and one of the biggest methane emission centers in China. In this study, methanotrophs with respect to community structure, abundance, and activity were investigated in peat soils collected in the vicinity of different marshland plants that dominate different regions of the wetland, including Polygonum amphibium, Carex muliensis, and Eleocharis valleculosa (EV). 16S rRNA gene and particulate methane monooxygenase gene (pmoA) clone library sequence data indicated the presence of methanotrophs with two genera, Methylobacter and Methylocystis. Methylococcus, like pmoA gene sequences, were also retrieved and showed low similarity to those from Methylococcus spp. and thus indicates the existence of novel methanotrophs in the Zoige wetland. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assays were used to measure the abundance of methantrophs and detected 10 to 10 of total pmoA gene copies per gram dry weight of soil in the three marshes. Group-specific qPCR and reverse transcriptase qPCR results found that the Methylobacter genus dominates the wetland, and Methylocystis methanotrophs were less abundant, although this group of methanotrophs was estimated to be more active according to mRNA/DNA ratio. Furthermore, EV marsh demonstrated the highest methanotrophs abundance and activity among the three marshes investigated. Our study suggests that both type I and type II methanotrophs contribute to the methane oxidation in the Zoige wetland.
4251638|The interaction between the purple sulfur bacterium Thiocapsa roseopersicina and the green sulfur bacterium Prosthecochloris aestuarii was studied in a gradient chamber under a 16-hours light-8-hours dark regime. The effects of interaction were inferred by comparing the final outcome of a mixed culture experiment with those of the respective axenic cultures using the same inoculation densities and experimental conditions. Densities of bacteria were deduced from radiance micro-profiles, and the chemical microenvironment was investigated with O
4251467| Survival and potential ability to act as recipient or donor during the survival process for one plasmid-free and four plasmid-bearing Escherichia coli strains under nonilluminated and illuminated conditions in freshwater systems were studied. The five E. coli strains showed the same behavior with respect to the microbial parameters used to characterize the survival process (culturability and viability). Under nonilluminated conditions, recipient cells did not show variation in the ability to receive and express plasmid material, while the culturability of the recipient strain remained stable. Under the same conditions, donor cells lost their ability for plasmid transfer during the survival process, in all cases more than a 90% decrease of the number of transconjugants was found after 4 days of experimentation, although viable and culturable cells of donor strains maintained the capacity to express some plasmidic genes. Under illuminated conditions, transconjugants were not detected after 2 days of experimentation. The number of transconjugants formed was dependent not only on the time donor strains remained in the water but also on the temperature (20 or 37C) at which the mating assays were conducted. 
4250607|During summer stratification, Metallogenium personatum was found exclusively in the hypolimnion of Lake Washington where the oxygen tension was below 8 ppm. Numbers of the organism decreased in the lake immediately following turnover in October. Significant concentrations of Metallogenium microcolonies did not recur until spring, after the lake had stratified. During stratification the distribution of particulate manganese closely followed the distribution of Metallogenium. EDAX analysis, confirmed by electron microprobe analyses of the encrustation, showed that the primary component was manganese. Iron and some trace elements were also precipitated on the organism but to a lesser degree. In addition, phosphate, the primary substance limiting phytoplankton growth in Lake Washington, was found in the encrustation, indicating Metallogenium may be important in limiting algal blooms in the lake. Attempts to grow Metallogenium in the laboratory were unsuccessful. This inability, combined with the negative results of thin-sectioning and acridine orange staining of Metallogenium microcolonies, suggests that the microcolonial structures seen in Lake Washington are not a living form of an organism.
4250852|The response of marine bacteria to Corexit 9527, with and without Prudhoe Bay crude oil labeled with n - (1 -
4251641|Nitrification in freshwater, a key process in the nitrogen cycle, is now well known to take place predominantly on suspended particles and in sediment. Nitrobacter is the most commonly isolated nitrite oxidizing bacteria from water environments. Three methods for counting nitrite oxidizing communities (especially Nitrobacter) in sediment were investigated: MPN-Griess, fluorescent antibodies (immunofluorescence), and a more recent molecular method coupling specific DNA amplification by PCR and statistical MPN quantification. After preliminary adjustments of the MPN-PCR technique, the detection level and the yield of each method were determined by inoculating a sediment with a pure Nitrobacter culture. The best recovery yield was obtained with the immunofluorescence technique (21.3%) and the lowest detection level was reached with the MPN-Griess method (10
25153019| Epifluorescence microscopy and transmission electron microscopy were applied to study virioplankton community in the Gulf of Trieste (northern Adriatic Sea). The total viral abundance was in a range between 2.5  10/L and 2.9  10/L and was positively correlated with trophic status of the environment. Viruslike particles were significantly correlated with bacterial abundance in all samples studied. Correlations with other physico-chemical or biological parameters were not significant. The data suggest that, because of the substantial fraction of tailed viruses present (26%), bacteriophages are an important component of the virioplankton community in the Gulf of Trieste. The abundance of viruslike particles in the seawater changed at hour intervals in a range from 1.3  10/L to 5.1  10/L. A significant fraction (71%) of the bacterial isolates was inducible in vitro by mitomycin C, and a high occurrence (51%) of lysogenic isolates with more than one phage morphotype present in the lysate was detected. The presence of lysogenic bacteria in the seawater was confirmed in situ with a mitomycin C induction experiment on the natural bacterial population. Results suggest that virioplankton is an abundant component of the microbial community in the Gulf of Trieste. 
25256161|Specific associations of bacteria with phytoplankton have recently been reported in the literature. In our study, we analyzed bacterial communities of microalgal cultures related to algal growth phases. Seven freshly isolated key diatom and dinoflagellate species from Helgoland Roads, North Sea, were investigated. The community composition of associated bacteria as well as the cell numbers, the photosynthetic efficiency of the algae, and the depletion of inorganic nutrients in the medium were recorded over a period of 8 weeks in batch cultures. Diversity and succession of bacterial communities was analyzed by ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis. Phylogenetic analysis of bacterial populations was performed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of 16S rRNA genes followed by DNA sequence analysis. Members of Alphaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria and the Flavobacteria-Sphingobacteria group within the Bacteroidetes phylum predominated in the cultures. Differences in free-living and attached bacterial populations were observed between the phylogenetic groups. Shifts in the bacterial communities could not be correlated to changes of nutrient levels or algal growth phases. Regarding our results, it should not be generalized that the compositions of the bacterial communities are strictly species specific for microalgae. The importance of factors like the composition of exudates is apparent.
40343407|For the rhizobacterium Azospirillum brasilense, the optimal nutritional range of C: N ratios corresponds to the presence of malate (ca. 3 to 5 g 1 of its sodium salt) and ammonium (ca. 0.5 to 3 g 1 of NHC1) as preferred carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively. This microaerophilic aerotactic bacterium is known to have a narrow optimal oxygen concentration range of ca. 3 to 5 M, which is 1.2% to 2% of oxygen solubility in air-saturated water under normal conditions. In this work, the effects of stress conditions (bound-nitrogen deficiency related to a high C: N ratio in the medium; excess of oxygen) on aerobically grown A. brasilense Sp245, a native wheatassociated endophyte, were investigated in the absence and presence of wheat germ agglutinin (WGA, plant stress protein and a molecular host-plant signal for the bacterium) using FTIR spectroscopy of whole cells in the diffuse reflectance mode (DRIFT). The nutritional stress resulted in the appearance of prominent spectroscopic signs of poly-3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) accumulation in the bacterial cells; in addition, splitting of the amide I band related to bacterial cellular proteins indicated some stress-induced alterations in their secondary structure components. Similar structural changes were observed in the presence of nanomolar WGA both in stressed A. brasilense cells and under normal nutritional conditions. Comparative analysis of the data obtained and the relevant literature data indicated that the stress conditions applied (which resulted in the accumulation of PHB involved in stress tolerance) and/or the presence of nanomolar concentrations of WGA induced synthesis of bacterial cell-surface (glyco) proteins rich in -structures, that could be represented by hemagglutinin and/or porin.
4250801|Comparative numerical taxonomic analyses, using fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) profiles and phenetic characteristics, were conducted to examine bacterial guild structure in freshwater sediments. Both approaches were used to examine a subset of 60 OTUs obtained from a previously well characterized microbial community in sediments of a shallow fast flowing stream. For both classifications, greater than 80% of the OTUs were recovered in 11 and 12 major groups for FAME and phenetics approaches. However, there was not complete correspondence for the groupings of the 2 classifications, with most FAME groups being distributed among the phenetic groups and 2 phenetic groups not providing usable characteristics for FAME analysis. The results did demonstrate significant taxonomic variation in bacteria capable of occupying the same or a similar fundamental niche.
25152960|Grazing rates of mixed cultures of freshwater, heterotrophic nanoflagellates on two populations of bacterial prey present together at varying concentrations were measured by using fluorescently labeled bacteria. The effect of one population on the ingestion kinetics of the other was consistent with a theory based on competitive inhibition of enzymatic reactions. However, allochthonous bacteria, when present in low concentrations within a much larger population of small autochthonous bacteria, may be preferentially grazed, which is due to their large size.
4251703|The ability of rhizosphere diazotrophs to remain competitive during increased nitrogen availability in situ was tested in a salt marsh grass stand. Nitrogen (16.3 g m
40605722|Spatial and temporal variabilities in species composition, abundance, distribution, and bioeroding activity of euendolithic microorganisms were investigated in experimental blocks of the massive coral Pontes along an inshore-offshore transect across the northern Great Barrier Reef (Australia) over a 3-year period. Inshore reefs showed turbid and eutrophic waters, whereas the offshore reefs were characterized by oligotrophic waters. The euendolithic microorganisms and their ecological characteristics were studied using techniques of microscopy, ptrographie sections, and image analysis. Results showed that euendolithic communities found in blocks of coral were mature. These communities were dominated by the chlorophyte Ostreobium quekettii, the cyanobacterium Plectonematerebrans, and fungi. O. quekettii was found to be the principal agent of microbioerosion, responsible for 70-90% of carbonate removal. In the offshore reefs, this oligophotic chlorophyte showed extensive systems of filaments that penetrated deep inside coral skeletons (up to 4.1 mm) eroding as much as 1 kg CaCO eroded m year. The percentage of colonization by euendolithic filaments at the surface of blocks did not vary significantly among sites, while their depths of penetration, especially that of O. quekettii (0.6-4.1 mm), increased significantly and gradually with the distance from the shore. Rates of microbioerosion (0.1-1.4 kg m after 1 year and 0.2-1.3 kg m after 3 years of exposure) showed a pattern similar to the one found for the depth of penetration of O. quekettii filaments. Accordingly, oligotrophic reefs had the highest rates of microbioerosion of up to 1.3 kg m year, whereas the development of euendolithic communities in inshore reefs appeared to be limited by turbidity, high sedimentationrates, and low grazing pressure (rates <0.5 kg m after 3 years). Those results suggest that boring microorganisms, including O. quekettii, have a significant impact on the overall calcium carbonate budget of coral reef ecosystems, which varies according to environmental conditions.
4287571|Chemolithotrophic nitrite oxidizers were enriched from five different soils including freshwater marsh, permafrost, garden, agricultural, and desert soils and monitored during the cultivation procedure. Immunoblot analysis was used to identify the nitrite oxidizing organisms with monoclonal antibodies, which recognize the key enzyme of nitrite oxidation in a genus-specific reaction [Bartosch et al. (1999) Appl Environ Microbiol 65:4126-4133]. The morphological characteristics of the enriched nitrite oxidizers were additionally studied using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and fluorescence microscopy. By means of the antibodies and TEM analysis Nitrospira could be clearly identified in enrichment cultures derived from freshwater marsh and from permafrost soil. Nitrospira cells were enriched simultaneously with cells of the genus Nitrobacter when nitrite concentrations of 0.2 g of
4251603| The Pomeranian Bight in the southern Baltic Sea is characterized by a huge input of nutrients from the Oder river. This input shows seasonal variation. In winter, the nutrients are introduced in inorganic form. Particulate organic material is dominant in the growth season (summer/autumn). From 1993 to 1996, extracellular enzyme activities (alkaline phosphatase, peptidase, , -glucosidase, and chitinase) were investigated to describe microbial reaction to the input of organic material and the modification of introduced material. The distribution patterns of extracellular enzyme activities in salinity gradients were studied, in response to the nutrient load. These activities were distinctly lower in winter than in summer and autumn. A close relationship to other biological parameters (Chl a, POC, PON) was observed during the growth season, but not in winter. Changes in peptidase and phosphatase activities between summer and autumn were also observed. The peptidase activity was 9 to 72 times higher in autumn than in summer. In contrast, the alkaline phosphatase activity was 5 to 30 times higher in summer than in autumn. The organic compound turnover rate/hydrolysis rate (To/Hr) ratio is a relative index which describes the coupling of enzymatic hydrolysis and utilization of monomers from investigated substrates (carbohydrates and proteins). In summer, after dilution, the raised To/Hr quotients of glucose indicated limited importance for hydrolysis products in bacterial turnover. The increased demand for glucose resulted in a parallel decrease in monosaccharides. In autumn, the relationship between the turnover of glucose and amino acids and the supply of these substances by enzymatic degradation remained at the same level. 
25256095|It has been shown that phages are present in natural and engineered ecosystems and influence the structure and performance of prokaryotic communities. However, little has been known about phages occurring in anaerobic ecosystems, including those in methanogenic digesters for waste treatment. This study investigated phages produced in an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket methanogenic digester treating brewery wastes. Phage-like particles (PLPs) in the influent and effluent of the digester were concentrated and purified by sequential filtration and quantified and characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), fluorescence assay, and field inversion gel electrophoresis (FIGE). Results indicate that numbers of PLPs in the effluent of the digester exceeded 1  10 L and at least 10 times greater than those in the influent, suggesting that substantial amounts of PLPs were produced in the digester. A production rate of the PLPs was estimated at least 5.2  10 PLPs day L. TEM and FIGE showed that a variety of phages were produced in the digester, including those affiliated with Siphoviridae, Myoviridae, and Cystoviridae.
40343490|To date, the genomes of eight Vibrio strains representing six species and three human pathogens have been fully sequenced and reported. This review compares genomic information revealed from these sequencing efforts and what we can infer about Vibrio biology and ecology from this and related genomic information. The focus of the review is on those attributes that allow the Vibrios to survive and even proliferate in their ocean habitats, which include seawater, plankton, invertebrates, fish, marine mammals, plants, man-made structures (surfaces), and particulate matter. Areas covered include general information about the eight genomes, each of which is distributed over two chromosomes; a discussion of expected and unusual genes found; attachment sites and mechanisms; utilization of particulate and dissolved organic matter; and conclusions.
4250554| A truly psychrotrophic strain of Chromobacterium, which was isolated from Lake Ontario sediment and characterized as Chromobacterium lividum, was found to be capable of pigment production that was completely prevented at 0C, although growth readily occurred. Normal pigment formation occurred at 15C, 20C, and 25C. The prevention of synthesis of the pigment at 0C, which was confirmed spectrophotometrically to be violacein, was not reversed by the presence of various carbon sources, although all except one acted as growth substrates. In addition, some of the carbon sources actually inhibited pigment production at 20C, preventing violacein synthesis in the presence of pyruvate which was shown to allow pigmentation. Similar results were obtained under both liquid and solid media cultivation conditions. 
4251255| On 28 January 1989 the Bahia Paraiso ran aground and sank near Palmer Station, Antarctica. At least 6.8  10
41489759|In a context of environmental risk assessment of nuclear Se radionuclide, the impact of low Se-selenite concentrations (0.008 and 8 mg kg) on bacterial communities of two soils, a silty clay loam and a sandy soil, was investigated over a 6-month incubation time. This Se-selenite was partially labelled with Se. The state of the Se-impacted bacterial communities was analyzed through total bacterial counts, DNA fingerprints (ARISA profiles) and metabolic profiling (carbon substrate utilization patterns). Furthermore, the genetic diversity of bacterial populations involved in Se volatilization was evaluated by tpm (thiopurine methyltransferase gene) profiling. Emissions of Se and CaCl-extractable Se were measured by -spectrometry and scintillation analysis. Se-selenite inputs changed transiently the substrate utilization patterns of bacterial communities but did not affect the other indicators. Se volatilization was at its highest level just after adding Se-selenite and for about 1 week. This volatilization was proportional to the added Se-selenite concentrations. It was 100-fold higher in silty clay loam, even though Se bioavailability was reduced in this soil. The soils were amended with crushed grass 3 months after the addition of Se-selenite. This organic amendment affected the organization of bacterial communities and increased the Se-volatilizing activities of both soils. Original soil organic carbon and bacterial diversity and activities seemed responsible for the different levels of Se emissions observed in soils, tpm lineages, encoding Se methyltransferases, were detected in both soils, confirming the broad distribution of tpm-harbouring bacteria and their probable role in the emissions of volatile Se. Five distinct groups of tpm were recorded per soil, with tpml lineage being detected throughout the incubation period. This study demonstrates the ability of bacterial communities at volatilizing Se concentrations inferior to geochemical backgrounds and suggests that a probable transfer of nuclear Se will occur through volatilization after an environmental spill.
4251790| Bacterial sulfate reduction activity (SRA) was measured in surface sediments and slurries from three sites in the Great Salt Lake (Utah, USA) using radiolabeled
41489055|Specific growth rates of heterotrophic bacterioplankton have been frequently estimated from in situ bacterial production (BP) to biomass (BB) ratios, using a series of assumptions that may result in serious discrepancies with values obtained from predator-free cultures. Here, we used both types of approaches together with a comprehensive assessment of single-cell physiological characteristics (membrane integrity, nucleic acid content, and active respiration) of coastal bacterioplankton during a complete annual cycle (February 2007-January 2008) in the southern Bay of Biscay off Xixn, Spain. Both leucine and thymidine incorporation rates were used in conjunction with empirical tracer to carbon or cells conversion factors (eCFs) to accurately derive BP. Leu and TdR incorporation rates covaried year-round, as did the corresponding eCFs at 0 and 50 m depth. eCFs peaked in autumn, with mean annual values close to the theoretical ones (3.4 kg C mol Leu and 2.0 x10 cells mol TdR). Bacterial abundance (0.2-1.5 x 10 cells) showed a bimodal distribution with maxima in May and October and minima in March. Live (membraneintact) cells dominated year-round (79-97%), with high nucleic acid cells (42-88%) and actively respiring bacteria (CTC+, 1-16%) showing distinct surface maxima in April and July, respectively. BB (557-1,558 mg C m) and BP (7-139 mg C m day) presented two distinct peaks in spring and autumn, both of similar size due to a strong upwelling event observed in September. Specific growth rates (0.35-3.8 day) were one order of magnitude higher in predatorfree incubations than bacterial turnover rates derived from integrated BP. BB ratios (0.01-0.16 and 0.01-0.09 day for Leu and TdR, respectively) and were not correlated, probably due to a significant contribution of low activity cells to total standing stocks. The Leu: TdR molar ratio averaged for the water column (6.6-25.5) decreased significantly with higher integrated BB, indicating that low standing stocks tend to present unbalanced growth. Discrepancies about the true magnitude of specific growth rates must be solved before fully appreciating the role of bacteria in the ocean carbon cycle.
4251575|The patterns of seasonal variation in the structure of a marine benthic microbial community were examined using phospholipid fatty acid analysis (PLFA). Principal component analysis of PLFA profiles indicated a strong seasonal pattern dominated the variance within the data set. Three functional groups of microorganisms (phototrophic microeukaryotes, and two groups of anaerobic bacteria) were disproportionately abundant in the communities that mapped to either extreme of the first principle component. Phototrophic microeukaryotes were most abundant and exhibited the greatest relative abundance during periods of cold water. In contrast, the two functional groups of anaerobic bacteria showed the greatest relative abundance during times of warm water. Differential responses by these groups, and macrofaunal deposit feeders, to light intensity and water temperature were offered as the proximal causes of the observed patterns.
4287678|Two fungal species were isolated with different frequencies from pine tissue cultures originating from buds. One species was detected in 33.1% of the cultures initiated in March, and another was present in 1.7% of cultures initiated in June. Based on analyses of phylogenetic and physiological characteristics these fungi were identified as Hormonema dematioides (isolated in March) and Rhodotorula minuta (isolated in June). Probes targeted towards the 18S rRNA of H. dematioides and R. minuta were made. When in situ hybridizations were performed on pine bud tissue, R. minuta was detected inside the cells of meristematic tissue in 40% of the samples, in contrast to H. dematioides, which was not found in this tissue. Using light microscopy, H. dematioides was found to be localized in the scale tissues of the buds. Fungal endophytes have previously been detected in scale tissues, but not in the meristematic tissues of buds. The habitats of these fungi may reflect their different roles in the plant.
25153001|Plant growth promotion by rhizobacteria is a widely spread phenomenon. However only a few rhizobacteria have been studied thoroughly. Rhizobium is the best-studied rhizobacterium. It forms a symbiosis with a restricted host range. Azospirillum is another plant-growth-promoting rhizobacterium which forms rhizocoenoses with a wide range of plants. In both bacteria, the interaction with the plant involves the attraction toward the host plant and the attachment to the surface of the root. Both bacteria are attracted to plant roots, but differ in specificity. Attachment to plant roots occurs in two steps for both bacteria: a quick, reversible adsorption, and a slow, irreversible anchoring to the plant root surface. However, for the two systems under study, the bacterial surface molecules involved in plant root attachment are not necessarily the same.
4251786|The microbiota of completely mixed soil slurry was acclimated with pentachlorophenol (PCP) or with a wood preservative mixture (WPM) containing several pollutants such as PCP and petroleum hydrocarbons. The impact of these compounds on the bacterial diversity was studied by using molecular tools. PCR amplifications of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences (rDNA) were carried out with total DNA extracted from soil slurry samples taken at different time points during the enrichment process of the PCP and WPM reactors. The composition of these PCR products, reflecting the bacterial diversity, was monitored by the single-strand-conformation polymorphism (SSCP) method. Our results showed that the complexity of the SSCP profiles in the PCP reactor decreased significantly during the enrichment process, whereas they remained complex in the WPM reactor. PCR-amplified 16S rDNA libraries were generated from each reactor. The SSCP method was used to rapidly screen several clones of these libraries to find specific single-strand DNA migration profiles. In the PCP-activated soil, 96% of examined clones had the same SSCP profile, and sequences of representative clones were related to the genus Sphingomonas, suggesting that the enrichment with PCP resulted in a selection of little phylogenetic diversity. Four different SSCP profiles were observed with the 68 examined clones from the WPM reactor. Representative clones of these profiles were related to Methylocystaceae or Rhizobiaceae, to sulfur-oxidizing symbionts, to the genus Acinetobacter, and to the genus Sphingomonas. We also cloned and sequenced PCR-amplified DNA related to the pcpB gene, coding for the Sphingomonas PCP-4-monooxygenase and detected in both reactors after two weeks of enrichment. Of the 16 examined clones, deduced amino acid sequences of 13 clones were highly related to the Sphingomonas sp. strain UG30 pcpB. The three remaining pcpB clones were not closely related to the three known Sphingomonas pcpB.
4287693|A variety of filamentous fungi have recently been isolated from the Dead Sea (340 g/L total dissolved salts). To assess the extent to which such fungi can survive for prolonged periods in Dead Sea water, we examined the survival of both spores and mycelia in undiluted Dead Sea water and in Dead Sea water diluted to different degrees with distilled water. Mycelia of Aspergillus versicolor and Chaetomium globosum strains isolated from the Dead Sea remained viable for up to 8 weeks in undiluted Dead Sea water. Four Dead Sea isolates (A. versicolor, Eurotium herbariorum, Gymnascella marismortui, and C. globosum) retained their viability in Dead Sea water diluted to 80% during the 12 weeks of the experiment. Mycelia of all species survived for the full term of the experiment in Dead Sea water diluted to 50% and 10% of its original salinity. Comparison of the survival of Dead Sea species and closely related isolates obtained from other locations showed prolonged viability of the strains obtained from the Dead Sea. Spores of isolates obtained from the terrestrial shore of the Dead Sea generally proved less tolerant to suspension in undiluted Dead Sea water than spores of species isolated from the water column. Spores of the species isolated from the control sites had lost their viability in undiluted Dead Sea water within 12 weeks. However, with the exception of Emericella spores, which showed poor survival, a substantial fraction of the spores of Dead Sea fungal isolates remained viable for that period. The difference in survival rate between spores and mycelia of isolates of the same species points to the existence of adapted halotolerant and/or halophilic fungi in the Dead Sea.
4251379| Research on "microbial loop" organisms, heterotrophic bacteria and phagotrophic protists, has been stimulated in large measure by Pomeroy's seminal paper published in BioScience in 1974. We now know that a significant fate of bacterioplankton production is grazing by < 20-m-sized flagellates. By selectively grazing larger, more rapidly growing and dividing cells in the bacterioplankton assemblage, bacterivores may be directly cropping bacterial production rather than simply the standing stock of bacterial cells. Protistan herbivory, however, is likely to be a more significant pathway of carbon flow in pelagic food webs than is bacterivory. Herbivores include both < 20-m flagellates as well as > 20-m ciliates and heterotrophic dinoflagellates in the microzooplankton. Protists can grow as fast as, or faster than their phytoplankton prey. Phototrophic cells grazed by protists range from bacterial-sized prochlorophytes to large diatom chains (which are preyed upon by extracellularly-feeding dinoflagellates). Recent estimates of microzooplankton herbivory in various parts of the sea suggest that protists routinely consume from 25 to 100% of daily phytoplankton production, even in diatom-dominated upwelling blooms. Phagotrophic protists should be viewed as a dominant biotic control of both bacteria and of phytoplankton in the sea. 
4250968|The effect of surface attachment on oxidation of nitrite to nitrate by "Nitrobacter" was studied in batch culture, on glass coverslips, and in continuous culture on glass beads and anion exchange resin beads in an air-lift column fermenter. In batch culture, the surfaces stimulated specific growth rate, while in continuous culture, activity of attached cells was less than that of freely suspended cells. Nitrate productivity, free cell productivity, and attached cell concentration increased exponentially at the same specific rate, termed the colonization rate, and nitrate productivity was found to be a convenient estimate of biomass concentration. Permanent attachment was mediated by production of slime material. Surface growth resulted in multiple steady states and the ability to respond quickly to changes in dilution rate. The air-lift column fermenter system provided a convenient system for the study of growth and activity of attached cells and was most suitable when using ion exchange resins as a substratum for attachment.
4251796| Bacterial conversion of high (HMW > 3,000 Da) and low (LMW < 3,000 Da) molecular weight DON (dissolved organic nitrogen) was studied along the freshwater section of the Elbe estuary during the summer of 1997. Indigenous populations of picoplankton were incubated in a flow-through chamber that allowed a constant exchange of sterile, filtered Elbe water as the culture medium for the microorganisms, which remained within the chamber. Nitrogen conversion was followed by changes in the concentrations of total and low molecular weight DON and dissolved inorganic nitrogen compounds, the uptake of O
4251783| The spatial distribution of the bacterial biomass and production and of potential heterotrophic activity (PHA) were measured every 4 h between 23 July (10:00 h) and 25 July (10:00 h) 1997 in a recently flooded oligo-mesotrophic reservoir (the Sep Reservoir, Puy-de-Dme, France), in relation to temperature, the phytoplankton biomass and production, and the abundance of heterotrophic flagellates. The temperature varied slightly with time during the study, but the well-established thermal stratification agreed well with vertical distribution of the biological variables that were measured. Only the bacterial production and the PHA showed significant diel changes (t-test, p < 0.05), with maxima at 18:00 h and minima at 02:00 h. A significant positive relation was found between bacterial abundance and that of heterotrophic flagellates, which, rather than being an association related to the thermal stratification of the water column, was considered to reflect a trophic relation between these two communities. A carbon balance analysis suggested that at least 30% of the C from primary production measured during the sampling period was used by bacteria, and that 42% of this secondary production, or 6% of the primary production, would be used for the development of the heterotrophic flagellates present. We conclude that the bacterioplankton forms, at least occasionally, an important source of carbon for higher trophic levels, and reject the hypothesis that bacterial production in the Sep Reservoir depends exclusively on organic matter of allochthonous origin. 
40343364|The aim of this work is to describe the diversity and phylogeny of rhizobial bacteria associated to nodules of Ononis tridentata L. in different geographical regions of Spain. Twenty-two bacterial isolates were characterized using several molecular techniques (16S amplified ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid restriction analysis, fingerprinting, and sequencing) and phylogenies were inferred from their 16S and nodC gene sequences. Phylogenetically, the isolates grouped with the genera Rhizobium, Mesorhizobium, Phylobacterium, and Bosea. The nodC gene, essential for nodulation, was detected for the first time in isolates close to the genera Bosea and Phyllobacterium. The bacteria isolated showed a high diversity at the genus, species, and strain level regardless of the geographical origin of the host plant. This is the first report describing bacteria associated to nodules of O. tridentata. This shrub legume is highly prized for the revegetation of gypsum soils in semiarid Mediterranean areas. Our molecular description of bacteria associated to this legume improves the current understanding of the ecology of this plant species. Our findings have implications for formulating suitable bacterial inocula to recover gypsum ecosystems.
27770610|Microbial communities typically vary in composition and structure over space and time. Little is known about the inherent characteristics of communities that govern various drivers of these changes, such as random variation, changes in response to perturbation, or susceptibility to invasion. In this study, we use 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences to describe variation among bacterial communities in the midguts of cabbage white butterfly (Pieris rapae) larvae and examine the influence of community structure on susceptibility to invasion. We compared communities in larvae experiencing the same conditions at different times (temporal variation) or fed different diets (perturbation). The most highly represented phylum was Proteobacteria, which was present in all midgut communities. The observed species richness ranged from six to 15, and the most abundant members affiliated with the genera Methylobacteria, Asaia, Acinetobacter, Enterobacter, and Pantoea. Individual larvae subjected to the same conditions at the same time harbored communities that were highly similar in structure and membership, whereas the communities observed within larval populations changed with diet and over time. In addition, structural changes due to perturbation coincided with enhanced susceptibility to invasion by Enterobacter sp. NAB3R and Pantoea stewartii CWB600, suggesting that resistance to invasion is in part governed by community structure. These findings along with the observed conservation of membership at the phylum level, variation in structure and membership at lower taxonomic levels, and its relative simplicity make the cabbage white butterfly larval community an attractive model for studying community dynamics and robustness.
4251587|Experiments were conducted to determine the limiting nutrient and the effect of pulp mill effluent (PME) on heterotrophic biofilms in the Fraser River, a northern, temperate river in British Columbia, Canada. Biofilms were cultured by irrigating flow cells with Fraser River water alone (control), or river water amended with glucose; ammonium; phosphate; glucose, ammonium, and phosphate combined; or 3% PME. Phosphorus increased bacterial growth in the biofilm, which was rapidly transferred to protists, and reduced the amount of extracellular polymeric substances accumulated by biofilm bacteria. This work demonstrates phosphorus limitation of biofilm bacteria in a major river system and emphasizes the importance of nutrients in industrial discharges.
25153105| Microbial mats possibly possess degradation capacities for haloorganic pollutants because of their wide range of different functional groups of microorganisms combined with extreme diurnal changes in pH, oxygen, and sulfide gradients. In this study, 20 mg/l of the chlorinated herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was applied to a pristine hypersaline cyanobacterial mat from Guerrero Negro, Mexico, under a light regime of 12 h dark/12 h light (600 mol photons/ms). The loss of 2,4-D was followed by chemical GC analysis; functional changes within the mat were determined with microelectrodes for oxygen, photosynthesis, pH, and sulfide. The depletion of 2,4-D due to photooxidation or sorption processes was checked in control experiments. Within 13 days, the light/dark incubated mats degraded 97% of the herbicide, while in permanent darkness only 35% were degraded. Adsorption of 2,4-D to the mat material, agar, or glass walls was negligible (4.6%), whereas 21% of the herbicide was degraded photochemically. The 2,4-D removal rate in the light/dark incubations was comparable to values reported for soils. The phototrophic community of the mat was permanently inhibited by the 2,4-D addition by 17% on average. The sulfate reduction in the entire mat and the respiration in the photic zone were inhibited more strongly but returned to original levels. Since at the end of the experiment the photosynthetic and respiratory activity of the mats were almost as high as in the beginning and 2,4-D almost completely disappeared, we conclude that the examined mats represent a robust and effective system for the degradation of the herbicide where probably the aerobic heterotrophic population is a major player in the degradation process. 
25153488| The purpose of the research was to determine threshold concentrations of nucleopolyhedrovirus (NPV) in soil for abiotic transport to cotton plants in the field and under conducive and nonconducive conditions in the greenhouse. Under the assumption that 2% mortality would suffice to initiate foci of infection in Heliothis virescens larvae on the plants, thresholds ranged from 25 to 2,311 viral occlusion bodies (OB)/g soil in the greenhouse. Thresholds generally were smaller for rain on sandy soil and wind on clay soil than for wind on sand or rain on clay. Thresholds generally increased with height of the plant above the soil surface. In field plots, percentage mortality in bioassays of cotton plants was greatest on leaves versus other tissues, and mortality increased with soil dosage and decreased with plant height and over time. Season-long soil-NPV-transport thresholds for 2% plant-bioassay mortality of larvae ranged from 1 OB/g to 7.410 OB/g soil based on the amounts of NPV applied to the soil at planting time, and they ranged from 8 OB/g to 1.210 OB/g soil based on bioassays of soil samples collected concurrently with plant samples throughout the growing season. These results should contribute to NPV epizootiology, biological control, and risk assessment through better understanding of viral soil-to-plant transport. 
4250675| The objective of this study was to determine if a seasonal selection could be demonstrated in the heterotrophic component of a freshwater bacterial community. Surface samples were taken at approximately monthly intervals covering an annual seasonal cycle, and counts were made of the numbers of bacteria capable of growing at each of 10 incubation temperatures from 0 to 45C at 5C intervals. Evidence for seasonal selection was provided by a 6C shift in the mean temperature of the counts from the summer sample to the winter sample. The selection was even more evident when the number of organisms capable of growing at 10C and those capable of growing at 35C were compared over the seasonal cycle. The counts at these two incubation temperatures varied inversely to each other. Although a negligible number of organisms from a representative summer sample grew at 10C, 18% of the organisms from a representative winter sample grew at this temperature. The data of this study indicate that, although seasonal selection does occur, the magnitude of that selection is not great enough to permit the growth of bacteria during the coldest month to approach the levels of growth observed during the summer months. However, the selection appears to be adequate to permit significant activity during the spring and fall transition months. 
27770569|We report the first investigation of a deep subpermafrost microbial ecosystem, a terrestrial analog for the Martian subsurface. Our multidisciplinary team analyzed fracture water collected at 890 and 1,130 m depths beneath a 540-m-thick permafrost layer at the Lupin Au mine (Nunavut, Canada). 14 C , 3 H , and noble gas isotope analyses suggest that the NaCaCl, suboxic, fracture water represents a mixture of geologically ancient brine, 25-kyr-old, meteoric water and a minor modern talik-water component. Microbial planktonic concentrations were 10 3 cells mL 1 . Analysis of the 16S rRNA gene from extracted DNA and enrichment cultures revealed 42 unique operational taxonomic units in 11 genera with Desulfosporosinus, Halothiobacillus, and Pseudomonas representing the most prominent phylotypes and failed to detect Archaea. The abundance of terminally branched and midchain-branched saturated fatty acids (5 to 15 mol%) was consistent with the abundance of Grampositive bacteria in the clone libraries. Geochemical data, the ubiquinone (UQ) abundance (3 to 11 mol%), and the presence of both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria indicated that the environment was suboxic, not anoxic. Stable sulfur isotope analyses of the fracture water detected the presence of microbial sulfate reduction, and analyses of the vein-filling pyrite indicated that it was in isotopic equilibrium with the dissolved sulfide. Free energy calculations revealed that sulfate reduction and sulfide oxidation via denitrification and not methanogenesis were the most thermodynamically viable consistent with the principal metabolisms inferred from the 16S rRNA community composition and with CH 4 isotopic compositions. The sulfate-reducing bacteria most likely colonized the subsurface during the Pleistocene or earlier, whereas aerobic bacteria may have entered the fracture water networks either during deglaciation prior to permafrost formation 9,000 years ago or from the nearby talik through the hydrologic gradient created during mine dewatering. Although the absence of methanogens from this subsurface ecosystem is somewhat surprising, it may be attributable to an energy bottleneck that restricts their migration from surface permafrost deposits where they are frequently reported. These results have implications for the biological origin of CH 4 on Mars.
4250585| Variations of structure (probable taxonomic generic groups; ecological profiles), diversity (Shannon index, H), and average catabolic potentialities (strain's average exoenzyme equipment, EAI; average carbonaceous compound utilization, UAI) of bacterial populations during two experimental phytoplankton blooms are described and show a certain overall unity. Oligotrophic conditions are characterized by high diversity levels (H from 3.60 to 4) and moderate catabolic potentialities (EAI and UAI close to 40%). During phytoplankton exponential growth phase bacteria show an EAI stability, but there is an increase of UAI with maximal values at the beginning of chlorophyll plateau (52-57%) and higher values of diversity (H greater than 4). Phytoplankton mortalities appear to cause an EAI increase and a decrease of both UAI and H (1.50 to 2). Vibrio-like organisms seem to be closely related to this period. In spite of these similar patterns, many differences appear between both experiments from a taxonomic point of view, the autumnal population being more diversified than the spring one. The results obtained show the value of simultaneous analysis of these different aspects and of this ecological methodology allowing spatial or temporal comparisons. 
40343377|The plant phyllosphere is intensely colonized by a complex and highly diverse microbial population and shows pronounced plant-species-specific differences. The mechanisms and influencing factors determining whether and in which density microorganisms colonize plant phyllosphere tissues are not yet fully understood. One of the key influencing factors is thought to be phytochemical concentration and composition. Therefore, correlations between various concentrations of individual glucosinolates and carotenoids in four different plant speciesBrassica jncea, Brassica campestris, Cichorium endivia, and Spinacea oleraceaand the phyllospheric bacterial population size associated with the aerial parts of the same plants were analyzed. The concentration of various individual glucosinolates and carotenoids were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography. The phyllospheric bacterial population size including both nonculturable and culturable organisms was assessed using quantitative realtime polymerase chain reaction, and the physiological profile of the culturable microbial community was analyzed using the Biolog system. Results show significant differences between plant species in both concentration and composition of secondary metabolites, bacterial population size, and microbial community composition in three consecutively performed experiments. An interesting and underlying trend was that bacterial density was positively correlated to concentrations of -carotene in the plant phyllosphere of the four plant species examined. Likewise, the alkenyl glucosinolates, 2-propenyl, 3-butenyl, and 4-pentenyl, concentrations were positively correlated to the bacterial population density, whereas the aromatic glucosinolate 2-phenylethyl showed a negative correlation to the phyllospheric bacterial population size. Thus, we report for the first time the relationship between individual glucosinolate and carotenoid concentrations and the phyllospheric bacterial population size of nonculturable and culturable organisms and the phyllospheric microbial physiological profiles.
4250936|Seeds of five weed species were examined for the presence of seedborne bacteria. A total of 459 isolates were obtained from 1,740 seeds. The bacteria were identified and examined for distribution among seed viability classes, antifungal activity, and potential phytopathogenicity. Weed seeds varied for the prevalence of bacteria and in the types of bacteria associated with each plant species. Antifungal activity exhibited by 80% of the bacteria may limit seed deterioration by potential fungal seed pathogens. Some of the seedborne bacteria (15%) were potentially phytopathogenic. It is suggested that the complex nature of the weed seed-bacteria associations may be an obstacle to the development of biotic agents for manipulating weed seed activity in soil.
4251193|Rates of nitrogen fixation in seagrass beds (Zostera capricorni) were determined with
4250609|A capillary assay was employed to quantify chemotactic responses in the chemoautotrophic bacterium, Thiobacillus thioparus. NH
25153064| Viable prokaryotes have been detected in basal sediments beneath the few Northern Hemisphere glaciers that have been sampled for microbial communities. However, parallel studies have not previously been conducted in the Southern Hemisphere, and subglacial environments in general are a new and underexplored niche for microbes. Unfrozen subglacial sediments and overlying glacier ice samples collected aseptically from the Fox Glacier and Franz Josef Glacier in the Southern Alps of New Zealand now have been shown to harbor viable microbial populations. Total direct counts of 2-7  10 cells g dry weight sediment were observed, whereas culturable aerobic heterotrophs ranged from 6-9  10 colony-forming units g dry weight. Viable counts in the glacier ice typically were 3-4 orders of magnitude smaller than in sediment. Nitrate-reducing and ferric iron-reducing bacteria were detected in sediment samples from both glaciers, but were few or below detection limits in the ice samples. Nitrogen-fixing bacteria were detected only in the Fox Glacier sediment. Restriction fragment analysis of 16S rDNA amplified from 37 pure cultures of aerobic heterotrophs capable of growth at 4C yielded 23 distinct groups, of which 11 were identified as -Proteobacteria. 16S rDNA sequences from representatives of these 11 groups were analyzed phylogenetically and shown to cluster with bacteria such as Polaromonas vacuolata and Rhodoferax antarcticus, or with clones obtained from permanently cold environments. Chemical analysis of sediment and ice samples revealed a dilute environment for microbial life. Nevertheless, both the sediment samples and one ice sample demonstrated substantial aerobic mineralization of C-acetate at 8C, indicating that sufficient nutrients and viable psychrotolerant microbes were present to support metabolism. Unfrozen subglacial sediments may represent a significant global reservoir of biological activity with the potential to influence glacier meltwater chemistry. 
25256094|In a previous study, ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB)-like sequences were detected in the fragmentation layer of acid Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) forest soils (pH 2.9-3.4) with high nitrification rates (&gt;11.0 g g dry soil week), but were not detected in soils with low nitrification rates (&lt;0.5 g g dry soil week). In the present study, we investigated whether this low nitrification rate has a biotic cause (complete absence of AOB) or an abiotic cause (unfavorable environmental conditions). Therefore, two soils strongly differing in net nitrification were compared: one soil with a low nitrification rate (location Schoorl) and another soil with a high nitrification rate (location Wekerom) were subjected to liming and/or ammonium amendment treatments. Nitrification was assessed by analysis of dynamics in
4251506|The interaction between VA mycorrhiza Glomus mosseae (Gm), root rodulating symbiont Rhizobium leguminosarum (Rl), and root rot pathogen Fusarium solani (Fs) on the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) in relation to plant growth, nutrient uptake, disease severity, rhizosphere microbial biomass, and nutrient availability was investigated. Mycorrhizal plants yielded significantly greater plant biomass and mobilized more N and P uptake as compared to nonmycorrhizal plants or those infected with Fs. However, the mycorrhizal root colonizing ability, in presence of Fs, was reduced by 27%, whereas Rl enhanced it by 37%. The inoculation of Gm, besides decreasing propagule number of Fs in the rhizosphere, decreased pathogenic root rot by 34 to 77%. However, in the presence of Rl, Gm-inoculated plants were more tolerant of the fungal root pathogen. The Gm + Rl inoculated plants not only had maximum plant biomass and root nodulation, but also exhibited higher microbial biomass, alkaline phosphatase activity, and available phosphorus in their rhizosphere. Rl, alone or in association with Gm, caused the maximum increase in mineral nitrogen ( NH
25153357|Bacteria were isolated from California almond orchard samples to evaluate their potential antifungal activity against aflatoxin-producing Aspergillus flavus. Fungal populations from the same samples were examined to determine the incidence of aflatoxigenic Aspergillus species. Antagonistic activities of the isolated bacterial s trains were screened against a nonaflatoxigenic nor mutant of A. flavus, which accumulates the pigmented aflatoxin precursor norsolorinic acid (NOR) under conditions conducive to aflatoxin production. Using solid and liquid media in coculture assays, 171 bacteria isolated from almond flowers, immature nut fruits, and mature nut fruits showed inhibition of A. flavus growth and/or inhibition of NOR accumulation. Bacterial isolates were further characterized for production of extracellular enzymes capable of hydrolyzing chitin or yeast cell walls. Molecular and physiological identification of the bacterial strains indicated that the predominant genera isolated were Bacillus, Pseudomonas, Ralstonia, and Burkholderia, as well as several plant-associated enteric and nonenteric bacteria. A set of 20 isolates was selected for further study based on their species identification, antifungal phenotypes, and extracellular enzyme production. Quantitative assays using these isolates in liquid coculture with a wild-type, aflatoxin-producing A. flavus strain showed that a number of strains completely inhibited fungal growth in three different media. These results indicate the potential for development of bacterial antagonists as biological control agents against aflatoxigenic aspergilli on almonds.
4251791| The culturable haloarchaeal diversity in a crystallizer pond from a solar saltern has been analyzed and compared with the biodiversity directly retrieved by analysis of rRNA genes amplified from the environment. Two different sets of culture conditions have been assayed: solid medium with yeast extract as carbon source and liquid media with either yeast extract or a mixture of fishmeal, Spirulina sp., and Artemia salina. Seventeen colonies grown on plates with yeast extract incubated at 30C were analyzed by 16S rDNA partial sequencing. Sixteen were closely related to haloarchaea of the genus Halorubrum; 13 of them to Halorubrum coriense, a haloarchaeon isolated from a solar saltern pond in Australia, which had not been previously isolated from the pond analyzed in this study; and one to Haloarcula marismortui. Liquid cultures were analyzed by ribosomal internal spacer analysis (RISA) and partial sequencing of the 16SrRNA genes. A total of 18 sequences were analyzed, 15 corresponding to RISA bands obtained from cultures, and 3 from the environmental sample used as inoculum. Thirteen sequences obtained from cultures were related to several Halorubrum species, and 2 to Haloarcula. One of the clones obtained directly from the environmental sample was distantly related to a Natronobacterium, whereas two were related to SPhT, the phylotype most frequently retrieved from this environment by culture independent techniques. Our results show an extremely low diversity for the haloarchaea retrieved by cultivation even when modifications to the standard technique are introduced. 
23361589|Anthropogenic acidification in headwater streams is known to affect microbial assemblages involved in leaf litter breakdown. Far less is known about its potential effects on microbial enzyme activities. To assess the effects of acidification on microbial activities associated with decaying leaves, a 70-day litter bag experiment was conducted in headwater streams at six sites across an acidification gradient. The results revealed that microbial leaf decomposition was strongly and negatively correlated with total Al concentrations (r=-0.99, p<0.001) and positively correlated with Ca 2+ concentrations (r=0.94, p=0.005) and pH (r=0.93, p= 0.008). Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analyses showed that microbial assemblages differed between non-impacted and impacted sites, whereas fungal biomass associated with decaying leaves was unaffected. The nutrient content of leaf detritus and ecoenzymatic activities of carbon (C), nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) acquisition revealed that N acquisition was unaltered, while P acquisition was significantly reduced across the acidification gradient. The P content of leaf litter was negatively correlated with total Al concentrations (r=-0.94, p<0.01) and positively correlated with decomposition rates (r=0.95, p<0.01). This potential P limitation of microbial decomposers in impacted sites was confirmed by the particularly high turnover activity for phosphatase and imbalanced ratios between the ecoenzymatic activities of C and P acquisition. The toxic form of Al has well-known direct effects on aquatic biota under acidic conditions, but in this study, Al was found to also potentially affect microbially mediated leaf processing by interfering with the P cycle. These effects may in turn have repercussions on higher trophic levels and whole ecosystem functioning.
4287760| Virus production in oxic surface sediments and virioplankton sorption to suspended particles was estimated across three stations in the Southern California region (33.4N, 118.6W). Viriobenthos production was estimated using a sterile sediment and filtered porewater dilution technique that targeted production from both attached bacteria and bacteria living free in the porewater, and attached bacteria alone. Potential virus production rates by bacteria free in the porewater ranged from 1.7 to
4287654|Alterations in soil bacterial communities across a transect between a semi natural upland grassland and an agriculturally improved enclosure were assessed using culture-based methods and a nucleic-acid-based method, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP). While plant diversity decreased across the transect towards the improved area, numbers of 16S rDNA terminal restriction fragments increased, indicating an increase in numbers of bacterial ribotypes. Bacterial numbers, microbial activity, and potential functional diversity also followed a similar trend, increasing with decreasing plant diversity. Alterations in bacterial community structure were coincident with changes in soil physicochemical properties which also changed across the transect. Increases in soil pH, nitrate, phosphorus, potassium, and calcium occurred toward the improved grassland, while organic matter and ammonium declined. The inverse relationship between floristic diversity and bacterial ribotype numbers suggests that soil physicochemical factors may be as influential in determining bacterial diversity in soils of upland grassland communities as floristic diversity.
4250702|Electron transport system (ETS) activity was measured in amended and nonamended soil by measuring the reduction of 2-(p-iodo-phenyl)-3-(p-nitrophenyl)-5-phenyl tetrazolium chloride (INT) to iodonitrotetrazolium formazan (INT-formazan), which can be easily extracted with methanol without interference from other compounds found in soil. A high correlation between ETS activity and oxygen consumption was observed. This technique allows rapid quantitative measurements of microbial ETS activity in soil.
4251099|Incorporation of [methyl-
25153383|In this research, we investigate zinc phosphate transformations by Paxillus involutus/pine ectomycorrhizas using zinc-resistant and zinc-sensitive strains of the ectomycorrhizal fungus under high- and low-phosphorus conditions to further understand fungal roles in the transformation of toxic metal minerals in the mycorrhizosphere. Mesocosm experiments with ectomycorrhizas were performed under sterile conditions with zinc phosphate localized in cellophane bags: zinc and phosphorus mobilization and uptake by the ectomycorrhizal biomass were analyzed. In the presence of a phosphorus source, an ectomycorrhizal association with a zinc-resistant strain accumulated the least zinc compared to a zinc-sensitive ectomycorrhizal association and non-mycorrhizal plants. Under low-phosphorus conditions, mycorrhizal seedlings infected with the zinc-resistant strain increased the dissolution of zinc phosphate and zinc accumulation by the plant. Extended X-ray absorption fine structure analysis of both mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal roots showed octahedral coordination of zinc by oxygen-containing ligands such as carboxylates or phosphate. We conclude that zinc phosphate solubilization and zinc and phosphorus uptake by the association depend on ectomycorrhizal infection, strain of the mycobiont, and the phosphorus status of the matrix.
41412454|Fungal diversity and composition are still relatively unknown in many ecosystems; however, host identity and environmental conditions are hypothesized to influence fungal community assembly. To test these hypotheses, we characterized the richness, diversity, and composition of rhizosphere fungi colonizing three alpine plant species, Taraxacum ceratophorum, Taraxacum officinale, and Polemonium viscosum. Roots were collected from open meadow and willow understory habitats at treeline on Pennsylvania Mountain, Colorado, USA. Fungal small subunit ribosomal DNA was sequenced using fungalspecific primers, sample-specific DNA tags, and 454 pyrosequencing. We classified operational taxonomic units (OTUs) as arbuscular mycorrhizal (AMF) or non-arbuscular mycorrhizal (non-AMF) fungi and then tested whether habitat or host identity influenced these fungal communities. Approximately 14% of the sequences represented AMF taxa (44 OTUs) with the majority belonging to Glomus groups A and B. Non-AMF sequences represented 186 OTUs belonging to Ascomycota (58%), Basidiomycota (26%), Zygomycota (14%), and Chytridiomycota (2%) phyla. Total AMF and non-AMF richness were similar between habitats but varied among host species. AMF richness and diversity per root sample also varied among host species and were highest in T. ceratophorum compared with T. officinale and P. viscosum. In contrast, non-AMF richness and diversity per root sample were similar among host species except in the willow understory where diversity was reduced in T. officinale. Fungal community composition was influenced by host identity but not habitat. Specifically, T. officinale hosted a different AMF community than T. ceratophorum and P. viscosum while P. viscosum hosted a different non-AMF community than  ceratophorum and T. officinale. Our results suggest that host identity has a stronger effect on rhizosphere fungi than habitat. Furthermore, although host identity influenced both AMF and non-AMF, this effect was stronger for the mutualistic AMF community.
4251479|Recent emphasis on residue management in sustainable agriculture highlights the importance of elucidating the mechanisms of microbial degradation of cellulose. Cellulose decomposition and its associated microbial dynamics in soil were investigated in incubation experiments. Population dynamics of actinomycetes, bacteria, and fungi were monitored by direct counts. Populations of oligotrophic bacteria in cellulose-amended soil were determined by plate count using a low C medium containing 4 mg C liter
25153150|Strain identification in situ is an important factor in the monitoring of microorganisms used in the field. In this study, we demonstrated the use of sequence-characterized amplified region (SCAR) markers to detect genomic DNA from Trichoderma harzianum 2413 from soil. Two primers (SCAR A1/SCAR A1c) were tested against DNA of 27 isolates of Trichoderma spp. and amplified a 990-bp fragment from T. atroviride 11 and a 1.5-kb fragment from T. harzianum 2413, using an annealing temperature of 68C. These fragments showed no significant homology to any sequence deposited in the databases. The primer pair, BR1 and BR2, was designed to the 1.5-kb fragment amplified from T. harzianum 2413, generating a SCAR marker. To test the specificity of these primers, experiments were conducted using the DNA from 27 Trichoderma spp. strains and 22 field soil samples obtained from four different countries. PCR results showed that BR1 and BR2 amplified an 837-bp fragment unique to T. harzianum 2413. Assays in which total DNA was extracted from sterile and nonsterile soil samples, inoculated with spore or mycelium combinations of Trichoderma spp. strains, indicated that the BR1 and BR2 primers could specifically detect T. harzianum 2413 in a pool of mixed DNA. No other soil-microorganisms containing these sequences were amplified using these primers. To test whether the 837-bp SCAR marker of T. harzianum 2413 could be used in real-time PCR experiments, new primers (Q2413f and Q2413r) conjugated with a TaqMan fluorogenic probe were designed. Real-time PCR assays were applied using DNA from sterile and nonsterile soil samples inoculated with a known quantity of spores of Trichoderma spp. strains.
4251121|Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas fluorescens, and a Pseudomonas sp. strain 133B containing the pSa plasmid were starved in well water for up to 523 days. There were two patterns of apparent antibiotic resistance loss observed. In Pseudomonas sp. strain 133B, there was no apparent loss of antibiotic resistance even after starvation for 340 days. In E. coli, by day 49 there was a ten-fold difference between the number of cells that would grow on antibiotic- and nonantibiotic-containing plates. However, over 76% of the cells that apparently lost their antibiotic resistance were able to express antibiotic resistance after first being resuscitated on nonselective media. By day 523, only 12% of these cells were able to express their antibiotic resistance after being resuscitated. After starvation for 49 days, cells that could not grow on antibiotic medium even after resuscitation, showed a permanent loss of chloramphenicol (Cm) resistance but retained resistance to kanamycin (Km) and streptomycin (Sm). Restriction enzyme digests show that a 2.5 to 3.0 Kb region from map location 12.5 to 15.5 Kb was deleted. This coincides with the 2.5 Kb reduction in plasmid size observed in 3 isolates that had lost antibiotic resistance after starvation for 49 days.
25153069| Polyclonal antibodies that recognize the two subunits AmoA and AmoB of the ammonia monooxygenase (AMO) were applied to identify ammonia-oxidizing bacteria by immunofluorescence (IF) labeling in pure, mixed, and enriched cultures. The antibodies against the AmoA were produced using a synthetic peptide of the AmoA of Nitrosomonas eutropha, whereas the antibodies against the AmoB had been developed previously is against the whole B-subunit of the AMO [Pinck et al. (2001) Appl Environ Microbiol 67:118-124]. Using IF labeling, the AmoA antibodies were specific for the detection of all species of the genus Nitrosomonas. In contrast, the antiserum against AmoB labeled all genera of ammonia oxidizers of the -subclass of Proteobacteria (Nitrosomonas, Nitrosospira, Nitrosolobus, and Nitrosovibrio). The fluorescence signals of the AmoA antibodies were spread all over the cells, whereas the signals of the AmoB antibodies were associated with the cytoplasmic membranes. The specificity of the reactions of the antisera with ammonia oxidizers were proven in pure and mixed cultures, and the characteristic IF labeling and the morphology of the cells enabled their identification at the genus level. The genus-specific IF labeling could be used to identify ammonia oxidizers enriched from various habitats. In enrichment cultures of natural sandstone, cells of the genera Nitrosomonas, Nitrosovibrio, and Nitrosospira were detected. Members of the genus Nitrosovibrio and Nitrosolobus were most prominent in enriched garden soil samples, whereas members of the genus Nitrosomonas dominated in enriched activated sludge. The antibodies caused only slight background fluorescence on sandstone and soil particles compared to oligonucleotide probes, which could not be used to detect ammonia oxidizers on these materials because of strong nonspecific fluorescence. 
4250903|Different nominal molecular weight (nMW) fractions of DOC from a southeastern blackwater river were concentrated by ultrafiltration and added to sieved river water to assess each fraction's ability to stimulate bacterial growth. Bacterial growth was measured using change in bacterial biomass from direct counts and using
23597848|In this study, biological degradation of 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) which is very highly toxic environmentally and an explosive in nitroaromatic character was researched in minimal medium by Bacillus cereus isolated from North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) TNT-contaminated soils. In contrast to most previous studies, the capability of this bacteria to transform in liquid medium containing TNT was investigated. During degradation, treatment of TNT was followed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and achievement of degradation was calculated as percentage. At an initial concentration of 50 and 75 mg L 1 , TNT was degraded respectively 68 % and 77 % in 96 h. It transformed into 2,4-dinitrotoluene and 4-aminodinitrotoluene derivates, which could be detected as intermediate metabolites by using thin-layer chromatography and gas chromatographymass spectrometry analyses. Release of nitrite and nitrate ions were searched by spectrophotometric analyses. Depending upon Meisenheimer complex, while nitrite production was observed, nitrate was detected in none of the cultures. Results of our study propose which environmental pollutant can be removed by using microorganisms that are indigenous to the contaminated site.
4287636| Microbial diversity in four wells along a groundwater flowpath in a coal-tar-waste-contaminated aquifer was examined using RFLP analysis of both 16S rDNA and naphthalene dioxygenase (NDO) genes. Amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) relied upon eubacteria-specific primers to generate four clone libraries. From each library, 100 clones were randomly picked for analysis. Sixty percent of 400 clones contained unique ARDRA patterns. Diversity indices calculated for each community were high (Shannon-Weaver, H = 3.53 to 3.69). Clones representing ARDRA patterns found in the highest abundance were sequenced (31 total). Sequences related to aerobic bacteria (e.g., Nitrospira, Methylomonas, and Gallionella) predominated among those retrieved from the uncontaminated area of the site, whereas sequences related to facultatively aerobic and anaerobic bacteria (e.g. Azoarcus, Syntrophus, and Desulfotomaculum) predominated among those retrieved from contaminated areas of the site. Using NDO-specific primers and low-stringency PCR conditions, variability in RFLP patterns was only detected in community-derived DNA (3 of 4 wells) and not in 5 newly isolated naphthalene-degrading pure cultures. The ARDRA patterns of the pure culture isolates were not found in the clone libraries. Polymorphisms in community 16S rDNA and NDO genes found in well-water microorganisms reflected distinctive geochemical conditions across the site. Sequences related to sulfate-reducing bacteria were found in groundwater that contained sulfide, while sequences related to Gallionella, Syntrophus, and nitrate-reducing aromatic hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria were found in groundwater that contained ferrous iron, methane, and naphthalene, respectively. 
4250993|The bacterial flora in the intestinal tract of goldfish (Carassius auratus) was investigated at different stages of fish development. The floras of the diets and the water and sediment of a culture pond were also analyzed. The total counts in the intestine ranged from
4287553|A genus-specific monoclonal antibody, NG-CF10, raised in a previous study to the fungal pathogen Nectria galligena, was found to recognize the aquatic hyphomycete Heliscus lugdunensis (anamorph) and its teleomorph Nectria lugdunensis. Using this MAb in a plate trapped antigen- ELISA we could detect and determine the biomass of Heliscus lugdunensis in mixed assemblages in both naturally occurring and artificially inoculated leaves and roots of Alnus glutinosa trees. Initial studies indicate that the biomass associated with naturally occurring leaf material is significantly lower than that recorded with laboratory inoculated leaves, suggesting that biomass production is limited in the natural environment. Significantly lower biomass was associated with roots when compared with leaf material, which supports the proposition that rather than a major substrate for the growth of aquatic hyphomycetes, roots act as a refugium for fungal growth.
25153465|We investigated the impacts of forest thinning, prescribed fire, and contour ripping on community level physiological profiles (CLPP) of the soil microbial population in postmining forest rehabilitation. We hypothesized that these management practices would affect CLPP via an influence on the quality and quantity of soil organic matter. The study site was an area of Jarrah (Eucalyptus marginata Donn ex Sm.) forest rehabilitation that had been mined for bauxite 12 years previously. Three replicate plots (2020 m) were established in nontreated forest and in forest thinned from 3,000-8,000 stems ha to 600-800 stems ha in April (autumn) of 2003, followed either by a prescribed fire in September (spring) of 2003 or left nonburned. Soil samples were collected in August 2004 from two soil depths (0-5 cm and 5-10 cm) and from within mounds and furrows caused by postmining contour ripping. CLPP were not affected by prescribed fire, although the soil pH and organic carbon (C), total C and total nitrogen (N) contents were greater in burned compared with nonburned plots, and the coarse and fine litter mass lower. However, CLPP were affected by forest thinning, as were fine litter mass, soil C/N ratio, and soil pH, which were all higher in thinned than nonthinned plots. Furrow soil had greater coarse and fine litter mass, and inorganic phosphorous (P), organic P, organic C, total C, total N, ammonium, microbial biomass C contents, but lower soil pH and soil C/N ratio than mound soil. Soil pH, inorganic P, organic P, organic C, total C and N, ammonium, and microbial biomass C contents also decreased with depth, whereas soil C/N ratio increased. Differences in CLPP were largely (94%) associated with the relative utilization of gluconic, malic (greater in nonthinned than thinned soil and mound than furrow soil), L-tartaric, succinic, and uric acids (greater in thinned than nonthinned, mound than furrow, and 5-10 cm than 0-5 cm soil). The relative utilization of amino acids also tended to increase with increasing soil total C and organic C contents but decreased with increasing nitrate content, whereas the opposite was true for carboxylic acids. Only 45% of the variance in CLPP was explained using a multivariate multiple regression model, but soil C and N pools and litter mass were significant predictors of CLPP. Differences in soil textural components between treatments were also correlated with CLPP; likely causes of these differences are discussed. Our results suggest that 1 year after treatment, CLPP from this mined forest ecosystem are resilient to a spring prescribed fire but not forest thinning. We conclude that differences in CLPP are likely to result from complex interactions among soil properties that mediate substrate availability, microbial nutrient demand, and microbial community composition.
4251387|The realization that natural assemblages of planktonic bacteria may acquire a significant fraction of their nitrogen and phosphorus via the uptake of dissolved inorganic nutrients has modified our traditional view of these microorganisms as nutrient remineralizers in plankton communities. Bacterial uptake of inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus may place bacteria and phytoplankton in competition for growth-limiting nutrients, rather than in their traditional roles as the respective "source" and "sink" for these nutrients in the plankton. Bacterial nutrient uptake also implies that bacterivorous protozoa may play a pivotal role in the remineralization of these elements in the microbial loop. The overall contribution of bacterial utilization of inorganic nutrients to total nutrient uptake in the ocean is still poorly understood, but some generalizations are emerging with respect to the geographical areas and community physiological conditions that might elicit this behavior.
4250572| The marine chrysophyte Monochrysis lutheri was grown in phosphorus-limited continuous cultures at temperatures of 15, 18.8 and 23C. The effect of temperature on the maximum growth rate was well-defined by the Arrhenius equation, but the Q
4251039|Enzootic leprosy has been recognized in armadillos in Louisiana since 1975. Contact with armadillos is being assessed as a risk factor for leprosy in three white women, lifelong residents of separate rural areas in northern Louisiana, which is a region without endemic leprosy. None has had any known exposure to human leprosy. Each was aware of armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus) near or under her home for decades. In considering possible environmental sources for Mycobacterium leprae, we observed that all three had earthworm growth areas for fishing bait where soil was kept moist near their homes. The worms attracted armadillos. Since armadillos subsist on worms, grubs, and insects and because of the common feature of a "worm farm" near each home, we reasoned that earthworms might contain M. leprae and be part of a cycle involving the armadillo and human beings. Worms from each home worm farm were studied. One site was sampled twice at patient 1's home, five sites were sampled once at patient 2's home, and three sites were sampled once at patient 3's home. A sample consisted of 3-4 worms, which were washed, purged, fixed live in 10% formalin, embedded in paraffin, sectioned, and stained with the Fite stain. Each was sagittally sectioned and examined by three independent observers. No acid-fast bacilli or other acid-fast structures were identified. We conclude that it is unlikely that earthworms are an environmental source or reservoir of M. leprae.
4251050|Spirochetes are structurally unique microorganisms found in the gastrointestinal tracts of most mammals. In an attempt to determine the ecological status of these bacteria, enumeration and distribution of morphologically distinct spirochetes were studied in the tracts of conventional laboratory rats. Five different types were seen to colonize infant rats between 19 and 26 days of age and subsequently to form stable communities in all 15 adults examined. Two types were found predominantly in lumen contents of the large bowel. The other three were consistently seen in the mucous blanket, attached to enterocyte surfaces or deep in the glands of the cecum and proximal colon. One type inhabiting the mucosal environment was also seen to pass into and through epithelial cells with no detectable host response. We conclude that spirochetes fulfill all the criteria for autochthonicity to the rat gastrointestinal tract.
4251173|We found a recurrent seasonal pattern in abundance and composition of planktonic ciliates in Lake Constance, FRG, over a three-year period. Abundance peaks occurred in early spring and summer/autumn, while ciliate numbers were low in late spring (clear-water phase) and winter. Prostomatida and Oligotrichida dominated in early spring. They responded immediately to the phytoplankton spring bloom, while Haptorida, Peritrichida, and large Scuticociliatida (Histiobalantium) were delayed by 1 to 2 weeks. The spring community broke down at the onset of the clear-water phase. Pelagohalteria viridis containing symbiontic algae appeared shortly after this event. A highly diverse community was recorded in summer/autumn. Peritrichida, small Oligotrichida, and large Scuticociliatida reached their maxima during this season. Small Scuticociliatida were rare throughout the year and contributed moderately to total ciliate numbers only during the cold season. The observed seasonal sequence of pelagic ciliates in Lake Constance is discussed in relation to simultaneously collected data on potential food organisms and grazers.
4250744|Analysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) from surficial sediment layers in two antarctic lakes and two temperate lakes showed a high degree of similarity in spite of differences between trophic state, mictic state, or geographic location. Adenosine triphosphate was found at all levels sampled in temperate lake sediment cores but occasionally was present only in surficial layers of antarctic cores. Surficial sediment layers from antarctic lakes contained high chlorophyll a (Chl a) levels due to the extensive benthic algal mats which occur there. In some antarctic cores, Chl a was detectable in deep, old mat layers, whereas Chl a was not found in any of the temperate lake cores. Antarctic lake sediments appear to be unique environments where Chl a molecules can remain intact for long periods of time due to low light, temperature, and microbial activity. As such, these lakes are important natural laboratories where a long history of microbial interactions can be studied without metazoan perturbation effects. Although there was much variability in concentration of Chl a and ATP between samples, there appears to be no relationship between Chl a or ATP levels to mictic or trophic states of the lakes. These data suggest that sediment microbial communities may be independent of environmental and biological properties of the overlying water masses.
4251488| The number of bacteria in the intestine of 12 species of arthropods, belonging to 7 different orders, was determined to obtain information about the significance of intestinal bacteria for the digestion of food. Therefore, a simple and effective method for direct counts of 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) stained bacteria from the gastrointestinal tract of arthropods was developed. The intestinal bacteria could be released from the gut wall by ultrasonic treatment in the presence of sodium tetrapyrophosphate (PPi). The bacterial counts ranged between 0.2 and
27770577|The phylogenetic diversity and axial distribution of microorganisms in three sections of the gastrointestinal tracts of the polychaete Neanthes glandicincta was evaluated using both most probable number method and cloning analyses of 16S rRNA genes in this study. Quantification of the density of microorganisms in the gut showed that aerobic microorganisms decreased from anterior to posterior, while anaerobic ones showed a reverse trend. The total numbers of microorganisms decreased significantly (p&lt;0.05, analysis of variance) but more rapidly from the anterior to the middle segment. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the dominating phylogenetic groups included Methanomicrobiales I: Methanosaetaceae (up to 66% of archaeal clones), -Proteobacteria (up to 42% of bacterial clones), and -Proteobacteria (up to 30% of bacterial clones) widely distributed throughout the entire gut. Other microbiota distributed in different gut sections were Methanomicrobiales II: Methanospirillaceae, Methanomicrobiales III, Thermoplasmatales, Crenarchaea, Methanobacteriaceae, and Methanosarcinales for archaea; and -Proteobacteria, -Proteobacteria, Fusobacteria, Clostridia, Chloroflexi, and Planctomycetes for bacteria. The results reveal a difference in microbial community structure along the gut of N. glandicincta. The various phylogenetic diversity and axial distribution of microbes along the gut might indicate an environmental gradient from anterior to posterior sections affecting the structure of the microbial community.
41489102|Marine environment habitats, such as the coral mucus layer, are abundant in nutrients and rich with diverse populations of microorganisms. Since interactions among microorganisms found in coral mucus can be either mutualistic or competitive, understanding quorum sensing-based acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) language may shed light on the interaction between coral-associated microbial communities in the native host. More than 100 bacterial isolates obtained from different coral species were screened for their ability to produce AHL. When screening the isolated coral bacteria for AHL induction activity using the reporter strains Escherichia coli K802NR-pSB1075 and Agrobacterium tumefaciens KYC55, we found that approximately 30% of the isolates tested positive. Thin layer chromatography separation of supernatant extracts revealed different AHL profiles, with detection of at least one active compound in the supernatant of those bacterial extracts being able to induce AHL activity in the two different bioreporter strains. The active extract of bacterial isolate 3AT 1-10-4 was subjected to further analysis by preparative thin layer chromato graphy and liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. One of the compounds was found to correspond with sequencing of the isolates with positive AHL activity affiliated them with the Vibrio genus. Understanding the ecological role of AHL in the coral environment and its regulatory circuits in the coral holobiont-associated microbial community will further expand our knowledge of such interactions.
4251177| Microcosms containing intact soil-cores are a potential biotechnology risk assessment tool for assessing the ecological effects of genetically engineered microorganisms before they are released to the field; however, microcosms must first be calibrated to ensure that they adequately simulate key field parameters. Soil-core microcosms were compared with the field in terms of ecological response to the introduction of a large inoculum of a rifampicin-resistant rhizobacterium, Pseudomonas sp. RC1. RC1 was inoculated into intact soil-core microcosms incubated in the laboratory at ambient temperature (22C) and in a growth chamber with temperature fluctuations that mimicked average field values, as well as into field lysimeters and plots. The effect of the introduced bacterium on ecosystem structure, including wheat rhizoplane populations of total and fluorescent pseudomonads, total heterotrophic bacteria, and the diversity of total heterotrophic bacteria, was determined. Fluorescent pseudomonads were present on the rhizoplane in significantly lower numbers in soil inoculated with RC1, in both microcosms and the field. Conditions for microbial growth appeared to be most favorable in the growth chamber microcosm, as evidenced by higher populations of heterotrophs and a greater species diversity on the rhizoplane at the three-leaf stage of wheat growth. Ecosystem functional parameters, as determined by soil dehydrogenase activity, plant biomass production, and
4251078| The effect of varying salinity on phenanthrene and glutamate mineralization was examined in sediments along a natural salinity gradient in an urban tidal river. Mineralization was measured by trapping
4251805|Toluene uptake by a benthic biofilm community was previously shown to vary seasonally from 0.03 m hr
4250537|Montmorillonitic clay influences the biological control of Escherichia coli in aquatic systems, the magnitude of the effects being dependent on the state of the clay and the type of host-antagonist interaction. The interaction of Bdellovibrio and E. coli was partially inhibited by the presence of montmorillonite. Because it is highly motile, Bdellovibrio apparently could penetrate any colloidal clay barrier around E. coli if the clay envelope was thin enough. Colloidal clay had little effect on predation of E. coli by the myxobacterium Polyangium, and had no effect on the activity of the amoeba Vexillifera. Crude clay, on the other hand, resulted in a physical separation of predator and prey, and this completely inhibited the E. coli-Polyangium interaction and slowed the rate of engulfment of E. coli by Vexillifera. The interference of natural biological control by clays may alter the microbial balance favoring survival of fecal microorganisms and resulting in their accumulation in saline sediments. This could constitute a health hazard if these organisms were released by upwelling of bottom waters or were desorbed in estuarine systems by dilution during heavy rains.
41489089|Fungi of the Phialocephala fortinii sensu lato-Acephala applanata species complex (PAC) are ubiquitous endophytic colonizers of tree roots in which they form genotypically diverse communities. Measurement of the colonization density of each of the fungal colonizers is a prerequisite to study the ecology of these communities. Up to now, there is no method readily available for the quantification of PAC strains co-colonizing the same root. The new DNA quantification method presented here is based on the amplification of microsatellites by competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The method proved to be suitable to detect and quantify at least two strains within one single sample by the addition of a known amount of mycelium of a reference strain before DNA extraction. The method exploits the correlation between the reference/target ratio of light emitted during microsatellite detection (peak ratio) and the reference/target ratio of mycelial weights to determine the biomass of the target strain. Hence, calibration curves were obtained by linear regression of the peak ratios on the weight ratios for different mixtures of reference and target strains. The slopes of the calibration curves and the coefficients of determination were close to 1, indicating that peak ratios are good predictors of weight ratios. Estimates of fungal biomass in mycelial test mixtures of known composition laid within the 95% prediction interval and deviated on average by 16% (maximally 50%) from the true biomass. On average, 3-6% of the root biomass of Norway spruce seedlings consisted of mycelial biomass of either one of two inoculated PAC strains. Biomass estimates obtained by real-time quantitative PCR were correlated with the estimates obtained by the microsatellite-based method, but variation between the two estimates from the same root was high in some samples. The microsatellite-based DNA quantification method described here is currently the best method for strainwise estimation of endophytic biomass of PAC fungi in small root samples.
4251134| During routine [
4251661|This paper reports the changes over time in the microfungal communities that inhabit three rodent species' food stores at two climatically different locations. Results reveal that microfungal diversity values calculated from above-ground food stores are highest in the more commonly disturbed portions of the rodent dens. Interactions among food-inhabiting microbes and between the rodents and food-inhabiting microbes also appear to influence the microfungal communities within the rodent dens. For example, our data suggest that transport by animal vectors, and not by air currents, is more effective at dispersing microbial propagules. Furthermore, although fungal communities inhabiting food stores within dens varied in composition and diversity over time, standardized substrates (sorghum seeds) simultaneously placed within the food stores converged in microfungal composition the longer they were left within the dens. We hypothesize that animal vectors, including rodents, make neighboring fungal communities more alike by introducing similar communities of microbes, which in turn initiate a cascade of biological interactions that, over time, result in similar microfungal communities inhabiting newly stored food items.
4251055|Time series of a population of fecal coliforms and a community of total viable counts were recorded during years 5 and 6 after the "birth" of an eutrophic aquatic ecosystem (sewage treatment lagoons). These time series were used to re-examine models, previously published, describing their temporal dynamics as well as the relationships between bacterial and environmental variables. The dynamics of the fecal coliforms and their relationships to the environment were unchanged; the fecal coliform abundances displayed an annual cycle with maximum reduction in numbers during the summer, which would be due at least partly to environmental variables (hypotheses of control by irradiance and pH, which have a seasonal behavior, are supported by the data). On the contrary, the total viable count dynamics moved towards a closer dependence on phytoplankton, from a situation of relative independence with respect to other biotic components of the ecosystem. Indeed during the first two years, only one of the abiotic variables in the model (the biological oxygen demand, which is an indicator of available organic matter) seemed to have an effect on the total viable counts. The behavior of these bacterial groups, measured during 1980-1982 and 1984-1986, shows that demographic and ecological laws founded on the observation of other organisms also apply to heterotrophic bacteria. A population, such as the fecal coliforms in the present study, has a limited ecological amplitude and is then more likely to react to environmental variables such as irradiance, pH, and phytoplanktonic metabolic products, whose bactericidal action is highest during the summer months and lowest during winter. On the other hand, a community such as that detected by the total viable counts of the present study is composed of many species and thus has a larger ecological amplitude. This makes it easier for the species to occupy the various available habitats and to maintain themselves through ecological succession and endogenous rhythms.
4251348|The distribution of alginate genes encoding biosynthesis of alginate was examined for bacterial isolates associated with corrosive biofilms recovered from source water, cooling lines, and reactor surfaces of a nuclear power plant. A total of 120 diverse Gram-positive and -negative isolates were obtained. Using DNA:DNA hybridization, 11 isolates were shown to contain sequences homologous to structural (algD, algG, alg-76) and/or regulatory (albB) alginate biosynthetic genes derived from an alginate-producing cystic fibrosis isolate of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (FRD1). Identification of isolates was accomplished by fatty acids methyl esters (FAME) analysis and the Biolog identification system. Nine of the twelve isolates were identified as various Pseudomonas spp., and two additional Gram-negative isolates were tentatively identified as Aeromonas veronii and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia. The remaining isolate was identified as a Gram-positive Bacillus pumilus. The results of the investigation extend current knowledge on the distribution of alginate biosynthetic genes in environmental isolates and permits the development of a more environmentally realistic model system to investigate the role of exopolymer production in biofilm formation and biocorrosion processes.
27770613|Although interest in the relationship between birds and microorganisms is increasing, few studies have compared nest microbial assemblages in wild passerines to determine variation within and between species. Culturing microorganisms from blue tit (Cyanistes caeruleus) and great tit (Parus major) nests from the same study site demonstrated diverse microbial communities with 32 bacterial and 13 fungal species being isolated. Dominant bacteria were Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas putida, and Staphylococcus hyicus. Also common in the nests were the keratinolytic bacteria Pseudomonas stutzeri and Bacillus subtilis. Dominant fungi were Cladosporium herbarum and Epicoccum purpurascens. Aspergillus flavous, Microsporum gallinae, and Candida albicans (causative agents of avian aspergillosis, favus, and candidiasis, respectively) were present in 30%, 25%, and 10% of nests, respectively. Although there were no differences in nest mass or materials, bacterial (but not fungal) loads were significantly higher in blue tit nests. Microbial species also differed interspecifically. As regards potential pathogens, the prevalence of Enterobacter cloacae was higher in blue tit nests, while Pseudomonas aeruginosapresent in 30% of blue tit nestswas absent from great tit nests. The allergenic fungus Cladosporium cladosporioides was both more prevalent and abundant in great tit nests. Using discriminant function analysis (DFA), nests were classified to avian species with 100% accuracy using the complete microbial community. Partial DFA models were created using a reduced number of variables and compared using Akaike's information criterion on the basis of model fit and parsimony. The best models classified unknown nests with 72.595% accuracy using a small subset of microbes (n=18), which always included Pseudomonas agarici. This suggests that despite substantial intraspecific variation in nest microflora, there are significant interspecific differencesboth in terms of individual microbes and the overall microbial communityeven when host species are closely related, ecologically similar, sympatric, and construct very similar nests.
25153420|Bacterial communities associated with seagrass bed sediments are not well studied. The work presented here investigated several factors and their impact on bacterial community diversity, including the presence or absence of vegetation, depth into sediment, and season. Double-gradient denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DG-DGGE) was used to generate banding patterns from the amplification products of 16S rRNA genes in 1-cm sediment depth fractions. Bioinformatics software and other statistical analyses were used to generate similarity scores between sections. Jackknife analyses of these similarity coefficients were used to group banding patterns by depth into sediment, presence or absence of vegetation, and by season. The effects of season and vegetation were strong and consistent, leading to correct grouping of banding patterns. The effects of depth were not consistent enough to correctly group banding patterns using this technique. While it is not argued that bacterial communities in sediment are not argued that bacterial communities in sediment are not influenced by depth in sediment, this study suggests that the differences are too fine and inconsistent to be resolved using 1-cm depth fractions and DG-DGGE. The effects of vegetation and season on bacterial communities in sediment were more consistent than the effects of depth in sediment, suggesting they exert stronger controls on microbial community structure.
25256219|Despite its long history, biogeography has received relatively little attention within the field of microbial ecology. Consequently, a fierce debate rages whether protists inhabit restricted geographic areas (endemism hypothesis) or are globally dispersed (ubiquitous dispersal hypothesis). The data presented in this article support the endemism hypothesis. We succeeded in isolating an oligohymenophorean ciliate from a microbial mat in a meromictic anoxic alpine lake (Alatsee) in Germany. The ciliary pattern and the morphometry of this isolate are remarkably similar to Urocentrum turbo (Mueller, 1786) Nitzsch, 1827. However, the organism does not possess trichocysts, a conspicuous and characteristic feature of U. turbo. Instead, the U. turbo-like isolate from lake Alatsee displays merely trichocyst anlagen ("ghosts") in the cytoplasm that are only visible after protargol impregnation and which become never attached to the cell's cortex. Despite the distinctness of this difference, such a morphospecies has not been described from any other environment. Thus, we suggest that the U. turbo-like isolate from lake Alatsee is a local endemic ecotype, although the sequences of the 18S rRNA, ITS1, 5.8S rRNA, and ITS2 genes are nearly identical to those of U. turbo (Mueller, 1786) Nitzsch, 1827. This indicates that neither 18S rDNA nor ITS1, ITS2, and 5.8S rDNA sequences are reliable means to conclusively resolve different morphospecies or ecotypes of ciliates. As a consequence, we argue that protist species richness can only be reliably accounted for by considering both molecular and morphological data.
40926453|Siboglinid tubeworms in cold seep sediments can locally modify the geochemical gradients of electron acceptors and donors, hence creating potential microhabitats for prokaryotic populations. The archaeal communities associated with sediments populated by Oligobrachia haakonmosbiensis and Sclerolinum contortum Siboglinid tubeworms in the Storegga Slide were examined in this study. Vertical distribution of archaeal communities was investigated using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis based on 16S rRNA genes. The active fraction of the archaeal community was assessed by using reverse-transcribed rRNA. Archaeal communities associated with sediments colonized by tubeworms were affiliated with uncultivated archaeal lineages of the Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota. The composition of the active archaeal populations changed with depth indicating a reorganization of microbial communities. 16S rRNA gene libraries were dominated by sequences affiliated to the Rice Cluster V which are unusual in marine sediment samples. Moreover, this study provides the first evidence of living Crenarchaeota of the Rice Cluster V in cold seep sediments. Furthermore, the Storegga Slide sediments harbored a high diversity of other minor groups of uncultivated lineages including Terrestrial Miscellaneous Euryarchaeotal Group, Marine Benthic Group (MBG)-D, MBG-E, Deep-Sea Hydrothermal Vent Euryarchaeotal Group, Lake Dagow Sediment, Val Kotinen Lake clade III, and Sippenauer Moor 1. Thus, we hypothesize that the vertical geochemical imprint created by the tubeworms could support broad active archaeal populations in the Siboglinidae-populated Storegga Slide sediments.
40343380|Rumen methanogens in sheep from Venezuela were examined using 16S rRNA gene libraries and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) profiles prepared from pooled and individual PCR products from the rumen contents from 10 animals. A total of 104 clones were examined, revealing 14 different 16S rRNA gene sequences or phylotypes. Of the 14 phylotypes, 13 (99 of 104 clones) belonged to the genus Methanobrevibacter, indicating that the genus Methanobrevibacter is the most dominant component of methanogen populations in sheep in Venezuela. The largest group of clones (41 clones) was 97.9-98.5% similar to Methanobrevibacter gottschalkii. Two sequences were identified as possible new species, one belonging to the genus Methanobrevibacter and the other belonging to the genus Methanobacterium. DGGE analysis of the rumen contents from individual animals also revealed 14 different bands with a range of 49 bands per animal.
25153223| Sulfate reduction is the most important process involved in the mineralization of carbon in the anoxic bottom waters of Mono Lake, an alkaline, hypersaline, meromictic Lake in California. Another important biogeochemical process in Mono Lake is thought to be sulfate-dependent methane oxidation (SDMO). However little is known about what types of organisms are involved in these processes in Mono Lake. Therefore, the sulfate-reducing and archaeal microbial community in Mono Lake was analyzed by targeting 16S rRNA, methyl-coenzyme M reductase (mcrA), adenosine-5-phosphosulfate (apsA), and dissimilatory sulfite reductase (dsrAB) genes to investigate the sulfate-reducing and archaeal community with depth. Most of the 16S rRNA gene sequences retrieved from the samples fell into the -subdivision of the Proteobacteria. Phylogenetic analyses suggested that the clones obtained represented sulfate-reducing bacteria, which are probably involved in the mineralization of carbon in Mono Lake, many of them belonging to a novel line of descent in the -Proteobacteria. Only 6% of the sequences retrieved from the samples affiliated to the domain Euryarchaeota but did not represent Archaea, which is considered to be responsible for SDMO [Orphan et al. 2001: Appl Environ Microbiol 67:1922-1934; Teske et al.: Appl Environ Microbiol 68:1994-2007]. On the basis of our results and thermodynamic arguments, we proposed that SDMO in hypersaline environments is presumably carried out by SRB alone. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifications of the mcrA-, apsA-, and dsrAB genes in Mono Lake samples were, in most cases, not successful. Only the PCR amplification of the apsA gene was partially successful. The amplification of these functional genes was not successful because there was either insufficient "target" DNA in the samples, or the microorganisms in Mono Lake have divergent functional genes. 
41693750|Changes in agricultural land-use of saltmarshes along the German North Sea coast have favoured the succession of the marsh grass Elytrigia atherica over the long-established Spartina anglica. Consequently, E. atherica represents a potential food source of increasing importance for plant-feeding soil detritivores. Considering the importance of this ecological guild for decomposition processes and nutrient cycling, we focussed on two sympatric saltmarsh soil macrodetritivores and their associated gut microbiota to investigate how the digestive processes of these species may be affected by changing plant food sources. Using genetic fingerprints of partial 16S rRNA gene sequences, we analysed composition and diversity of the bacterial gut community in a diplopod and an amphipod crustacean in relation to different feeding regimes representing the natural vegetation changes. Effects of syntopy on the host-specific gut microbiota were also taken into account by feeding the two detritivore species either independently or on the same plant sample. Bacterial community composition was influenced by both the host species and the available plant food sources, but the latter had a stronger effect on microbial community structure. Furthermore, bacterial diversity was highest after feeding on a mixture of both plant species, regardless of the host species. The gut microbiota of these two detritivores can thus be expected to change along with the on-going succession at the plant community level in this environment. Cloning and sequencing of bacterial 16S rRNA gene fragments further indicated a host-related effect since the two detritivores differed in terms of predominant bacterial taxa: diplopods harboured mainly representatives of the phyla Bacteroidetes and Gammaproteobacteria. In contrast, the genus Vibrio was found for the amphipod host across all feeding conditions.
4250645| A significant number of viable colony-forming bacteria were recovered from deep-ocean bottom water samples passed through a 0.45 m filter. However, these bacteria small enough to pass through a 0.45 m membrane filter and termed "filterable bacteria" were less abundant in open-ocean surface water and coastal water samples. The reduced size of bacterial cells present in deep-ocean bottom water samples was documented by scanning electron microscopy. The concentration of ATP in the water samples was found to be correlated with results of direct counts of bacteria. Numerical taxonomy of bacterial strains isolated from water samples collected at two stations in the deep sea yielded taxonomic clusters grouped according to sample and size fraction. The generic composition of bacterial populations of bottom water filtrates was compared with that of bacteria retained by 0.45  m filters. Strains of Alcaligenes, Flavobacterium, Pseudomonas, and Vibrio spp. were identified among those retained by, as well as passing through, 0.45 m filters. Two marine isolates obtained from the filtrate of a deep-ocean water sample were incubated for 9 weeks in nutrient-free artificial seawater, during which the cells became rounded and reduced in size. After the 9-week incubation period, more than 10% of the viable cells of both cultures were able to pass through a 0.4 m filter. The viable count at 9 weeks was ca. 10% of that of the initial population, although from direct counts the total population number remained relatively constant throughout the incubation period. From the observed reduction in cell size and increased starvation resistance of cells held under low nutrient conditions, it is concluded that a significant relationship exists between decreased cell size and increased survival of marine bacteria in the deep sea. 
4250678|Potamogeton crispus L. grows as a winter producing annual in the shallow lakes of the Pongolo Floodplain, South Africa. Colonization of leaves by algal and bacterial epiphytes, as seen by scanning electron microscopy, followed the established pattern of increasing diversity and density with leaf age. It was apparent from the micrographs that the primary and subsequent colonizers were present even after death of the host leaf. Cross sections of leaves, viewed by transmission electron microscopy, illustrated that bacterial attachment did not damage the surface of young leaves. There was, however, extensive inward swelling and disorganization of the epidermal walls, characteristic of a reaction to invasion by pathogens. In older leaves the swelling was also present in mesophyll cells, while bacteria had invaded and degraded the epidermal cell wall. The bacterial invasion was concomitant with signs of senescence, and in dead leaves the organisms had penetrated and degraded the epidermis and mesophyll cell walls. The epiphyton/host relationship may therefore be considered necrotrophic with important consequences for the transfer of energy from producers to consumers during decomposition.
4251792|We studied the correlation between physicochemical and biological characteristics of an acidic river, the Tinto River, in Southwestern Spain. The Tinto River is an extreme environment characterized by its low pH (mean of 2.2) and high concentrations of heavy metals (Fe 2.3 g/L, Zn 0.22 g/L, Cu 0.11 g/L). These extreme conditions are the product of the metabolic activity of chemolithotrophic microorganisms, including iron- and sulfur-oxidizing bacteria, that can be found in high concentrations in its waters. The food chain in the river is very constrained and exclusively microbial. Primary productivity in the Tinto river is the sum of photosynthetic and chemolithotrophic activity. Heterotrophic bacteria and fungi are the major decomposers and protists are the major predators. A correlation analysis including the physicochemical and biological variables suggested a close relationship between the acidic pH values and abundance of both chemolithotrophic bacteria and filamentous fungi. Chemolithotrophic bacteria correlated with the heavy metals found in the river. A principal component analysis of the biotic and abiotic variables suggested that the Tinto River ecosystem can be described as a function of three main groups of variables: pH values, metal concentrations, and biological productivity.
4251829|Mercury pollution presents a globally significant threat to human and ecosystem health. An important transformation in the mercury cycle is the conversion of inorganic mercury to methylmercury, a toxic substance that negatively affects neurological function and bioaccumulates in food chains. This transformation is primarily bacterially mediated, and sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) have been specifically implicated as key mercury methylators in lake and estuarine sediments. This study used phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis to investigate sediment microbial community composition at four abandoned mercury mine-impacted sites in the California Coast Range: the Abbott, Reed, Sulphur Bank, and Mt. Diablo mines. Differences in watershed and hydrology among these sites were related to differences in microbial community composition. The Abbott and Sulphur Bank mines had the highest levels of methylmercury. Floc (a type of precipitate that forms when acid mine drainage contacts lake or river water) and sediment samples differed in terms of several important environmental variables and microbial community composition, but did not have statistically different methylmercury concentrations. Quantification of PLFA biomarkers for SRB (10Mel6:0 for Desulfobacter and il7:1 for Desulfovibrio) revealed that Desulfobacter and Desulfovibrio organisms made up higher percentages of overall microbial biomass at the Sulphur Bank and Mt. Diablo mines than at the Abbott and Reed mines. Correlations between these SRB biomarker fatty acids and methylmercury concentrations suggest that Desulfobacter and Desulfovibrio organisms may contribute to methylmercury production in the Abbott, Reed, and Sulphur Bank mines but may not be important contributors to methylmercury in the Mt. Diablo Mine.
23469182|Wells used for drinking water often have a large biomass and a high bacterial diversity. Current technologies are not always able to reduce the bacterial population, and the threat of pathogen proliferation in drinking water sources is omnipresent. The environmental conditions that shape the microbial communities in drinking water sources have to be elucidated, so that pathogen proliferation can be foreseen. In this work, the bacterial community in nine water wells of a groundwater aquifer in Northern Mexico were characterized and correlated to environmental characteristics that might control them. Although a large variation was observed between the water samples, temperature and iron concentration were the characteristics that affected the bacterial community structure and composition in groundwater wells. Small increases in the concentration of iron in water modified the bacterial communities and promoted the growth of the ironoxidizing bacteria Acidovorax. The abundance of the genera Flavobacterium and Duganella was correlated positively with temperature and the Acidobacteria Gp4 and Gp1, and the genus Acidovorax with iron concentrations in the well water. Large percentages of Flavobacterium and Pseudomonas bacteria were found, and this is of special concern as bacteria belonging to both genera are often biofilm developers, where pathogens survival increases.
25153122| Bacterial populations association with phytoplankton cultures used as food for bivalve larvae were enumerated and identified from their partial 16S rDNA gene sequences. Microalgae were provided from different European hatcheries during the larval production season. Average concentration (direct counts) of bacteria ranged from 1.3  10 to 5.3  10 mL while culturable bacteria represented from 10% to &gt;60% of total bacteria. In most cases, three to six representatives of each type of colony were collected on solid medium. The identity of isolates from the same colony type was checked by two different randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) typing methods, after which the 16S rDNA gene of one to three isolates by colony type were partially sequenced. Algae harbored a large spectrum of bacteria belonging to the -Proteobacteria, -Proteobacteria, -Proteobacteria, Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides (CFB) group, Actinobacteria, and Bacillus. Members of the Roseobacter clade and CFB group were the most abundant. In the majority of cases one strain constituted 50% or more of the culturable bacterial flora. About half of the isolates were common to two hatcheries or at least two micro-algal cultures. Several isolates were closely related to bacteria associated with harmful dinoflagellates in culture. Thus, the algal cultures seemed to favor certain bacterial species which belonged to distantly separated groups. As some of them could disturb the development of bivalve larvae, the control of bacterial populations would undoubtedly make it possible to reduce larval losses in bivalve rearing. 
4251133|Genetically engineered Erwinia carotovora persisted significantly longer in thermally perturbed microcosms (35 days) than in nonstressed microcosms (5 days). Decreased pressure of competitors and predators and increased nutrient availability were examined as the most probable reasons for greater vulnerability of perturbed microcosms to colonization by genetically engineered microorganisms (GEMs). Indigenous bacteria that competed with GEMs for the same nutrient sources (protein, cellulose, pectate) were present immediately after perturbation in densities one to two orders of magnitude lower than in unperturbed microcosms, but their populations increased to densities significantly higher than in unperturbed microcosms 10 to 15 days after inoculation. Predators of bacteria (protozoans, cladocerans, nematodes, and rotifers) were present during the experiment in unperturbed microcosms, while dense populations of bacteriovorous nanoflagellates developed in perturbed microcosms. Preemptive inoculation of perturbed microcosms with GEMs did not have a long-lasting effect on the recovery of total, proteolytic, cellulolytic, and pectolytic bacteria in perturbed microcosms, indicating the absence of competitive exclusion.
25153200|We studied the effects of predation on the cytometric and phylogenetic features of two enriched bacterial communities obtained from two cultures of marine heterotrophic nanoflagellates: Jakoba libera and a mixed culture of Cafeteria sp. and Monosiga sp. Protists were harvested by flow cytometric cell sorting and eight different treatments were prepared. Each bacterial community was incubated with and without protists, and we added two treatments with protists and the bacteria present after the sorting procedure (cosorted bacteria). The bacterial community derived from the culture of Jakoba libera had higher green fluorescence per cell (FL1) than that derived from the mixed culture of Cafeteria sp. and Monosiga sp. When the experiment began all treatments presented bacterial communities that increase in fluorescence per bacterium (FL1); after that the FL1 decreased when bacteria attained maximal concentrations; and, finally, there was a new increase in FL1 toward the end of the experiment. Cosorted bacteria of Jakoba libera had the same fluorescence as the bacterial community derived from this protist, while the bacteria derived from the mixed culture of Cafeteria sp. and Monosiga sp. was nearly twice as fluorescent than that of the parental community. All treatments presented a general decline of SSC along the incubation. Therefore, there was a small influence of protists on the cytometric signature of each bacterial community. However, each bacterial community preyed by Jakoba libera or the mixed culture of Cafeteria sp. and Monosiga sp. led to four different phylogenetic fingerprint. Besides, the final Communities were different from the fingerprint of controls without protists, and most of them diverge from the fingerprint of cosorted bacteria. Our results confirm that changes in the phylogenetic composition of marine bacterial communities may depend on the initial communities of both bacteria and protists.
4287528| Bacterial community dynamics were followed in a 19-day period during an induced diatom bloom in two freshwater mesocosms. The main goal was to compare diversity and succession among free-living (<10 m) and particle-associated (>10 m) bacteria. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of PCR amplified 16S rDNA showed the highest number of bands among free-living bacteria, but with a significant phylogenetic overlap in the two size fractions indicating that free-living bacteria were also important members of the particle-associated bacterial assemblage. Whereas the number of bands in the free-living fraction decreased during the course of the bloom, several phylotypes unique to particles appeared towards the end of the experiment. Besides the primer set targeting Bacteria, a primer set targeting most members of the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium (CF)-cluster of the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides group and a primer set mainly targeting -Proteobacteria were applied. PCR-DGGE analyses revealed that a number of phylotypes targeted by those primer sets were found solely on particles. Almost all sequenced bands from the bacterial DGGE gel were related to phylogenetic groups commonly found in freshwater: -Proteobacteria, CF, and Firmicutes. Despite the use of primers intended to be specific mainly for -Proteobacteria most bands sequenced from the -proteobacterial DGGE gel formed a cluster within the Verrucomicrobiales subdivision of the Verrucomicrobia division and were not related to -Proteobacteria. Bands sequenced from the CF DGGE gel were related to members of the CF cluster. From the present study, we suggest that free-living and particle-associated bacterial communities should not be perceived as separate entities, but rather as interacting assemblages, where the extent of phylogenetic overlap is dependent on the nature of the particulate matter. 
40605867|Gaseous conditions at natural CO springs (mofettes) affect many processes in these unique ecosystems. While the response of plants to extreme and fluctuating CO concentrations ([CO]) is relatively well documented, little is known on microbial life in mofette soil. Therefore, it was the aim of this study to investigate the abundance and diversity of CO-flxing bacteria in grassland soils in different distances to a natural carbon dioxide spring. Samples of the same soil type were collected from the Staveinci mofette, a natural CO spring which is known for very pure CO emissions, at different distances from the CO releasing vents, at locations that clearly differed in soil CO efflux (from 12.5 to over 200 mol CO ms yearly average). Bulk and rhizospheric soil samples were included into analyses. The microbial response was followed by a molecular analysis of cbbL genes, encoding for the large subunit of RubisCO, a carboxylase which is of crucial importance for C assimilation in chemolitoautotrophic microbes. In all samples analyzed, the "red-like" type of cbbL genes could be detected. In contrast, the "green-like" type of cbbL could not be measured by the applied technique. Surprisingly, a reduction of "red-like" cbbL genes copies was observed in bulk soil and rhizosphere samples from the sites with the highest CO concentrations. Furthermore, the diversity pattern of "red-like" cbbL genes changed depending on the CO regime. This indicates that only a part of the autotrophic CO-fixing microbes could adapt to the very high CO concentrations and adverse life conditions that are governed by mofette gaseous regime.
25153378|The main objective of this study was to determine the Burkholderia community structure associated with areas under different agricultural management and to evaluate to which extent this community structure is affected by changes in agricultural management. Two fields with distinct soil history (arable land and permanent grassland) were exposed to three agricultural management regimes (crop rotation, maize monoculture, and grassland). By using a culture-independent approach, based on a Burkholderia-specific polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis system, it was possible to observe the conversion of Burkholderia communities typical for permanent grassland to those of arable land after four consecutive years. However, the time needed to achieve the reverse transition, i.e., converting the Burkholderia community associated with arable land to that of grassland, was beyond the duration of the field experiment. In addition, by applying principal response curves, the direction and extent of the conversion from grassland to arable land (maize monoculture and to crop rotation) were determined. Hence, the results suggested that agricultural practices, such as fertilization and tillage, were more effective in changing the Burkholderia community structure than agricultural management regime. To determine the effect of agricultural management on the Burkholderia population with biocontrol abilities, the culturable fraction of the Burkholderia community was assessed. The areas under permanent grassland and grassland converted to maize monoculture had the highest percentages of Burkholderia strains with antagonistic activity against Rhizoctonia solani AG-3, mainly Burkholderia pyrrocinia and Burkholderia sp. LMG 22929. The isolation frequency of antagonistic isolates from arable land was extremely low. Our results indicate that (changes in) agricultural management, mainly crop rotation, affect the frequency of isolation of antagonistic Burkholderia strains and that grassland represents a reservoir of Burkholderia species with great potential for agricultural applications.
27770572|Global and regional climate models predict higher air temperature and less frequent, but larger precipitation events in arid regions within the next century. While many studies have addressed the impact of variable climate in arid ecosystems on plant growth and physiological responses, fewer studies have addressed soil microbial community responses to seasonal shifts in precipitation and temperature in arid ecosystems. This study examined the impact of a wet (2004), average (2005), and dry (2006) year on subsequent responses of soil microbial community structure, function, and linkages, as well as soil edaphic and nutrient characteristics in a mid-elevation desert grassland in the Chihuahuan Desert. Microbial community structure was classified as bacterial (Gram-negative, Gram-positive, and actinomycetes) and fungal (saprophytic fungi and arbuscular mycorrhiza) categories using (fatty acid methyl ester) techniques. Carbon substrate use and enzymic activity was used to characterize microbial community function annually and seasonally (summer and winter). The relationship between saprophytic fungal community structure and function remained consistent across season independent of the magnitude or frequency of precipitation within any given year. Carbon utilization by fungi in the cooler winter exceeded use in the warmer summer each year suggesting that soil temperature, rather than soil moisture, strongly influenced fungal carbon use and structure and function dynamics. The structure/function relationship for AM fungi and soil bacteria notably changed across season. Moreover, the abundance of Gram-positive bacteria was lower in the winter compared to Gram-negative bacteria. Bacterial carbon use, however, was highest in the summer and lower during the winter. Enzyme activities did not respond to either annual or seasonal differences in the magnitude or timing of precipitation. Specific structural components of the soil microbiota community became uncoupled from total microbial function during different seasons. This change in the microbial structure/function relationship suggests that different components of the soil microbial community may provide similar ecosystem function, but differ in response to seasonal temperature and precipitation. As soil microbes encounter increased soil temperatures and altered precipitation amounts and timing that are predicted for this region, the ability of the soil microbial community to maintain functional resilience across the year may be reduced in this Chihuahuan Desert ecosystem.
4250958|Estuarine sediment slurries and microorganisms were examined for the ability to methylate inorganic tin. Under controlled redox conditions, tin was methylated only in oxygen-free sediment slurries. Monomethyltin usually comprised greater than 90% of the alkyltin products formed, although dimethyltin was also produced. Autoclaved anoxic sediments did not produce organotins. Several bacterial cultures, most notably sulfate-reducing bacteria isolated from anoxic estuarine sediments, formed mono- and dimethyltin from inorganic tin in the absence of sediment. The results suggest that inorganic tin methylation in estuarine environments is an anaerobic process catalyzed primarily by sulfate-reducing microorganisms.
4251073|In bacteriophage (phage), rapid and efficient intracellular progeny production is of obvious benefit. A short latent period is not. All else being equal, a longer latent period utilizes host cell resources more completely. Using established parameters of phage growth, a simulation of three successive phage lysis cycles is presented. I have found that high, but not low, host cell densities can select for short phage latent periods. This results from phage with short latent periods more rapidly establishing multiple parallel infections at high host cell concentrations, whereas phage with long latent periods are restricted to growth within a single cell over the same period. This implies that phage with short latent periods habitually grow in environments that are rich in host cells.
25153305|Microbial fingerprinting techniques permit the rapid visualization of entire assemblages in single assays, allowing direct comparison of communities in different samples, where the null hypothesis of such analyses is that all samples are the same. The comparison of fingerprints relies upon the precise estimation of all amplified DNA fragment lengths, which correspond to operational taxonomic units (OTU; analogous, but not equal to, a taxon in macroorganism studies). However, computer interpolation of size standards (and consequently OTU size calling) can be imprecise between gel runs, which can lead to imprecise calculation of similarity indices between multiple assemblages. To account for OTU size calling imprecision, all fragments within a range of sizes (a window) can be combined (i.e., "binned") where the window is as wide as the imprecision of OTU size calling. However, artifacts may occur upon binning samples that may cause samples to appear less similar to each other, caused by splitting of OTU between adjacent bin windows. In this work we present an improved binning technique that accounts for OTU size calling imprecision in the comparison of multiple fingerprints. This technique comprises binning all pairwise comparisons in multiple bin window frames, where the starting size of the window (i.e., frame) is shifted by +1 bp for a total of x frames, where x bp is the width of the maximum bin window size in any binning scheme. Pairwise similarity indices between different community fingerprints are calculated for each of the x frames. To best address the null hypothesis of the community comparison, the maximum similarity value of all x frames is then used in downstream analyses to compare the communities. We believe this binning technique provides the most accurate and least biased comparison between different microbial fingerprints.
4250420|Bright refractile granules in bacterial cells are identified as gas vacuoles if they disappear on application of a few atmospheres pressure. This paper describes a simple method for observing individual cells under the light microscope before and after application of pressure and the use of this method in making a comprehensive survey of gas-vacuolate organisms in a sample. In water samples from the hypolimnion of a stratified lake (Arco Lake) in Northern Minnesota, gas vacuoles were found in nearly 30 different bacteria, representing possibly 60% or more of those present. The pressure sensitivity of gas vacuoles in these organisms is illustrated by micrograph pairs. Gas vacuoles, which are otherwise uncommon in bacteria, are evidently of great selective value in the hypolimnia of stratified lakes, perhaps by regulating cell buoyancy.
4250509| The biodegradation of six surface active agents tested. The biochemical characteristics of the aerobic heterotrophic bacteria present in Montpellier waste waters and in Rhne water, before and after degradation, were studied by a standardized microbiological method. Four hundred strains isolated from these populations were compared to 29 reference strains by computer analysis. The reference strains were first grouped in classes (single linkage). Then the strains were compared first to these classes, and then to each reference strain. Whereas the bacterial populations were widely distributed before biodegradation, after degradation they were restricted to a few prevailing genera: Pseudomonas, Alcaligenes, and Klebsiella. 
23469597|The number of reported Vibrio-related wound infections associated with recreational bathing in Northern Europe has increased within the last decades. In order to study the health risk from potentially pathogenic Vibrio spp. in the central Wadden Sea, the seasonal and spatial distribution of Vibrio vulnificus, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, Vibrio alginolyticus and Vibrio cholerae were investigated at ten recreational beaches in this area over a 2-year period. V. alginolyticus and V. parahaemolyticus were found to be omnipresent all year round in the study area, while V. vulnificus occurrence was restricted to summer months in the estuaries of the rivers Ems and Weser. Multiple linear regression models revealed that water temperature is the most important determinant of Vibrio spp. occurrence in the area. Differentiated regression models showed a species-specific response to water temperature and revealed a particularly strong effect of even minor temperature increases on the probability of detecting V. vulnificus in summer. In sediments, Vibrio spp. concentrations were up to three orders of magnitude higher than in water. Also, V. alginolyticus and V. parahaemolyticus were found to be less susceptible towards winter temperatures in the benthic environment than in the water, indicating an important role of sediments for Vibrio ecology. While only a very small percentage of tested V. parahaemolyticus proved to be potentially pathogenic, the presence of V. vulnificus during the summer months should be regarded with care.
4250528|Anabaena species are commonly colonized by bacteria, especially during N
23469596|Reports of Staphylococcus aureus including methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) detected in marine environments have occurred since the early 1990s. This investigation sought to isolate and characterize S. aureus from marine waters and sand at a subtropical recreational beach, with and without bathers present, in order to investigate possible sources and to identify the risks to bathers of exposure to these organisms. During 40 days over 17 months, 1,001 water and 36 intertidal sand samples were collected by either bathers or investigators at a subtropical recreational beach. Methicillin-sensitive S. aureus (MSSA) and MRSA were isolated and identified using selective growth media and an organism-specific molecular marker. Antimicrobial susceptibility, staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec) type, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) pattern, multi-locus sequence type (MLST), and staphylococcal protein A (spa) type were characterized for all MRSA. S. aureus was isolated from 248 (37 %) bather nearby water samples at a concentration range of <2780 colony forming units per ml, 102 (31 %) ambient water samples at a concentration range of <2260 colony forming units per ml, and 9 (25 %) sand samples. Within the sand environment, S. aureus was isolated more often from above the intertidal zone than from intermittently wet or inundated sand. A total of 1334 MSSA were isolated from 37 sampling days and 22 MRSA were isolated from ten sampling days. Seventeen of the 22 MRSA were identified by PFGE as the community-associated MRSA USA300. MRSA isolates were all SCCmec type IVa, encompassed five spa types (t008, t064, t622, t688, and t723), two MLST types (ST8 and ST5), and 21 of 22 isolates carried the genes for PantonValetine leukocidin. There was a correlation (r=0.45; p=0.05) between the daily average number of bathers and S. aureus in the water; however, no association between exposure to S. aureus in these waters and reported illness was found. This report supports the concept that humans are a potential direct source for S. aureus in marine waters.
23597828|Pseudopterogorgia elisabethae is a common inhabitant of Caribbean reefs and is a well-known source of diterpenes with diverse biological activities. Notably, this octocoral is the sole source of the pseudopterosin family of anti-inflammatory diterpenes and is harvested to supply commercial demand for these metabolites. We have characterized the composition of the bacterial community associated with P. elisabethae collected from Providencia Island, Colombia, using both culture-dependent and culture-independent approaches. Culture-independent analysis revealed that the bacterial communities were composed of eight phyla, of which Proteobacteria was the most abundant. At the class level, bacterial communities were dominated by Gammaproteobacteria (8287 %). Additionally, operational taxonomic units related to Pseudomonas and Endozoicomonas species were the most abundant phylotypes consistently associated with P. elisabethae colonies. Culture-dependent analysis resulted in the identification of 40 distinct bacteria classified as Bacilli (15), Actinobacteria (12), Gammaproteobacteria (9), Alphaproteobacteria (3), and Betaproteobacteria (1). Only one of the 40 cultured bacteria was closely related to a dominant phylotype detected in the culture-independent study, suggesting that conventional culturing techniques failed to culture the majority of octocoral-associated bacterial diversity. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first characterization of the bacterial diversity associated with P. elisabethae.
25153268|The regional variability of sediment bacterial community composition and diversity was studied by comparative analysis of four large 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) clone libraries from sediments in different regions of the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (Thermaikos Gulf, Cretan Sea, and South lonian Sea). Amplified rDNA restriction analysis of 664 clones from the libraries indicate that the rDNA richness and evenness was high: for example, a near-1:1 relationship among screened clones and number of unique restriction patterns when up to 190 clones were screened for each library. Phylogenetic analysis of 207 bacterial 16S rDNA sequences from the sediment libraries demonstrated that Gamma-, Delta-, and Alphaproteobacteria, Holophaga/Acidobacteria, Planctomycetales, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Verrucomicrobia were represented in all four libraries. A few clones also grouped with the Betaproteobacteria, Nitrospirae, Spirochaetales, Chlamydise, Firmicutes, and candidate division OPl 1. The abundance of sequences affiliated with Gammaproteobacteria was higher in libraries from shallow sediments in the Thermaikos Gulf (30 m) and the Cretan Sea (100 m) compared to the deeper South Ionian station (2790 m). Most sequences in the four sediment libraries clustered with uncultured 16S rDNA phylotypes from marine habitats, and many of the closest matches were clones from hydrocarbon seeps, benzene-mineralizing consortia, sulfate reducers, sulk oxidizers, and ammonia oxidizers. LIBSHUFF statistics of 16S rDNA gene sequences from the four libraries reyealed major differences, indicating either a very high richness in the sediment bacterial communities or considerable variability in bacterial community composition among regions, or both.
40605698|The main goal of this research was to evaluate whether the mixture of fresh labile dissolved organic matter (DOM) and accumulated refractory DOM influences bacterial production, respiration, and growth efficiency (BGE) in aquatic ecosystems. Bacterial batch cultures were set up using DOM leached from aquatic macrophytes as the fresh DOM pool and DOM accumulated from a tropical humic lagoon. Two sets of experiments were performed and bacterial growth was followed in cultures composed of each carbon substrate (first experiment) and by carbon substrates combined (second experiment), with and without the addition of nitrogen and phosphorus. In both experiments, bacterial production, respiration, and BGE were always higher in cultures with N and P additions, indicating a consistent inorganic nutrient limitation. Bacterial production, respiration, and BGE were higher in cultures set up with leachate DOM than in cultures set up with humic DOM, indicating that the quality of the organic matter pool influenced the bacterial growth. Bacterial production and respiration were higher in the mixture of substrates (second experiment) than expected by bacterial production and respiration in single substrate cultures (first experiment). We suggest that the differences in the concentration of some compounds between DOM sources, the co-metabolism on carbon compound decomposition, and the higher diversity of molecules possibly support a greater bacterial diversity which might explain the higher bacterial growth observed. Finally, our results indicate that the mixture of fresh labile and accumulated refractory DOM that naturally occurs in aquatic ecosystems could accelerate the bacterial growth and bacterial DOM removal.
41489191|The distribution and phylogeny of extant proteinencoding genes recovered from geochemically diverse environments can provide insight into the physical and chemical parameters that led to the origin and which constrained the evolution of a functional process. Mercuric reductase (MerA) plays an integral role in mercury (Hg) biogeochemistry by catalyzing the transformation of Hg(II) to Hg(0). Putative merA sequences were amplified from DNA extracts of microbial communities associated with mats and sulfur precipitates from physicochemically diverse Hg-containing springs in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, using four PCR primer sets that were designed to capture the known diversity of merA. The recovery of novel and deeply rooted MerA lineages from these habitats supports previous evidence that indicates merA originated in a thermophilic environment. Generalized linear models indicate that the distribution of putative archaeal merA lineages was constrained by a combination of pH, dissolved organic carbon, dissolved total mercury and sulfide. The models failed to identify statistically well supported trends for the distribution of putative bacterial merA lineages as a function of these or other measured environmental variables, suggesting that these lineages were either influenced by environmental parameters not considered in the present study, or the bacterial primer sets were designed to target too broad of a class of genes which may have responded differently to environmental stimuli. The widespread occurrence omerA in the geothermal environments implies a prominent role for Hg detoxification in these environments. Moreover, the differences in the distribution of the mer A genes amplified with the four merA primer sets suggests that the organisms putatively engaged in this activity have evolved to occupy different ecological niches within the geothermal gradient.
41489791|Two acidic hot springs close to the crater of Copahue Volcano (Neuqun, Argentina) are the source of the Ro Agrio. The river runs several kilometres before flowing into Caviahue Lake. Along the river, temperature, iron, other metal and proton concentrations decrease gradually with distance downstream. From the source to the lake and depending on the season, pH can rise from 1.0 (or even less) to about 4.0, while temperature values decrease from 70C to 15C. Water samples were taken from different stations on the river selected according to their physicochemical parameters. In order to assess prokaryotic biodiversity throughout the water column, different and complementary molecular biology techniques were used, mainly in situ hybridisation and 16S rRNA gene cloning and sequencing. All microorganisms found are typical of acidic environments. Sulphur-oxidizing bacteria like Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans and Acidithiobacillus albertensis were detected in every station. Moderately thermophile iron-and sulphur-oxidizing bacteria like members of Alicyclobacillus and Sulfobacillus genera were also ubiquitous. Strict iron-oxidizing bacteria like Leptospirillum and Ferrimicrobium were present at the source of the river, but disappeared downstream where iron concentrations were much lower. Iron-oxidizing, mesophilic Ferroplasma spp. were the main archaea found. The data presented in this work represent the first molecular assessment of this rare natural acidic environment.
41489090|A waste stabilisation pond (WSP) system formed by two anaerobic ponds, a facultative pond and a maturation pond was studied from December 2003 to September 2004 in north-western Spain in order to evaluate its efficiency in the removal of faecal indicator bacteria (total coliforms, Escherichia coli, faecal streptococci), coliphages, helminth eggs and protozoan (oo) cysts (Cryptosporidium and Giardid). Furthermore, sediment samples were collected from the bottom of the ponds to assess the settling rates and thus determine the main pathogen removal mechanisms in the WSPs system. The overall removal ranged from 1.4 log units for coliphages in the cold period to 5.0 log units for E. coli in the hot period. Cryptosporidium oocysts were reduced by an average of 96%, Giardia cysts by 98% and helminth eggs by 100%. The anaerobic ponds showed significantly higher surface removal rates (4.6, 5.2 and 3.7 log (oo) cysts/eggs removed m day, respectively) than facultative and maturation ponds. Sunlight and water physicochemical conditions were the main factors influencing C. parvum oocysts removal both in the anaerobic and maturation ponds, whereas other factors like prdation or natural mortality were more important in the facultative pond. Sedimentation, the most commonly proposed mechanism for cyst removal had, therefore, a negligible influence in the studied ponds.
4250540|The ciliate Uronema nigricans was found to acquire tolerance to mercury after being fed mercury-laden bacteria followed by exposure of washed suspensions of these ciliates to various concentrations of mercury in solution. Significant differences in percent mortality were observed for ciliates fed mercury-laden bacteria compared with control suspensions fed mercury-free bacteria. The phenomenon of acquired mercury tolerance was demonstrated within a single generation time. Ciliates fed mercury-free bacteria and subsequently exposed to increasing levels of mercury in solution showed an elevated tolerance to concentrations which, on initial testing, resulted in mortality of 83% of the ciliate population. The effect of ingesting mercury-laden bacteria on growth rate of Uronema was examined, and results showed no significant differences in growth rates of both 3- and 14-day-old cultures of protozoa that had been fed mercury-laden and mercury-free bacteria under controlled conditions.
4287761|Little is known about the natural distribution of viruses that infect the photosynthetically important group of marine prokaryotes, the cyanobacteria. The current investigation reveals that the structure of cyanophage communities is dependent on water column structure. PCR was used to amplify a fragment of the cyanomyovirus gene (g) 20, which codes for the portal vertex protein. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of PCR amplified g20 gene fragments was used to examine variations in cyanophage community structure in three inlets in British Columbia, Canada. Qualitative examination of denaturing gradient gels revealed cyanophage community patterns that reflected the physical structure of the water column as indicated by temperature and salinity. Based on mobility of PCR fragments in the DGGE gels, some cyanophages appeared to be widespread, while others were observed only at specific depths. Cyanophage communities within Salmon Inlet were more related to one another than to communities from either Malaspina Inlet or Pendrell Sound. As well, surface communities in Malaspina Inlet and Pendrell Sound were different when compared to communities at depth. In the same two locations, distinct differences in community composition were observed in communities that coincided with depths of high chlorophyll fluorescence. The observed community shifts over small distances (only a few meters in depth or inlets separated by less than 100 km) support the idea that cyanophage communities separated by small spatial scales develop independently of each other as a result isolation by water column stratification or land mass separation, which may ultimately lead to changes in the distribution or composition of the host community.
4251310|Numbers and activities of microorganisms were measured in the vadose zones of three arid and semiarid areas of the western United States, and the influence of water availability was determined. These low-moisture environments have vadose zones that are commonly hundreds of meters thick. The specific sampling locations chosen were on or near U.S. Department of Energy facilities: the Nevada Test Site (NTS), the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL), and the Hanford Site (HS) in southcentral Washington State. Most of the sampling locations were uncontaminated, but geologically representative of nearby locations with storage and/or leakage of waste compounds in the vadose zone. Lithologies of samples included volcanic tuff, basalt, glaciofluvial and fluvial sediments, and paleosols (buried soils). Samples were collected aseptically, either by drilling bore-holes (INEL and HS), or by excavation within tunnels (NTS) and outcrop faces (paleosols near the HS). Total numbers of microorganisms were counted using direct microscopy, and numbers of culturable microorganisms were determined using plate-count methods. Desiccation-tolerant microorganisms were quantified by plate counts performed after 24 h desiccation of the samples. Mineralization of
41489237|Aeromonas punctata is the causative agent of septicemia, diarrhea, wound infections, meningitis, peritonitis, and infections of the joints, bones and eyes. Bacteriophages are often considered alternative agents for controlling bacterial infection and contamination. In this study, we described the isolation and preliminary characterization of bacteriophage IHQ1 (family Myoviridae) active against the Gram-negative bacterial strain A. punctata. This virulent bacteriophage was isolated from stream water sample. Genome analysis indicated that phage IHQ1 was a double-stranded DNA virus with an approximate genome size of 25-28 kb. The initial characterization of this newly isolated phage showed that it has a narrow host range and infects only A. punctata as it failed to infect seven other clinically isolated pathogenic strains, i.e., methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus 6403, MRS A 17644, Acinetobacter 33408, Acinetobacter 1172, Pseudomonas aeruginosa 22250, P. aeruginosa 11219, and Escherichia coli. Proteomic pattern of phage IHQ1, generated by SDS-PAGE using purified phage particles, showed three major and three minor protein bands with molecular weights ranging from 25 to 70 kDa. The adsorption rate of phage IHQ1 to the host bacterium was also determined, which was significantly enhanced by the addition of 10 mM CaCl. From the single-step growth experiment, it was inferred that the latent time period of phage IHQ1 was 24 min and a burst size of 626 phages per cell. Moreover, the pH and thermal stability of phage IHQ1 were also investigated. The maximum stability of the phage was observed at optimal pH 7.0, and it was totally unstable at extreme acidic pH 3; however, it was comparatively stable at alkaline pH 11.0. At 37C the phage showed maximum number of plaques, and the viability was almost 100%. The existence of Aeromonas bacteriophage is very promising for the eradication of this opportunistic pathogen and also for future applications such as the design of new detection and phage typing (diagnosis) methods. The specificity of the bacteriophage for A. punctata makes it an attractive candidate for phage therapy of A. punctata infections.
4251722| The defense strategy of the aquatic bacterium Pseudomonas sp. MWH1 against flagellate grazing was investigated in chemostat and batch experiments. The influence of predation on the Pseudomonas population was studied in the absence and presence of a potential competitor (Vibrio sp. CB5), as well as under starvation conditions and in a situation of unlimited growth. In the competition experiment the two bacterial strains were distinguished by immunofluorescence microscopy. When the Pseudomonas strain was cultured in the absence of the predator Ochromonas sp. DS, only mobile single cells were detectable. Grazing by this bacterivorous flagellate resulted in all experiments in the occurrence of a Pseudomonas subpopulation, which grew as floclike, suspended microcolonies. These microcolonies consisted of up to approximately 1,000 cells and were, because of their large size, protected against flagellate grazing. The microcolony subpopulation dominated the total Pseudomonas population in situations of high grazing pressure at a wide range of bacterial growth conditions. Thus, the formation of the microcolonies is interpreted as a successful grazing-defense strategy, which is effective under several growth conditions, allowing for the survival of the strain even when substrate depletion is combined with strong grazing pressure. Batch culture experiments demonstrated that the change in morphology of Pseudomonas sp. MWH1 is not controlled by growth rate, although no formation of microcolonies was observed after the addition of 0.2-m-filtered flagellate cultures to Pseudomonas cultures, indicating that a chemical trigger released by the flagellate is not involved in the control of this defense mechanism. 
41412441|The development of multispecies oral microbial communities involves complex intra-and interspecies interactions at various levels. The ability to adhere to the resident bacteria or the biofilm matrix and overcome community resistance are among the key factors that determine whether a bacterium can integrate into a community. Fusobacterium nucleatum is a prevalent Gram-negative oral bacterial species that is able to adhere to a variety of oral microbes and has been implicated in playing an important role in the establishment of multispecies oral microbial community. However, the majority of experiments thus far has focused on the physical adherence between two species as measured by in vitro co-aggregation assays, while the communitybased effects on the integration of F. nucleatum into multispecies microbial community remains to be investigated. In this study, we focus on community integration of F nucleatum. We demonstrated using an established in vitro mice oral microbiota (O-mix) that the viability of F nucleatum was significantly reduced upon addition to the O-mix due to cell contact-dependent induction of hydrogen peroxide (HO) production by oral community. Interestingly, this inhibitory effect was significantly alleviated when F nucleatum was allowed to adhere to its known interacting partner species (such as Streptococcus sanguinis) prior to addition. Furthermore, this aggregate formation-dependent protection was absent in the F. nucleatum mutant strain Fnl526 that is unable to bind to a number of Gram-positive species. More importantly, this protective effect was also observed during integration of F nucleatum into a human salivary microbial community (S-mix). These results suggest that by adhering to other oral microbes, F nucleatum is able to mask the surface components that are recognized by HO producing oral community members. This evasion strategy prevents detection by antagonistic oral bacteria and allows integration into the developing oral microbial community.
25153158|Dual-species microbial interactions have been extensively reported for batch and continuous culture environments. However, little research has been performed on dual-species interaction in a biofilm. This research examined the effects of growth rate and substrate concentration on dual-species population densities in batch and biofilm reactors. In addition, the feasibility of using batch reactor kinetics to describe dual-species biofilm interactions was explored. The scope of the research was directed toward creating a dual-species biofilm for the biodegradation of trichloroethylene, but the findings are a significant contribution to the study of dual-species interactions in general. The two bacterial species used were Burkholderia cepacia
4287681| Bacterial growth efficiency (BGE) is an index of organic carbon passing through bacteria in an aquatic system. BGE values of natural bacterioplankton assemblages were measured in tropical estuarine and adjacent coastal waters in Goa along the southwest coast of India. The BGE values for estuarine and coastal waters were 18 (7.84%) and 11 (4.19%), respectively. BGE in these waters were at the lower end of what is usually found in productive systems. This may be due to the high respiration rates. Further, it was observed that grazers also influenced BGE. As BGE was positively correlated with bacterial productivity, the observed variation in BGE was attributed to bacterial productivity. BGE was inversely related to C:N ratio, indicating a close coupling between the nature of the substrates and BGE. Being system-dependent, the variations in BGE at the two locations were dynamic and were regulated by the quality of the substrates. Therefore, a constant value for BGE would lead to error in carbon budgets in these waters. 
23361611|To understand the functioning of sponges, knowledge of the structure of their associated microbial communities is necessary. However, our perception of sponge-associated microbiomes remains mainly restricted to marine ecosystems. Here, we report on the molecular diversity and composition of bacteria in the freshwater sponge Ephydatia fluviatilis inhabiting the artificial lake Vinkeveense Plassen, Utrecht, The Netherlands. Polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) fingerprints revealed that the apparent diversities within the domain Bacteria and the phylum Actinobacteria were lower in E. fluviatilis than in bulk water. Enrichment of specific PCR-DGGE bands in E. fluviatilis was detected. Furthermore, sponge- and bulk water-derived bacterial clone libraries differed with respect to bacterial community composition at the phylum level. E. fluviatilis-derived sequences were affiliated with six recognized phyla, i.e., Proteobacteria, Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chlamydiae and Verrucomicrobia, in order of relative abundance; next to the uncultured candidate phylum TM7 and one deeply rooted bacterial lineage of undefined taxonomy (BLUT). Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, and Bacteroidetes were the dominant bacterial phyla in the freshwater clone library whereas sequences affiliated with Planctomycetes, Verrucomicrobia, Acidobacteria and Armatimonadetes were found at lower frequencies. Fine-tuned phylogenetic inference showed no or negligible overlaps between the E. fluviatilis and water-derived phylotypes within bacterial taxa such as Alphaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria. We also ascertained the status of two alphaproteobacterial lineages as freshwater sponge-specific phylogenetic clusters, and report on high distinctiveness of other E. fluviatilis specific phylotypes, especially within the Bacteroidetes, Planctomycetes and Chlamydia taxa. This study supports the contention that the composition and diversity of bacteria in E. fluviatilis is partially driven by the host organism.
40343341|In microcosm experiments, we simultaneously tested the effects of increased numbers of deposit-feeding macrofauna (chironomids, oligochaetes and cladocerans) on the standing stock, activities and interactions of heterotrophic bacteria, viruses, and bacterivorous protozoa (heterotrophic nanoflagellates and ciliates) in the aerobic layer of a silty littoral freshwater sediment. On average, bacterial secondary production was stimulated between 11 and 29% by all macrofaunal groups compared to control experiments without macrofauna addition. Bacterial standing stock increased significantly by 8 and 13% in case of chironomids and cladocerans, respectively. Oligochaetes and chironomids produced significant negative effects on viral abundance while the results with cladocerans were inconsistent. The addition of oligochaetes and chironomids resulted in a significant decrease by on average 68 and 32% of viral decay rates, respectively, used as a measure of viral production. The calculated contribution of virusinduced lysis to benthic bacterial mortality was low, with 2.8 to 11.8% of bacterial secondary production, and decreased by 39 to 81% after the addition of macrofauna compared to the control. The abundances of heterotrophic nanoflagellates were significantly reduced by 20% by all tested macrofauna groups, while ciliates showed inconsistent results. The importance of heterotrophic nanoflagellate grazing on benthic bacteria was very low (<1% of bacterial secondary production) and was further reduced by elevated numbers of macrofauna. Thus, the selected deposit feeding macrofauna groups seem to have several direct and indirect and partly antagonistic effects on the benthic bacterial compartment through the enhancement of bacterial production and the reduction of virus-induced cell lysis and protozoan grazing.
41489050|Anammox bacteria belonging to the phylum Planctomycetes are responsible for N removal through NH  oxidation coupled with NO reduction. Microbial diversity and ecology of anammox bacteria have not yet been fully revealed due to limitations of 16S rRNA analysis. The hydrazine oxidase gene in cluster 1 (hereafter hzoAl hzoB) was suggested as a proper genetic marker due to its high expression and ubiquitous presence in anammox bacteria. We conducted a comparative analysis of 16S rRNA and hzoA/hzoB genes to reveal anammox bacterial diversity and distribution in various aquatic environments. Phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA and hzoAlhzoB genes showed the dominance of Scalindua organisms in marine ecosystems, but there was no congruence of 16S rRNA and hzoA/hzoB gene phylogenies among the freshwater anammox bacteria associated with Brocadia sp., Jettenia sp., and Anammoxoglobus sp. Higher diversity of anammox bacteria was revealed based on hzoAlhzoB genes than 16S rRNA genes in the examined environments. Multiple regression analysis showed that salinity had significant influence on differential distribution and diversity of anammox bacteria in different ecosystems. Thus, molecular detection and resulting phylogeny of the hzoA/hzoB gene generated a better understanding of anammox bacterial diversity and their ecological distribution in various aquatic ecosystems.
25153266| Methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB) are the only biological sinks for methane (CH). Drainage of peatlands is known to decrease overall CH emission, but the effect on MOB is unknown. The objective of this work was to characterize the MOB community and activity in two ecohydrologically different pristine peatland ecosystems, a fen and a bog, and their counterparts that were drained in 1961. Oligotrophic fens are groundwater-fed peatlands, but ombrotrophic bogs receive additional water and nutrients only from rainwater. The sites were sampled in August 2003 down to 10 cm below the water table (WT), and cores were divided into 10-cm subsamples. CH oxidation was measured by gas chromatography (GC) to characterize MOB activity. The MOB community structure was characterized by polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and sequencing methods using partial pmoA and mmoX genes. The highest CH oxidation rates were measured from the subsamples 20-30 and 30-40 cm above WT at the pristine oligotrophic fen (12.7 and 10.5 mol CH dm h, respectively), but the rates decreased to almost zero in the vicinity of WT. In the pristine ombrotrophic bog, the highest oxidation rate at 0-10 cm was lower than in the fen (8.10 mol CH dm h), but in contrast to the fen, oxidation rates of 4.5 mol CH dm h were observed at WT and 10 cm below WT. Drainage reduced the CH oxidation rates to maximum values of 1.67 and 5.77 mol CH dm h at 30-40 and 20-30 cm of the fen and bog site, respectively. From the total of 13 pmoA-derived DGGE bands found in the study, 11, 3, 6, and 2 were observed in the pristine fen and bog and their drained counterparts, respectively. According to the nonmetric multidimensional scaling of the DGGE banding pattern, the MOB community of the pristine fen differed from the other sites. The majority of partial pmoA sequences belonged to type I MOB, whereas the partial mmoX bands that were observed only in the bog sites formed a distinct group relating more to type II MOB. This study indicates that fen and bog ecosystems differ in MOB activity and community structure, and both these factors are affected by drainage. 
4287551|A new and promising technique in microbial ecology and environmental biology is the use of whole-cell bacterial biosensors. This minireview describes the use of such biosensors for detection and quantification of various compounds and other conditions affecting bacterial expression of different genes. Three types of biosensors (nonspecific, stress-induced, and specific biosensors) are described including their use in different environments. We present tables of published biosensors, including gene fusions, host organisms, and environments in which they are used. We here describe the use of different reporter genes in the construction of biosensors and discuss their use as tools for monitoring the bioavailability of pollutants and their potential use in studying microbial ecology in general.
4251184|Ten fungal and nine bacterial strains were isolated from a weathering sandstone building. Their growth, organic acid production, and acidification capacity were assessed in culture under nutritional conditions similar to those in situ. Biomass (10-50 nmol
25256096|In seawater, several trace metals with biological significance are highly complexed with organic matter. Marine cyanobacteria are an important phytoplanktonic group, with the ability to release trace metal-binding compounds to the seawater medium, which in turn modulates their bioavailability and influences their biogeochemical cycles. Such interactions may allow cyanobacteria to more easily access less available trace metals essential for their metabolic processes, or, conversely, keep the toxic forms of the trace metals from reaching intolerable levels. In this minireview, Cu and Fe interactions with cyanobacteria received special attention, although other trace metals (Co, Pb, Zn, and Cd) are also covered. Recent research has shed light on many aspects of trace metal-cyanobacteria ecology in seawater; nevertheless, the biochemical processes behind this dynamics and the structure of the vast majority of the metal binding compounds remain unclear.
41412444|The chemical ecology and biotechnological potential of metabolites from endophytic and rhizosphere fungi are receiving much attention. A collection of 17 sugarcane-derived fungi were identified and assessed by PCR for the presence of polyketide synthase (PKS) genes. The fungi were all various genera of ascomycetes, the genomes of which encoded 36 putative PKS sequences, 26 shared sequence homology with -ketoacyl synthase domains, while 10 sequences showed homology to known fungal C-methyltransferase domains. A neighbour-joining phylogenetic analysis of the translated sequences could group the domains into previously established chemistrybased clades that represented non-reducing, partially reducing and highly reducing fungal PKSs. We observed that, in many cases, the membership of each clade also reflected the taxonomy of the fungal isolates. The functional assignment of the domains was further confirmed by in silico secondary and tertiary protein structure predictions. This genome mining study reveals, for the first time, the genetic potential of specific taxonomic groups of sugarcane-derived fungi to produce specific types of polyketides. Future work will focus on isolating these compounds with a view to understanding their chemical ecology and likely biotechnological potential.
40605877|Commercially available DNA microarrays containing genome-wide spotted oligonucleotides encompass the soil bacteria Bacillus subtilis or Streptomyces coelicolor genomes. These have been used to analyse potential differences in rhizobacterial communities of transgenic maize engineered to express the Bacillus thuringensis Cry toxin (Bt maize) in three different agricultural soils. No differences in hybridisation were observed between genetically and non-genetically modified maize rhizobacteria from two Bt lines with a detection sensitivity of five copies of a particular gene above the background. Soilspecific hybridisation results were obtained when rhizobacterial DNA was compared to the corresponding genomic DNA spotted in the microarrays suggesting that the use of genome-wide DNA arrays could serve as a useful tool for the molecular monitoring of rhizobacterial communities.
27770617|The present study describes the phenanthrene-degrading activity of Sphingomonas paucimobilis 20006FA and its ability to promote the bioavailability of phenanthrene. S. paucimobilis 20006FA was isolated from a phenanthrene-contaminated soil microcosm. The strain was able to grow in liquid mineral medium saturated with phenanthrene as the sole carbon source, showing high phenanthrene elimination (52.9% of the supplied phenanthrene within 20 days). The accumulation of 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid and salicylic acid as major phenanthrene metabolites and the capacity of the strain to grow with sodium salicylate as the sole source of carbon and energy indicated that the S. paucimobilis 20006FA possesses a complete phenanthrene degradation pathway. However, under the studied conditions, the strain was able to mineralize only the 10% of the consumed phenanthrene. Investigations on the cell ability to promote bioavailability of phenanthrene showed that the S. paucimobilis strain 20006FA exhibited low cell hydrophobicity (0.13), a pronounced chemotaxis toward phenanthrene, and it was able to reduce the surface tension of mineral liquid medium supplemented with phenanthrene as sole carbon source. Scanning electron micrographs revealed that: (1) in suspension cultures, cells formed flocks and showed small vesicles on the cell surface and (2) cells were also able to adhere to phenanthrene crystals and to produce biofilms. Clearly, the strain seems to exhibit two different mechanisms to enhance phenanthrene bioavailability: biosurfactant production and adhesion to the phenanthrene crystals.
4251640|To investigate whether landfill leachates affected the microbial biomass and/or community composition of the extant microbiota, 37 samples were collected along a 305-m transect of a shallow landfill-leachate polluted aquifer. The samples were analyzed for total numbers of bacteria by use of the acridine orange direct count method (AODC). Numbers of dominant, specific groups of bacteria and total numbers of protozoa were measured by use of the most probable number method (MPN). Viable biomass estimates were obtained from measures of ATP and ester-linked phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) concentrations. The estimated numbers of total bacteria by direct counts were relatively constant throughout the aquifer, ranging from a low of 4.8 10
4250666|Periphytic bacteria found on the carapace and gills of crabs collected from near a tannery effluent outlet were shown to be able to concentrate chromium. By concentrating Cr, the bacteria contributed to the total Cr concentration of the crabs. Since crabs and other crustaceans are eaten by bottom feeding fish, bacteria may be contributing to the passage of Cr up the food chain.
4250928| Two Nostoc muscorum cyanophages were isolated from a domestic sewage in Kuwait. N-1L cyanophage had a hexagonal head with a long tail, while N-2S cyanophage was a short-tailed virus. N-1L cyanophage was active at 50C and at acidic pH, compared with N-2S, which was more heat stable and active at pH 7.0. Seasonal variations in the total number of plaque-forming units of N. muscorum cyanophages were determined for sewage samples collected at each treatment step. 
41412418|The beneficial effects of Bifidobacteria on health have been widely accepted. Patients with chronic liver disease have varying degrees of intestinal microflora imbalance with a decrease of total Bifidobacterial counts. Since different properties have been attributed to different Bifidobacterium species and there is no information available for the detailed changes in the genus Bifidobacterium in patients with chronic liver disease heretofore, it is meaningful to investigate the structure of this bacterium at the species level in these patients. The aim of this study was to characterize the composition of intestinal Bifidobacterium in patients with hepatitis B virus-induced chronic liver disease. Nested-PCR-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE), clone library, and real-time quantitative PCR were performed on the fecal samples of 16 patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB patients), 16 patients with hepatitis B virus-related cirrhosis (HBV cirrhotics), and 15 healthy subjects (Controls). Though there was no significant difference in the diversity among the three groups (P= 0.196), Bifidobacterium dentium seems to be specifically enhanced in patients as the PCR-DGGE profiles showed, which was further validated by clone library and real-time quantitative PCR. In contrast to the B. dentium, Bifidobacterium catenulatum/Bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum were detected less frequently in the predominant profile and by quantitative PCR in HBV cirrhotics than in the controls, and the level of this species was also significantly different between these two groups (P= 0.023). Although having no quantitative difference among the three groups, Bifidobacterium longum was less commonly detected in HBV cirrhotics than in CHB patients and Controls by quantitative PCR (P= 0.011). Thus, the composition of intestinal Bifidobacterium was deeply altered in CHB and HBV cirrhotic patients with a shift from beneficial species to opportunistic pathogens. The results provide further insights into the dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota in patients with hepatitis B virusinduced chronic liver disease and might potentially serve as guidance for the probiotics interventions of these diseases.
4251416| A genetically engineered microorganism (GEM), Pseudomonas sp. B13 FRI (pFRC20P) (abbreviated FR120), has previously been engineered to simultaneously mineralize mixtures of methylated and chlorinated benzoic acids and phenols through a modified ortho cleavage pathway. In this study, its performance was investigated both in different types of aquatic microcosms and in pure culture to determine (1) if under simulated in situ conditions the genetically engineered pathway effectively removes mixtures of model pollutants simultaneously, quickly, and completely; (2) where the optimum pollutant concentration range for this activity lies; and (3) how physical, chemical, and biological factors in the microcosms influence degradation rates. Growth and degradation parameters of FR120 in pure culture were determined with 3-chlorobenzoate (3CB), 4-methylbenzoate (4MB), and equimolar mixtures of both as carbon sources. These substrates were degraded simultaneously, albeit with different degradation velocities, by FR120. The optimum growth concentrations for 3CB and 4MB were 3.0 mm and 2.1 mm, respectively, and the inhibition constants
25256156|Viruses cause significant mortality of marine microorganisms; however, their role in shaping the composition of microbial assemblages has not been fully elucidated. Because viruses may form lysogenic relationships with their hosts, temperate viruses may influence bacterial assemblage structures through direct lysis of hosts when induced by environmental stimuli or by homoimmunity (i.e., immunity to closely related viruses). We investigated the components of bacterioplankton assemblages that bore prophage using the lysogenic induction agent mitomycin C. Seawater was collected at two locations (the San Pedro Ocean Time Series Station and in the Santa Barbara Channel) in the Southern California Borderland and amended with mitomycin C. After 24-h incubation, the community structure of bacterioplankton was compared with unamended controls using automated rRNA intergenic spacer analysis. The addition of mitomycin C to seawater had effects on the community structure of bacterioplankton, stimulating detectable overall diversity and richness of fingerprints and causing the assemblages within incubations to become different to control assemblages. Most negatively impacted operational taxonomic units (OTU) in mitomycin C-amended incubations individually comprised a large fraction of total amplified DNA in initial seawater (5.3-23.3% of amplified DNA fluorescence) fingerprints, and data suggest that these include organisms putatively classified as members of the -Proteobacteria, SAR11 cluster, and Synechococcus groups. The stimulation of assemblage richness by induction of lysogens, and the reduction in the contribution to total DNA of common OTU (and concomitant increase in rare OTU), suggests that temperate phage have the potential to strongly influence the diversity of bacterioplankton assemblages. Because lysogenic OTU may also be resistant to closely related lytic (i.e., free-living) viruses, the impact of lytic virioplankton on assemblages may only be pronounced transiently or when conditions causing lysogenic induction arise.
23361682|Wolbachia is a symbiont intensively studied due to its ability to interfere with their host's reproduction, and it has been recently proposed as an alternative tool to control insect pests or vectors of diseases. The Asian citrus psyllid Diaphorina citri is an important pest of citrus since it vectors the bacterium that causes the "Huanglongbing" disease in citrus. The frequency and diversity of Wolbachia associated with D. citri is unknown, limiting the utilization of Wolbachia as an alternative strategy for insect management. Thus, we aimed to determine the natural rate of infection, to characterize the Wolbachia strains associated with this psyllid by "multilocus sequencing typing" (MLST) and wsp analysis, and to verify the association of the symbiont to particular genotypes of the host. Analysis indicated Wolbachia infects 100 % of all specimens tested from all 15 sampled populations. MLST revealed the occurrence of five new sequence types (STs) of Wolbachia, while analysis based on the wsp sequences indicated only four different types of Wolbachia. ST-173 was predominant, while the remaining STs were population specific. Analysis of the hostsymbiont relationship did not reveal any particular association of Wolbachia and haplotypes or a decrease in nucleotide diversity of D. citri in populations in which more than one ST was recorded. The consequences of the diversity of STs reported are still unknown, but the fact that Wolbachia infection is fixed and that there is one ST with a broad distribution highlights the use of this symbiont as an alternative strategy to control D. citri.
27770580|Several Mesorhizobium species are able to induce effective nodules in chickpea, one of the most important legumes worldwide. Our aims were to examine the biogeography of chickpea rhizobia, to search for a predominant species, and to identify the most efficient microsymbiont, considering Portugal as a case study. One hundred and ten isolates were obtained from continental Portugal and Madeira Island. The 16S ribosomal RNA gene phylogeny revealed that isolates are highly diverse, grouping with most Mesorhizobium type strains, in four main clusters (AD). Interestingly, only 33% of the isolates grouped with Mesorhizobium ciceri (cluster B) or Mesorhizobium mediterraneum (cluster D), the formerly described specific chickpea microsymbionts. Most isolates belong to cluster A, showing higher sequence similarity with Mesorhizobium huakuii and Mesorhizobium amorphae. The association found between the province of origin and species cluster of the isolates suggests biogeography patterns: most isolates from the north, center, and south belong to clusters B, A, and D, respectively. Most of the highly efficient isolates (symbiotic effectiveness &gt;75%) belong to cluster B. A correlation was found between species cluster and origin soil pH of the isolates, suggesting that pH is a key environmental factor, which influences the species geographic distribution. To our knowledge, this is one of the few surveys on chickpea rhizobia and the first systematic assessment of indigenous rhizobia in Portugal.
25256140|High-throughput technologies are urgently needed for monitoring the formidable biodiversity and functional capabilities of microorganisms in the environment. Ten years ago, DNA microarrays, miniaturized platforms for highly parallel hybridization reactions, found their way into environmental microbiology and raised great expectations among researchers in the field. In this article, we briefly summarize the state-of-the-art of microarray approaches in microbial ecology research and discuss in more detail crucial problems and promising solutions. Finally, we outline scenarios for an innovative combination of microarrays with other molecular tools for structure-function analysis of complex microbial communities.
4250664|The fumigation/respiration technique was used to estimate the size of the soil microbial biomass. Sieving decreased the biomass in winter but increased it in summer; we suggest that this was a consequence of the different substrates available and the different microbial populations during the year. The flush in respiration following fumigation correlated significantly with the CO
40605872|Legionella pneumophila is an ubiquitous environmental microorganism that can cause Legionnaires' disease or Pontiac fever. As a waterborne pathogen, it has been found to be resistant to chlorine disinfection and survive in drinking water systems, leading to potential outbreaks of waterborne disease. In this work, the effect of different concentrations of free chlorine was studied (0.2, 0.7, and 1.2 mg 1), the cultivability of cells assessed by standard culture techniques (buffered charcoal yeast extract agar plates) and viability using the SYTO 9/propidium iodide fluorochrome uptake assay (LIVE/DEAD BacLight). Results demonstrate that L pneumophila loses cultivability after exposure for 30 min to 0.7 mg 1 of free chlorine and in 10 min when the concentration is increased to 1.2 mg 1 even after 30 min exposure to the highest concentration of chlorine; good correlation was obtained between the rapid SYTO 9/propidium iodide fluorochrome uptake assay and a longer cocultivation with Acanthamoeba polyphaga assay, confirming that these cells could still recover their cultivability. These results raise new concerns about the assessment of drinking water disinfection efficiency and indicate the necessity of further developing new validated rapid methods, such as the SYTO 9/propidium iodide uptake assay, to assess viable but noncultivable L. pneumophila cells in the environment.
4287735|Three natural populations of actinomycetes were investigated by PCR for the presence of type I 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG CoA), a gene associated with isoprenoid biosynthesis. The populations were obtained from an agricultural site (69 isolates), a coastal salt marsh (220 isolates), and a desert soil (96 isolates). A set (34) of standard actinomycete reference strains were also investigated. The target gene was only detected in 5 of the 419 actinomycetes screened, which represented 4 from the coastal salt marsh and one reference strain. The isolates that contained the gene were taxonomically diverse (4 Streptomyces spp. and 1 Nocardia sp.). These results suggest that type I HMG CoA containing pathways are rare in actinomycetes and their distribution within actinomycetes populations is not random.
4251017|Sixty-nine gram-positive endospore-forming rods were isolated from the liquid phase of an anaerobic digester, while treating a fatty acid-rich petrochemical effluent. These strains, including eight reference strains, were characterized and the similarities between the different strains were calculated using Sokal and Michener's simple matching coefficient. Phenotypic characteristics, determined by the API 20E and API 50CHB galleries, other biochemical tests, and morphological characteristics, were used for the numerical analysis. The strains were grouped into 12 (five major and seven minor) clusters. Nine of the clusters were positively identified as Bacillus pumilus, B. subtilis, B. sphaericus, B. laterosporus, B. brevis, B. cereus, B. coagulans, B. megaterium, and B. circulans. Three clusters could not be identified using Gordon's classical system or the API identification system. Most of the aerobic endospore-forming rods (72%) utilized both acetic and propionic acid, and 17% utilized acetic acid as carbon source, but only under aerobic conditions. A small percentage of the strains studied (11%) was unable to utilize the fatty acids present in the petrochemical substrate, and no explanation could be given as to how they obtained their carbon source. Seventy-eight percent of the strains did not show growth in anaerobic agar. It was possible that sufficient oxygen, required for growth by these members of the genus Bacillus, was introduced by the substrate. Since ample time had been allowed for population selection, their presence indicates that these aerobic strains can survive, grow, and compete in the digester environment but their relative importance and role in the primary digestion reactions is not clear.
40926465|Concentrations of viruses and prokaryotes in the alkaline, moderately hypersaline, seasonally stratified Mono Lake are among the highest reported for a natural aquatic environment. We used electron microscopy to test whether viral morphological characteristics differed among the epilimnion, metalimnion, and the anoxic hypolimnion of the lake and to determine how the properties of viruses in Mono Lake compare to other aquatic environments. Viral capsid size distributions were more similar in the metalimnion and hypolimnion of Mono Lake, while viral tail lengths were more similar in the epilimnion and metalimnion. The percentage of tailed viruses decreased with depth and the relative percentages of tailed phage families changed with depth. The presence of large (> 125 nm capsid), untailed viruses in the metalimnion and hypolimnion suggests that eukaryotic viruses are produced in these suboxic and anoxic, hypersaline environments. Capsid diameters of viruses were larger on average in Mono Lake compared to other aquatic environments, and no lemonshaped or filamentous viruses were found, in contrast to other high-salinity or high-altitude lakes and seas. Our data suggest that the physically and chemically distinct layers of Mono Lake harbor different viral assemblages, and that these assemblages are distinct from other aquatic environments that have been studied. Furthermore, we found that filtration of a sample through a 0.22- pore-size filter significantly altered the distribution of viral capsid diameters and tail lengths, resulting in a relative depletion of viruses having larger capsids and longer tails. This observation highlights the potential for bias in molecular surveys of viral diversity, which typically rely on filtration through 0.2-or 0.22-m pore-size membrane filters to remove bacteria during sample preparation.
25153272| We studied the persistence of Bacillus thuringiensis serovar israelensis (Bti) in a typical breeding site of the mosquito Ochlerotatus caspius in a particularly sensitive salt marsh ecosystem following two Bti-based larvicidal applications (Vectobac 12AS, 1.95 L/ha). The treated area was composed of four larval biotopes that differed in terms of the most representative plant species (Sarcocornia fruticosa, Bolboschoenus maritimus, Phragmites australis, and Juncus maritimus) and the physical and chemical characteristics of the soil. We sampled water, soil, and plants at various times before and after the applications (from spring to autumn, 2001) and quantified the spores of B. thuringiensis (Bt) and Bacillus species. The B. cereus group accounted for between 0% and 20% of all Bacillus spp. before application depending on the larval biotope. No Bti were found before application. The variation in the quantity of bacilli during the mosquito breeding season depended more on the larval biotope than on the season or the larvicidal application. More bacilli were found in soil (10-10 spores/g) than on plant samples (10-10 spores/g). The abundance in water (10 to 10 spores/L) appeared to be correlated to the water level of the breeding site. The number of Bti spores increased just after application, after declining; no spores were detected in soil or water 3 months after application. However, low numbers of Bti spores were present on foliage from three of the four studied plant strata. In conclusion, the larvicidal application has very little impact on Bacillus spp. flora after one breeding season (two applications). 
40343383|The gastrointestinal tract is a complex ecosystem. Recent studies have shown that the human fecal microbiota is composed of a consortium of microorganism. It is known that antibiotic treatment alters the microbiota, facilitating the proliferation of opportunists that may occupy ecological niches previously unavailable to them. It is therefore important to characterize resident microbiota to evaluate its latent ability to permit the development of pathogens such as Clostridium difficile. Using samples from 260 subjects enrolled in a previously published clinical study on antibiotic-associated diarrhea, we investigated the possible relationship between the fecal dominant resident microbiota and the subsequent development of C. difficile. We used molecular profiling of bacterial 16S rDNA coupled with partial least square (PLS) regression analysis. Fecal samples were collected on day 0 (D) before antibiotic treatment and on day 14 (D) after the beginning of the treatment. Fecal DNA was isolated, and V6-to-V8 regions of the 16S rDNA were amplified by polymerase chain reaction with general primers and analyzed by temporal temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TTGE). Main bacteria profiles were compared on the basis of similarity (Pearson correlation coefficient). The characteristics of the microbiota were determined using PLS discriminant analysis model. Eightyseven TTGE profiles on D have been analyzed. The banding pattern was complex in all cases. The subsequent onset of C. difficile was not revealed by any clustering of TTGE profiles, but was explained up to 46% by the corresponding PLS model. Furthermore, 6 zones out of the 438 dispatched from the TTGE profiles by the software happened to be specific for the group of patients who acquired C. difficile. The first approach in the molecular phylogenetic analysis showed related sequences to uncultured clones. As for the 87 TTGE profiles on D, no clustering could be found either, but the subsequent onset of C. difficile was explained up to 74.5% by the corresponding PLS model, thus corroborating the results found on D. The non exhaustive data of the microbiota we found should be taken as the first step to assess the hypothesis of permissive microbiota. The PLS model was used successfully to predict C. difficile development. We found that important criteria in terms of main bacteria could be markedly considered as predisposing factors for C. difficile development. Yet, the resident microbiota in case of antibiotic-associated diarrhea has still to be analyzed. Furthermore, these findings suggest that strategies reinforcing the ability of the fecal microbiota to resist to modifications would be of clinical relevance.
23469148|For studying the microbiota of four Danish surface-ripened cheeses produced at three farmhouses and one industrial dairy, both a culture-dependent and culture-independent approach were used. After dereplication of the initial set of 433 isolates by (GTG)5-PCR fingerprinting, 217 bacterial and 25 yeast isolates were identified by sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene or the D1/D2 domain of the 26S rRNA gene, respectively. At the end of ripening, the cheese core microbiota of the farmhouse cheeses consisted of the mesophilic lactic acid bacteria (LAB) starter cultures Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis and Leuconostoc mesenteorides as well as non-starter LAB including different Lactobacillus spp. The cheese from the industrial dairy was almost exclusively dominated by Lb. paracasei. The surface bacterial microbiota of all four cheeses were dominated by Corynebacterium spp. and/or Brachybacterium spp. Brevibacterium spp. was found to be subdominant compared to other bacteria on the farmhouse cheeses, and no Brevibacterium spp. was found on the cheese from the industrial dairy, even though B. linens was used as surface-ripening culture. Moreover, Gram-negative bacteria identified as Alcalignes faecalis and Proteus vulgaris were found on one of the farmhouse cheeses. The surface yeast microbiota consisted primarily of one dominating species for each cheese. For the farmhouse cheeses, the dominant yeast species were Yarrowia lipolytica, Geotrichum spp. and Debaryomyces hansenii, respectively, and for the cheese from the industrial dairy, D. hansenii was the dominant yeast species. Additionally, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis revealed that Streptococcus thermophilus was present in the farmhouse raw milk cheese analysed in this study. Furthermore, DGGE bands corresponding to Vagococcus carniphilus, Psychrobacter spp. and Lb. curvatus on the cheese surfaces indicated that these bacterial species may play a role in cheese ripening.
27770562|A method was developed for enriching bacterial cells from soybean stems which was recalcitrant for a culture-independent analysis of bacterial community due to the interference with plant DNA. Stem homogenates were fractionated by a series of differential centrifugations followed by a Nycodenz density gradient centrifugation. The efficiency of bacterial cell enrichment was assessed by ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA). The intensity and the number of bacterial amplicons of RISA were markedly increased in the DNA extracted from the enriched bacterial cells compared to that in the DNA directly extracted from soybean stems. The phylogenetic diversity of the enriched bacterial cells was evaluated by analyzing a clone library of 16S rRNA gene in comparison with those of the culturable fractions of the enriched and non-enriched stem-associated bacteria, endophytic bacteria, and epiphytic bacteria. The results indicated that the method was able to enrich both endophytic and epiphytic bacteria from soybean stems, and was useful to assess the bacterial diversity based on a 16S rRNA gene clone library. When the sequence data from all clones (1,332 sequences) were combined, 72 operational taxonomic units were affiliated with Proteobacteria (Alpha-, Beta-, and Gammaproteobacteria), Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, and Bacteroidetes, which also provided the most comprehensive set of data on the bacterial diversity in the aerial parts of soybeans.
40605674|In this study Aspergillus oryzae was utilized to remove azo dyes from aqueous solution. Physically induced in its paramorphogenic form to produce standardized mycelial pellets, the non-autoclaved and autoclaved hyphae biomass was applied to biosorb the reactive dyes Procion Red HE7B (PR-HE7B) and Procion Violet H3R (PV-H3R) at different pH values (2.50, 4.50, and 6.50). The best pH for biosorption was 2.50, though the autoclaved demonstrated a higher biosorption capacity than the nonautoclaved pellets. The toxicity level was determined using the Trimmed Spearman-Karber method with Daphnia similis in all bioassays. The calculated toxicity of PV-H3R (LC 62.50 g mL) was higher than to PR-HE7B (LC 300.00 g mL), and its results brought out that the decrease of toxicity levels to zero might be accomplished by adding small quantities of pelletized A. oryzae to the solutions.
4251225|In order to study the ability of freshwater algae and cyanobacteria to form extracellular fibrils, a screening test using ruthenium red (RR) staining was carried out on 28 species. Five of these were examined for growth and production of fibrillar material in culture media of different phosphate ( P
41412416|We have completed a bioinformatic analysis of the hydrogenases encoded in the genomes of three termite gut treponeme isolates: hydrogenotrophic, homoacetogenic Treponema primitia strains ZAS-1 and ZAS-2, and the hydrogen-producing, sugar-fermenting Treponema azotonutricium ZAS-9. H is an important free intermediate in the breakdown of wood by termite gut microbial communities, reaching concentrations in some species exceeding those measured for any other biological system. The spirochetes encoded 4, 8, and 5 [FeFe] hydrogenase-like proteins, identified by their H domains, respectively, but no other recognizable hydrogenases. The [FeFe] hydrogenases represented many sequence families previously proposed in an analysis of termite gut metagenomic data. Each strain encoded both putative [FeFe] hydrogenase enzymes and evolutionarily related hydrogen sensor/transducer proteins likely involved in phosphorelay or methylation pathways, and possibly even chemotaxis. A new family of [FeFe] hydrogenases (FDH-Linked) is proposed that may form a multimeric complex with formate dehydrogenase to provide reducing equivalents for reductive acetogenesis in T. primitia. The many and diverse [FeFe] hydrogenase-like proteins encoded within the sequenced genomes of the termite gut treponemes has enabled the discovery of a putative new class of [FeFe] hydrogenase proteins potentially involved in acetogenesis and furthered present understanding of many families, including sensory, of H domain proteins beyond what was possible through the use of fragmentary termite gut metagenome sequence data alone, from which they were initially defined.
25153144|Understanding how microbial genotypes are arrayed in space is crucial for identifying local factors that may influence the spatial distribution of genetic diversity. In this study we investigated variation in 16S rDNA sequences and rep-PCR fingerprints of Streptomyces stains isolated from prairie soil among three locations and four soil depths. Substantial variation in Streptomyces OTU (operational taxonomic unit) and BOX-PCR fingerprint diversity was found among locations within a limited spatial area (1 m). Further, phylogenetic lineages at each location were distinct. However, there was little variation in genetic diversity among isolates from different soil depths and similar phylogenetic lineages were found at each depth. Some clones were found at a localized scale while other clones had a relatively widespread distribution. There was poor correspondence between 16S rDNA groupings and rep-PCR fingerprint groupings. The finding of distinct phylogenetic lineages and the variation in spatial distribution of clones suggests that selection pressures may vary over the soil landscape.
25153280| Dialysis bags were used to examine the impact of predation and viral lysis on prokaryotic community composition (PCC) over a 5-day experiment in the oligomesotrophic Lake Pavin (France). The impact of the different predator communities (protists and metazoans) of prokaryotes was estimated by water fractionation (&lt;5 m: treatment filtered on 5 m, without ciliates and metazoans; UNF: unfiltered treatment with all planktonic communities). Enrichments of natural viruses (&lt;1.2 m: with a natural virus concentration; &lt;1.2 m V and VV: with enrichment leading to a double or triple concentration of viruses, respectively) were used to indirectly assess the control of virioplankton. Viral activity was estimated from the frequency of visibly infected cells (FVIC). PCC was determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP). In this study, PCC was affected by the eukaryote communities (especially flagellates), and viruses to a lesser extent. Cyanobacteria declined significantly during the experiment and were highly correlated with the FVIC. In addition, the 503-bp terminal restriction fragment (T-RF) disappeared in treatments with virus enrichments, suggesting possible viral-associated mortality processes, whereas the 506-bp T-RF was not affected in these treatments. On one hand, these results suggest a control of the PCC: first, by viral lysis of some dominant phylotypes and second, by interspecific competition between resistant strains for the uptake of substrates released by this lysis. The increase of Archaea may suggest that these cells benefit such resources. On the other hand, the disappearance and the stable proportion of some dominant phylotypes suggested a selection pressure due to the predatory activity on prokaryotes. In conclusion, prokaryotic abundance appears to be mainly controlled by flagellate protists, which also affected PCC, whereas viruses seemed to be essentially responsible for profound changes in PCC via direct and indirect actions. 
25153237|Eighty-two strains of rhizobia were isolated from soils taken from several sites in Mauritania and Senegal. These soil samples were collected from natural stands of Acacia nilotica and Acacia senegal. The soils from Mauritania were less rich in native rhizobia than the soils from Senegal. The strains were characterized using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism and by sequencing the rDNA 16S-23S intergenic spacer region (IGS). They were sorted into seven IGS groups. These groups were not associated with the geographical origin of the strains or with the host-plant species at the site where the soils were collected. Most of the strains were in three of the IGS groups (I, IV, and V). One representative strain from each IGS group was sequenced and showed that the strains were from the genus Mesorhizobium. IGS groups I, IV, and VI were close to the species M. plurifarium (AF34563), IGS groups II and III were close to the species Mesorhizobium sp. (AF510360), IGS group V was close to the species Mesorhizobium sp. (AF510366), and IGS group VII was close to Mesorhizobium sp. (AF510346).
41692861|The bacterial community diversity of highway runoff-contaminated sediment that had undergone 19 years of acetate-based de-icing agents addition followed by three years of acetate-free de-icing agents was investigated. Analysis of 26 sediment samples from two drilled soil cores by means of 16S rDNA PCR generated 3,402 clones, indicating an overall high bacterial diversity, with no prominent members within the communities. Sequence analyses provided evidences that each sediment sample displayed a specific structure bacterial community. Proteobacteria-affiliated clones (58% and 43% for the two boreholes) predominated in all samples, followed by Actinobacteria (12% and 16%), Firmicutes (7% and 12%) and Chloroflexi (7% and 11%). The subsurface geochemistry complemented the molecular methods to further distinguish ambient and contaminant plume zones. Principal component analysis revealed that the levels of Fe(II) and dissolved oxygen were strongly correlated with bacterial communities. At elevated Fe(II) levels, sequences associated with anaerobic bacteria were detected in high levels. As iron levels declined and oxygen levels increased below the plume bottom, there was a gradual shift in the community structure toward the increase of aerobic bacteria.
40343357|Turfgrass is a highly managed ecosystem subject to frequent fertilization, mowing, irrigation, and application of pesticides. Turf management practices may create a perturbed environment for ammonia oxidizers, a key microbial group responsible for nitrification. To elucidate the long-term effects of turf management on these bacteria, we assessed the composition of betaproteobacterial ammonia oxidizers in a chronosequence of turfgrass systems (i. e., 1, 6, 23, and 95 years old) and the adjacent native pines by using both 16S rRNA and amo A gene fragments specific to ammonia oxidizers. Based on the Shannon-Wiener diversity index of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis patterns and the rarefaction curves of amoA clones, turf management did not change the relative diversity and richness of ammonia oxidizers in turf soils as compared to native pine soils. Ammonia oxidizers in turfgrass systems comprised a suite of phylogenetic clusters common to other terrestrial ecosystems. Nitrosospira clusters 0, 2, 3, and 4; Nitrosospira sp. Nsp65-like sequences; and Nitrosomonas clusters 6 and 7 were detected in the turfgrass chronosequence with Nitrosospira clusters 3 and 4 being dominant. However, both turf age and land change (pine to turf) effected minor changes in ammonia oxidizer composition. Nitrosospira cluster 0 was observed only in older turfgrass systems (i.e., 23 and 95 years old); fine-scale differences within Nitrosospira cluster 3 were seen between native pines and turf. Further investigations are needed to elucidate the ecological implications of the compositional differences.
40343374|Fungi play an important role in leaf litter decomposition due to their ability to break down the lignocellulose matrix, which other organisms are unable to digest. However, little is known regarding the factors affecting components of fungal diversity. Here, we quantified richness of internal fungi in relation to litter nutrient and phenolic concentrations, sampling season (spring or fall), and premature leaf shedding due to low precipitation and infestation of bark beetles (mainly Ips typographies and Ips duplicates). The study was conducted in 37-year-old Norway spruce [Picea abies (L.) Karst.] stands, with three plots each in mixed forest (MF) and coniferous forest (CF) site conditions in south-central Poland. Fifty-four species of sporulating fungi were identified in 2,330 freshly fallen needles sampled during 2003-2005, including 45 species in MF and 31 in CF. The significantly higher number of species in MF was likely related to moister conditions at that site. Among isolated fungi, 22% (12 species) were identified as endophytes of Norway spruce in prior studies. During spring of 2005, we found less than half the number of isolates and fungal species at each forest site as compared to fall for the two prior years. This pattern was observed in typical soil fungi (e. g., Pnicillium daleae, Pnicillium purpurogenurri) and endophytes/epiphytes (e.g., Aureobasidium pullulans, Alternaria alternata, Cladosporium spp., and Lophodermium piceae). Premature shedding of needles was the most likely cause of this decline because it shortened the time period for fungi to infect green needles while on the tree. For all sites and sampling periods, richness of internal fungi was strongly and positively related to the age of freshly fallen litter (assessed using needle Ca concentration as a needle age tracer) and was also negatively related to litter phenolic concentration. Richness of internal fungi in freshly fallen litter may be adversely affected by low soil moisture status, natural inhibitors slowing fungal colonization (e.g., phenolics) and biotic (e.g., insect infestation) and abiotic (e.g., drought) factors that shorten leaf life span.
4251471|Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis has been used to characterize microorganisms from a range of different environments, but has not been previously used in the assessment of compost organisms. Compost processing and maturity are assumed to be related to the microorganisms present, but methods to elucidate and evaluate these relationships are lacking. In this study, PLFA analysis was used to follow microbial community changes during the composting of municipal solid waste (MSW). Patterns of change were compared between pilot- and full-scale facilities and between varied feedstocks. At the pilot level, actual MSW and two synthetic MSW formulations (similar C:N, different available C) were composted. At the full-scale facilities, actual MSW was composted as was actual MSW amended with nitrogen. The PLFA data generated by all studies was analyzed using principal component and multivariate statistical methods. The PLFA profiles changed over the composting process in a consistent and predictable manner. PLFA profiles also proved to be characteristic of specific stages of composting and may, therefore, be useful in evaluating (and optimizing) the progress of material processing and product maturity.
25153457|This study investigated the role of Accumulibacter-related bacterial populations and factors influencing their distribution in enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EBPR) systems in the USA. For this purpose, five fullscale wastewater treatment facilities performing EBPR were surveyed. The facilities had different configurations but were all treating primarily domestic wastewater. Two facilities had history of poor EBPR performance. Batch-scale acetate uptake and inorganic phosphate $({\rm P}_{{\rm i}})$ release and uptake experiments were conducted to evaluate the EBPR activity of each sludge. Typical ${\rm P}_{{\rm i}}$ and acetate profiles were observed, and EBPR activity was found to be positively correlated to polyphosphate (polyP)-accumulating organism (PAO) abundance, as determined by staining intracellular polyP. The abundance of Accumulibacter-related organisms was investigated using fluorescent in situ hybridization. Accumulibacter-related organisms were present in all fullscale EBPR facilities, at levels ranging from 9 to 24% of total cells. More than 80% of Accumulibacter-related organisms were estimated to have high polyP content, confirming their involvement in EBPR in these five facilities. However, Accumulibacter-related PAOs were only a fraction (40-69%) of the total PAO population. The variation of Accumulibacter-related PAO abundance among these EBPR systems suggests that multiple interacting factors such as wastewater characteristics and operational conditions are structuring PAO communities.
4250694|Dehydrogenase activity, cellulose decomposition, nitrification, and CO
25153151| In situ microsensor measurements were combined with biogeochemical methods to determine oxygen, sulfur, and carbon cycling in microbial mats growing in a solar saltern (Salin-de-Giraud, France). Sulfate reduction rates closely followed the daily temperature changes and were highest during the day at 25C and lowest during the night at 11C, most probably fueled by direct substrate interactions between cyanobacteria and sulfate-reducing bacteria. Sulfate reduction was the major mineralization process during the night and the contribution of aerobic respiration to nighttime DIC production decreased. This decrease of aerobic respiration led to an increasing contribution of sulfide (and iron) oxidation to nighttime O consumption. A peak of elemental sulfur in a layer of high sulfate reduction at low sulfide concentration underneath the oxic zone indicated anoxygenic photosynthesis and/or sulfide oxidation by iron, which strongly contributed to sulfide consumption. We found a significant internal carbon cycling in the mat, and sulfate reduction directly supplied DIC for photosynthesis. The mats were characterized by a high iron content of 56 mol Fe cm, and iron cycling strongly controlled the sulfur cycle in the mat. This included sulfide precipitation resulting in high FeS contents with depth, and reactions of iron oxides with sulfide, especially after sunset, leading to a pronounced gap between oxygen and sulfide gradients and an unusual persistence of a pH peak in the uppermost mat layer until midnight. 
23361606|Ammonia is the preferred nitrogen source for many algae including the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatis (Synechococcus R-2; PCC 7942). Modelling ammonia uptake by cells is not straightforward because it exists in solution as NH 3 and NH 4 + . NH 3 is readily diffusible not only via the lipid bilayer but also through aquaporins and other more specific porins. On the other hand, NH 4 + requires cationic transporters to cross a membrane. Significant intracellular ammonia pools (110 molm -3 ) are essential for the synthesis of amino acids from ammonia. The most common model envisaged for how cells take up ammonia and use it as a nitrogen source is the "pumpleak model" where uptake occurs through a simple diffusion of NH 3 or through an energy-driven NH 4 + pump balancing a leak of NH 3 out of the cell. The flaw in such models is that cells maintain intracellular pools of ammonia much higher than predicted by such models. With caution, [ 14 C]-methylamine can be used as an analogue tracer for ammonia and has been used to test various models of ammonia transport and metabolism. In this study, simple "proton trapping" accumulation by the diffusion of uncharged CH 3 NH 2 has been compared to systems where CH 3 NH 3 + is taken up through channels, driven by the membrane potential (U i,o ) or the electrochemical potential for Na + (Na i,o + ). No model can be reconciled with experimental data unless the permeability of CH 3 NH 2 across the cell membrane is asymmetric: permeability into the cell is very high through gated porins, whereas permeability out of the cell is very low (40 nms -1 ) and independent of the extracellular pH. The best model is a Na in + /CH 3 NH 3 + in co-porter driven by Na i,o + balancing synthesis of methylglutamine and a slow leak governed by Ficks law, and so there is significant futile cycling of methylamine across the cell membrane to maintain intracellular methylamine pools high enough for fixation by glutamine synthetase. The modified pumpleak model with asymmetric permeability of the uncharged form is a viable model for understanding ammonia uptake and retention in plants, free-living microbes and organisms in symbiotic relationships.
40926428|This study reports on the factors involved in regulating the composition and structure of bacterial communities epiphytic on intertidal macroalgae, exploring their temporal variability and the role of copper pollution. Culture-independent, molecular approaches were chosen for this purpose and three host species were used as models: the ephemeral Ulva spp. (Chlorophyceae) and Scytosiphon lomentaria (Phaeophyceae) and the long-living Lessonia nigrescens (Phaeophyceae). The algae were collected from two coastal areas in Northern Chile, where the main contrast was the concentration of copper in the seawater column resulting from copper-mine waste disposals. We found a clear and strong effect in the structure of the bacterial communities associated with the algal species serving as host. The structure of the bacterial communities also varied through time. The effect of copper on the structure of the epiphytic bacterial communities was significant in Ulva spp., but not on L. nigrescens. The use of 16S rRNA gene library analysis to compare bacterial communities in Ulva revealed that they were composed of five phyla and six classes, with approximately 35 bacterial species, dominated by members of Bacteroidetes (Cytophaga-Flavobacteria-Bacteroides) and ot-Proteobacteria, in both non-polluted and polluted sites. Less common groups, such as the Verrucomicwbiae, were exclusively found in polluted sites. This work shows that the structure of bacterial communities epiphytic on macroalgae is hierarchically determined by algal species > temporal changes > copper levels.
41489778|Increases in the frequency of soil drying and extreme precipitation projected by climate models may have important consequences for soil microbial community composition. However, the microbial response may occur over short time scales not captured by traditional sampling methods. Following a 2-year rainfall exclusion experiment in a pine forest ecosystem, we used phospholipid fatty acid profiling to measure the hourly, daily, and weekly-scale response of soil microbial biomass and the bacteria/fungi ratio to a precipitation event. We compared this response to the rewetting of unmanipulated plots. Within 3 h of watering, we detected increases in fungal and bacterial biomass of 125% and 66%, respectively, in un-manipulated plots, but only small increases in biomass within drought plots. We detected a decrease in the bacteria/fungi ratio in un-manipulated plots and an increase in this ratio in the drought plots. This surprising result was likely caused by root mortality (resulting from the previous 2-year rain exclusion) and an increase in ammonium pools in the drought plots, both of which could have suppressed fiingal growth. Whereas past research suggests that soil microbes are resistant to drying-rewetting stress and to changes in annual precipitation patterns, here we show that microbes are sensitive to soil drying, but highly resilient, recovering within hours or days of a rain event. We propose that more emphasis be placed on hourly-scale field measurements of soil microbial community structure in future climate change studies.
23361665|We determined the total and dissolved extracellular enzymatic activity (EEA) of -glucosidase and -glucosidase (AGase and BGase), alkaline phosphatase (APase) and leucine aminopeptidase (LAPase) activities in the epi-, meso- and bathypelagic waters of the subtropical Northeast Atlantic. EEA was also determined in treatments in which bacterial EEA was inhibited by erythromycin. Additionally, EEA decay experiments were performed with surface and deep waters to determine EEA lifetimes in both water masses. The proportion of dissolved to total EEA (6689 %, 4488 %, 5782 % and 86100 % for AGase, BGase, APase and LAPase, respectively) was generally higher than the cell-associated (i.e., particulate) EEA. The percentage of dissolved to total EEA was inversely proportional to the percentage of erythromycin-inhibited to total EEA. Since erythromycin-inhibited plus dissolved EEA equaled total EEA, this tentatively suggests that cell-associated EEA in the open oceanic water column is almost exclusively of bacterial origin. The decay constants of dissolved EEA were in the range of 0.0020.048 h -1 depending on the type of extracellular enzyme, temperature and depth in the water column. Although dissolved EEA can have different origins, the major contribution of Bacteria to cell-associated EEA and the long life-time of dissolved EEA suggest that Bacteriaand not mesophilic Archaeaare essentially the main producers of EEA in the open subtropical Northeast Atlantic down to bathypelagic layers.
23361594|Colonies of the hydrocoral Millepora dichotoma along the Gulf of Eilat are exhibiting unusual tissue lesions in the form of white spots. The emergence and rapid establishment of these multifocal tissue lesions was the first of its kind reported in this region. A characterization of this morphological anomaly revealed bleached tissues with a significant presence of bacteria in the tissue lesion area. To ascertain possible differences in microbial biota between the lesion area and non-affected tissues, we characterized the bacterial diversity in the two areas of these hydrocorals. Both culture-independent (molecular) and culture-dependent assays showed a shift in bacterial community structure between the healthy and affected tissues. Several 16S rRNA gene sequences retrieved from the affected tissues matched sequences of bacterial clones belonging to Alphaproteobacteria and Bacteroidetes members previously associated with various diseases in scleractinian corals.
40343356|Whereas fungi in terrestrial soils have been well studied, little is known of them in deep-sea sediments. Recent studies have demonstrated the presence of fungal hyphae in such sediments but in low abundance. We present evidence in this study that one of the apparent reasons for the poor detection of fungi in deep-sea sediments is their cryptic presence in macroaggregates. Fungal biomass carbon from different core sections of deep-sea sediments from ~5000 m depth in the Central Indian Ocean was estimated based on direct microscopic detection of fungal mycelia. Treatment of sediment samples with ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid (EDTA) enabled more frequent detection and significantly higher biomass than in samples without such treatment. Treatment with EDTA resulted in detecting various stages of breakdown of aggregates in the sediments, gradually revealing the presence of fungal hyphae within them. Experimental studies of a deep-sea, as well as three terrestrial isolates of fungi, showed that all could grow at 200 bar and 5 C in a nutrient medium and in deep-sea sediment extract. Hyphae of fungi grown in sediment extract under the above conditions showed various stages of accretion of particles around them, leading to the formation of aggregates. Such aggregates showed the presence of humic material, carbohydrate, and proteins. We suggest that fungi in deep-sea sediments may be involved in humic aggregate formation by processes very similar to those in terrestrial sediments. The importance of such a process in carbon sequestration and food web in the deep sea needs to be examined.
25153021| The quantitative importance and composition of protozoan communities was investigated in sandy and silty intertidal sediments of a polyhaline and a freshwater site in the Schelde estuary. Total biomass of the protozoans studied, integrated over the upper 4 cm of the sediment, ranged from 41 to 597 mg C m and was in the same order of magnitude at the polyhaline and the freshwater intertidal site. Nanoheterotrophs were the dominant protozoans, in terms of both abundance and biomass. Ciliate abundances appeared to be largely determined by physical constraints, namely, the amount of interstitial space and hydrodynamic disturbances. It remains unclear which factors control nanoheterotrophic abundances and biomasses, which showed comparatively little seasonal and between-site fluctuations. Salinity differences were clearly reflected in the protozoan community composition. The dominant role of sessile ciliates is a unique feature of sediments in the freshwater tidal reaches, which can be attributed to the dynamic nature of sedimentation and resuspension processes associated with the maximum turbidity zone. Based on biomass ratios and estimated weight-specific metabolic rates, protozoa possibly accounted for 29 to 96% of the estimated combined metabolic rate of protozoan and metazoan consumers at our sampling stations in late spring/early autumn. The contribution of protozoa to this combined metabolic rate was higher at the sandy than at the silty stations and was mainly accounted for by the nanoheterotrophs. These data emphasize the potential importance of small protozoa in sediments and suggest that protozoa are important components of benthic food webs. 
40343379|The richness and biogeographical distribution pattern of bacterial and archaeal communities was assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of polymerase chain reaction-amplified fragments of the 16S rRNA gene at the surface (1525 m depth), in the deep chlorophyll maximum layer (DCM; 50 m depth), and deep waters (751000 m depth) of the eastern tropical Atlantic Ocean. Additionally, prokaryotic and viral abundance and the frequency of infected prokaryotic cells (FIC) were determined along with physico-chemical parameters to identify factors influencing prokaryotic richness and biogeography. Viral abundance was highest in the DCM layer averaging 45.5  10 ml, whereas in the mixed surface layer and in the waters below the DCM, average viral abundance was 11.3  10 and 4.3  10 ml, respectively. The average estimate of FIC was 8.3% in the mixed surface layer and the DCM and 2.4% in deeper waters. FIC was positively related to prokaryotic and viral abundance and negatively to archaeal richness. There was no detectable effect of geographic distance (maximum distance between stations ~4600 km) or differences between water masses on bacterial and archaeal community composition. Bacterial communities showed a clear depth zonation, whereas changes in archaeal community composition were related to temperature and FIC. The results indicate that planktonic archaeal virus host systems are a dynamic component of marine ecosystems under natural conditions.
25153445| Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus has a long-standing history of bacterial-plant interrelationship as a symbiotic endophyte capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen. In low nitrogen fertilized sugarcane fields it plays a significant role and its occurrence was realised in most of the sugarcane growing countries. In this mini review, the association of G. diazotrophicus with sugarcane, other crop plants and with various hosts is discussed. The factors affecting survival in the rhizosphere and the putative soil mode of transmission are emphasized. In addition, other N-fixing Acetobacteraceae members, including Gluconacetobacter azotocaptans, Gluconacetobacter johannae and Swaminathania salitolerans, occurring in coffee, corn and rice plants are also covered. Lastly, the plant-growth-promoting traits identified in this group of bacteria, including N fixation, phytohormone synthesis, P and Zn solubilization and biocontrol, are analysed. 
4251438|Ferrous iron enhanced the toluene degradation rate of sulfidogenic enrichment cultures inoculated with contaminated subsurface soil from an aviation fuel storage facility near the Patuxent River (Md.). Ferrous iron had an analogous effect on the degradation rate of benzoic acid, a transient metabolite of anaerobic toluene degradation in these cultures, when benzoic acid was used as a sole carbon and energy source. Two hypotheses were proposed to explain iron's effect: (a) Iron may have prevented sulfide toxicity via precipitation of sulfide as FeS, and (b) iron might have been a limiting nutrient required for degradation (i.e., amendments of iron could have compensated for iron removed from solution by precipitation as FeS). To test these hypotheses, substrate degradation rates were compared in the presence of FeSO
25256117|We report the isolation and characterization of endophytic bacteria, endemic to serpentine outcrops of Central Italy, from a nickel hyperaccumulator plant, Alyssum bertolonii Desv. (Brassicaceae). Eighty-three endophytic bacteria were isolated from roots, stems, and leaves of A. bertolonii and classified by restriction analysis of 16S rDNA (ARDRA) and partial 16S rDNA sequencing in 23 different taxonomic groups. All isolates were then screened for siderophore production and for resistance to heavy metals. One isolate representative of each ARDRA group was then tested for plant tissue colonization ability in sterile culture.Obtained results pointed out that, despite the high concentration of heavy metals present in its tissues, A. bertolonii harbors an endophytic bacterial flora showing a high genetic diversity as well as a high level of resistance to heavy metals that could potentially help plant growth and Ni hyperaccumulation.
4251734|Microbial biomass and community structure in paddy rice soil during the vegetation period of rice were estimated by analysis of their phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA), hydroxy fatty acids of lipopolysaccharides (LPS-HYFA), and phospholipid ether lipids (PLEL) directly extracted from the soil. A clear change in the composition of the community structure at different sampling periods was observed, indicated by the principal component analysis of the PLFA. A dramatic decline of ester-linked PLFA was observed in the soil samples taken at the second sampling time. In contrast to the ester-linked PLFA, the non-ester-linked PLFA composition did not change. The hydroxy fatty acids of lipopolysaccharides as well as ether lipids decreased consecutively during the observation period. Total microbial abundance was estimated to be
4251470|Viable counts and potential activities of different bacteria were determined as a function of depth in the deep profundal sediment of Lake Constance, Germany. The sediment layer at the bottom of the lake had a total depth of about 7 m and was deposited in the time after the last ice age, i.e., over the past 13,000 years. The high clay content of the sediment prevents seepage. Below 25 cm all of the viable heterotrophic bacteria were present as heat-resistant spores. Numbers of viable spores of both aerobic and anaerobic heterotrophic bacteria decreased exponentially with sediment depth and were below the detection limit (5-55 cells ml
4287714|Actinoplanes and related genera are good producers of bioactive secondary metabolites. However, many strains within these genera present similar morphological characteristics, and this prevents an effective discrimination of replicate strains during industrial isolation and screening programs. Using PCR-RFLP analysis of the 23S rDNA gene and of the 16S-23S intergenic spacer, we have analyzed 182 strains of Actinoplanes and related genera obtained through a selective isolation method from a single Italian soil. Combining the 23S and IGS data, 99 unique profiles were observed, and morphologically undistinguishable strains were discriminated. Further analyses on a restricted number of strains through 16S sequencing and hybridization to a probe for secondary metabolism established a good correlation between strain diversity seen by PCR-RFLP and that seen by the other methods. Overall, the data indicate the presence of a high diversity of Actinoplanes and related genera isolated from a single Italian soil.
41412420|We investigated the abundance and activity of SAR11 on a monthly time scale between January 2008 and October 2008 in the oligotrophic NW Mediterranean Sea. Applying MICRO-CARD-FISH, we observed that SAR11 had a large contribution to bulk abundance (37  6% of DAPI-stained cells) and to bulk bacterial heterotrophic production (BHP), as estimated from leucine incorporation (55  15% of DAPI-cells assimilating leucine) in surface waters (5 m) throughout the study period. SAR11 contributed also substantially to the assimilation of glucose, ATP, and a combination of amino acids (44  17%, 37  14%, and 43  12% of DAPI cells assimilating these compounds, respectively), organic compounds that provide either single or combined sources of C, P, and N. Temporal changes in the abundance of SAR11 cells that assimilated leucine, glucose, amino acids, and ATP revealed a pattern consistent with that of substrate-active DAPI cells, suggesting that the activity of SAR11 can explain to a large extent the variability in total cells contributing to the utilization of these compounds. Short-term nutrient enrichment experiments performed on each sampling date revealed a strong co-limitation of at least two of the three elements analyzed (C, N, P), in particular, during summer and early autumn. The in situ abundance of SAR11 cells assimilating leucine appeared to increase with P limitation as determined in the nutrient enrichment experiments (r= 0.81, p= 0.015). Our results demonstrate that SAR11 is an important component of the active bacterial community in the NW Mediterranean Sea. Our observations further indicate that the activity of the bulk bacterial community is linked to the activity of SAR11, possibly due to its adaptation to nutrient limitation.
25153361|Asparagus (Asparagus officinalis) is a high-value perennial vegetable crop that has shown a marked decline in productivity after many years of continuous harvesting. This decline is caused by an increase in both abiotic (autoxicity, harvesting pressure) and biotic stresses [fungal infections, mainly Fusarium crown and root rot (FCRR)]. To gain insight into disease development and possible mitigation strategies, we studied the effects of harvesting, time in the growing season, and field age on FCRR development, Fusarium species composition, and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) communities in both a controlled field experiment and an ecological survey of commercial fields. In one experiment, a 3-year-old asparagus field was subdivided into plots that were harvested or not and sampled throughout the growing season to assess short-term dominant Fusarium species shifts. In addition, diseased and healthy asparagus plants sampled from six commercial fields in the same geographical region were used to assess Fusarium and AMF communities in relation to different parameters. Fusarium and AMF communities were described by using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) approach, and results were analyzed by mainly correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis. Results showed that dominant Fusarium taxa assemblages changed throughout the growing season. Harvested plots had significantly more FCRR symptomatic plants at the end of the growing season, but this effect was not related with any trend in Fusarium community structure. Sampling site and plant age significantly influenced AMF community structure, whereas only sampling site consistently influenced the Fusarium community. Diseased and healthy plants harbored similar Fusarium and AMF communities. Shifts in Fusarium community might not be responsible for different disease incidence because they are ubiquitous regardless of plant health status or harvesting regime. The different incidence noted might rather be related to plant physiology, antagonist microbial communities, or soil parameters.
41489187|Although many studies have been conducted on the ecological functions and ecophysiological characteristics of lichen soil crusts (LSCs), no explanation of these results has been provided based on crust structures. Using algae soil crusts (ASCs) as comparison, this work studied the small-scale vertical distribution of algal biomass and stratification in two types of LSCs, by combining the binocular stereomicroscope observations, microscope observations, plate cultures, chlorophyll analysis, and polysaccharides analysis. The results showed an obvious difference in the proportion but not the composition of the algae species between the ASCs and the two LSCs. Approximately 60% and 80% of the total algal biomass were concentrated in the top 1 mm of the soil profile and thalli in the ASCs and LSCs, respectively. This implies that symbiotic algae are the dominant species and primary organic carbon producers in LSCs, and the algal biomass decreased with the depth in both the ASCs and LSCs. The small-scale vertical distributions of the crustal algal biomass and polysaccharides were characterized by obvious successional stage, whereas these were unrelated to the crust type within the successional stage. Additionally, a large amount of fungi, which were always piercing the entire crusts, were observed in the LSCs, but only occasionally in the ASCs. These special structures are purported to cause the LSCs to achieve specific ecological functions, such as higher carbon fixation and greater compressive strength. High biomass, large living space, and advantageous resource utilization privilege suggest that the lichen association is mutualistic and the direction from ASCs to LSCs is developmental.
4250667| The internal colony-forming bacterial flora of the schistosome intermediate host snail Biomphalaria glabrata (Say) has been characterized in ca. 500 individual snails from Puerto Rico, Guadeloupe, and St. Lucia, and from laboratory aquaria. Freshly captured wild snails harbor 2-40 
4250742|Regulation of H
25153171| Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are common contaminants in terrestrial and aquatic environments and can represent a significant constituent of the carbon pool in coastal sediments. We report here the results of an 18-month seasonal study of PAH biodegradation and heterotrophic bacterial production and their controlling biogeochemical factors from 186 sediment samples taken in a tidally influenced freshwater estuary. For each sampling event, measurements were averaged from 25-45 stations covering 250 km. There was a clear relationship between bacterial production and ambient temperature, but none between production and bottom water dissolved oxygen (DO) % saturation or PAH concentrations. In contrast with other studies, we found no effect of temperature on the biodegradation of naphthalene, phenanthrene, or fluoranthene. PAH mineralization correlated with bottom water DO saturation above 70% (r &gt; 0.99). These results suggest that the proportional utilization of PAH carbon to natural organic carbon is as much as three orders of magnitude higher during cooler months, when water temperatures are lower and DO % saturation is higher. Infusion of cooler, well-oxygenated water to the water column overlying contaminated sediments during the summer months may stimulate PAH metabolism preferentially over non-PAH organic matter. 
25153221| Bacterial communities associated with decomposing rhizomes of Phragmites australis were investigated in Lake Fert (Neusiedlersee, Hungary). Alkaliphilic and alkalitolerant strains were isolated on cellulose-containing alkaline medium spread with dilutions of scrapings taken from the surface of the decaying plant material. Fifty-one strains were grouped by numerical analysis based on physiological tests and BIOLOG sole carbon source utilization data. The strains identified by 16S rDNA sequence comparisons included members of low G+C Gram positives (Marinibacillus marinus, Bacillus cereus, and Exiguobacterium aurantiacum), high G+C Gram positives (Nesterenkonia halobia and Dietzia natronolimnea), -proteobacteria (Pannonibacter phragmitetus), and -proteobacteria (Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes and Halomonas venusta). Most of the strains were characterized by aerobic chemoorganotrophic respiratory metabolism and utilized several different carbon sources, although no direct cellulolytic activity was observed. Results of the pH and salt tolerance tests revealed optimuma in most cases at pH 11 and at the presence of 2.5-5% NaCl. These bacteria probably occupy niches in the aerobic, alkaline, water-influenced environments on the decomposing reed surfaces. 
23361680|The encrusting sponge Myxilla (Ectyomyxilla) methanophila (Poecilosclerida: Myxillidae) is an epibiont on vestimentiferan tubeworms at hydrocarbon seeps on the upper Louisiana slope of the Gulf of Mexico. It has long been suggested that this sponge harbors methylotrophic bacteria due to its low  13 C value and high methanol dehydrogenase activity, yet the full community of microbial associations in M. methanophila remained uncharacterized. In this study, we sequenced 16S rRNA genes representing the microbial community in M. methanophila collected from two hydrocarbon-seep sites (GC234 and Bush Hill) using both Sanger sequencing and next-generation 454 pyrosequencing technologies. Additionally, we compared the microbial community in M. methanophila to that of the biofilm collected from the associated tubeworm. Our results revealed that the microbial diversity in the sponges from both sites was low but the community structure was largely similar, showing a high proportion of methylotrophic bacteria of the genus Methylohalomonas and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-degrading bacteria of the genera Cycloclasticus and Neptunomonas. Furthermore, the sponge microbial clone library revealed the dominance of thioautotrophic gammaproteobacterial symbionts in M. methanophila. In contrast, the biofilm communities on the tube-worms were more diverse and dominated by the chemoorganotrophic Moritella at GC234 and methylotrophic Methylomonas and Methylohalomonas at Bush Hill. Overall, our study provides evidence to support previous suggestion that M. methanophila harbors methylotrophic symbionts and also reveals the association of PAH-degrading and thioautotrophic microbes in the sponge.
4251087|An examination of the distribution of plasmids carried by copper-tolerant bacteria from a freshwater stream revealed that >60% carried at least one plasmid, and that large plasmids (>100 kb) were predominant. A total of 10 copper-tolerant bacteria carrying the 54-kb plasmid, pFBA20, were detected at four sampling sites within the stream and, on consecutive occasions, at one site throughout a 1-year sampling period. The detection of this plasmid provides evidence that related plasmids can, under no apparent selective pressure, survive and disperse within the bacterial community. Two of the isolates that carried pFBA20 were phenotypically distinguishable. This would suggest that pFBA20 is transmissible.
25153443| Bacterial biofilters used in marine recirculation aquaculture systems need improvements to enhance nitrogen removal efficiency. Relatively little is known about biofilter autochthonous population structure and function. The present study was aimed at isolating and characterizing an autochthonous denitrifying bacterium from a marine biofilter installed at a recirculation aquaculture system. Colonization of four different media in a marine fish farm was followed by isolation of various denitrifying strains and molecular classification of the most promising one, strain T2, as a novel member of the Pseudomonas fluorescens cluster. This strain exhibits high metabolic versatility regarding N and C source utilization and environmental conditions for growth. It removed nitrate through aerobic assimilatory metabolism at a specific rate of 116.2 mg NO-N g dw h. Dissimilatory NO-N removal was observed under oxic conditions at a limited rate, where transient NO-N formed represented 22% (0.17 mg L) of the maximum transient NO-N observed under anoxic conditions. Dissimilatory NO-N removal under anoxic conditions occurred at a specific rate of 53.5 mg NO-N g dw h. The isolated denitrifying strain was able to colonize different materials, such as granular activated carbon (GAC), Filtralite and Bioflow plastic rings, which allow the development of a prototype bioreactor for strain characterization under dynamic conditions and mimicking fish-farm operating conditions. 
4250698|Previous studies of an epilithic algal-bacterial community in a pristine mountain stream suggested that heterotrophic bacteria were responding to the metabolic activities of the phototrophic population. Subsequent studies were performed to follow the flow of labeled carbon, from its initial inorganic form, through the trophic levels of the mat community. A majority of primary production metabolites were excreted by the algal population during active growth; this shifted to an incorporation into cellular material as phototrophic activity declined. Results suggest that there was a direct flux of soluble algal products to the bacterial population, with little heterotrophic utilization of dissolved organics from the overlying stream water. Both phototrophic productivity and bacterial utilization of algal products peaked at approximately the same time of year. Activity of the diatom-dominated algal population declined as silica concentrations in the stream water dropped, leading to a situation in which the sessile bacteria were substrate limited. These events resulted in an almost complete disappearance of the community in early September.
4287726| The bacterial biota of a methanol-fed denitrification reactor used to treat seawater at the Montreal Biodome were investigated using culture-dependent and molecular biology methods. The microbiota extracted from the reactor carriers were cultivated on three media. Three isolate types were recovered and their 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) genes were determined. The analysis showed that the isolate types were related to -Proteobacteria. They are members of the Hyphomicrobium and Paracoccus genera and the Phyllobacteriaceae family. Uncultured bacteria were identified through a 16S rDNA library generated from total DNA extracted from the microbiota. Clones were screened for different restriction profiles and for different DGGE (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) migration profiles. More than 70% of clones have the same restriction profile, and the sequence of representative clones showed a relation with the Methylophaga members of the Piscirickettsia family (-Proteobacteria). Sequences from other profiles were related to bacterial species involved in denitrification. The number of species in the denitrification reactor was estimated at 15. Bacterial colonization on newly added carriers in the denitrification reactor was monitored by PCR-DGGE. The DGGE migration profiles evolved during the first 5 weeks and then remained essentially unchanged. PCR-DGGE was also used to monitor the microbial profiles in various aquarium locations. As expected, bacterial populations differed from one location to another, except for the sand and trickling filters which presented similar DGGE migration profiles. 
41489156|The role of microhabitat and climate variation in structuring protosteloid amoebae communities has been investigated for the first time in the Mediterranean Basin, a biodiversity hotspot for plants and animals and the largest of the world's five areas with a Mediterranean climate. Abundance data were obtained from natural substrates collected in 13 localities from central Spain, and a total of 1,504 colonies and 18 species were recorded. For this new area, it has been carried out an optimization of the culturing effort based on rarefaction analyses, thus making possible to adapt the protocol to the objectives in future research. Canonical correspondence analysis and generalized linear models showed that microhabitat type was the most important factor for differentiating the niches of the species studied, but climatic variables, especially minimum temperature of the coldest month, precipitation seasonality, and temperature range, had secondary but also important effects. Bark inhabitants tend to be more abundant in localities with high temperature range and low annual precipitation. Aerial litter was the microhabitat with the highest species richness, abundance, and evenness. Species typical of this microhabitat are more abundant when there is high precipitation, low temperature of the warmest month, and low minimum temperature of the coldest month.
40802177|Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) is widely used in microbial ecology to profile complex microbial communities over time and in response to different stimuli. However, inherent gel-to-gel variability has always been a barrier toward meaningful interpretation of DGGE profiles obtained from multiple gels. To address this problem, we developed a two-step methodology to align DGGE profiles across a large dataset. The use of appropriate inter-gel standards was of vital importance since they provided the basis for efficient within- and between-gel alignment and a reliable means to evaluate the final outcome of the process. Pretreatment of DGGE profiles by a commercially available image analysis software package (TL120 v2006, Phoretix ID Advanced) followed by a simple interpolation step in Matlab mini-mized the effect of gel-to-gel variation, allowing for comparisons between large numbers of samples with a high degree of confidence. At the same time, data were obtained in the form of whole densitometric curves, rather than as band presence/absence or intensity information, and could be readily analyzed by a collection of wellestablished multivariate methods. This work clearly demonstrates that there is still room for significant improvements as to the way large DGGE datasets are processed and statistically interrogated.
4287590| Twelve selected phenol-degrading bacterial isolates were obtained on phenol agar plates using culture enrichment technique. Molecular identification of the isolates was performed using eubacterial 16S rRNA PCR specific primers. Based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis, the results revealed that the majority of the isolates (8 out of 12) are affiliated to the -subdivision of Proteobacteria. Four out of the eight isolates are closely related to the genus Acinetobacter. Molecular heterogeneity among the phenol-degrading isolates was further investigated by using rep-PCR chromosomal fingerprinting and correlated with plasmid and antibiotic profile analysis. Rep-PCR results strongly confirmed that the bacterial isolates from different environmental sites produced different fingerprinting patterns. The mineralization of phenol by all isolates was evaluated using
41489067|Francisella are facultative intracellular bacteria causing severe disease in a broad range of animals. Two species are notable: Francisella tularensis, the causative organism of tularemia and a putative warfare agent, and Francisella noatunensis, an emerging fish pathogen causing significant losses in wild and farmed fish. Although various aspects of Francisella biology have been intensively studied, their natural reservoir in periods between massive outbreaks remains mysterious. Protists have been suspected to serve as a disguised vector of Francisella and co-culturing attempts demonstrate that some species are able to survive and multiply within protozoan cells. Here, we report the first finding of a natural occurrence of Francisella sp. as a protist endosymbiont. By molecular and morphological approaches, we identified intracellular bacteria localized in a strain of the marine ciliate Euplotes raikovi, isolated from the coast of Adriatic Sea. Phylogenetic analysis placed these endosymbionts within the genus Francisella, in close but distinct association with F. noatunensis. We suggest the establishment of a novel subspecies within F. noatunensis and propose the cytoplasmatic endosymbiont of E. raikovi as "Candidatus F. noatunensis subsp. endociliophora" subsp. nov.
4250586|Apparently by analogy with enzyme kinetics, the half-saturation value (K) for nutrient uptake or growth has frequently been overemphasized in discussions of competition, and the role of maximum rates ( R
4287484|The gfp (green fluorescent protein) gene has previously been used to construct a variety of reporter plasmids for Gram-positive bacteria for bacterial localization and gene expression studies. When a native red-shifted gfp variant (gfp3) was cloned into an expression vector using the
4251403| The distribution of bdellovibrios was investigated over a wide geographical area of the Chesapeake Bay including some tributaries and subestuaries. Bdellovibrios were recovered from five aquatic habitats; water, sediment, oyster shell surface biofilm, zooplankton, and plants over a wide range of temperature and salinity measurements. Consistently, the greatest number of the predators was recovered from samples of biofilm irrespective of temperature and salinity. A decrease in the numbers and frequency of predators recovered from all habitats was observed at temperatures below 10C. Only the shell surface biofilm samples yielded bdellovibrios 100% of the time. The organisms were recovered from 79% of water samples and 44% of sediment samples. The results reveal that bdellovibrios are surface-associated organisms and that this association appears to provide some protection for the predators at low temperatures. 
4287689|A field trial was previously conducted in which sugarbeet seeds were either untreated, inoculated with the biocontrol strain Pseudomonas fluorescens F113Rif, or treated with chemical fungicides. Following harvest of sugarbeet, the field site was sown with uninoculated red clover. The aim of this study was to assess the residual impact of the microbial inoculant (and the fungicide treatment) on the diversity of resident rhizobia nodulating the red clover rotation crop. The percentage of nodules yielding rhizobial isolates after surface disinfection was 67% in the control and 70% in the P. fluorescens F113Rif treatment, but only 23% in the chemical treatment. Isolates were characterized by RAPD analysis. The main RAPD cluster (arbitrarily defined at 70% similarity) was prevalent in all three treatments. In addition, the distribution of RAPD clusters followed a log series model, regardless of the treatment applied, indicating that neither the microbial inoculant nor the fungicide treatment had caused a strong perturbation of the rhizobial population. When the P. fluorescens F113Rif and control treatments were compared using diversity indices, however, it appeared that the genetic diversity of rhizobia was significantly less in the inoculated treatment. The percentage of rhizobia sensitive to 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (Phl; the antimicrobial metabolite produced by P. fluorescens F113Rif) fluctuated according to field site heterogeneity, and treatments had no effect on this percentage. Yet, the proportion of Phl-sensitive isolates in the main RAPD cluster was lower in the P. fluorescens F113Rif treatment compared with the control, raising the possibility that the residual impact of the inoculant could have been partly mediated by production of Phl. This impact on the rhizobial population took place without affecting the functioning of the Rhizobium-clover symbiosis.
25153199|Hepatotoxin production in cyanobacteria has been shown to correlate to external stimuli such as light and nutrient concentrations and ratios, although conflicting results have been reported. Specific growth rates and protein and microcystin content of M. aeruginosa PCC7806 and M. aeruginosa UV027 were determined under nonlimiting batch culture conditions for a range of medium nitrogen and phosphorous atomic ratios. Both strains exhibited a similar optimal medium N:P ratio for increased cellular microcystin levels. Additionally, total cellular protein content and intracellular microcystin content were significantly correlated to each other (r = 0.81, p &lt; 0.001). Microcystin and protein content increased considerably as the maximum specific growth rate for the experimental conditions was reached. The significant correlation of cellular protein and microcystin content and their relative increase with increasing specific growth rate, within defined ranges of medium N:P ratios, suggest a close association between microcystin production and N:P ratio-dependent assimilation of nitrogen, and resulting total cellular protein levels, which may be further modulated by specific growth rate.
40802288|Microbial mats are stratified microbial communities composed by highly inter-related populations and therefore are frequently chosen as model systems to study diversity and ecophysiological strategies. The present study describes an integrated approach to analyze microbial quiones and intact polar lipids (IPLs) in microbial mats within layers as thin as 500 m by liquid chromatographytandem mass spectrometry. Quinone profiles revealed important depth-related differences in community composition in two mat systems. The higher abundance of ubiquinones, compared to menaquinones, reflected the clear predominance of microorganisms belonging to aerobic -, -, and -Proteobacteria in Ebro delta estuarine mats.Hypersaline photosynthetic Camargue mats (France) showed a predominance of menaquinone-9 at the top of the mat, which is consistent with an important contribution of facultative aerobic or anaerobic bacteria in its photic zone.Quinone indices also indicated a higher diversity of nonphototrophs and a more anaerobic character in the hypersaline mats. Besides, the dissimilarity index suggested that the samples were greatly influenced by a depth-related redox state gradient. In the analysis of IPLs, there was a predominance of phosphatidylglycerols and sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerols, the latter being an abundant biomarker of Cyanobacteria.This combined approach based on quinone and IPL analysis has proven to be a useful method to establish differences in the microbial diversity and redox state of highly structure microbial mat systems at a fine-scale level.
4251249| The metabolic cost of swimming for planktonic protists is calculated, on theoretical grounds, from a simple model based upon Stokes' law. Energetic expenditure is scaled over both typically encountered size ranges (1-100 m) and swimming speeds (100-5,000 m/sec). In agreement with previous estimates for typical flagellates, these estimates generally suggest a low (<1%) cost for motility, related to total metabolic rate of growing cells. However, the cost of motility in small, fast-moving forms, such as some ciliates and flagellates, may be significant (1-10%) and even substantial (10-100%+) for certain species. In accordance with these predictions, many fast-moving ciliates restrict motility to bursts of activity or "jumps." In the absence of a reduction in swimming speed or in the frequency of jumps, it is predicted that this relative cost of motility will be significantly increased in starving heterotrophs or light-limited autotrophs, if such cells reduce cell volumes and specific rates of respiration. 
25153233|Molecular tools for the species-specific detection of Gluconacetobacter sacchari, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus, and Gluconacetobacter liquefaciens from the pink sugarcane mealybug (PSMB) Saccharicoccus sacchari Cockerell (Homiptera: Pseudococcidae) were developed and used in polymerase chain reactions (PCR) and in fluorescence in situ hybridizations (FISH) to better understand the microbial diversity and the numerical significance of the acetic acid bacteria in the PSMB microenvironment. The presence of these species in the PSMB occurred over a wide range of sites, but not in all sites in sugarcane-growing areas of Queensland, Australia, and was variable over time. Molecular probes for use in FISH were also designed for the three acetic acid bacterial species, and shown to be specific only for the target species. Use of these probes in FISH of "squashed" whole mealybugs indicated that these acetic acid bacteria species represent only a small proportion of the microbial population of the PSMB. Despite the detection of Glac. sacchari, Glac. diazotrophicus, and Glac. liquefaciens by PCR from different mealybugs isolated at various times and from various sugarcane-growing areas in Queensland, Australia, these bacteria do not appear to be significant commensals in the PSMB environment.
4287668|We studied the mechanisms by which photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and ultraviolet (UV-A and UV-B) radiation damage Escherichia coli suspended in water. The roles played by oxygen and exogenous and endogenous sensitizers were analyzed by monitoring changes in the physiological state of irradiated cells. Impairment of the cellular functions was more severe in the case of UV radiations. Radiation caused cellular damage in the absence of oxygen. PAR, UV-A, and UV-B radiation induced photobiological and photodynamic reactions mediated by endogenous sensitizers, which significantly shortened the
25153396|Agrobacterium strains have been frequently isolated from the root nodules of different legumes. Various possible mechanisms have been proposed to explain the existence of these bacteria in nodules, but there is no sufficient experimental evidence to support the estimations. In this work, we proved that the Agrobacterium strain CCBAU 81181, which was originally isolated from the root nodules of Onobrychis viciaefolia, and a symbiotic strain of Sinorhizobium meliloti CCBAU 10062 could coinhabit the root nodules of Melilotus dentatus. Analyses were performed by using a fluorescence marker, reisolation of bacteria from nodules, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacryl-amide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of whole cellular proteins, and polymerase chain reaction amplification of symbiotic genes. The inoculation of A. tumefaciens CCBAU 81181 did not affect the growth and nodulation of plants. CCBAU 81181 and 24 other Agrobacterium strains isolated from nodules were incapable of nodulating on their original or alternative host and 22 strains of these strains were endophytes in the roots and stems of their hosts. Also, the tumor-inducing A. tumefaciens strains IAM
4251517| In natural bacterioplankton assemblages, only a fraction of the total cell count is active, and, therefore, rates of bacterial production should be more strongly correlated to the number of active cells than to the total number of bacteria. However, this hypothesis has seldom been tested. Herein we explore the relationship between rates of bacterial production (measured as leucine uptake) and the number of active bacteria in 14 lakes in southern Qubec. Active bacteria are defined as those cells capable of reducing the tetrazolium salt CTC to its fluorescent formazan; these cells were enumerated using flow cytometry. Bacterial production varied two orders of magnitude in the lakes studied, as did the number of active bacteria, whereas the total number of bacteria varied by only sixfold. The number and proportion of active bacteria were similar among lake strata, but rates of bacterial production were highest in the epilimnion and lowest in the hypolimnion. As expected, bacterial production was better correlated to the number of active cells, and bacterial growth rates calculated for active cells ranged from 0.7 to 1.8 day
41412405|In recent years, increasing the level of suppressiveness by the addition of antagonistic bacteria in slow filters has become a promising strategy to control plant pathogens in the recycled solutions used in soilless cultures. However, knowledge about the microflora that colonize the filtering columns is still limited. In order to get information on this issue, the present study was carried out over a 4-year period and includes filters inoculated or not with suppressive bacteria at the start of the filtering process (two or three filters were used each year). After 9 months of filtration, polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-single strand conformation polymorphism analyses point out that, for the same year of experiment, the bacterial communities from control filters were relatively similar but that they were significantly different between the bacteria-amended and control filters. To characterize the changes in bacterial communities within the filters, this microflora was studied by quantitative PCR, communitylevel physiological profiles, and sequencing 16SrRNA clone libraries (filters used in year 1). Quantitative PCR evidenced a denser bacterial colonization of the P-filter (amended with Pseudomonas putida strains) than control and B-filter (amended with Bacillus cereus strains). Functional analysis focused on the cultivable bacterial communities pointed out that bacteria from the control filter metabolized more carbohydrates than those from the amended filters whose trophic behaviors were more targeted towards carboxylic acids and amino acids. The bacterial communities in P-and B-filters both exhibited significantly more phylotype diversity and markedly distinct phylogenetic compositions than those in the C-filter. Although there were far fewer Proteobacteria in B-and P-filters than in the C-filter (22% and 22% rather than 69% of sequences, respectively), the percentages of Firmicutes was much higher (44% and 55% against 9%, respectively). Many Pseudomonas species were also found in the bacterial communities of the control filter. The persistence of the amended suppressive-bacteria in the filters is discussed with regards to the management of suppressive microflora in soilless culture.
40605868|Species diversity and the structure of microbial communities in soils are thought to be a function of the cumulative selective pressures within the local environment. Shifts in microbial community structure, as a result of metal stress, may have lasting negative effects on soil ecosystem dynamics if critical microbial community functions are compromised. Three soils in the vicinity of a copper smelter, previously contaminated with background, low and high levels of aerially deposited metals, were amended with metalsalts to determine the potential for metal contamination to shape the structural and functional diversity of microbial communities in soils. We hypothesized that the microbial communities native to the three soils would initially be unique to each site, but would converge on a microbial community with similar structure and function, as a result of metal stress. Initially, the three different sites supported microbial communities with unique structural and functional diversity, and the nonimpacted site supported inherently higher levels of microbial activity and biomass, relative to the metal-contaminated sites. Amendment of the soils with metal-salts resulted in a decrease in microbial activity and biomass, as well as shifts in microbial community structure and function at each site. Soil microbial communities from each site were also observed to be sensitive to changes in soil pH as a result of metal-salt amendment; however, the magnitude of these pH-associated effects varied between soils. Microbial communities from each site did not converge on a structurally or functionally similar community following metal-salt amendment, indicating that other factors may be equally important in shaping microbial communities in soils. Among these factors, soil physiochemical parameters like organic matter and soil pH, which can both influence the bioavailability and toxicity of metals in soils, may be critical.
40605878|Nematode-trapping fungi, a monophyletic lineage within the Orbiliales (Ascomycota), use specialized structures to capture and consume nematodes in soil, leaf litter, and other substrates. These fungi have been studied both because of their unique predatory life history and because they are potential control agents of important plantand animal-parasitic nematodes. Ecological studies of nematode-trapping fungi have primarily used culture-based methods, but molecular detection techniques are now available and should be useful for studying this group. We developed Orbiliales-specific PCR primers for the ITS and 28s rDNA to directly detect nematode-trapping fungi without culturing and also to screen fungal isolates for phylogenetic placement in the Orbiliales. We used these primers to selectively amplify, clone, and sequence Orbiliales DNA extracted from soil, litter, and wood, and we compared the results of molecular detection with those obtained using a culture-based method. Of the eight species of nematode-trapping Orbiliales detected with the culturebased assay, only three were detected with PCR. The molecular assay, however, detected 18 species of uncultured Orbiliales, many of which are closely related to nematode-trapping fungi and fungal parasites of nematode eggs. Our results suggest that the combined use of Orbiliales-specific primers and culture-based techniques may benefit future studies of nematophagous fungi.
4250475| An automatic, continuous flow respirometer was used to follow the bio-oxidation of a crude oil in a column of fairly coarse beach material. A number of water percolation rates were employed, with and without inorganic nutrient supplementation (nitrate and phosphate). Initially, nutrient supplementation was required to allow significant oxidation rates, but a capacity for biodegradation in the absence of continued supplementation developed slowly. The increase in oxidation rate with nutrient supplementation was in the proportion 0.23 mg oxygen per mol nitrate. This proportionality was similar to previous results in this laboratory (using different systems), as was the effect of temperature. The mean of two Q
4251325|In a seasonal study we used immunofluorescence to follow a specific bacterial population, as well as total numbers, through the fore-, mid-, and hindgut of a deposit feeder, Abarenicola pacifica. We chose a pseudomonad because of its high ambient abundance. On five dates, we collected A. pacifica gut contents, with concurrent measurements of sedimentary food quality (chlorophyll a, protein, bacterial abundance), animal egestion rates (inversely proportional to gut residence time), and temperature. Increasing bacterial numbers from ingested sediment to foregut contents, and decreases from foregut to midgut indicate significant selection and digestion, respectively, of both the pseudomonad and the total bacterial community. Inverse correlations between egestion rate and digestive removal of bacteria offer some support for the prediction that digestion of bacteria is proportional to time spent exposed to digestive enzymes, although the significance of the associated statistical tests is marginal. No hindgut growth of the pseudomonad was observed, likely due to the short gut residence time of A. pacifica. The pseudomonad showed variation of less than a factor of 3 in its ambient sedimentary abundance over the year.
41489200|Microbial diversity was evaluated in an anoxic zone of Tucuru Hydroelectric Power Station reservoir in Brazilian Amazonia using a culture-independent approach by amplifying and sequencing fragments of the 16S rRNA gene using metagenomic DNA as a template. Samples obtained from the photic, aphotic (40 m) and sediment (60 m) layers were used to construct six 16S rDNA libraries containing a total of 1,152 clones. The sediment, aphotic and photic layers presented 64, 33 and 35 unique archaeal operational taxonomic units (OTUs). The estimated richness of these layers was evaluated to be 153, 106 and 79 archaeal OTUs, respectively, using the abundance-based coverage estimator (ACE) and 114, 83 and 77 OTUs using the Chaol estimator. For bacterial sequences, 114, 69 and 57 OTUs were found in the sediment, aphotic and photic layers, which presented estimated richnesses of 1,414, 522 and 197 OTUs (ACE) and 1,059, 1,014 and 148 OTUs (Chaol), respectively. Phylogenetic analyses of the sequences obtained revealed a high richness of microorganisms which participate in the carbon cycle, namely, methanogenic archaea and methanotrophic proteobacteria. Most sequences obtained belong to non-culturable prokaryotes. The present study offers the first glimpse of the huge microbial diversity of an anoxic area of a man-made lacustrine environment in the tropics.
4251016|In isolates of Euglena mutabilis and an associated yeast from strongly acidic tundra ponds (pH 1.8-2.0) at the Smoking Hills, North West Territories (N.W.T.), and in isolates from acidic ponds in the Yukon, a remarkable degree of tolerance to a number of toxic elements and to very low pH has been found. Growth was used as a measure of tolerance. The tolerances to both low pH and to elevated metal concentrations were markedly enhanced when both organisms were present together. This mutualism occurred even between E. mutabilis from one field location and a yeast from another. In every field collection we made of Euglena, the yeast was also found. The tolerances to metals are 10-100 times higher than the highest reported previously for algae, and include tolerance to some metals not elevated in the ponds from which isolations were made. Reciprocal combinations of algal-yeast partners suggest a generalized benefit of association and an increased benefit for co-selected pairs from a specific site. This algal-yeast association may be a major factor in allowing colonization of these extreme acid habitats, paralleling the cyanobacteria-bacterial associations of extremely alkaline waters.
23468244|We have studied the distribution of the archaeal communities in Rambla Salada (Murcia, Spain) over three different seasons and observed the influence upon them of the environmental variables, salinity, pH, oxygen and temperature. Samples were collected from three representative sites in order to gain an insight into the archaeal population of the rambla as a whole. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis patterns and diversity indexes indicate that the diversity of the archaeal community in Rambla Salada changed mainly according to the season. We found no significant differences between the types of sample studied: watery sediments and soils. The upwelling zone showed most diversity in its archaeal community. The overall archaeal community was composed mainly of Halobacteriales and Thermoplasmatales, accounting for 72.6 and 12.1 % of the total, respectively. Haloarcula was the most abundant genus, being present at all three sites during all three seasons. Some few Crenarchaeota were always found, mainly at low-salinity levels. Ordination canonical correspondence analysis demonstrated that salinity affected the structure of the community significantly, whilst pH, oxygen and temperature did so to a lesser extent. Most Halobacteriales correlated positively with salinity and pH, whilst Thermoplasmatales correlated negatively with both salinity and pH and positively with temperature and oxygen. The archaeal community with the highest diversity was sampled during June 2006, the season with the highest salt concentration. Catalyzed reporter deposition-fluorescence in situ hybridization showed that the percentage of archaea in Rambla Salada compared to the total number of microorganisms (as measured by DAPI) ranged from 11.1 to 16.7 %. Our research group had isolated the most abundant taxon, Haloarcula, previously in Rambla Salada using classical culture techniques, but on this occasion, using culture-independent methods, we were also able to identify some phylotypes, Halorubrum, Methanolobus, Natronomonas, Halomicrobium, Halobacterium, Halosimplex, uncultured Thermoplasmatales and uncultured Crenarchaeota, that had remained undetected during our earlier studies in this habitat.
40343388|Lysogeny has long been proposed as an important long-term maintenance strategy for autochthonous soil bacteriophages (phages). Whole genome sequence data indicate that prophage-derived sequences pervade prokaryotic genomes, but the connection between inferred prophage sequence and an active temperate phage is tenuous. Thus, definitive evidence of phage production from lysogenic prokaryotes will be critical in determining the presence and extent of temperate phage diversity existing as prophage within bacterial genomes and within environmental contexts such as soils. This study optimized methods for systematic and definitive determination of lysogeny within a collection of autochthonous soil bacteria. Twenty bacterial isolates from a range of Delaware soil environments (five from each soil) were treated with the inducing agents mitomycin C (MC) or UV light. Six isolates (30%) carried inducible temperate phages as evidenced by an increase in virus direct counts. The magnitude of induction response was highly dependent upon specific induction conditions, and corresponding burst sizes ranged from 1 to 176. Treatment with MC for 30 min yielded the largest induction responses for three of the six lysogens. Morphological analysis revealed that four of the lysogens produced lambda-like Siphoviridae particles, whereas two produced Myoviridae particles. Additionally, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis data indicated that two of the six lysogens were polylysogens, producing more than one distinct type of phage particle. These results suggest that lysogeny is relatively common among soil bacteria.
25153336| The potential driving force(s) of the vertical distribution of subtidal barnacle Balanus trigonus Darwin were investigated using both field and laboratory experiments. Early juveniles (24 h old) place in intertidal [0.5 m above mean low water level (MLWL)] and subtidal (3 m below MLWL) habitats survived equally well, indicating that the intertidal absence of B. trigonus in Hong Kong waters was not determined by differential mortality. However, enhanced attachment of cyprids in subtidal habitats indicated the importance of differential larval choice in determining their vertical distribution. In the laboratory, cyprids preferred to attach in response to subtidal microbial films, which may implicate microbial films as a primary cue in driving the adult vertical distribution. Microbial films developed in these two habitats differed in their biomass (=total organic carbon), abundance of bacteria and diatoms (determined by fluorescence microscopy), and bacterial diversity (determined by DNA fingerprinting analysis). For example, 6-day films in subtidal habitat had a significantly higher biomass than in films from intertidal habitat (P&lt;0.05). There was no difference in the biomass of films from these two habitats in 9-day films (P&gt;0.05); however, bacterial abundance was greater in subtidal films than in intertidal films, irrespective of the age of the film, although there was no difference in diatom abundance in films from these two habitats. Neither the abundance of bacteria and diatoms nor the biomass correlated with the attachment preferences of cyprids. This study has not provided any data to prove the existence of inductive and inhibitive (to cyprid attachment) bacterial species in subtidal and intertidal films, respectively; however, results indicate that bacterial community provided qualitative information that might explain the preferential attachment of B. trigonus cyprids in subtidal habitat. 
41692869|Microbiota presumably plays an essential role in inhibiting pathogen colonization and in the maintenance of health in oysters, but limited data exist concerning their different growth phases and conditions. We analyzed the bacterial microbiota composition of two commercial oysters: Crassostrea gigas and Crassostrea corteziensis. Differences in microbiota were assayed in three growth phases: postlarvae at the hatchery, juvenile, and adult at two grow-out cultivation sites. Variations in the microbiota were assessed by PCR analysis of the 16S rRNA gene in DNA extracted from depurated oysters. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) profiles were studied using Dice's similarity coefficient (Cs) and statistical principal component analysis (PCA). The microbiota composition was determined by sequencing temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE) bands. The RFLP analysis of post-larvae revealed homology in the microbiota of both oyster species (Cs> 88 %). Dice and PCA analyses of C corteziensis but not C. gigas showed differences in the microbiota according to the cultivation sites. The sequencing analysis revealed low bacterial diversity (primarily -Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, and Spirochaetes), with Burkholderia cepacia being the most abundant bacteria in both oyster species. This study provides the first description of the microbiota in C corteziensis, which was shown to be influenced by cultivation site conditions. During early growth, we observed that B. cepacia colonized and remained strongly associated with the two oysters, probably in a symbiotic hostbacteria relationship. This association was maintained in the three growth phases and was not altered by environmental conditions or the management of the oysters at the grow-out site.
4251728|Interspecific fungal interactions are important ecological processes, whereas their physiological mechanisms are little understood. The aim of this work was to study how activity of fungal extracellular laccase was changed across mycelia during interactions between white- and brown-rot basidiomycetes from different wood decay stages. Qualitative assay of eight species interacting with each other in all combinations showed four spatial patterns of laccase activity: (I) laccase activity present both in contact zone and mycelium, (II) laccase activity only in contact zone, (III) laccase activity in mycelium but not in contact zone, (IV) no laccase activity. Presence of laccase activity only in the contact zone was more frequent than expected from random samples associated with mycelia that replaced other ones. On the other hand, the presence of laccase activity in the mycelium but not in the contact zone was only attributed to fungal species that were replaced by their antagonists. After one month, laccase activity was distributed over mycelia more homogeneously than after 6 days of interactions. In interacting mycelia, laccase activity was higher than in control and increasing with time. Saprotrophic fungi from late successional stages of wood decay generally had higher laccase activity than early succession saprotrophic and pathogenic fungi. The qualitative assays were confirmed by quantitative assay of total laccase activity. Significance of the results in antagonistic fungal interactions as well as in the processes of hyphal tip growth and mycelium senescence is discussed.
27770564|This study presents a depth-related survey of virioplankton abundance in Lake Pavin (Massif Central, France), in relation to the abundances of heterotrophic prokaryotes, picocyanobacteria (Pcy), autotrophic picoeukaryotes (Peu), and of autotrophic (ANF) and heterotrophic (HNF) nanoflagellates. The sampling strategy was designed to be representative of the physico-chemical gradients of the whole water column of the lake, and the seasonal variability as well. In mixolimnic surface waters, all communities were present and viral abundance peaked in summer and autumn. Viral abundance was significantly correlated (p&lt;0.001) with Pcy, Peu, and ANF, indicating that cyanophages and perhaps other phytoplankton viruses represent a significant pool of viral standing stocks in the mixolimnion of Lake Pavin. Microautotrophs were absent in the deep monimolimnic water masses, where viruses and heterotrophic prokaryotes exhibited highest seasonal abundances in summer and/or autumn and were significantly correlated (p&lt;0.001) to each other. This indicates that the anoxic monimolimnion of Lake Pavin is an exclusive habitat for viruses and heterotrophic prokaryotes. We conclude that in this habitat, host availability is prevalent over other factors (temperature, oxygen, nutrients, grazers) in favoring viral proliferation.
25153169| Forestry practises such has drainage have been shown to decrease emissions of the greenhouse gas methane (CH) from peatlands. The aim of the study was to examine the methanogen populations in a drained bog in northern Finland, and to assess the possible effect of ash fertilization on potential methane production and methanogen communities. Peat samples were collected from control and ash fertilized (15,000 kg/ha) plots 5 years after ash application, and potential CH production was measured. The methanogen community structure was studied by DNA isolation, PCR amplification of the methyl coenzyme-M reductase (mcr) gene, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. The drained peatland showed low potential methane production and methanogen diversity in both control and ash-fertilized plots. Samples from both upper and deeper layers of peat were dominated by three groups of sequences related to Rice cluster-I hydrogenotroph methanogens. Even though pH was marginally greater in the ash-treated site, the occurrence of those sequences was not affected by ash fertilization. Interestingly, a less common group of sequences, related to the Fen cluster, were found only in the fertilized plots. The study confirmed the depth related change of methanogen populations in peatland. 
25153192| Molecular techniques were used to characterize bacterial community structure, diversity (16S rDNA), and activity (16S rRNA) in rhizospheres of three grain legumes: faba beans (Vicia faba L., cv. Scirocco), peas (Pisum sativum L., cv. Duel) and white lupin (Lupinus albus L., cv. Amiga). All plants were grown in the same soil under controlled conditions in a greenhouse and sampled after fruiting. Amplified 16S rDNA and rRNA products (using universal bacterial primers) were resolved by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Distinct profiles were observed for the three legumes with most of the bands derived from RNA being a subset of those derived from DNA. Comparing the total bacterial profiles with actinomycete-specific ones (using actinomycete-specific primers) highlighted the dominance of this group in the three rhizospheres. 16S PCR and RT-PCR products were cloned to construct libraries and 100 clones from each library were sequenced. Actinomycetes and proteobacteria dominated the clone libraries with differences in the groups of proteobacteria. Absence of -subdivision members in pea and -subdivision members of proteobacteria in faba bean rhizosphere was observed. Plant-dependent rhizosphere effects were evident from significant differences in the bacterial community structure of the legume rhizospheres under study. The study gives a detailed picture of both residing and "active" bacterial community in the three rhizospheres. The high abundance of actinomycetes in the rhizospheres of mature legumes indicates their possible role in soil enrichment after the legumes are plowed into the soil as biofertilizers. 
4251758|To investigate the relation between lake type and bacterioplankton community composition, five Swedish lakes, which differed from each other in nutrient content and water color, were studied. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of 16S rDNA was used to examine community composition. The DGGE-patterns of the different samples were analyzed in relation to physical, chemical, and biological data from the lakes by canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). The three variables found to most strongly correlate with the DGGE patterns were biomasses of microzooplankton, cryptophytes, and chrysophytes, suggesting that these biota had an impact on bacterioplankton community structure. Two of the three factors were, in turn, significantly correlated to parameters associated with the trophic status of the lakes, indicating that the nutrient content of the lakes, at least indirectly, influenced the structure of the bacterioplankton community. The relation to water color was less pronounced.
4287630|To improve understanding of the relationship between the diversity and function of the soil ecosystem, we investigated the effect of two different disturbances on soil bacterial communities-long-term exposure to the heavy metal mercury and transient exposure to the antibiotic tylosin. In the mercury-contaminated soil the diversity (Shannon index) was reduced as assessed from denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of amplified 16S rDNA sequences from the soil community DNA and from colony morphology typing of the culturable bacterial population. However, analysis of the substrate utilization profiles did not reveal any differences in diversity. In the tylosin-treated soil, DGGE revealed a small difference in the diversity of 16S rDNA compared to the control soil, whereas analysis of the colony morphology typing or substrate utilization results did not reveal any differences in diversity. Soil function was also affected by mercury contamination. The lag time before soil respiration increased following addition of glucose or alfalfa substrate was longer in the mercury-contaminated soil than in the control soil. Moreover, it was markedly prolonged in mercury-contaminated soil subjected to heat treatment prior to substrate addition, thus indicating reduced resistance to a new disturbance in the mercury-contaminated soil as compared to the control soil. Tylosin treatment did not have any significant effect on any of the respiration parameters measured, either with or without prior heat treatment of the soil.
4250784| Rhizobium trifolii, R. leguminosarum, and R. "hedysarum," grown ex planta under anoxic conditions in a chemically defined medium, evolve N
4250545|Flows of biomass and respiratory carbon were studied in a series of propylene-oxide sterilized soil microcosms. One-half of the microcosms received three pulsed additions of 200 ppm glucose-carbon to mimic rhizosphere carbon inputs. Biotic variables were: bacteria (Pseudomonas) alone, or amoebae (Acanthamoeba) and nematodes (Mesodiplogaster) singly, or both combined in the presence of bacteria. Over the 24-day experiment, respiration was significantly higher in the microcosms containing the bacterial grazers. Biomass accumulation by amoebae was significantly higher than that by nematodes. The nematodes respired up to 30-fold more CO
40343394|Fluorescent pseudomonads from banana rhizospheric soil were isolated and screened for the production of enzymes and hormones such as phosphatase, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase, protease, and antifungal metabolites. Of 95 isolates, 50 (52%) isolates solubilized tri-calcium phosphate (TCP), 63 (66%) isolates produced plant growth hormone IAA, 10 (11%) isolates exhibited ACC deaminase, and 23 (24%) isolates produced protease. Isolates were screened for antifungal activity toward phytopathogenic fungi. Gene-specific primers have identified the putative antibiotic producing isolates. These putative isolates were grown in the production media and production of antibiotics was confirmed by thinlayer chromatography (TLC) and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Genotypic analysis by BOX (bacterial repetitive BOX element)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) resulted into three distinct genomic clusters at a 50% similarity level and 62 distinct BOX profiles. Based on the sequence similarity of 16S rRNA and construction of subsequent phylogenetic tree analysis, isolates were designated as Pseudomonas monteilii, P. plecoglossicida, P. fluorescens, P. fulva, P. mosselii, P. aeruginosa, P. alcaligenes, and P. pseudoalcaligenes. Present study revealed the genetic and functional diversity among isolates of fluorescent pseudomonads associated with rhizospheric soil of banana and also identified P. monteilii as dominant species. The knowledge on genetic and functional diversity of fluorescent pseudomonads associated with banana rhizosphere is useful to understand their ecological role and for their utilization in sustainable agriculture.
4251407|Upon start-up of a rapid sand filter fed with groundwater containing Mn
4251299|The inability of many organisms to degrade pollutants at low concentrations is a problem when selecting inocula for bioremediation of sites with these low concentrations. Thus, a study was conducted to determine the effect of low concentrations of p-nitrophenol (PNP) on growth of four PNP-degrading bacteria and their abilities to metabolize low concentrations of the compound in culture and samples from an oligotrophic lake. PNP did not increase the growth rates of Flavobacterium sp. M4, Pseudomonas sp. K, Flavobacterium sp. M1, and Pseudomonas sp. SP3 at concentrations of less than 2, 4, 10, and 100 ng/ml, respectively, when it was the sole added carbon source in culture, but it stimulated multiplication at higher concentrations. In liquid culture with the nitro compound as sole added carbon source, the four bacteria extensively mineralized PNP at 50 and 100 ng/ml, and three of the four degraded much of the substrate at 25 ng/ml. Pseudomonas sp. SP3 mineralized more than 20% but the two Flavobacterium strains converted less than 10% of the substrate to CO
40343418|Wolbachia are maternally inherited endosymbiotic bacteria of invertebrates that can manipulate the reproductive systems of their arthropod hosts in a variety of ways. To establish a useful model system for investigating the mechanism of Wolbachia-inucs host feminization, we conducted the following series of experiments: (1) feminizing Wolbachia of the butterfly, Eurema hecabe, were transferred into cell cultures of the silkmoth, Bombyx mor, and (2) the transfected Wolbachia in cell cultures were inoculated into B. mori at four immature stages. Wolbachia were successfully transfected into the cell cultures and stably maintained for more than 1 year (>30 passages). However, none of the inoculated insects produced mature oocytes that were Wolbachia-positive. This finding was consistent with the fact that Wolbachia was not detected in individuals in subsequent generations. In contrast, Wolbachia were detected at relatively high frequencies (60-80% of individuals) in the somatic tissues of inoculated insects. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction revealed that the Wolbachia densities in the cultured cells were approximately tenfold higher than those in the native host E. hecabe. Among B. mori individuals inoculated at various developmental stages, those inoculated at early stages exhibited higher Wolbachia densities at the adult stage. The Wolbachia densities in individuals inoculated at the second-instar stage were comparable to those in intact E. hecabe. These results suggest that infection and/or proliferation of Wolbachia in germline cells are actively hindered by regulation in B. mori but feasible in somatic cells and that the Wolbachia densities in somatic tissues are regulated by the living host insects.
4250957|Microbial communities that developed on glass slides suspended in acid-polluted (pH = 2.9) and nonpolluted (pH = 6.5) but otherwise similar waters showed evidence of stress when suspended at the opposite station. Glucose incorporation was inhibited in both translocated communities, but the inhibition was not as severe and recovery of activity was faster for the acid-developed community as compared to the circumneutral community. The communities contained a substantially different set of members with little overlap. The range of pH values at which the members of the acid-developed community could function suggested that the members of that community were generalists, as opposed to narrowly constrained members of the community from the circumneutral station. Based on the proportion of test characters that received positive responses, the organisms from the acidic site were more general in their abilities (47.6% positive) as compared with the neutral counterparts (18.7% positive). The results support the concept that communities developed in extreme environments tend to be generalists, whereas those from mesic environments, due to the higher levels of competition present, tend to be specialists. Furthermore, the study of microbial communities in dynamic systems such as streams and reservoir inflows is facilitated by the use of solid surfaces which allow an assemblage of nontransient microbes to develop.
4251373|This paper synthesizes current ideas on the role of the microbial loop in carbon fluxes in the ocean and proposes some directions for future research. Organic matter flux into bacteria is highly variable, which can significantly influence the pathways of carbon flow in the ocean. A goal for future research is to elucidate the mechanistic bases of bacteria-organic matter coupling. This research should take into consideration the micrometer-scale distribution of bacteria and the composition, structure, and dynamics of the organic matter field in the bacterium's microhabitat. The ideas on the interactions of bacteria with the particulate organic phase need to be revised in view of recent findings of highly abundant, previously unknown particles ranging in size from nanometers to hundreds of micrometers. The "hot-spots" in the distribution of organic matter and remineralized nutrients can influence the rates as well as the direction of biogeochemical fluxes. Slow-to-degrade dissolved organic matter (DOM) may be produced because of loose bacteria-organic matter coupling resulting in DOM storage. Its use at a later time and place has profound implications for carbon fluxes and food web dynamics. A fundamental research need for the future is to understand the ecological interactions among the members of the microbial loop in an appropriate microhabitat context. While this goal was previously intractable, new molecular and optical techniques should make it possible to understand the biogeochemical activities of the microbial loop in terms of the ecology and evolution of pelagic microbial communities.
41489223|Our aim was to examine the effect of water stress on plant growth and development of two native plant species (Tetraclinis articulata and Crithmum maritimum) and on microbial community composition and activity in the rhizosphere soil, following the addition of an organic amendment, namely sugar beet residue (SBR), and/or the inoculation with an arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus, namely Glomus mosseae, in a non-sterile heavy metalpolluted soil. The AM inoculation did not have any significant effect on plant growth of both species. In T. articulata, SBR increased shoot growth, foliar P, total phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA), fungi-related PLFA, AM fungi-related neutral lipid fatty acid, bacterial grampositive/gram-negative PLFA ratio and the -glucosidase and dehydrogenase activities. SBR and AM inoculation increased phosphatase activity in T. articulata plants grown under drought conditions. In both plants, there was a synergistic effect between AM inoculation and SBR on mycorrhizal colonisation under drought conditions. In C. maritimum, the increase produced by the SBR on total amounts of PLFA, bacterial gram-positive-related PLFA and bacterial gram-negative-related PLFA was considerably higher under drought conditions. Our results suggest that the effectiveness of the amendment with regard to stimulating microbial communities and plant growth was largely limited by drought, particularly for plant species with a low degree of mycorrhizal colonisation.
4251312|We collected benthic bacterial production data measured by
41489093|To test the effect of humidity on the radiation resistance of Deinococcus radiodurans, air-dried cells were irradiated with germicidal 254 nm UV, and simulated environmental UV or -radiation and survival was compared to cells in suspension. It was observed that desiccated cells exhibited higher levels of resistance than cells in suspension toward UV or -radiation as well as after 85C heat shock. It was also shown that low relative humidity improves survival during long-term storage of desiccated D. radiodurans cells. It can be concluded that periods or environments in which cells exist in a dehydrated state are beneficial for D. radiodurans' survival exposed to various other stresses.
40605692|The effect of nutrient and inocula amendment in a bioremediation field trial using a nutrient-poor Antarctic soil chronically contaminated with hydrocarbons was tested. The analysis of the effects that the treatments caused in bacterial numbers and hydrocarbon removal was combined with the elucidation of the changes occurring on the bacterial community, by 16S rDNA-based terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) typing, and the detection of some of the genes involved in the catabolism of hydrocarbons. All treatments caused a significant increase in the number of bacteria able to grow on hydrocarbons and a significant decrease in the soil hydrocarbon content, as compared to the control. However, there were no significant differences between treatments. Comparison of the soil T-RFLP profiles indicated that there were changes in the structure and composition of bacterial communities during the bioremediation trial, although the communities in treated plots were highly similar irrespective of the treatment applied, and they had a similar temporal dynamics. These results showed that nutrient addition was the main factor contributing to the outcome of the bioremediation experiment. This was supported by the lack of evidence of the establishment of inoculated consortia in soils, since their characteristic electrophoretic peaks were only detectable in soil profiles at the beginning of the experiment. Genetic potential for naphthalene degradation, evidenced by detection of nahAc gene, was observed in all soil plots including the control. In treated plots, an increase in the detection of catechol degradation genes (nahH and catA) and in a key gene of denitrification (nosZ) was observed as well. These results indicate that treatments favored the degradation of aromatic hydrocarbons and probably stimulated denitrification, at least transiently. This mesocosm study shows that recovery of chronically contaminated Antarctic soils can be successfully accelerated using biostimulation with nutrients, and that this causes a change in the indigenous bacterial communities and in the genetic potential for hydrocarbon degradation.
4287694|Contamination of habitats with heavy metals has become a worldwide problem. We describe herein the analysis of lake sediment contaminated with high concentrations of copper as a consequence of mine milling disposal over a 100-year period. Copper concentrations in the sediment were found to vary with depth and ranged from 200 to 5500 ppm. Analysis of the microbial community with T-RFLP identified a minimum of 20 operational taxonomic units (OTU). T-RFLP analysis along a depth profile detected as many as nine shared OTUs across 15 centimeters, suggesting a conservation of community structure over this range. Only two genera, Arthrobacter and Ralstonia, were detected among 50 aerobic copper-resistant isolates cultivated on R2A, one of which (Ralstonia sp.) was characterized by the sequestration of copper, identified by electron diffraction scanning, in growing colonies. Scanning electron microscopy showed changes to the outer envelope of the cells when grown in the presence of copper. The copper-resistant Ralstonia isolates were also resistant to Ni, Cd, and Zn, showing two patterns of phenotypic resistant to these three metals in which either resistance to Zn or Ni was expressed in an isolate but never both.
25153155| The objectives of the research were to investigate short-term dynamics of bacterial populations in soil after a disturbance in the form of fresh organic matter incorporation and to investigate how these dynamics are linked to those of some environmental parameters. To reach these objectives, soil bacterial populations, mineral nitrogen, pH, and redox potential (ROP) were monitored daily for 1 month after incorporation of clover-grass (CG) plant material in microcosm experiments. Colony-forming units (CFUs) and direct microscopic counts of FDA-stained and FITC-stained bacteria increased immediately after incorporation of the plant material, dropped within 2 days, and fluctuated thereafter. Harmonics analysis demonstrated that there were significant wavelike fluctuations with three or four significant peaks within 1 month after incorporation of clover-grass material. Peaks in CFUs were 1-2 days ahead of those in direct counts. Ammonium (NH concentrations increased from the start of the experiments until nitrification commenced. Nitrate (NO) concentrations dropped immediately after plant incorporation, and then rose monotonically until the end of the experiments. There were no wavelike fluctuations in NH and NO concentrations, so that bacterial fluctuations could not be attributed to alternating mineral N shortages and sufficiencies. pH levels rose and declined with NH levels. ROP dropped shortly before NH concentrations rose, and increased before NH concentrations decreased; there were no regular fluctuations in ROP, so that temporary oxygen shortages may not have been responsible for the observed fluctuations in bacterial populations. Thus, for the first time, regular wavelike dynamics were demonstrated for bacterial populations after perturbation by addition of fresh organic matter to soil, and several potential reasons for the death phase of the fluctuations could be excluded from further consideration. 
23469190|Fecal samples of 100 healthy humans were tested for Staphylococcus aureus recovery. Fifteen samples (15 %) contained S. aureus, all methicillin-susceptible (MSSA), being one isolate/sample further studied. These 15 isolates were characterized by spa and agr typing as well as multilocus sequence typing. High diversity of spa types (n = 11) and sequences types (n = 8) was detected. Two S. aureus of lineages ST398 or ST133 were detected, and six isolates were ascribed to clonal complex 30 (CC30). Strains were susceptible to most of the 17 antimicrobial agents tested with exceptions: erythromycin/clindamycin (three strains, containing erm(C) and/or erm(A) + mph(C) genes) and tobramycin and mupirocin (one strain containing ant(4)-Ia + mup(A) genes). The presence of 18 staphylococcal enterotoxin genes was studied by PCR, and isolates were negative for lukF/lukS-PV genes, although strain ST133 harbored the lukD-lukE + lukM genes. Other virulence genes detected were (number of strains): tsst-1 (6), hla (15), hlb (9), hld (15), hlg (6), hlgv (9), cna (2), aur (14), and egc-like cluster (3). Analysis of immune evasion cluster genes showed six types, highlighting their absence in two strains of lineages ST133 and ST5. A high clonal diversity of MSSA strains was identified in the intestinal microbiota of healthy humans, being CC30 the most frequent one. This is the first report of MSSA ST133 and ST398 isolates in gut microbiota of healthy humans.
25256119|A rapid method for the simultaneous extraction of RNA and DNA from eukaryote plankton samples was developed in order to discriminate between indigenous active cells and signals from inactive or even dead organisms. The method was tested using samples from below the chemocline of an anoxic Danish fjord. The simple protocol yielded RNA and DNA of a purity suitable for amplification by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and PCR, respectively. We constructed an rRNA-derived and an rDNA-derived clone library to assess the composition of the microeukaryote assemblage under study and to identify physiologically active constituents of the community. We retrieved nearly 600 protistan target clones, which grouped into 84 different phylotypes (98% sequence similarity). Of these phylotypes, 27% occurred in both libraries, 25% exclusively in the rRNA library, and 48% exclusively in the rDNA library. Both libraries revealed good correspondence of the general community composition in terms of higher taxonomic ranks. They were dominated by anaerobic ciliates and heterotrophic stramenopile flagellates thriving below the fjord's chemocline. The high abundance of these bacterivore organisms points out their role as a major trophic link in anoxic marine systems. A comparison of the two libraries identified phototrophic dinoflagellates, "uncultured marine alveolates group I," and different parasites, which were exclusively detected with the rDNA-derived library, as nonindigenous members of the anoxic microeukaryote community under study.
4251336|A simple agar plating method for the description of microbial communities is described. This method is based on the quantification of the numbers of bacterial colonies in 6-7 age-based classes as they appear on agar media over a period of 6-10 days. The method can be used to quantify microbial communities in different habitats (roots and soil) and can be related to the ecophysiology of the microbial communities present. Significant differences in distribution patterns were found in time and depth on the roots. In general, as roots matured, the microbial communities changed from one dominated by r-strategists to one that was more distributed towards K-strategists. The soil had the greatest percentage of organisms that could be characterized as K-strategists. The method was also used to compare microbial communities on wheat roots and in soil in both the field and in microcosms in the glasshouse. In general, the method enabled differentiation between r- and K-strategists in environmental samples, something that could not be done using an ecophysiological index (a modification of the Shannon diversity index) or total bacterial numbers alone.
4251651| We established a budget of organic carbon utilization of a starved heterotrophic nanoflagellate, Pteridomonas danica, incubated in batch cultures with Escherichia coli as model prey. The cultures were sampled periodically for biomass determinations and total organic carbon dynamics: total organic carbon, total organic carbon <1 m, and dissolved organic carbon (DOC, <0.2 m). During the 22 h incubation period, P. danica underwent biovolume variations of 3.2-fold. Gross growth efficiency was 22% and net growth efficiency 40%. P. danica respired 33% and egested 44% of the ingested E. coli carbon during lag and exponential growth phases. The form of the organic carbon egested varied. Of the total ingested carbon, 9% was egested in the form of DOC and occurred mainly during the exponential growth phase; 35% was egested in the form of particulate organic carbon (POC), ranging in size from 0.2 to 1 m, and took place during the lag phase. P. danica could have reingested as much of 58% of this previously produced POC during the exponential growth phase as food scarcity increased. We concluded that POC egestion by flagellates could represent a significant source of submicrometric particles and colloidal organic matter. In addition, flagellate reingestion of egested POC could play a nonnegligible role in the microbial food web. Finally, the methodology reported in this study has proved to be a useful tool in the study of carbon metabolism in aquatic microorganisms. 
41489075|A primary tropical peat swamp forest is a unique ecosystem characterized by long-term accumulation of plant biomass under high humidity and acidic water-logged conditions, and is regarded as an important terrestrial carbon sink in the biosphere. In this study, the microbial community in the surface peat layer in Pru Toh Daeng, a primary tropical peat swamp forest, was studied for its phylogenetic diversity and metabolic potential using direct shotgun pyrosequencing of environmental DNA, together with analysis of 16S rRNA gene library and key metabolic genes. The community was dominated by aerobic microbes together with a significant number of facultative and anaerobic microbial taxa. Acidobacteria and diverse Proteobacteria (mainly Alphaproteobacteria) constituted the major phylogenetic groups, with minor representation of archaea and eukaryotic microbes. Based on comparative pyrosequencing dataset analysis, the microbial community showed high metabolic versatility of plant polysaccharide decomposition. A variety of glycosyl hydrolases targeting lignocellulosic and starch-based polysaccharides from diverse bacterial phyla were annotated, originating mostly from Proteobacteria, and Acidobacteria together with Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Chlamydiae/Verrucomicrobia, and Actinobacteria, suggesting the key role of these microbes in plant biomass degradation. Pyrosequencing dataset annotation and direct mcrA gene analysis indicated the presence of methanogenic archaea clustering in the order Methanomicrobiales, suggesting the potential on partial carbon flux from biomass degradation through methanogenesis. The insights on the peat swamp microbial assemblage thus provide a valuable approach for further study on biogeochemical processes in this unique ecosystem.
4287639| The cyanobacteria belonging to the genus Nostoc fix atmospheric nitrogen, both as free-living organisms and in symbiotic associations with a wide range of hosts, including bryophytes, gymnosperms (cycads), the small water fern Azolla (Pteridophyte), the angiosperm genus Gunnera, and fungi (lichens). The Gunnera-Nostoc symbiosis is the only one that involves a flowering plant. In Chile, 12 species of Gunnera have been described with a broad distribution in the temperate region. We examined the genetic diversity of Nostoc symbionts from three populations of Gunnera tinctoria from Abtao, Chilo Island, southern Chile, and microsymbionts from other two species of Gunnera from southern Chile, using PCR amplification of STRR (short tandemly repeated repetitive) sequences of the Nostoc infected tissue. To our knowledge, this is the first report of PCR fingerprinting obtained directly from symbiotic tissue of Gunnera. Genetic analyses revealed that Nostoc symbionts exhibit important genetic diversity among host plants, both within and between Gunnera populations. It was also found that only one Nostoc strain, or closely related strains, established symbiosis with an individual plant host. 
41693857|Sooty blotch and flyspeck (SBFS) is a complex of about 80 fungal species that blemish the surface of apple fruit in humid regions worldwide. The dark colonies become visible in mid-to late summer, reducing the value of fresh fruit. Although many SBFS species can co-occur in the same orchard and even on the same apple, little is known about temporal patterns of these species, including the timing of colony appearance. To test the hypothesis that colonies of SBFS species appear on apples at characteristic times during the growing season, 50 apples were monitored weekly at three Iowa orchards in 2006 and six orchards in 2007 and 2008. However, a mean of 24.3 apples per orchard was assessed at harvest because of apple drop throughout the season. Colonies were marked with colored pens as they appeared. After harvest and after storage of apples at 2 C for 3 months, SBFS colonies on each fruit were counted and classified by morphology, and a representative subset of colonies was excised from the fruit and preserved on dried peels for species identification using rDNA. Seventeen species were identified. Stomiopeltis spp. RS1 and RS2 appeared on apples 10 to 14 days before other SBFS taxa. Dissoconium aciculare was generally the last species to appear on apple fruit, and it continued to appear during postharvest storage. The most prevalent taxa in Iowa orchards were also the most abundant. Diversity of SBFS fungi in an orchard was positively correlated with cumulative hours of surface wetness hours due to rainfall or dew, which is believed to favor growth of SBFS fungi. Species-specific information about temporal patterns of appearance on apple fruit may lead to improved SBFS management strategies.
25153290|The pulp and paper industry largely depends on the biodegradation activities of heterotrophic bacteria to remove organic contaminants in wastewater prior to discharge. Our recent discovery of extensive cyanobacterial communities in pulp and paper waste treatment systems led us to investigate the potential impacts of cyanobacterial exudates on growth and biodegradation efficiency of three bacterial heterotrophs. Each of the three assessed bacteria represented different taxa commonly found in pulp and paper waste treatment systems: a fluorescent Pseudomonad, an Ancylobacter aquaticus strain, and a Ralstonia eutropha strain. They were capable of utilizing phenol, dichloroacetate (DCA), or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), respectively. Exudates from all 12 cyanobacterial strains studied supported the growth of each bacterial strain to varying degrees. Maximum biomass of two bacterial strains positively correlated with the total organic carbon content of exudate treatments. The combined availability of exudate and a known growth substrate (i.e., phenol, DCA, or 2,4-D) generally had a synergistic affect on the growth of the Ancylobacter strain, whereas mixed effects were seen on the other two strains. Exudates from four representative cyanobacterial strains were assessed for their impacts on phenol and DCA biodegradation by the Pseudomonas and Ancylobacter strains, respectively. Exudates from three of the four cyanobacterial taxa repressed phenol biodegradation, but enhanced DCA biodegradation. These dissimilar impacts of cyanobacterial exudates on bacterial degradation of contaminants suggest a species-specific association, as well as a significant role for cyanobacteria during the biological treatment of wastewaters.
40802272|The deterioration of the stone built and sculptural heritage has prompted the search and development of novel consolidation/protection treatments that can overcome the limitations of traditional ones. Attention has been drawn to bioconservation, particularly bacterial carbonatogenesis (i.e. bacterially induced calcium carbonate precipitation), as a new environmentally friendly effective conservation strategy, especially suitable for carbonate stones. Here, we study the effects of an in situ bacterial bioconsolidation treatment applied on porous limestone (calcarenite) in the sixteenth century San Jernimo Monastery in Granada, Spain. The treatment consisted in the application of a nutritional solution (with and without Myxococcus xanthus inoculation) on decayed calcarenite stone blocks. The treatment promoted the development of heterotrophic bacteria able to induce carbonatogenesis. Both the consolidation effect of the treatment and the response of the culturable bacterial community present in the decayed stone were evaluated. A significant surface strengthening (consolidation) of the stone, without altering its surface appearance or inducing any detrimental side effect, was achieved upon application of the nutritional solution. The treatment efficacy was independent of the presence of M. xanthus (which is known as an effective carbonatogenic bacterium). The genetic diversity of 116 bacterial strains isolated from the stone, of which 113 strains showed carbonatogenic activity, was analysed by repetitive extragenic palindromic-polymerase chain reaction (REP-PCR) and 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The strains were distributed into 31 groups on the basis of their REPPCR patterns, and a representative strain of each group was subjected to 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Analysis of these sequences showed that isolates belong to a wide variety of phylogenetic groups being closely related to species of 15 genera within the Proteobacteria, Firmicutes and the Actinobacteria. This study shows that the abundant carbonatogenic bacteria present in the decayed stone are able to effectively consolidate the degraded stone by producing new calcite (and vaterite) cement if an adequate nutritional solution is used. The implications of these results for the conservation of cultural heritage are discussed.
4250980| The interrelationship between soil microorganisms and soil organic carbon was studied on an agricultural and on a forest chronosequence of open-pit mine reclamation soils. Thirty years after reclamation, soil carbon levels of 0.8% on the agricultural sites and 1.7% on the forest sites (A-horizon) were reached. Microbial biomass rose very fast to levels characteristic of undisturbed soils. Microbial carbon ( C
25153434|Flavobacterium spp. isolates have been identified in diverse biofilm structures, but the mechanism of adherence has not been elucidated. The absence of conventional biofilm-associated structures such as fimbriae, pili, and flagella suggest that surface hydrophobicity, and/or autoaggregation and coaggregation may play an important role in adherence and biofilm formation. The biofilm-forming capacity of 29 Flavobacterium johnsoniae-like isolates obtained from South African aquaculture systems was assessed using microtiter plate assays. The role of hydrophobicity [salting aggregation test (SAT) and bacterial adherence to hydrocarbons (BATH) assays], autoaggregation, and coaggregation on biofilm formation by Flavobacterium spp. was also investigated, while biofilm structure was examined using flow cells and microscopy. All isolates displayed a hydrophilic nature, but showed varying levels of adherence in microtiter assays. Significant negative correlations were observed between adherence and biofilm-forming capacity in nutrient-poor medium at 26C and BATH hydrophobicity and motility, respectively. Isolates displayed strain-to-strain variation in their autoaggregation indices and their abilities to coaggregate with various Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms. Microcolony and/or biofilm development were observed microscopically, and flavobacterial isolates displayed stronger biofilm structures and interaction with a Vibrio spp. isolate than with an Aeromonas hydrophila isolate. The role of extracellular polysaccharides and specific outer membrane proteins will have to be examined to reveal mechanisms of adherence and coaggregation employed by biofilm-forming F. johnsoniae-like strains.
41489058|Phototrophic biofilm formation and dynamics result from the interaction between several parameters, including chemical interactions. Some of the secondary metabolites released by microalgae can influence the composition of benthic communities. We determined the effects of decadienal (DD), a polyunsaturated aldehyde produced by diatoms, on a benthic diatom, Fistulifera saprophila. At 5 gml, DD reduced cell motility by 88% and cell adhesion to the substrate by 91%. The effects occurred in less than 30 min. Using a fluorescent probe, we showed that DD could induce nitric oxide (NO) accumulation in F. saprophila cells. Cells exposed to a NO donor presented reduced adhesion and motility, which suggests the involvement of this cellular messenger in the mode of action of DD. Short-term experiments in microcosms showed that the presence of DD on a substrate strongly inhibited biofilm formation. Moreover, when the biofilm was bispecific, DD modified the proportion of the two species present. This indicates that the presence of DDproducing diatoms in a biofilm may favor the presence of certain microalgae at the expense of others. In addition to the effects on adhesion and motility, DD induced the formation of aggregates of F. saprophila cells. Aggregation was independent of NO production. Complementary experiments were performed with two other benthic diatoms, Nitzschia palea and Mayamea atomus. They showed that the effects of DD on adhesion and aggregation were species-dependent.
23361668|Cultivation and molecular-based approaches were used to study microbial diversity in two Chilean marine sediments contaminated with high (835 ppm) and very high concentrations of copper (1,533 ppm). The diversity of cultivable bacteria resistant to copper was studied at oxic and anoxic conditions, focusing on sulfate-, thiosulfate-, and iron-reducing bacteria. For both sediments, the cultivable bacteria isolated at oxic conditions were mostly affiliated to the genus Bacillus, while at anoxic conditions the majority of the cultivable bacteria found were closely related to members of the genera Desulfovibrio, Sphingomonas, and Virgibacillus. Copper resistance was between 100 and 400 ppm, with the exception of a strain affiliated to members of the genus Desulfuromonas, which was resistant up to 1,000 ppm of copper. In parallel, cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA was performed to study the total bacterial diversity in the sediments. A weak correlation was observed between the isolated strains and the 16S rRNA operational taxonomic units detected. The presence of copper resistance genes (copA, cusA, and pcoA) was tested for all the strains isolated; only copA was detected in a few isolates, suggesting that other copper resistance mechanisms could be used by the bacteria in those highly copper-contaminated sediments.
41489060|An important source of new nitrogen in salt marsh ecosystems is microbial diazotrophy (nitrogen fixation). The diazotroph assemblages associated with the rhizo spheres (sediment directly affected by the roots) of salt marsh plants are highly diverse, somewhat stable, and consist mainly of novel organisms. In Crab Haul Creek Basin, North Inlet, SC, the distribution of plant types into discrete zones is dictated by relatively minor differences in marsh elevation and it was hypothesized that the biotic and abiotic properties of the plant zones would also dictate the composition of the rhizosphere diazotroph assemblages. Over a period of 1 year, rhizosphere sediments were collected from monotypic stands of the black needlerush, Juncus roemerianus, the common pickleweed, Salicornia virginica, the short and tall growth forms of the smooth cordgrass Spartina alterniflora, and a mixed zone of cooccurring S. virginica and short form, S. alterntflora. DNA was extracted, purified and nifH sequences PCR amplified for denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis to determine the composition of the diazotroph assemblages. The diazotroph assemblages were strongly influenced by season, abiotic environmental parameters and plant host. Sediment chemistry and nitrogen fixation activity were also significantly influenced by seasonal changes. DGGE bands that significantly affected seasonal and zone specific clustering were identified and most of these sequences were from novel diazotrophs, unaffiliated with any previously described organisms. At least one third of the recovered nifli sequences were from a diverse assemblage of Chlorobia, and -, -, -and -Proteobacteria. Diazotrophs that occurred throughout the growing season and among all zones (frequently detected) were also mostly novel. These significant sequences indicated that diazotrophs driving the structure of the assemblages were diverse, versatile, and some were ubiquitous while others were seasonally responsive. Several ubiquitous sequences were closely related to sequences of actively N fixing diazotrophs previously recovered from this system. These sequences from ubiquitous and versatile organisms likely indicate the diazotrophs in these rhizosphere assemblages that significantly contribute to ecosystem function.
4250729|Honeybees affected by a disorder resembling the classical "May disease" in southwestern France contained numerous helical, motile organisms in their digestive tracts and hemolymph. Two strains of the organism (B31 and B39) were cultured and triply cloned in the BSR spiroplasma medium. The electrophoretic patterns of spiroplasmal proteins in 1- and 2-dimensional polyacrylamide gels were similar to those of group IV spiroplasmas F1 and F2, cultured previously from flower surfaces in France. The organism could be introduced into adult bees by injection or food ingestion at various stages after emergence. Agent administered by either route multiplied to high titers in the hemolymph and killed the bees. Both multiplication and the induced lethal effect of the agent could be prevented by tetracycline but not penicillin. Spiroplasmas that were nearly identical to the B31 and B39 strains were also recovered from the surface of flowers collected within the area visited by the bees from the diseased hives.
41489084|Ecologically important microbes other than filamentous fungi can be housed within the fungal-transport structures (mycangia) of Dendroctonus bark beetles. The yeast Ogataea pini (Saccharomycetales: Saccharomycetaceae) was isolated from the mycangia of western pine beetle (Dendroctonus brevicomis) populations in northern Arizona (USA) with a frequency of 56%. We performed a series of in vitro assays to test whether volatile organic compounds produced by O. pini affected radial growth rates of mutualistic and antagonistic species of filamentous fungi that are commonly found in association with the beetle including Entomocorticium sp. B, Ophiostoma minus, Beauvaria bassiana, and an Aspergillus sp. We determined the compounds O. pini produced when grown on 2% malt extract agar using a gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) analysis of headspace volatiles. Volatiles produced by O. pini on artificial media significantly enhanced the growth of the mutualistic Entomocorticium sp. B, and inhibited growth of the entomopathogenic fungus B. bassiana. GC/MS revealed that O. pini produced ethanol, carbon disulfide (CS), and -3-carene in headspace. The results of these studies implicate O. pini as an important component in D. brevicomis community ecology, and we introduce multiple hypotheses for future tests of the effects of yeasts in the symbiont assemblages associated with Dendroctonus bark beetles.
4251206|Bacteria abound with conjugative and nonconjugative plasmids that often carry genes determining a number of environmental adaptations. Plasmids may also encode genes that enable them to transmit themselves infectiously to new host cells, by conjugation or mobilization. The question of whether plasmids can be maintained in a bacterial community as parasitic DNA, that is, while conferring a selective disadvantage to their host, serves as a basic hypothesis in theoretical studies of the population biology of plasmids. The conditions necessary for the establishment and maintenance of plasmids have been determined analytically for the simplest possible models. Based on these a priori conditions, on some reconsiderations and extensions of these models, and on recent estimates of transfer rates of liquid and surface bacterial populations, it will be argued that within a bacterial population, a parasitic lifestyle is unlikely for most naturally occurring plasmids. This result raises anew the problem of how cryptic plasmids are maintained and why plasmids encode costly and elaborate genes for horizontal transfer.
41692856|A total of 1,151 endophytic fungal isolates representing 29 taxa were isolated from symptom-less, surfacesterilized segments of stem, leaf, petiole, and root of Tinospora cordifolia which had been collected at three locations differing in air pollution in India (Ramnagar, Banaras Hindu University, Maruadih) during three seasons (summer, monsoon, winter). Endophytes were most abundant in leaf tissues (29.38% of all isolates), followed by stem (18.16%), petiole (10.11 %), and root segments (6.27%). The frequency of colonization (CF) varied more strongly among tissue type and season than location. CF was maximal during monsoon followed by winter and minimal during summer. A species each of Guignardia and Acremonium could only be isolated from leaves, whereas all other species occurred in at least two tissue types. Penicillium spp. were dominant (12.62% of all isolates), followed by Colletotrichum spp. (11.8%), Cladosporium spp. (8.9%), Chaetomium globosum (8.1%), Curvularia spp. (7.6%), and Alternaria alternata (6.8%). Species richness, evenness, and the Shannon-Wiener diversity index followed the same pattern as the CF with the tissue type and the season having the greatest effect on these indices, suggesting that tissue type and season are more influential than geography. Dissimilarity of endophyte communities in regards to species composition was highest among seasons. Colletotrichum linicola occurred almost exclusively in winter, Fusarium oxysporum only in winter and summer but never during monsoon and Curvularia lunata only in winter and during monsoon but never in summer. Emissions of NO, SO, and suspended particulate matter were negatively correlated with the CF. Ozone did not have any effect. The frequency of most species declined with increasing pollution, but some showed an opposite trend (e.g., Aspergillus flavus). Five unnamed taxa (sterile mycelia) were identified as Aspergillus tubingensis, Colletotrichum crassipes, Botryosphaeria rhodina, Aspergillus sydowii, and Pseudofusicoccum violaceum, using molecular tools. Fifteen of the 29 endophyte taxa exhibited antibacterial activity. B. rhodina (JQ031157) and C. globosum showed activity against all bacterial human pathogens tested, with the former showing higher activity than the latter.
25152969| In 1991 and 1992, the Latin American epidemic strain of Vibrio cholerae O1 was isolated from ballast water, bilge water, and sewage taken from cargo ships docked in Mobile Bay, Alabama. The findings raised questions regarding the organism's ability to survive long-term aboard ships and to withstand the exchange of ballast at sea. The effects of temperature (6, 18, and 30C) and salinity (8, 16, and 32 ppt) on survival of V. cholerae O1 strains C6706 and C6707 and a ballast water isolate in sterile seawater were determined. The ballast water isolate, which had a D-value (number of days required to produce a 1 log reduction in colony-forming units per milliliter) of 240 days at 18C, 32 ppt salinity, had the longest survival time. The range of D-values was 36-240 days at 18C, 60-120 days at 30C, and 5-20 days at 6C. In sterile seawater short-term survival was temperature dependent, whereas long-term survival was salinity dependent. In raw seawater, survival time of the ballast water isolate was reduced to 12-27 days, implying the existence of biological influences. As also shown in our previous work, the organism appeared to be able to survive for several months under relatively stable conditions in ballast water aboard ships; however, viability may be reduced to only a few weeks after the organism is introduced into estuarine or marine environments. 
4251690|A simulation model was constructed in which two model bacteria competed with each other in a closed system to which periodic substrate additions were made. One bacterium responded to starvation by entering into a dormant state characterized by a decreased death rate; the other bacterium did not make this transition. The periodicity of substrate addition was varied, and the magnitude of selection for one bacterial type was calculated. For model parameters typical of those measured in Escherichia coli, positive selection for the bacterium capable of the starvation response only occurred if the time interval of substrate addition exceeded 54 times the minimum doubling time of the bacterium. The magnitude of the selection coefficient was most sensitive to two model parameters: the time constant for conversion of dormant cells back to actively growing ones, and the magnitude of the death rate of cells which did not undergo the starvation response.
25153175|Field-collected specimens of glossiphoniid leeches, Torix tagoi, Torix tukubana, Hemiclepsis marginata, and Hemiclepsis japonica, were surveyed for Rickettsia infection by using a diagnostic PCR assay. Rickettsia was detected in 96% (69/72) of T. tagoi, 83% (24/29) of T. tukubana, 29% (33/113) of H. marginata, and 0% (0/30) of H. japonica. The frequencies of Rickettsia infection were stably maintained in different seasons. In H. marginata and T. tukubana, distant local populations exhibited remarkably different frequencies of Rickettsia infection. Eggs carried by infected females of T. tagoi and H. marginata were all Rickettsia-positive, indicating nearly 100% vertical transmission. Analysis of 16S rDNA sequences revealed that phylogenetic relationship of the leech-associated Rickettsia reflected the specific and populational divisions of the host leeches. However, circumstantial lines of evidence strongly suggested that horizontal transmission of Rickettsia must have occurred in the ancestors of these leeches. In T. tagoi and T. tukubana, infected individuals were remarkably larger in size than uninfected individuals, whereas in H. marginata, infected and uninfected individuals were almost comparable in size. This study first provides information on ecological aspects of leech-bone endocellular bacteria of the genus Rickettsia. On the basis of these data, we discuss possible mechanisms whereby Rickettsia infection is maintained in natural populations of these leeches in the freshwater ecosystem.
4251665| We examined the distribution of two dehydroabietic acid-degrading bacteria, Pseudomonas abietaniphila BKME-9 and Zoogloea resiniphila DhA-35, in biotreatment systems for pulp and paper mill effluents (PPMEs) using PCR assays. These two bacteria were first isolated from two PPME biotreatment systems and can degrade both dehydroabietic acid (DhA) and other abietane resin acids. We also examined the distribution of a catabolic gene, ditA1, encoding the  subunit of an aromatic ring-hydroxylating dioxygenase involved in DhA degradation by BKME-9. PCR primers specific for the 16S rDNA of BKME-9 and of DhA-35 and specific for ditA1 were used. Among 3 laboratory- and 17 full-scale PPME biotreatment systems, 10 contained phylotype BKME-9, 3 contained phylotype DhA-35, and 11 contained ditA1, indicating the wider distribution of phylotype BKME-9 than of phylotype DhA-35. Both phylotype BKME-9 and ditA1 were detected in the biotreatment system from which BKME-9 was originally isolated in 1994, suggesting the persistance of BKME-9 in that biotreatment system. The detection limit of the PCR assay was one cell per PCR reaction, which corresponds to one BKME-9 cell per 6 10
40343439|Sediment input to the Illinois River has drastically decreased river depth and reduced habitats for aquatic organisms. Dredging is being used to remove sediment from the Illinois River, and the dredged sediment is being applied to the surface of a brownfield site in Chicago with the goal of revegetating the site. In order to determine the effects of this drastic habitat change on sediment microbial communities, we examined sediment physical, chemical, and microbial characteristics at the time of sediment application to the soil surface as well as 1 and 2 years after application. Microbial community biomass was determined by measurement of lipid phosphate. Microbial community composition was assessed using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of 16S rRNA genes, and clone library sequencing of 16S rRNA genes. Results indicated that the moisture content, organic carbon, and total nitrogen content of the sediment all decreased over time. Total microbial biomass did not change over the course of the study, but there were significant changes in the composition of the microbial communities. PLFA analysis revealed relative increases in fungi, actinomycetes, and Gram positive bacteria. T-RFLP analysis indicated a significant shift in bacterial community composition within 1 year of application, and clone library analysis revealed relative increases in Proteobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes, and Bacteriodetes and relative decreases in Acidobacteria, Spirochaetes, and Planctomycetes. These results provide insight into microbial community shifts following land application of dredged sediment.
25152995| Protistan community grazing rates upon both bacterioplankton and autotrophic picoplankton were estimated using fluorescently-labeled prey and by measurement of extracellular hydrolysis of 4-methylumbelliferyl (MUF) -N-acetylglucosaminide in a eutrophic reservoir and an oligo-mesotrophic lake during phytoplankton blooms. In addition, enzyme methods were optimized in bacterivorous flagellate cultures by two enzyme assays, based on fluorometric detection of protistan digestive activity, which were compared and calibrated independently against flagellate bacterivory. Enzymatic hydrolyses of MUF -N,N,N-triacetylchitotriose and MUF -N-acetylglucosaminide were measured in cell-free (sonicated) and whole-cell (unsonicated) samples. The hydrolysis of both substrates, using the whole-cell enzyme assay at in situ pH, was correlated significantly with total grazing rate of Bodo saltans. Thus the whole-cell enzyme assay with MUF -N-acetylglucosaminide was used for freshwater samples. High-affinity (
4250646| Digestive tracts of abyssal scavenging amphipods and a deep-sea holothurian were examined for the presence of intestinal microflora capable of rapid proliferation under in situ pressures of 430 to 520 atmospheres (atm) and temperatures of 3-5C. For two amphipod specimens, population doubling times of 5 and 6 hours were observed under in situ conditions, compared to 8 and 6 hours, respectively, at 1 atm. Growth enhancement under pressure was related inversely to initial population size and directly to concentration of available nutrient. In the case of the deposit-feeding holothurian, attached bacteria scraped from the intestinal lining showed a doubling time, under pressure, of 11 hours, compared to 36 hours for transient sediment bacteria that comprised the gut contents. These data suggest that deep-sea animals possess a commensal gut flora capable of responding to increased nutrient levels, via feeding of the host, without inhibition by the elevated hydrostatic pressures encountered in the deep ocean environment. 
40802182|Antibiotic-associated diarrhea (AAD) is associated with altered intestinal microflora and other symptoms that may lead to possibly death. In critically ill patients, diarrhea increases rates of morbimortality. Assessing diarrhea risks is thus important for clinicians. For this reason, we conducted a hypothesis-generating study focused on AAD to provide insight into methods of prevention. We evaluated the hypothesis of predisposing factors within the resident intestinal microbiota in a cohort of outpatients receiving antibiotherapy. Among the pool of tested variables, only those related to bacterial 16S rRNA genes were found to be relevant. Complex statistical analyses provided further information: amid the bacteria 16S rRNA genes, eight were determined to be essential for diarrhea predisposition and characterized from the most important to the least. Using these markers, AAD risk could be estimated with an error of 2%. This molecular analysis offers new perspectives for clinical applications at the level of prevention.
23469195|We investigated how conversion from conventional agriculture to organic management affected the structure and biogeochemical function of soil microbial communities. We hypothesized the following. (1) Changing agricultural management practices will alter soil microbial community structure driven by increasing microbial diversity in organic management. (2) Organically managed soil microbial communities will mineralize more N and will also mineralize more N in response to substrate addition than conventionally managed soil communities. (3) Microbial communities under organic management will be more efficient and respire less added C. Soils from organically and conventionally managed agroecosystems were incubated with and without glucose ( 13 C) additions at constant soil moisture. We extracted soil genomic DNA before and after incubation for TRFLP community fingerprinting of soil bacteria and fungi. We measured soil C and N pools before and after incubation, and we tracked total C respired and N mineralized at several points during the incubation. Twenty years of organic management altered soil bacterial and fungal community structure compared to continuous conventional management with the bacterial differences caused primarily by a large increase in diversity. Organically managed soils mineralized twice as much NO 3  as conventionally managed ones (44 vs. 23 g N/g soil, respectively) and increased mineralization when labile C was added. There was no difference in respiration, but organically managed soils had larger pools of C suggesting greater efficiency in terms of respiration per unit soil C. These results indicate that the organic management induced a change in community composition resulting in a more diverse community with enhanced activity towards labile substrates and greater capacity to mineralize N.
25256244|Total 427 yeast strains from seawater, sediments, mud of salterns, guts of the marine fish, and marine algae were obtained. After inulinase activity of the yeast cultures was estimated, we found that four strains (OUC1, G7a, OUC2, and G7a1) of the marine yeasts grown in the medium with inulin could secrete a large amount of inulinase into the medium. The results of routine identification and molecular methods show that they belong to Pichia guilliermondii OUC1, Cryptococcus aureus G7a, Yarrowia lipolytica OUC2, and Debaryomyces hansenii G7a1, respectively. The optimal pHs of inulinase activity produced by them were 6.0, 5.0, 5.0, and 5.0, respectively, while the optimal temperatures of inulinase activity produced by them were 60, 50, 60, and 50C, respectively. A large amount of monosaccharides and a trace amount of oligosaccharides were detected after the hydrolysis by the crude inulinase produced by P. guilliermondii OUC1, indicating that the crude inulinase had a high exoinulinase activity while a large amount of monosaccharides and oligosaccharides were detected after inulin hydrolysis by the crude inulinase produced both by C. aureus G7a and D. hansenii G7a1. However, no monosaccharides and disaccharides were detected after inulin hydrolysis by the crude inulinase produced by Y. lipolytica OUC2, suggesting that the crude inulinase had no exoinulinase activity.
4250710|Experimental studies of a microbial food chain involving organic carbon substrates, Enterobacter aerogenes, and ciliate protozoans Paramecium primaurelia and Didinium nasutum were conducted in stirred, aerated batch cultures. Quantitative measurements were made of organic carbon levels and of cell numbers, mean cell volumes, and total biovolumes for all three microbial populations. A mathematical model based on Monod kinetics was developed to describe this four-trophic level predator-prey system. The model was formulated in terms of biovolume, which is the product of cell numbers and mean cell size, and includes terms for bio-volume decay. Batch culture data were used to derive parameter values, and model simulations were compared to experimental results. Despite the significance of Paramecium-Didinium studies in ecological literature, the entire food chain has not been previously studied or modeled.
4250488| The joint effects of growth temperature, incubation temperature, and molybdenum concentration on the nitrogen fixation rate of Anabaena cylindrica were determined using the acetylene-reduction technique. The nitrogen-fixation response to increased molybdenum concentration varied among three growth temperatures (15, 23, and 30 C). The pattern of rate change was similar within a growth temperature but increased overall in magnitude with the three incubation temperatures (also 15, 23, and 30 C). The maximum rate of nitrogen fixation occurred at 30C regardless of previous growth temperature. The minimum molybdenum concentration necessary to yield substantial acetylene reduction varied with growth temperature: at 15C, 15 g l
41693852|Mining of pyrite minerals is a major environmental issue involving both biological and geochemical processes. Here we present a study of an artificial lake of a former uranium open pit mine with the aim to connect the chemistry and bacterial community composition (454-pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA genes) in the stratified water column. A shift in the water chemistry from oxic conditions in the epilimnion to anoxic, alkaline, and metal and sulfiderich conditions in the hypolimnion was corresponded by a strong shift in the bacterial community, with few shared operational taxonomic units (OTU) between the water layers. The epilimnetic bacterial community of the lake (~20 years old) showed similarities to other temperate freshwater lakes, while the hypolimnetic bacterial community showed similarity to extreme chemical environments. The epilimnetic bacterial community had dominance of Actinobacteria and Betaproteobacteria. The hypolimnion displayed a higher bacterial diversity and was dominated by the phototrophic green sulphur bacterium of the genus Chlorobium (ca. 40 % of the total community). Deltaproteobacteria were only represented in the hypolimnion and the most abundant OTUs were affiliated with ferric iron and sulfate reducers of the genus Geobacter and Desulfobulbus, respectively. The chemistry is clearly controlling, especially the hypolimnetic, bacterial community but the community composition also indicates that the bacteria are involved in metal cycling in the lake.
4251062|Ruminal microbial populations and fermentation products were compared between two ruminally cannulated bison (375 kg) and two ruminally cannulated Hereford steers (567 kg) on alfalfa or prairie hay diets. Differential media were used to enumerate carbohydrate-specific bacterial subgroups. Voluntary dry matter intake was higher (P = 0.006) for cattle than for bison fed alfalfa, but prairie hay intake was not different (P = 0.16) between the two species. Volatile fatty acid concentrations, pH, and ruminal ammonia were similar between bison and cattle on both diets. Total anaerobic bacteria and xylanolytic bacterial counts were higher (P < 0.02) in bison than in cattle fed alfalfa. However, with the prairie hay diet, no differences in bacterial counts on any medium were observed between ruminant species. Both bison and cattle possessed a mixed A-B protozoan population with nearly identical protozoan numbers and distribution of genera. The similarities between bison and cattle consuming either high- or low-quality forage suggest that any differences in putative forage digestibility between the species are not due to differences in microbial counts.
41489054|Geochemical researches at Lake Pavin, a lowsulfate-containing freshwater lake, suggest that the dominant biogeochemical processes are iron and sulfate reduction, and methanogenesis. Although the sulfur cycle is one of the main active element cycles in this lake, little is known about the sulfate-reducer and sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. The aim of this study was to assess the vertical distribution of these microbes and their diversities and to test the hypothesis suggesting that only few SRP populations are involved in dissimilatory sulfate reduction and that Epsilonproteobacteria are the likely key players in the oxidative phase of sulfur cycle by using a PCR aprA gene-based approach in comparison with a 16S rRNA gene-based analysis. The results support this hypothesis. Finally, this preliminary work points strongly the likelihood of novel metabolic processes upon the availability of sulfate and other electron acceptors.
25153299|It has been clearly established that phytopathogenic fungi, bacteria, and viruses exert biotic stresses on plants. Much less is known, however, about the interactions between enological species of yeast and their host plants. In a previous study, we described how Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the most common enological yeast, can act as a grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) pathogen, causing growth retardation or plant death. In the present in vitro study on 11 strains of yeast belonging to different genera, which often occur on the surfaces of vineyard grapes and V. vinifera, a link was found to exist between strain phytopathogenecity and pseudohyphal growth habits and/or endopolygalacturonase activity. The results obtained here are consistent with earlier findings showing that the phytopathogenicity of yeast strains depends on the filamentous growth process, and show that endopolygalacturonase alone is not responsible for the invasion of plants tissues. The mechanisms observed here may be of significant ecological importance and may help to explain the long periods of yeast survival found to occur in vineyards.
41693862|From spring to autumn, heavy Microcystis blooms always occur in Lake Taihu, although environmental conditions vary markedly. We speculated that Microcystis genotype succession could play an important role in adaptation to environmental changes and long-term maintenance of the high Microcystis biomass. In this study, we investigated Microcystis genotype succession pattern and the related environmental variables in Lake Taihu during cyanobacterial blooms. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of polymerase chain reaction -amplified the genus-specific cpcBA and mcyjgene fragments was used to monitor the variations of Microcystis genotype and potential microcystin (MC)-producing Microcystis genotype compositions during blooms biweekly in three sites (Meiliang Bay, lake center, and Gonghu Bay) and CANOCO 4.5 for Windows were used for the multivariate statistical analysis of their relationships to environmental variables. DGGE patterns indicated that the number of dominant cpcBA genotype per sample increased from spring to autumn. Principal component analysis ordination plots of DGGE profiles showed clear temporal distribution pattern, but not spatial distribution pattern based on both cpcBA and mcyJ genotype compositions. These results indicated there were relatively gradual successions of Microcystis cpcBA and mcyJ genotype compositions in each site, and no distinct spatial difference among the three sites. Redundancy analyses of the gel patterns showed that, in all the three sites, three environmental factors (nitrate, pH, and chemical oxygen demand) were correlated significantly to successions of both cpcBA and mcyJ genotypes except for mcyJ genotype in the lake center. Spearman's correlations indicated that the three environmental variables were also strongly correlated with chl a and MC concentrations. These results suggested that the environmental factors affecting succession of Microcystis community composition might also influence the growth of Microcystis and MC production.
41412406|Cyanobacteria blooms caused by species such as Microcystis have become commonplace in many freshwater ecosystems. Although phosphorus (P) typically limits the growth of freshwater phytoplankton populations, little is known regarding the molecular response of Microcystis to variation in P concentrations and sources. For this study, we examined genes involved in P acquisition in Microcystis including two high-affinity phosphate-binding proteins (pstS and sphX) and a putative alkaline phosphatase (phoX). Sequence analyses among ten clones of Microcystis aeruginosa and one clone of Microcystis wesenbergii indicates that these genes are present and conserved within the species, but perhaps not the genus, as phoX was not identified in M. wesenbergii. Experiments with clones of M aeruginosa indicated that expression of these three genes was strongly upregulated (50-to 400-fold) under low inorganic P conditions and that the expression of phoX was correlated with alkaline phosphatase activity (P< 0.005). In contrast, cultures grown exclusively on high levels of organic phosphorus sources (adenosine 5'-monophosphate, -glycerol phosphate, and D-glucose-6-phosphate) or under nitrogen-limited conditions displayed neither high levels of gene expression nor alkaline phosphatase activity. Since Microcystis dominates phytoplankton assemblages in summer when levels of inorganic P (P<sub>i</sub>) are often low and/or dominate lakes with low P<sub>i</sub> and high organic P, our findings suggest this cyanobacterium may rely on pstS, sphX, and phoX to efficiently transport P<sub>i</sub> and exploit organic sources of P to form blooms.
4251552| The dynamics of fungal and bacterial potential physiological activities during leaf, branch, and bark litter decomposition along a gap size gradient in a subtropical forest was determined using substrate-induced respiration (SIR) with antibiotics selective for fungi and bacteria, respectively. A gap size gradient (1) was under closed canopy; (2) had small gaps with a diameter (5m); (3) had small to intermediate gaps (5-15m diameter); (4) had intermediate to large gaps (15-30m diameter); and (5) had large gaps (30 m diameter). Litter decomposition was studied using a litter bag technique. Fungi had higher SIR than bacteria for each type of litter in any size class of gaps. Gaps 1, 2, and 3 had higher fungal and bacterial SIRs than gaps 4 and 5. Moreover, decomposing leaf litter exhibited higher fungal and bacterial SIRs than branch, and branch higher than bark. Simple correlation analysis indicated that fungal SIR was a reliable index of decomposition rates. Fungal SIR was significantly and positively correlated with soil moisture, whereas bacterial SIR was not significantly correlated with soil moisture. The relationships among microclimatic factors, fungal and bacterial physiological activities, and rates of plant litter decomposition suggest that, in subtropical ecosystems, fungal community activities were strongly and directly regulated by the environmental heterogeneity within gaps, and an important regulator of rates of plant litter decomposition rates. 
41412442|Vibrio species are ubiquitously distributed in marine waters all over the world. High genome plasticity due to frequent mutation, recombination, and lateral gene transfer enables Vibrio to adapt rapidly to environmental changes. The genus Vibrio comprises several human pathogens, which commonly cause outbreaks of severe diarrhea in tropical regions. In recent years, pathogenic Vibrio emerged also in coastal European waters. Little is known about factors driving the proliferation of Vibrio spp. in temperate waters such as the North Sea. In this study a quantification of Vibrio in the North Sea and their response to biotic and abiotic parameters were assessed. Between January and December 2009, Vibrio at Helgoland Roads (North Sea, Germany) were quantified using fluorescence in situ hybridization. Vibrio numbers up to 3.4x10 cells x mL (2.2% of total microbial counts) were determined in summer, but their abundance was significantly lower in winter (5x 10 cells x mL). Correlations between Vibrio and nutrients (SiO, PO~, DIN), Secchi depth, temperature, salinity, and chlorophyll a were calculated using Spearman rank analysis. Multiple stepwise regression analysis was carried out to analyze the additive influence of multiple factors on Vibrio. Based on these calculations, we found that high water temperature and low salinity best explained the increase of Vibrio cell numbers. Other environmental parameters, especially nutrients and chlorophyll a, also had an influence. All variables were shown to be subject to the overall seasonal dynamics at Helgoland Roads. Multiple regression models could represent an efficient and reliable tool to predict Vibrio abundances in response to the climate change in European waters.
4250476|A Paracoccus sp. which transforms aniline and different halogen-substituted derivatives under aerobic and anaerobic conditions was isolated from the soil. In experiments with
41489231|We have developed a new kinetic model to study how microbial dynamics are affected by the heterogeneity in the physical structure of the environment and by different strategies for hydrolysis of polymeric carbon. The hybrid model represented the dynamics of substrates and enzymes using a continuum representation and the dynamics of the cells were modeled individually. Individual-based biological model allowed us to explicitly simulate microbial diversity, and to model cell physiology as regulated via optimal allocation of cellular resources to enzyme synthesis, control of growth rate by protein synthesis capacity, and shifts to dormancy. This model was developed to study how microbial community functioning is influenced by local environmental conditions in heterogeneous media such as soil and by the functional attributes of individual microbes. Microbial community dynamics were simulated at two spatial scales: micro-pores that resemble 6-20 m size portions of the soil physical structure and in 111 m size soil aggregates with a random pore structure. Different strategies for acquisition of carbon from polymeric cellulose were investigated. Bacteria that express membrane-associated hydrolase had different growth and survival dynamics in soil pores than bacteria that release extracellular hydrolases. The kinetic differences suggested different functional niches for these two microbe types in cellulose utilization. Our model predicted an emergent behavior in which co-existence of membrane-associated hydrolase and extracellular hydrolases releasing organisms led to higher cellulose utilization efficiency and reduced stochasticity. Our analysis indicated that their co-existence mutually benefits these organisms, where basal cellulose degradation activity by membrane-associated hydrolaseexpressing cells shortened the soluble hydrolase buildup time and, when enzyme buildup allowed for cellulose degradation to be fast enough to sustain exponential growth, all the organisms in the community shared the soluble carbon product and grew together. Although pore geometry affected the kinetics of cellulose degradation, the patterns observed for the bacterial community dynamics in the 6-20 m-sized micro-pores were relevant to the dynamics in the more complex 111 m sized porous soil aggregates, implying that micro-scale studies can be useful approximations to aggregate scale studies when local effects on microbial dynamics are studied. As shown with examples in this study, various functional niches of the bacterial communities can be investigated using complex predictive mathematical models where the role of key environmental aspects such as the heterogeneous three-dimensional structure, functional niches of the community members, and environmental biochemical processes are directly connected to microbial metabolism and maintenance in an integrated model.
25153377|Stable-isotope probing (SIP) was used to identify acetateor methanol-assimilating bacteria under nitrate-reducing conditions in activated sludge. A sludge sample obtained from wastewater treatment systems was incubated in a denitrifying batch reactor fed with synthetic wastewater containing [C]acetate or [C]methanol as the main carbon source and nitrate as the electron acceptor. We analyzed how growth of bacterial populations was stimulated by acetate or methanol as the external carbon source in nitrogen-removal systems. Most of the acetateor methanol-assimilating bacteria identified by SIP have been known as denitrifiers in wastewater treatment systems. When acetate was used as the carbon source, 16S rRNA gene sequences retrieved from C-labeled DNA were closely related to the 16S rRNA genes of Comamonadaceae (e.g., Comamonas and Acidovorax) and Rhodocyclaceae (e.g., Thauera and Dechloromonas) of the Betaproteobacteria, and Rhodobacteraceae (e.g., Paracoccus and Rhodobacter) of the Alphaproteobacteria. When methanol was used as the carbon source, 16S rRNA gene sequences retrieved from C-DNA were affiliated with Methylophilaceae (e.g., Methylophilus, Methylobacillus, and Aminomonas) and Hyphomicrobiaceae. Rarefaction curves for clones retrieved from C-DNA showed that the diversity levels for methanol-assimilating bacteria were considerably lower than those for acetate-assimilating bacteria. Furthermore, we characterized nitrite reductase genes (nirS and nirK) as functional marker genes for denitrifier communities in acetate- or methanol-assimilating populations and detected the nirS or nirK sequence related to that of some known pure cultures, such as Alcaligenes, Hyphomicrobium, and Thauera. However, most of the nirS or nirK sequences retrieved from C-DNA were clustered in some unidentified groups. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene clone libraries retrieved from C-DNA, these unidentified nir sequences might be identified by examining the nir gene in candidates for true denitrifiers (e.g., the families Comamonadaceae, Hyphomicrobiaceae, Methylophilaceae, and Rhodobacteraceae).
27770620|Dormancy among nonsporulating actinobacteria is now a widely accepted phenomenon. In Micrococcus luteus, the resuscitation of dormant cells is caused by a small secreted protein (resuscitation-promoting factor, or Rpf) that is found in "spent culture medium." Rpf is encoded by a single essential gene in M. luteus. Homologs of Rpf are widespread among the high G + C Gram-positive bacteria, including mycobacteria and streptomycetes, and most organisms make several functionally redundant proteins. M. luteus Rpf comprises a lysozyme-like domain that is necessary and sufficient for activity connected through a short linker region to a LysM motif, which is present in a number of cell-wall-associated enzymes. Muralytic activity is responsible for resuscitation. In this report, we characterized a number of environmental isolates of M. luteus, including several recovered from amber. There was substantial variation in the predicted rpf gene product. While the lysozyme-like and LysM domains showed little variation, the linker region was elongated from ten amino acid residues in the laboratory strains to as many as 120 residues in one isolate. The genes encoding these Rpf proteins have been characterized, and a possible role for the Rpf linker in environmental adaptation is proposed. The environmental isolates show enhanced resistance to lysozyme as compared with the laboratory strains and this correlates with increased peptidoglycan acetylation. In strains that make a protein with an elongated linker, Rpf was bound to the cell wall, rather than being released to the growth medium, as occurs in reference strains. This rpf gene was introduced into a lysozyme-sensitive reference strain. Both rpf genes were expressed in transformants which showed a slight but statistically significant increase in lysozyme resistance.
40605693|Pseudomonas fluorescens strains are used in agriculture as plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR). Nontarget effects of released organisms should be analyzed prior to their large-scale use, and methods should be available to sensitively detect possible changes in the environments the organism is released to. According to ecological theory, microbial communities with a greater diversity should be less susceptible to disturbance by invading organisms. Based on this principle, we laid out a pot experiment with field-derived soils different in their microbial biomass and activity due to long-term management on similar parent geological material (loess). We investigated the survival of P. fluorescens CHAO that carried a resistance toward rifampicine and the duration of potential changes of the soil microflora caused by the inoculation with the bacterium at the sowing date of spring wheat. Soil microbial biomass (C mic , N mic ) basal soil respiration (BR), qCO, dehydrogenase activity (DHA), bacterial plate counts, mycorrhiza root colonization, and community level substrate utilization were analyzed after 18 and 60 days. At the initial stage, soils were clearly different with respect to most of the parameters measured, and a time-dependent effect between the first and the second set point were attributable to wheat growth and the influence of roots. The effect of the inoculum was small and merely transient, though significant long-term changes were found in soils with a relatively low level of microbial biomass. Community level substrate utilization as an indicator of changes in microbial community structure was mainly changed by the growth of wheat, while other experimental factors were negligible. The sensitivity of the applied methods to distinguish the experimental soils was in decreasing order N mic , DHA, C mic , and qCO. Besides the selective enumeration of P. fluorescens CHA0 rif, which was only found in amended soils, methods to distinguish the inoculum effect were DHA, C mic , and the ratio of C mic to N mic . The sampling time was most sensitively indicated by N mic , DHA, C mic , and qCO. Our data support the hypothesis based on ecosystem theory that a rich microflora is buffering changes due to invading species. In other words, a soil-derived bacterium was more effective in a relatively poor soil than in soils that are rich in microorganisms.
25256190|The molecular signature of bacteria from soil ecosystems is an important tool for studying microbial ecology and biogeography. However, a high-throughput technology is needed for such studies. In this article, we tested the suitability of available methods ranging from soil DNA extraction to capillary electrophoresis single-strand conformation polymorphism (CE-SSCP) for high-throughput studies. Our results showed that the extraction method does not dramatically influence CE-SSCP profiles, and that DNA extraction of a 0.25 g soil sample is sufficient to observe overall bacterial diversity in soil matrices. The V3 region of the 16S rRNA gene was amplified by PCR, and the extension time was found to be critical. We have also found that proofreading DNA polymerases generate a better signal in CE-SSCP profiles. Experiments performed with different soil matrices revealed the repeatability, efficiency, and consistency of CE-SSCP. Studies on PCR and CE-SSCP using single-species genomic DNA as a matrix showed that several ribotypes may migrate at the same position, and also that single species can produce double peaks. Thus, the extrapolation between number of peaks and number of species remains difficult. Additionally, peak detection is limited by the analysis software. We conclude that the presented method, including CE-SSCP and the analyzing step, is a simple and effective technique to obtain the molecular signature of a given soil sample.
4251047|Bacterial strains were randomly isolated from soil using three different media with glucose (TG), Tryptone Soya Broth (TTS), and succinate (TS) as carbon sources. Plate counts obtained were 12.0  10<sup>7</sup>, 4.5  10<sup>7</sup>, and 1.5  <tex-math>$10^{7}\ {\rm g}^{-1}$</tex-math> soil dry weight, respectively. The strains were characterized phenotypically by the API 20B test system. A cluster analysis of all isolates revealed 40 biotypes at 80% similarity, 23 in TG, 29 in TTS, and 27 in TS. Each of the 10 most common biotypes contained 10 to 2.5% of the isolates, and 17 biotypes contained one or two isolates. The common biotypes were unevenly distributed among the isolates from the different media. About 20% of the isolates from TG and TTS were unique for the particular medium, whereas among the isolates from TS, about 60% were unique. Thirty percent of the isolates belonged to biotypes that were common to all three populations. All media gave approximately the same high diversity measured as Shannon index and Equitability, indicating no direct correlation between plate count and diversity.
40343420|Marine heterotrophic microorganisms that assimilate nitrate play an important role in nitrogen and carbon cycling in the water column. The nasA gene, encoding the nitrate assimilation enzyme, was selected as a functional marker to examine the nitrate" assimilation community in the South China Sea (SCS). PCR amplification, restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) screening, and phylogenetic analysis of nasA gene sequences were performed to characterize in situ nitrate assimilatory bacteria. Furthermore, the effects of nutrients and other environmental factors on the genetic heterogeneity of nasA fragments from the SCS were evaluated at the surface in three stations, and at two other depths in one of these stations. The diversity indices and rarefaction curves indicated that the nasA gene was more diverse in offshore waters than in the Pearl River estuary. The phylotype rank abundance curve showed an abundant and unique RFLP pattern in all five libraries, indicating that a high diversity but low abundance of nasA existed in the study areas. Phylogenetic analysis of environmental nasA gene sequences further revealed that the nasA gene fragments came from several common aquatic microbial groups, including the Proteobacteria, Cytophaga-Flavobacteria (CF), and Cyanobacteria. In addition to the direct PCR/sequence analysis of environmental samples, we also cultured a number of nitrate assimilatory bacteria isolated from the field. Comparison of nasA genes from these isolates and from the field samples indicated the existence of horizontal nasA gene transfer. Application of real-time quantitative PCR to these nasA genes revealed a great variation in their abundance at different investigation sites and water depths.
4287685|Classical pollutants (e.g., hydrocarbon, pesticides) have been recently recognized to induce lytic cycle in lysogenic bacteria, but information on micro-pollutants is almost completely lacking. We investigated the effects of cosmetic sun products (sunscreen and solar oil) on viral abundance and bacterial activity. We found that both sunscreen and solar oil acted as pollutants, inducing viral development and controlling bacterial abundance and production, thus leading to an increase of the virus to bacterium ratio. Short-term experiments revealed that sunscreen supplementation induced the lytic cycle in a large fraction of total bacterial abundance (13-24% of bacteria, at low and high concentrations, respectively), whereas solar oil had a lower impact (6-9%). A synchronized development of the phage-host system was observed only after sunscreen addition. The addition of sunscreen, even at low concentrations, had a significant impact on all enzymatic activities (aminopeptidase, glucosidase, and phosphatase), which increased significantly. However, when enzymatic activities were normalized per cell, a selective enhancement was observed for certain enzymes (e.g., aminopeptidase) and inhibition for others (e.g., glucosidase). These results indicate that sunscreen products can modify C, N, and P biogeochemical cycling in seawater and increase virus abundance through prophage induction in marine bacterioplankton.
25152988| Genetic improvement of two different strains of the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana for more effective control of Ostrinia nubilalis and Leptinotarsa decemlineata was obtained by crosses with the insecticidal toxin-producing strain Beauveria sulfurescens. Protoplast fusion between diauxotrophic mutants resulted in the recovery of some stable prototrophic fusion products. The low levels of virulence of the wild type strain B. bassiana 28 isolated originally from L. decemlineata were enhanced both on L. decemlineata and O. nubilalis for one of the hybrids obtained (FP 8) from the cross B. bassiana 28  B. sulfurescens 2. Fusion product 25 obtained from the cross between B. sulfurescens and the highly pathogenic strain B. bassiana 147 showed a three-day reduction in the LT towards O. nubilalis. Southern blot hybridization with nine probe-enzyme combinations were conducted on genomic DNAs from the original wild strains, parental mutant strains, and fusion products. Additive banding patterns or unique banding pattern of either parental strain was observed in five hybrids, indicating their status as recombinant and/or partially diplod. Combination of RFLP markers indicative of both parental genomes was never observed with fusion product FP 25. The stability of the virulence following passage through insect-host and stability of molecular structure for the fusion products FP 8 and FP 25 suggest that asexual genetic recombination by protoplast fusion may provide an attractive method for the genetic improvement of biocontrol efficiency in entomopathogenic fungi. 
25256132|Recent development in molecular approaches allows access to genetic structure and diversity of indigenous microbial communities. In contrast, the functional analysis of microorganisms in their environment is still hampered by methodological limitations. Analysis of total proteins expressed at the whole community level (metaproteome) has been proposed to characterize the functional structure of microbial communities in their environment. However, developments are still required to perform such analysis. Our aim was to optimize methods to extract and characterize metaproteome of indigenous microbial communities. Experiments were first conducted in monoxenic bacterial cultures, and various methods were examined to define a procedure of protein extraction ensuring an efficient recovery regardless of the taxonomic affiliation of the cells. These developments were next applied to characterize the metaproteome from indigenous bacterial communities in freshwater samples. Bacterial cells were recovered from water using a high-speed density gradient centrifugation method before protein extraction and fingerprinting. The reactivity and sensitivity of this metaproteomic approach were tested by analyzing the variations of protein fingerprints according to perturbations (cadmium or mercury contamination). The genetic structure of the corresponding communities was also characterized by automated ribosomal spacer analysis (ARISA) DNA fingerprinting. Both protein and DNA fingerprints were statistically analyzed. Results obtained showed that the method developed for protein recovery and fingerprinting was efficient, sensitive, and reproducible. Both the functional and genetic structures of the freshwater bacterial community were complex and varied with perturbations. These variations occurred at both population and protein expression levels and were specific to the perturbation applied.
41693738|Sediment contaminated with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) is widely distributed in aquatic ecosystems. The microbial community structure of riverbank PAH-contaminated sediments was investigated using phospholipid-derived fatty acid (PLFA) analysis. Surface and subsurface riverbank sediment was collected from a highly contaminated site and from an uncontaminated site along the Mahoning River, OH. PAH concentrations, physical sediment characteristics, and other microbial community parameters (biomass as phospholipid phosphate (PLP) and activity) were also measured. PAHs were detected in all samples but were only quantifiable in the contaminated (250 g/g g) subsurface sediment. Subsurface samples from both locations showed very similar PLP values and distribution of PLFAs, with 27-37% of the microbial community structure being composed of sulfate reducing and other anaerobic bacteria. Principal components analysis indicated no correlation between PAH contamination and PLFA diversity. Although PLP and phospholipid fatty acid measurements of bacterial communities did not reflect the environmental differences among sites, the highly PAH-contaminated sediment showed the highest measured microbial activity (reduction of 1,200 nmol INT g h), likely from a population adapted to environmental pollutants, rates that are much higher than measured in many uncontaminated soil and sediment systems. These data warrant further investigation into community structure at the genetic level and indicate potential for bioremediation by indigenous microbes.
25153042| The N-fixing cyanobacterium Anabaena sp. PCC7120 showed an inherent capacity for desiccation tolerance. A DNA microarray covering almost the entire genome of Anabaena was used to determine the genome-wide gene expression under desiccation. RNA was extracted from cells at intervals starting from early to late desiccation. The pattern of gene expression in DNA fragments was categorized into seven types, which include four types of up-regulated and three types of down-regulated fragments. Validation of the data was carried out by RT-PCR on selected up-regulated DNA fragments and was consistent with the changes in mRNA levels. Our conclusions regarding desiccation tolerance for Anabaena sp. PCC7120 are as follows: (i) Genes for osmoprotectant metabolisms and the K transporting system are upregulated from early to mid-desiccation; (ii) genes induced by osmotic, salt, and low-temperature stress are up-regulated under desiccation; (iii) genes for heat shock proteins are up-regulated after mid-desiccation; (iv) genes for photosynthesis and the nitrogen-transporting system are down-regulated during early desiccation; and (v) genes for RNA polymerase and ribosomal protein are down-regulated between the early and the middle phase of desiccation. Profiles of gene expression are discussed in relation to desiccation acclimation. 
4287677|Antagonistic bacteria represent promising biocontrol agents for improving forest production in seedling nurseries or forest soils. The fate of an introduced mer/luc-tagged antagonistic Pseudomonas fluorescens 31K3 was monitored in the rhizosphere of silver birch (Betula pendula) seedlings grown in microcosms containing forest humus or nursery peat. The inoculated strain (10
4251264| Picoplankton, both prokaryotic and eukaryotic, are distinguished from other aquatic organisms by their small size (0.1-2.0 m). Such organisms were recovered from waters of a small oligotrophic lake using screens, filters, and high-speed centrifugation. The majority of the picoplankton were unable to form visible colonies on common media. Cells examined in thin sections by electron microscopy showed that 60-75% of the cells had an average diameter after dehydration of 0.48-0.51 m. The maximum dimensions of the rest of the cells ranged from 0.56-1.81 m. Using details of ultrastructure, cells were classified as prokaryotic or eukaryotic. Phototrophs present included two cyanobacterial morphotypes (5-6%) and two eukaryotic algae (less than 1%). The arrays of intracytoplasmic membranes in 18-20% of the cells were suggestive of methanotrophic rods and chemoautotrophs. Relatively few prosthecate bacteria were observed in the water column samples. The smallest cells (1-2%) contained magnetosomes, the presence of which were confirmed by x-ray spectroscopy. Iron was also detected in the envelopes of some rod shaped cells by the same technique. The study of in situ picoplankton populations using TEM coupled with other techniques may provide better understanding of picoplankton biomass. 
4251358| Bacterial numbers and activities (as estimated by glucose uptake and total thymidine incorporation) were investigated at two sites in Long Island, New York aquifer sediments. In general, bacterial activities were higher in shallow (1.5-4.5 m below the water table or BWT), oxic sediments than in deep (10-18 m BWT), anoxic sediments. The average total glucose uptake rates were 0.18  0.10 ng
4251006|Factors affecting viable cell counts in groundwater or sediments were studied with samples from the Segeberg Forest test area in northern Germany. There was very little variation in results with the season (April, August, November) or depth of sampling; generally there were 10
25153464|Anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) has recently been recognized as a pathway for the removal of fixed N from aquatic ecosystems. However, the quantitative significance of anammox in estuarine sediments is variable, and measurements have been limited to a few estuaries. We measured anammox and conventional denitrification activities in sediments along salinity gradients in the Chesapeake Bay and two of its sub-estuaries, the Choptank River and Patuxent River. Homogenized sediments were incubated with ${}^{14/15}{\rm N}$ amendments of ${\rm NH}_{4}^{+},{\rm NO}_{3}^{-}$ , and ${\rm NO}_{2}^{-}$ to determine relative activities of anammox and denitrification. The percent of N production due to anammox (ra%) ranged from 0 to 22% in the Chesapeake system, with the highest ra% in the freshwater portion of the main stem of upper Chesapeake Bay, where water column ${\rm NO}_{3}^{-}$ concentrations are consistently high. Intermediate levels of relative anammox (10%) were detected at locations corresponding to tidal freshwater and mesohaline locations in the Choptank River, whereas anammox was not detected in the tidal freshwater location in the Patuxent River. Anammox activity was also not detected in the seaward end of Chesapeake Bay, where water column ${\rm NO}_{3}^{-}$ concentrations are consistently low. The ra% did not correlate with ${\rm NH}_{4}^{+}$ accumulation rate in anoxic sediment incubations, but ra% was related to water column ${\rm NO}_{3}^{-}$ concentrations and salinity. Anammox bacterial communities were also examined by amplifying DNA extracted from the upper Chesapeake Bay sediment with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers that are specific for 16S rRNA genes of anammox organisms. A total of 35 anammox-like sequences were detected, and phylogenetic analysis grouped the sequences in two distinct clusters belonging to the Candidatus "Scalindua" genus.
41412397|An increasing body of evidence points out that allelopathy may be an important process shaping microbial communities in aquatic ecosystems. Cyanobacteria have well-documented allelopathic properties, mainly derived from the evaluation of the activity of allelopathic extracts or pure compounds towards monocultures of selected target microorganisms. Consequently, little is known regarding the community dynamics of microorganisms associated with allelopathic interactions. In this laboratory-based study, a Microcystis spp.-dominated microbial community from a freshwater lake was exposed, for 15 days, to exudates from the cyanobacterium Oscillatoria sp. strain LEGE 05292 in laboratory conditions. This cyanobacterium is known to produce the allelochemicals portoamides, which were among the exuded compounds. The community composition was followed (by means of polymerase chain reaction followed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and microscopic analyses) and compared to that of a nonexposed situation. Following exposure, clear differences in the community structure were observed, in particular for cyanobacteria and unicellular eukaryotic taxa. Interestingly, distinct Microcystis genotypes present in the community were differentially impacted by the exposure, highlighting the fine-scale dynamics elicited by the exudates. These results support a role for cyanobacterial allelochemicals in the structuring of aquatic microbial communities.
40605887|Migratory birds can be efficient dispersers of pathogens, yet we know little about the effect of migration and season on the microbial community in avian plumage. This is the first study to describe and compare the microbial plumage community of adult and juvenile migratory birds during the annual cycle and compare the plumage community of migrants to that of resident birds at both neotropical and nearctic locations. We used length heterogeneity PCR (16S rRNA) to describe the microbial assemblage sampled from the plumage of 66 birds in two age classes and from 16 soil samples. Resident birds differed significantly in plumage microbial community composition from migrants (R0.238, P<0.01). Nearctic resident birds had higher plumage microbial diversity than nearctic migrants (R=0.402, P<0.01). Plumage microbial composition differed significantly between fall premigratory and either breeding (R0.161, P<0.05) or nonbreeding stages (R=0.267, P<0.01). Six bacterial operational taxonomic units contributed most to the dissimilarities found in this assay. Soil microbial community composition was significantly different from all samples of plumage microbial communities (R0.700, P<0.01). The plumage microbial community varies in relation to migration strategy and stage of the annual cycle. We suggest that plumage microbial acquisition begins in the first year at natal breeding locations and reaches equilibrium at the neotropical wintering sites. These data lead us to conclude that migration and season play an important role in the dynamics of the microbial community in avian plumage and may reflect patterns of pathogen dispersal by birds.
41693861|Microorganisms are abundant in the troposphere and can be transported vast distances on prevailing winds. This study measures the abundance and diversity of airborne bacteria and fungi sampled at the Mt. Bachelor Observatory (located 2.7 km above sea level in North America) where incoming free tropospheric air routinely arrives from distant sources across the Pacific Ocean, including Asia. Overall deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) concentrations for microorganisms in the free troposphere, derived from quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays, averaged 4.94  10 ng DNA m for bacteria and 4.77  10 ng DNA m for fungi. Aerosols occasionally corresponded with microbial abundance, most often in the springtime. Viable cells were recovered from 27.4 % of bacterial and 47.6 % of fungal samples (N=124), with 49 different species identified by ribosomal DNA gene sequencing. The number of microbial isolates rose significantly above baseline values on 22-23 April 2011 and 13-15 May 2011. Both events were analyzed in detail, revealing distinct free tropospheric chemistries (e. g., low water vapor, high aerosols, carbon monoxide, and ozone) useful for ruling out boundary layer contamination. Kinematic back trajectory modeling suggested air from these events probably originated near China or Japan. Even after traveling for 10 days across the Pacific Ocean in the free troposphere, diverse and viable microbial populations, including presumptive plant pathogens Alternaria infectoria and Chaetomium globosum, were detected in Asian air samples. Establishing a connection between the intercontinental transport of microorganisms and specific diseases in North America will require follow-up investigations on both sides of the Pacific Ocean.
40926485|A total of 720 bacterial strains were isolated from soils with four different organic amendment regimes on a low organic carbon (low-C) agar medium (10 g C ml) traditionally used for isolation of oligotrophs. Organic amendments in combination with field history resulted in differences in dissolved organic carbon contents in these soils. There were negative correlations between total and dissolved organic carbon content and the number of isolates on low-C agar medium, whereas these correlations were absent for bacterial strains isolated from the same soil on high-C agar medium (1,000 g C ml). Repeated transfers (up to ten times) of the isolates from low-C agar medium to fresh low-and high-C agar media were done to test for exclusive growth under oligotrophic conditions. The number of isolates exclusively growing under oligotrophic conditions dropped after each subsequent transfer from 241 after the first to 98 after the third transfer step. Identification on the basis of partial 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that most of the 241 isolates (as well as the subset of 98 isolates) belong to widespread genera such as Streptomyces, Rhizobium, Bradyrhizobium, and Mesorhizobium, and the taxonomie composition of dominant genera changed from the first transfer step to the third. A selected subset of 17 isolates were further identified and characterized for exclusive growth on low-C agar medium. Two isolates continued to grow only on low-C agar medium up to the tenth transfer step and matched most closely with Rhizobium sullae and an uncultured bacterium on the basis of the almost full-length 16S rRNA gene. It was concluded that the vast majority of strains which are isolated on low-C agar media belong to the trophic group of microorganisms adapted to a "broad range" of carbon concentrations, including well-known and widespread bacterial genera. Oligotrophy is a physiological, not a taxonomie property, and can only be identified by cultural means so far. We showed that true oligotrophs that are unable to grow on high carbon media are rare and belong to genera that also contain broad-range and copiotrophic strains.
41693851|Benthic microbial biofilms attached to rocks (epilithic) are major sites of carbon cycling and can dominate ecosystem primary production in oligotrophic lakes. We studied the bacterial community composition of littoral epilithic biofilms in five connected oligotrophic high mountain lakes located at different altitudes by genetic fingerprinting and clone libraries of the 16S rRNA gene. Different intra-lake samples were analyzed, and consistent changes in community structure (chlorophyll a and organic matter contents, and bacterial community composition) were observed along the altitudinal gradient, particularly related with the location of the lake above or below the treeline. Epilithic biofilm genetic fingerprints were both more diverse among lakes than within lakes and significantly different between montane (below the tree line) and alpine lakes (above the tree line). The genetic richness in the epilithic biofilm was much higher than in the plankton of the same lacustrine area studied in previous works, with significantly idiosyncratic phylogenetic composition (specifically distinct from lake plankton or mountain soils). Data suggest the coexistence of aerobic, anaerobic, phototrophic, and chemotrophic microorganisms in the biofilm, Bacteroidetes and Cyanobacteria being the most important bacterial taxa, followed by Alpha-, Beta-, Gamma-, and Deltaproteobacteria, Chlorobi, Planctomycetes, and Verrucomicrobia. The degree of novelty was especially high for epilithic Bacteroidetes, and up to 50 % of the sequences formed monophyletic clusters distantly related to any previously reported sequence. More than 35 % of the total sequences matched at <95 % identity to any previously reported 16S rRNA gene, indicating that alpine epilithic biofilms are unexplored habitats that contain a substantial degree of novelty within a short geographical distance. Further research is needed to determine whether these communities are involved in more biogeochemical pathways than previously thought.
41489062|Six cores were drilled and retrieved from 186-m depth in the sp Hard Rock Laboratory (HRL) tunnel to investigate whether indigenous biofilms develop on fracture surfaces in groundwater-conducting aquifers in granitic rock. A clone library was constructed from fracture surface material (FSM), for community composition analysis. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was applied to quantify gene copies using the 16S rRNA gene for domain Bacteria and the adenosine-phosphosulfate reducase gene (apsA) for sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB). Results were compared with three groundwater systems with biofilms in laminar flow reactors (LFRs) at 450-m depth in the sp HRL. The total number of cells, counted microscopically, was approximately 2 x 10 cells cm in the LFR systems, consistent with the obtained qPCR 16S rRNA gene copies. qPCR analysis reported ~1 x 10 up to ~1 x 10 gene copies cm on the FSM from the drill cores. In the FSM biofilms, 33% of the sequenced clones were related to the iron-reducing bacterium Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, while in the LFR biofilms, 41% of the sequenced clones were affiliated with the genera Desulfovibrio, Desulforhopalus, Desulfomicrobium, and Desulfobulbus. The community composition of the FSM biofilms differed from the drill water community, excluding drill water contamination. This work reports significant numbers of microorganisms on natural hard rock aquifer fracture surfaces with sitespecific community compositions. The probability that biofilms are generally present in groundwater-conducting aquifers in deep granitic rock is consequently great.
4250525|Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was employed for the investigation of microorganisms living in marine sand sediments. Epifluorescence, as well as sediment analyses, gave further data on the parameters of the sediment samples. SEM revealed a correlation between the site and density of bacterial colonization and the microtopography of the individual sand grains. Sand grains with a medium roundness showed the greatest density of bacterial colonization. Protected surface sites were favored in the colonization process. The mode of bacterial attachment varied; mostly the barren sand grain surface was colonized. However, bacteria were also observed close to or within detritus or attached to diatoms. Many of the attaching bacteria observed were found to produce polymer strands. In some cases special structures were discovered which could serve bacterial attachment. Entire colonies attached by means of polymer nets, and disc-shaped bacteria were observed.
41489764|Bacteria inhabiting crystalline rocks from two terrestrial Icelandic volcanic lava flows of similar age and from the same geographical region, but differing in porosity and mineralogy, were characterised. Microarray (PhyloChip) and clone library analysis of 16S rRNA genes revealed the presence of a diverse assemblage of bacteria in each lava flow. Both methods suggested a more diverse community at the Dmadalshraun site (rhyolitic/andesitic lava flow) than that present at the Hnausahraun site (basaltic lava flow). Proteobacteria dominated the clone library at the Dmadalshraun site, while Acidobacteria was the most abundant phylum in the Hnausahraun site. Although analysis of similarities of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles suggested a strong correlation of community structure with mineralogy, rock porosity may also play an important role in shaping the bacterial community in crystalline volcanic rocks. Clone sequences were most similar to uncultured microorganisms, mainly from soil environments. Of these, Antarctic soils and temperate rhizosphere soils were prominent, as were clones retrieved from Hawaiian and Andean volcanic soils. The novel diversity of these Icelandic microbial communities was supported by the finding that up to 46% of clones displayed <85% sequence identities to sequences currently deposited in the RDP database.
25153067|The structural integrity of Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts in the Norwegian winter environment was investigated. During winter 2001/2002, Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts were placed in the upper layers of soil in different matrices contained in chambers and exposed to the Norwegian climate. Morphological characteristics and inclusion/exclusion of vital dyes were monitored and compared to refrigerated controls. Reduction in parasite numbers was recorded for all parasites, geographical locations, and matrices. Shear forces generated during freeze-thaw cycles are postulated to have disintegrated the parasites exposed to the Norwegian winter and retrospective laboratory studies support this theory. Increased dye inclusion, possibly indicative of viability loss, was also noted. The refrigerated control parasites exhibited no decline in numbers, and alteration in dye inclusion characteristics for refrigerated parasites was slower. Cryptosporidium oocysts were apparently more robust than Giardia cysts; differences between isolates were also noted. These results suggest Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts do not persist in the Norwegian terrestrial environment over winter, and when detected, will have been excreted since the previous winter. Differences in the morphological characteristics, matrix effects, and the possible relationship of the dye data to parasite survival are discussed in relation to further studies.
4250738| Epibiontic cells on the surface of the photosynthetic purple sulfur bacterium Chromatium minus, collected several times during the year from 3 different Spanish lakes, were examined using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The cells attached to the C. minus cell wall by an electron-dense pad, but did not enter the cell. They were ovoidal (about 0.6 m wide) when free, and slightly curved rods (0.3  0.6 m) when undergoing division. Division only occurred when cells remained attached to Chromatium. A septum was formed, resulting in 2 or 3 curved rods surrounded by a common capsule. Detached daughter cells became ovoidal. The host ultrastructure changed as a result of epibiontic attachment, showing symptoms of cellular degradation. Simultaneously, plaques could be detected on cell lawns formed spontaneously upon cell sedimentation from field samples. 
25256129|This study provides data on the diversities of bacterial and archaeal communities in an active methane seep at the Kazan mud volcano in the deep Eastern Mediterranean sea. Layers of varying depths in the Kazan sediments were investigated in terms of (1) chemical parameters and (2) DNA-based microbial population structures. The latter was accomplished by analyzing the sequences of directly amplified 16S rRNA genes, resulting in the phylogenetic analysis of the prokaryotic communities. Sequences of organisms potentially associated with processes such as anaerobic methane oxidation and sulfate reduction were thus identified. Overall, the sediment layers revealed the presence of sequences of quite diverse bacterial and archaeal communities, which varied considerably with depth. Dominant types revealed in these communities are known as key organisms involved in the following processes: (1) anaerobic methane oxidation and sulfate reduction, (2) sulfide oxidation, and (3) a range of (aerobic) heterotrophic processes. In the communities in the lowest sediment layer sampled (22-34 cm), sulfate-reducing bacteria and archaea of the ANME-2 cluster (likely involved in anaerobic methane oxidation) were prevalent, whereas heterotrophic organisms abounded in the top sediment layer (0-6 cm). Communities in the middle layer (6-22 cm) contained organisms that could be linked to either of the aforementioned processes. We discuss how these phylogeny (sequence)-based findings can support the ongoing molecular work aimed at unraveling both the functioning and the functional diversities of the communities under study.
25256198|Penicillium crustosum is an important and panglobal contaminant of lipid- and protein-rich foods and feeds. Although it is infrequent in extremely cold environments, we isolated a high number of P. crustosum strains from Arctic coastal, but particularly, subglacial environments in Svalbard, Norway. P. crustosum is extremely consistent in its phenotypic properties, including morphology, physiology, and secondary metabolite production. However, some Arctic isolates differed from other Arctic and non-Arctic strains in their weak growth on creatine and in the production of the secondary metabolite andrastin A. In this study, we characterized genetic variability of P. crustosum strains originating from different Arctic and non-Arctic environments using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and, in addition, M13 minisatellite fingerprinting and partial -tubulin gene sequencing. Most of the Arctic strains (85%) showed a relatively low variability and polymorphism level. They produced nine different AFLP genotypes grouped into two clusters in accordance with glacier origin and creatine utilization. The rest of the Arctic isolates and isolates from various non-Arctic environments displayed a much greater degree of genetic variability. It seems that in stressful glacial environment low microbial genetic variation is represented by only a few adapted genotypes that were not recovered from nonpolar environments.
25153358|We analyzed picoeukaryote assemblages in the German Bight at the Helgoland time series site by sequencing cloned eukaryotic 18S rRNA genes in six genetic libraries plus one library from the Orkney Islands from a cruise of opportunity. The libraries were constructed from environmental samples collected at different periods of the year. The same samples were also analyzed using a fingerprinting technique, single-strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP), and DNA microarrays with class-level oligonucleotide probes. One hundred unique clones were analyzed from each library, thus insuring over 85% coverage of the library. The V4 region of the 18S rRNA gene was sequenced from each of these clones, thus providing the most discrimination among the clones. The nonphotosynthetic picoeukaryotic component dominated over the photosynthetic one and was represented by the ciliates at 45% and group II alveolates at 42%. Prasinophytes dominated the photosynthetic group at 40%, but other picoplankton groups, such as bolidomonads and chrysophytes, were also present. Totally novel groups were found in the cryptomonads and in the dinoflagellates. A new algal group sister to the cryptophyte nuclear gene and the glaucocystophytes was also found. These three groups have been found in other picoeukaryotic planktonic clone libraries. SSCP analyses at closer time intervals suggest that clone libraries should be made at weekly intervals if succession in the picoeukaryotic plankton community is to be monitored accurately. A comparison of annual samples suggests that there appears to be an annual cycle with regard to species composition. Microarray analysis supported the clone library data and offered a faster means of community analysis, which can be performed with similar accuracy and with higher throughput for a more in-depth analysis.
27770597|Freshwaters include some of the most impaired systems on Earth with high rates of species loss, underscoring the significance of investigating whether ecosystems with fewer species will be able to maintain ecological processes. The environmental context is expected to modulate the effects of declining diversity. We conducted microcosm experiments manipulating fungal inoculum diversity and zinc concentration to test the hypothesis that fungal diversity determines the susceptibility of leaf litter decomposition to Zn stress. Realized fungal diversity was estimated by counting released spores and by measuring species-specific biomasses via denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. In the absence of Zn, positive diversity effects were found for leaf mass loss and fungal biomass through complementary interactions and due to the presence of key species. The variability of leaf decomposition decreased with increasing species number (portfolio effect), particularly under Zn stress. Results suggest that the effect of species loss on ecosystem stability may be exacerbated at higher stress levels.
4251360| Mixed cultures degrading chlorinated benzenes, chlorinated phenols, or hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) as the sole source of carbon and energy were obtained by enrichment from contaminated soil samples. Cultures which metabolized 3-chlorophenol (3-CP), 2,3-dichlorophenol (2,3-DCP), or 2,6-dichlorophenol (2,6-DCP) were able to utilize several other chlorinated compounds as substrates, whereas cultures enriched with 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,4,5-TeCB), -HCH, or -HCH did not metabolize most of the other chlorinated congeners tested. Chloride release and growth rates with all four chlorinated phenols decreased with increasing initial substrate concentrations within the range of 30-250 mol liter
4251784|Endosymbiotic bacteria were observed to inhabit the cytoplasm of the freshwater ciliate Paramecium novaurelia. Transmission electron microscopy and toxicity tests with sensitive paramecia showed that the endosymbionts belong to the genus Caedibacter. The bacteria conferred a killer trait to their host paramecia. The production of a proteinaceous inclusion body ("R-body") in the bacterial cell makes them toxic to other paramecia after they become enclosed in food vacuoles. R-bodies of Caedibacter sp were associated with phages, which are known in most other Caedibacter species to code for the R-body proteins. The killer-effect of P. novaurelia on sensitive P. caudatum strains was of the "paralysis" type, which is a characteristic of the symbiont species Caedibacter caryophila. Until now C. caryophila was known to inhabit the macronucleus of Paramecium caudatum only. Sequencing of the 16S rRNA-gene proved that Caedibacter sp from the cytoplasm of P. novaurelia belongs to the species C. caryophila as well. The rDNA-sequence of 1695 bp length differed in a total of only 1 bp from the corresponding gene in C. caryophila from the macronucleus of P. caudatum. The results indicate that the infection of specific host cell compartments may depend on host genes, but not on different traits of the infecting symbiont species. The occurrence of killer and sensitive paramecia strains together in one pond is discussed with respect to the competitive advantage of the killer trait.
23469579|We review recent history and evolution of Oceans and Human Health programs and related activities in the USA from a perspective within the Federal government. As a result of about a decade of support by the US Congress and through a few Federal agencies, notably the National Science Foundation, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, and National Ocean and Atmospheric Administration, robust Oceans and Human Health (OHH) research and application activities are now relatively widespread, although still small, in a number of agencies and academic institutions. OHH themes and issues have been incorporated into comprehensive federal ocean research plans and are reflected in the new National Ocean Policy enunciated by Executive Order 13547. In just a decade, OHH has matured into a recognized "metadiscipline," with development of a small, but robust and diverse community of science and practice, incorporation into academic educational programs, regular participation in ocean and coastal science and public health societies, and active engagement with public health decision makers. In addition to substantial increases in scientific information, the OHH community has demonstrated ability to respond rapidly and effectively to emergency situations such as those associated with extreme weather events (e.g., hurricanes, floods) and human-caused disasters (e.g., the Deep Water Horizon oil spill). Among many other things, next steps include development and implementation of agency health strategies and provision of specific services, such as ecological forecasts to provide routine early warnings for ocean health threats and opportunities for prevention and mitigation of these risks.
40926452|We used a microarray targeting 3,524 genes to assess the transcriptional response of the actinomycete Rhodococcus aetherivorans 124 in minimal medium supplemented with various substrates (e.g., PCBs) and in both PCB-contaminated and non-contaminated sediment slurries. Relative to the reference condition (minimal medium supplemented with glucose), 408 genes were upregulated in the various treatments. In medium and in sediment, PCBs elicited the upregulation of a common set of 100 genes, including gene-encoding chaperones (groEL), a Superoxide dismutase (sodA), alkyl hydroperoxide reductase protein C (ahpC), and a catalase/peroxidase (katG). Analysis of the R. aetherivorans 124 genome sequence identified orthologs of many of the genes in the canonical biphenyl pathway, but very few of these genes were upregulated in response to PCBs or biphenyl. This study is one of the first to use microarrays to assess the transcriptional response of a soil bacterium to a pollutant under conditions that more closely resemble the natural environment. Our results indicate that the transcriptional response of R. aetherivorans 124 to PCBs, in both medium and sediment, is primarily directed towards reducing oxidative stress, rather than catabolism
25152972|A strain of Serratia marcescens showing the ability to degrade caffeine and other methylxanthines was isolated from soil under coffee cultivation. Growth was observed only with xanthines methylated at the 7 position (caffeine, 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine; paraxanthine, 1,7-dimethylxanthine; theobromine, 3,7-dimethylxanthine and 7-methylxanthine). Paraxanthine and theobromine were released in liquid medium when caffeine was used as the sole source of carbon and nitrogen. When paraxanthine or theobromine were used, 3-methylxanthine, 7-methylxanthine, and xanthine were detected in the liquid medium. Serratia marcescens did not grow with theophylline (1,3-dimethylxanthine), 1-methylxanthine, and 3-methylxanthine, and poor growth was observed with xanthine. Methyluric acid formation from methylxanthines was tested in cell-free extracts by measuring dehydrogenase reduction of tetrazolium salt in native-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gel. Activity was observed for all methylxanthines, even those with which no bacterial growth was observed. Our results suggest that in this strain of S. marcescens caffeine is degraded to theobromine (3,7-dimethylxanthine) and/or paraxanthine (1,7-dimethylxanthine), and subsequently to 7-methylxanthine and xanthine. Methyluric acid formation could not be confirmed.
23469199|The bark beetles of the genus Dendroctonus feed on phloem that is a nitrogen-limited source. Nitrogen fixation and nitrogen recycling may compensate or alleviate such a limitation, and beetle-associated bacteria capable of such processes were identified. Raoultella terrigena, a diazotrophic bacteria present in the gut of Dendroctonus rhizophagus and D. valens, exhibited high acetylene reduction activity in vitro with different carbon sources, and its nifH and nifD genes were sequenced. Bacteria able to recycle uric acid were Pseudomonas fluorescens DVL3A that used it as carbon and nitrogen source, Serratia proteomaculans 2A CDF and Rahnella aquatilis 6-DR that used uric acid as sole nitrogen source. Also, this is the first report about the uric acid content in whole eggs, larvae, and adults (male and female) samples of the red turpentine beetle (Dendroctonus valens). Our results suggest that the gut bacteria of these bark beetles could contribute to insect N balance.
25153491|Two major biotic constraints to highland cooking banana (Musa spp., genome group AAA-EA) production in Uganda are the banana weevil Cosmopolites sordidus and the burrowing nematode Radopholus similis. Endophytic Fusarium oxysporum strains inoculated into tissue culture banana plantlets have shown control of the banana weevil and the nematode. We conducted screenhouse and field experiments to investigate persistence in the roots and rhizome of two endophytic Fusarium oxysporum strains, V2w2 and III4w1, inoculated into tissue-culture banana plantlets of highland cooking banana cultivars Kibuzi and Nabusa. Re-isolation of F. oxysporum showed that endophyte colonization decreased faster from the rhizomes than from the roots of inoculated plants, both in the screenhouse and in the field. Whereas rhizome colonization by F. oxysporum decreased in the screenhouse (4-16 weeks after inoculation), root colonization did not. However, in the field (17-33 weeks after inoculation), a decrease was observed in both rhizome and root colonization. The results show a better persistence in the roots than rhizomes of endophytic F. oxysporum strains V2w2 and III4w1.
4251127|In an attempt to extend our knowledge of the biology of feeding of the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila, this organism was grown axenically on complex organic material. The nutrient substrate was based on autoclaved wheat grains and adjusted to either pH 5.5 or 7.5. In wild type cultures the cells grew and multiplied only under acidic conditions. In cultures of a mutant cell line blocked in the secretion of acid hydrolases the cells did not grow at either pH value. Thus released acid hydrolases may play a key role in the utilization of complex nutrients in combination with uptake of small organic molecules. Mechanisms in the feeding biology of Tetrahymena thermophila and Paramecium tetraurelia are compared.
41489171|Pigments such as melanin, scytonemin and carotenoids protect microbial cells against the harmful effects of ultraviolet (UV) radiation. The role in UV protection has never been assigned to the prodigiosin pigment. In this work, we demonstrate that prodigiosin provides a significant level of protection against UV stress in Vibrio sp. DSM 14379. In the absence of pigment production, Vibrio sp. was significantly more susceptible to UV stress, and there was no difference in UV survival between the wild-type strain and non-pigmented mutant. The pigment's protective role was more important at higher doses of UV irradiation and correlated with pigment concentration in the cell. Pigmented cells survived high UV exposure (324 J/m) around 1,000-fold more successfully compared to the non-pigmented mutant cells. Resistance to UV stress was conferred to the non-pigmented mutant by addition of exogenous pigment extract to the growth medium. A level of UV protection equivalent ot that exhibited by the wild-type strain was attained by the non-pigmented mutant once the prodigiosin concentration had reached comparable levels to those fond in the wild-type strain. In co-culture experiments, prodigiosin acted as a UV screed, protectin both the wild-type and non-pigmented mutants. Our results suggest a new ecophysiological role for prodigiosin. '
40802165|"Vibrio coralliilyticus" is a global marine pathogen that has been found to cause disease in several marine organisms, including corals. This study is the first report of the isolation of "V. coralliilyticus" from a diseased Caribbean octocoral, "Pseudopterogorgia americana". Five sister phylotypes were positively identified using 16S rRNA gene sequencing, "recA" probes specific for "V. coralliilyticus", and rep-PCR fingerprinting. The antimicrobial resistance was compared between pathogenic strains of "V. coralliilyticus" and the Caribbean strains. First, the antimicrobial resistance of "V. coralliilyticus"-typQ strain ATCC BAA-450 was determined using an agar-overlay antimicrobial bioassay at 24C and 27C, temperatures which are relevant to its known temperature-dependent virulence. From 108 distinct bacteria isolated from "P. americana", 12 inhibited the "V. coralliilyticus"-type strain at 24C and five at 27C. Next, the phenotypic comparison of two Caribbean phylotypes and three "V. coralliilyticus" reference strains against a subset of 30 bacteria demonstrated a similar resistance trend. At both temperatures, the reference strains were inhibited by three bacteria isolates, while the Caribbean strains were inhibited by four to nine bacteria. Additionally, "V. coralliilyticus"-type strain ATCC BAA-450 and one of the Caribbean strains were inhibited by a higher number of bacteria at 24C compared with 27C. Together, these results highlight that "V. coralliilyticus" strains have antimicrobial resistance to the majority of coral-associated bacteria tested, which may be temperature-dependent in some strains. Furthermore, all "V. coralliilycus" strains tested showed multi-drug resistance to a range of 11-16 (out of 26) commercial antibiotics. This study establishes "V. coralliilyticus" in association with a Caribbean octocoral and demonstrates its resistance to the antimicrobial activity of coral-associated bacteria and to commercial antibiotics.
4251066|A method for the concentration and detection of gene sequences in the dissolved DNA from freshwater and marine environments has been developed. The limit of detection in the dot blot format was 167 fg/ml (100 ml sample) for exogenous herpes simplex thymidine kinase (TK) gene that was added to artificial seawater or river water. This procedure has been used to determine the longevity and monitor progressive changes in molecular weight of a plasmid containing the TK gene added to eutrophic estuarine water. The onset of plasmid degradation as determined by change in molecular weight was rapid (within 5 min). Intact plasmid was detected for at least 4 hours and sequences hybridizable to the TK gene probe were present for up to 24 hours.
4250851|Oxidation of acetate, lactate, pyruvate, and ethanol to CO
4251027|Thermophilic hydrogen-oxidizing strains forming round, terminal endospores were isolated from geothermal areas. They were neutrophilic and facultatively autotrophic. They resembled Bacillus schlegelii, a thermophilic hydrogen bacterium found so far only in cold environments. Phenotypic similarities, as well as DNA G+C content and DNA: DNA homologies, clearly revealed that the isolated strains belonged to the taxospecies B. schlegelii. Hence, the strains of B. schlegelii found in cold environments are probably allochthonous, their origin being geothermal and volcanic areas.
40605695|A rosy discoloration partly masking the Luca Signorelli frescoes in St. Brizio Chapel (Orvieto Cathedral, Italy) for many years proved to be a biological alteration, so the present research focused on investigating biodeteriogens and selecting an appropriate biocide to treat them. Optical epifluorescence and electronic microscopic observations of the rosy powder revealed a prevalent autofluorescent coccoid form with a diameter bigger than 5 m. Chlorophylls a and b were extracted, suggesting the presence of cyanobacteria, a thesis subsequently confirmed by flow cytometry. Cultural media were inoculated with the rosy powder, and microorganisms grew as a green patina in phototrophic conditions and as a rosy patina when organic compounds were added to the mineral medium. The rosy discoloration was most likely caused by the presence of phycoerythrin. The sequencing of the cyanobacteriaspecific polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-DGGE bands matched, with a similarity percentage >94, uncultured cyanobacteria, and the sequences were deposited in the GenBank under EU874241, EU874242, EU874243, EU874244, EU874245, EU874246, and EU874247. Finally, the efficiency of the two biocides Neo Desogen and Metatin 5810-101, both based on benzalkonium chloride, was evaluated using adenosine triphosphate measurements and PCR-based detection of cyanobacteria. Metatin, used in situ at 2% of the trade product, proved to be the better biocide, no cyanobacteria being detected after the Metatin treatment.
23469184|Although microorganisms, particularly oxygenic phototrophs, are known as the major players in the biogeochemical cycles of elements in desert soil ecosystems and have received extensive attention, still little is known about the effects of salinity on the composition and abundances of microbial community in desert soils. In this study, the diversity and abundance of bacteria and oxygenic phototrophs in biological desert crusts from Xinjiang province, which were under different salinity conditions, were investigated by using clone library and quantitative PCR (qPCR). The 16S rRNA gene phylogenetic analysis showed that cyanobacteria, mainly Microcoleus vagnitus of the order Oscillatoriales, were predominant in the low saline crusts, while other phototrophs, such as diatom, were the main microorganism group responsible for the oxygenic photosynthesis in the high saline crusts. Furthermore, the higher salt content in crusts may stimulate the growth of other bacteria, including Deinococcus-Thermus, Bacteroidetes, and some subdivisions of Proteobacteria (-, -, and -Proteobacteria). The cpcBA-IGS gene analysis revealed the existence of novel M. vagnitus strains in this area. The qPCR results showed that the abundance of oxygenic phototrophs was significantly higher under lower saline condition than that in the higher saline crusts, suggesting that the higher salinity in desert crusts could suppress the numbers of total bacteria and phototrophic bacteria but did highly improve the diversity of salt-tolerant bacteria.
25256211|We studied the effect of forest tree species on a community of decomposers that colonize cellulose strips. Both fungal and bacterial communities were targeted in a native forest dominated by beech and oak and 30-year-old beech and spruce plantations, growing in similar ecological conditions in the Breuil-Chenue experimental forest site in Morvan (France). Microbial ingrowths from the 3rd to 10th month of strip decomposition (May to December 2004) were studied. Community composition was assessed using temperature gradient gel electrophoresis with universal fungal (ITS1F, ITS2) and bacterial (1401r, 968f) primers. Soil temperature and moisture as well as fungal biomass were also measured to give additional information on decomposition processes. Changing the dominant tree species had no significant influence in the number of decomposer species. However, decomposer community composition was clearly different. If compared to the native forest, where community composition highly differed, young monocultures displayed similar species structure for fungi and bacteria. Both species numbers and community composition evolved during the decay process. Time effect was found to be more important than tree species. Nevertheless, the actual environmental conditions and seasonal effect seemed to be even more determining factors for the development of microbial communities. The course and correlations of the explored variables often differed between tree species, although certain general trends were identified. Fungal biomass was high in summer, despite that species richness (SR) decreased and conversely, that high SR did not necessarily mean high biomass values. It can be concluded that the growth and development of the microbiological communities that colonized a model material in situ depended on the combination of physical and biological factors acting collectively and interdependently at the forest soil microsite.
23361669|Martian surface microbial inhabitants would be challenged by a constant and unimpeded flux of UV radiation, and the study of analog model terrestrial environments may be of help to understand how such life forms could survive under this stressful condition. One of these environments is the Atacama Desert (Chile), a well-known Mars analog due to its extreme dryness and intense solar UV radiation. Here, we report the microbial diversity at five locations across this desert and the isolation of UVC-tolerant microbial strains found in these sites. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of 16S rDNA sequences obtained from these sites showed banding patterns that suggest distinct and complex microbial communities. Analysis of 16S rDNA sequences obtained from UV-tolerant strains isolated from these sites revealed species related to the Bacillus and Pseudomonas genera. Vegetative cells of one of these isolates, Bacillus S3.300-2, showed the highest UV tolerance profile (LD 10 =318 Jm 2 ), tenfold higher than a wild-type strain of Escherichia coli. Thus, our results show that the Atacama Desert harbors a noteworthy microbial community that may be considered for future astrobiological-related research in terms of UV tolerance.
4287546|Diazotrophic bacteria are important contributors to salt marsh productivity, but the biotic and abiotic factors that influence their distributions and function and the extent of their diversity cannot be understood in the absence of physiological information. Here we examine the physiological diversity and distribution patterns of diazotrophic bacteria associated with the rhizoplane of the saltmeadow cordgrass, Spartina patens, in comparison with diazotrophs from other intertidal grasses (tall and short form Spartina alterniflora and Juncus roemerianus) from the same salt marsh. S. patens plants were collected from two distinct habitats, and a total of 115 strains (111 Gram negative and 4 Gram positive strains) were isolated into pure culture by stab inoculating roots and rhizomes into combined nitrogen-free semisolid media. Most strains were microaerophilic and approximately one-half were motile. API test strips were used to eliminate redundancy within the culture collection, resulting in 21 physiologically different API groups (17 Gram negative and 4 Gram positive groups). A representative strain from each API group was selected for dot blot hybridization with a nifH specific probe and 16 strains (13 Gram negative and 3 Gram positive) were scored as positive. The nifH positive API group representative strains were characterized further using BIOLOG test plates. Substrate utilization potentials defined two S. patens strain clusters, and only one S. patens strain was physiologically similar to any other strain from a different host plant origin. No distinctions could be made based on the different S. patens habitats, suggesting that the host plant may have a greater impact than abiotic environmental conditions on the distributions of the rhizoplane diazotrophs recovered.
4250483|The Great Salt Lake is actually two lakes. A highly saline (
41692860|Community level physiological profiling and pyrosequencing-based analysis of the V1-V2 16S rRNA gene region were used to characterize and compare microbial community structure, diversity, and bacterial phylogeny from soils of chemically cultivated land (CCL), organically cultivated land (OCL), and fallow grass land (FGL) for 16 years and were under three different land use types. The entire dataset comprised of 16,608 good-quality sequences (CCL, 6,379; OCL, 4,835; FGL, 5,394); among them 12,606 sequences could be classified in 15 known phylum. The most abundant phylum were Proteobacteria (29.8%), Acidobacteria (22.6%), Actinobacteria (11.1%), and Bacteroidetes (4.7%), while 24.3% of the sequences were from bacterial domain but could not be further classified to any known phylum. Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Gemmatimonadetes were found to be significantly abundant in OCL soil. On the contrary, Actinobacteria ana Acidobacteria were significantly abundant in CCL and FGL, respectively. Our findings supported the view that organic compost amendment (OCL) activates diverse group of microorganisms as compared with conventionally used synthetic chemical fertilizers. Functional diversity and evenness based on carbon source utilization pattern was significantly higher in OCL as compared to CCL and FGL, suggesting an improvement in soil quality. This abundance of microbes possibly leads to the enhanced level of soil organic carbon, soil organic nitrogen, and microbial biomass in OCL and FGL soils as collated with CCL. This work increases our current understanding on the effect of long-term organic and chemical amendment applications on abundance, diversity, and composition of bacterial community inhabiting the soil for the prospects of agricultural yield and quantity of soil.
25153446|To elucidate the degree of microdiversity within the genus Prochlorococcus, novel Prochlorococcus-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers were developed for the rpoC1 gene, which encodes the ribonucleic acid (RNA) polymerase core subunit. The size of the PCR fragment (925 bp) coupled with high sequence variation within the rpoC1 fragments (70-99% sequence similarity, 16S ribosomal RNA sequences show greater than 97% sequence similarity) meant that it was possible to distinguish Prochlorococcus strains by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. Clone libraries were constructed from environmental deoxyri-bonucleic acid samples from two stations, one in the northern and one in the southern oligotrophic gyre of the Atlantic Ocean. These were screened to determine the microdiversity of Prochlorococcus populations using this high-resolution high-throughput analysis approach. RFLP analysis of the clone libraries from the two gyre sites revealed that the two Prochlorococcus populations had a high degree of microdiversity with 40 and 52 different RFLP-type clones among the 143 clones tested for both the northern and southern gyres, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis of the nucleotide sequences of the RFLP types not only showed that it contained representatives of each of the currently recognized Prochlorococcus clades (based on the internal transcribed spacer region as molecular marker) but also led to the discovery of a previously unseen genetic microdiversity. This level of diversity was greater at the southern gyre site compared to the northern gyre site. Moreover, the high genetic resolution approach also revealed that there are two putative novel lineages within the HL I clade. Analyses of further samples by producing clone libraries from different geographic origins is likely to reveal further diversity and novel lineages within Prochlorococcus.
41489025|The external surfaces of marine animals are colonized by a wide variety of epibionts. Here, we study the phototrophic epibiotic community attached to the colonial ascidian Cystodytes dellechiajei collected in the Mediterranean Sea. Epifluorescence microscopy analysis showed abundant filamentous cyanobacteria on the upper and basal parts of the ascidian that displayed autofluorescence, as well as some unicellular cyanobacteria, diatoms, and structures, which could belong to microscopic rhodophyte algae. In addition, high-performance liquid chromatography of the photosynthetic pigments confirmed that the phototrophic epibionts possess chlorophyll (Chl) d, as well as Chl a, b, and c, which enable them to use far-red light for photosynthesis in that peculiar microenvironment. Furthermore, laser scanning confocal microscopy showed the presence of a few small patches of cells on the basal part of the ascidian displaying fluorescence between 700 and 750 nm after excitement with a 635-nm red laser, typically within the range of Chl d. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of the 16S rRNA gene polymerase chain reaction amplified using specific primers for Cyanobacteria detected sequences related with the genera Planktothricoides, Synechococcus, Phormidium, and Myxosarcina, as well as sequences of chloroplasts of diatoms and rhodophyte algae. Remarkably, only the sequences related to the filamentous cyanobacteria Planktothricoides spp. and some chloroplast sequences were found in almost all specimens collected under different macroecological conditions and geographical areas, suggesting thus certain specificity in the epibiotic association. On the other hand, Prochloron spp. and Acaryochloris marina, typically associated to tropical ascidians, were not detected by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. However, given the low abundance of cells displaying Chi d in C. dellechiajei and the fact that molecular fingerprinting techniques not always recover low abundance groups, the presence of these cyanobacteria cannot be ruled out. Nevertheless, our data indicate that tropical ascidians and C. dellechiajei differ in their phototrophic communities, although Chi d-containing cells are present in both microenvironments.
40605658|We examined the biodiversity of bacteria associated with oyster-shell waste during a 1-year storage period using 16S ribosomal DNA analysis. Temperature variation and structural changes of oyster shell were observed during storage. Initial and final temperatures were at 16-17C, but a high temperature of about 60C was recorded after approximately 6 months of storage. The crystal structure and nanograin of the oyster shell surface were sharp and large in size initially and became gradually blunter and smaller over time. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that Firmicutes were dominant in the oyster-shell waste initially, during the high-temperature stage, and after 1 year of storage (making up >65% of the biodiversity at all three sampling times). Bacillus licheniformis was presumed as the predominate Firmicutes present. These bacteria are likely to have important roles in the biodgradation of oyster shell.
4251388|The planktonic environment is usually characterized by non-steady state conditions with events of phytoplankton blooms and sedimentation. Inorganic nutrients are stripped from the water column by sedimentation and end up in the sediments where they may be permanently deposited, or nitrogen may be liberated as nitrogen gas by denitrification. A major part of the denitrification activity is a coupled process of nitrification and denitrification which is dependent on a good supply of oxygen to the sediment. Urea may constitute a major part of the total outflux of dissolved N compounds from the sediment.
25153441|Freshwater wetlands constitute important ecosystems, and their benthic, attached microbial communities, including biofilms, represent key habitats that contribute to primary productivity, nutrient cycling, and substrate stabilization. In many wetland biofilms, algae constitute significant parts of the microbial population, yet little is known about their activities in these communities. An analysis of wetland biofilms from the Adirondack region of New York (USA) was performed with special emphasis on desmids, a group of evolutionarily advanced green algae commonly found in these habitats. Desmids constituted as much as 23.7% of the total algal and cyanobacterial flora of the biofilms during the July and August study periods. These algae represented some of the first eukaryotes to colonize new substrates, and during July their numbers correlated with fluctuations in general biofilm parameters such as biofilm thickness and dry weight as well as total carbohydrate. Significant numbers of bacteria were associated with both the EPS sheaths and cell wall surfaces of the desmids. Colonization of new substrates and development of biofilms were rapid and were followed by various fluctuations in microbial community structure over the short- and long-term observations. In addition to desmids, diatoms, filamentous green algae and transient non-motile phases of flagellates represented the photosynthetic eukaryotes of these biofilms.
40605861|Earthworms ingest large amounts of soil and have the potential to radically alter the biomass, activity, and structure of the soil microbial community. In this study, the diversity of eight bacterial groups from fresh soil, gut, and casts of the earthworms Lumbricus terrestris and Aporrectodea caliginosa were studied by single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis using both newly designed 16S rRNA genespecific primer sets targeting Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, Deltaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Verrucomicrobia, Planctomycetes, and Firmicutes and a conventional universal primer set for SSCP, with RNA and DNA as templates. In parallel, the study of the relative abundance of these taxonomic groups in the same samples was performed using fluorescence in situ hybridization. Bacteroidetes, Alphaproteobacteria, and Betaproteobacteria were predominant in communities from the soil and worm cast samples. Representatives of classes Flavobacteria and Sphingobacteria (Bacteroidetes) and Pseudomonas spp. (low-abundant Gammaproteobacteria) were detected in soil and worm cast samples with conventional and taxontargeting SSCP and through the sequence analysis of 16S rRNA clone libraries. Physiologically active unclassified Sphingomonadaceae (Alphaproteobacteria) and Alcaligenes spp. (Betaproteobacteria) also maintained their diversities during transit through the earthworm intestine and were found on taxon-targeting SSCP profiles from the soil and worm cast samples. In conclusion, our results suggest that some specific bacterial taxonomic groups maintain their diversity and even increase their relative numbers during transit through the gastrointestinal tract of earthworms.
41412448|Interactions between corals and associated bacteria and amongst these bacterial groups are likely to play a key role in coral health. However, the complexity of these interactions is poorly understood. We investigated the functional role of specific coral-associated bacteria in maintaining microbial communities on the coral Acropora millepora (Ehrenberg 1834) and the ability of coral mucus to support or inhibit bacterial growth. Culture-independent techniques were used to assess bacterial community structures whilst bacterial culture was employed to assess intra-and inter-specific antimicrobial activities of bacteria. Members of Pseudoalteromonas and ribotypes closely related to Vibrio coralliilyticus displayed potent antimicrobial activity against a range of other cultured isolates and grew readily on detached coral mucus. Although such bacterial ribotypes would be expected to have a competitive advantage, they were rare or absent on intact and healthy coral colonies growing in situ (analysed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA gene sequencing). The most abundant bacterial ribotypes found on healthy corals were Gammaproteobacteria, previously defined as type A coral associates. Our results indicate that this group of bacteria and specific members of the Alphaproteobacteria described here as 'type B associates' may be important functional groups for coral health. We suggest that bacterial communities on coral are kept in check by a combination of host-derived and microbial interactions and that the type A associates in particular may play a key role in maintaining stability of microbial communities on healthy coral colonies.
4251281| Annual gross productivity of the lichen-dominated cryptoendolithic community was calculated from a computer analysis of photosynthetic response based on laboratory measurements of CO
4251250|Bacteria in transport in streams are largely derived from other parts of the ecosystem. Here we review factors that influence transport of bacteria and their movement between habitats (such as sediment, water column, rocks, wood, and leaves) and consider the role of these movements in ecosystem processes. Bacteria enter the water column by sloughing, scouring, as a consequence of changes in morphology or hydrophobicity, or dislodgment by invertebrates and fish or other aquatic vertebrates. Transported cells (which may be planktonic or particle-associated) that colonize surfaces may establish new gene pools through cell division (vertical transfer) or genetic exchange (lateral transfer). Genetic information is also transported in streams as free or protected DNA or in bacteriophages. Movement of these vectors causes genetic information to spiral along a stream in a manner analogous to that of nutrients and organic carbon. Spiraling refers to the pattern of transport, uptake or attachment, and release of a molecule or cell. The flow of water in streams causes this cycle of attachment and release to be displaced downstream resulting in a spiral rather than a closed, stationary loop.
4250915|Acid and alkaline phosphatase activity were determined in a small pond over a period of 24 months (64 samples). Activity of each phosphatase enzyme was positively correlated with chlorophyll concentration, viable bacterial count, total phosphate concentration, inorganic phosphate concentration, and temperature. Multiple regression analysis was used to formulate equations that described phosphatase activity in terms of these physical, chemical, and biotic factors. Corrected coefficients of determination were calculated, and the highest values were obtained when all parameters were included in the equation (r
23469156|Water and nutrient availability are the major limiting factors of biological activity in arid and semiarid ecosystems. Therefore, perennial plants have developed different ecophysiological adaptations to cope with harsh conditions. The chemical profile of the root exudates varies among plant species and this can induce variability in associated microbial populations. We examined the influence of two shrubs species, Artemisia sieberi and Noaea mucronata, on soil microbial diversity. Soil samples were collected monthly, from December 2006 to November 2007, near canopies of both shrubs (010-cm depth). Samples were used for abiotic tests and determination of soil bacterial diversity. No significant differences were found in the abiotic variables (soil moisture, total organic matter, and total soluble nitrogen (TSN)) between soil samples collected from under the two shrubs during the study period. No obvious differences in the ShannonWeaver index, evenness values, or total phylogenetic distances were found for the soil microbial communities. However, detailed denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) clustering as well as taxonomic diversity analyses indicated clear shifts in the soil microbial community composition. These shifts were governed by seasonal variability in water availability and, significantly, by plant species type.
4250843|The relationship between biological activities in samples from the forest floor and, respectively, stand (site quality class, tree age, and latitude) and soil (pH, carbon, carbon/nitrogen, and available phosphorus) properties was examined in a multi-site study performed in Central Sweden. The biological activities measured were respiration and phosphatase and dehydrogenase activity. The incubations were made in the laboratory on sieved and homogenized samples. When the biological activities were expressed on a dry matter weight basis, the concentration of organic C was the strongest predictor of respiration and phosphatase activity. In contrast, the strongest predictor of dehydrogenase activity was the pH value. Respiration and dehydrogenase activity were not significantly correlated. When excluding the influence of C concentration by expressing the activities on a C weight basis, respiration and phosphatase activity were not significantly correlated with any of the independent variables studied. Curvilinear models (polynomial equations of second and third order) gave significantly better descriptions of the relationship between respiration and, respectively, pH and C/N ratio, than linear models. Optimum conditions for respiration were indicated at intermediate pH (4-5 in 0.01 M CaCl
41489230|Colonisation and weathering of freshly deglaciated granite are key processes in initial soil formation and development. We have obtained 438 isolates from granite sand covering glacial toe, 284 isolates at 22C and 154 at 4C incubation temperatures, respectively, to obtain cultures for the investigation of their weathering capabilities under laboratory conditions. The isolation of bacteria from granite sand was performed on rich-, intermediate-and low-nutrientcontent solid media. Isolates were identified by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. According to the genera-associated weathering capabilities described in the literature and according to their abundance in our culture collection, we selected eight strains to analyse their effects on the weathering dynamics of granite sand during the batch culture experiment. Analysis of culturable bacteria showed higher species richness among isolates from 22C than from 4C incubations. In the R2A and 1/100 Ravan media, we observed the highest species richness of isolates obtained at 22C and 4C incubation temperatures, respectively. The obtained 16S rRNA sequences revealed the presence of alpha-, beta-and gamma-proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes. The most numerous group of isolates was distantly related to Collimonas representatives, and according to the sequences of the 16S rRNA genes, they can form a new genus. Isolates from this group had the capability of causing increased dissolution rates for Fe, W, Ni and Rb. In general, at each sampling during the 30-day experiment, every strain showed a unique weathering profile resulting from differential rates of the dissolution and the precipitation of different minerals in the batch culture. Consequently, the presence of different strains, their growth stage and changes in proportions of strains in the bacterial community can affect further soil development and the successive colonisation by plants.
4251359|Using fluorescently-labeled bacteria and detection by flow cytometry and epifluorescence microscopy, we demonstrate inducible mixotrophy in a marine photosynthetic flagellate, Ochromonas sp. (class Chrysophyceae). Phagotrophic uptake of bacteria increases under conditions of low or limiting light and nutrients, but deceases in periods of prolonged darkness; sustained phagotrophy may require light. In addition, this alga appears to discriminate between and preferentially ingest different types of bacteria. Although this clone is primarily photosynthetic, phagotrophy contributes to its nutrition, especially when light or nutrients limit photosynthesis.
4287607|Microcosms with three different food web structures and phosphorus (P) limited growth medium were used to study the interactions between P and organic carbon (C) fractions in pelagic food webs. The cultures were run with low dilution to allow the biological processes to determine the outcome. A double isotope technique was used to follow the C and P compartments. In all systems the primary production was P limited. The measured P:C ratios and the observed accumulation of degradable dissolved organic carbon (DOC) indicated that the growth of heterotrophic bacteria was also P limited. The presence of neither algal grazers nor flagellates feeding on bacteria altered the limitation pattern. A net loss of P from the bacterial fraction was observed after the bloom. Different strategies for nutrient aquisition and growth are proposed as mechanisms enabling simultaneous P limitation of algae and bacteria, and a concomitant accumulation of degradable DOC. The ability of the algae to grow with low P:C ratio keeps the regeneration of P through grazers low enough to cause sustained P limitation of both algae and bacteria. The grazers were important producers of DOC when present. This implies that the usual assumption of carbon limited bacterial growth may lead to wrong conclusions regarding the dynamics of plankton communities and the DOC pool.
23361597|Ninety-six class 1 integron-positive and 96 integron-negative Escherichia coli isolates cultured from the water of the Warta River, Poland, were characterized for their phylogenetic group affiliation and for the presence of genes associated with virulence. Most strains belonged to phylogenetic group A, but phylogenetic group affiliation was not related with the presence of integrons. The occurrence of heat-stable toxin gene of enterotoxigenic E. coli, S fimbriae subunit gene sfaS, and siderophore receptor genes, fyuA and iutA, was associated with the presence of class 1 integrons. Moreover, virulence factor score (the total number of virulence-associated genes) was associated with the presence of integrons in groups. The results bring new insight into relations between the presence of integrons in E. coli, virulence traits, as well as phylogenetic group affiliation.
4250460|Coral heads of the genus Platigyra exposed to low concentrations of crude oil, copper sulfate, potassium phosphate, or dextrose were killed in periods of 5 to 10 days in aquarium studies. The chemicals stimulated the production of large quantities of mucus by the corals. In aquaria treated with antibiotics to prevent microbial growth, Platigyra survived the presence of these chemicals in the water, indicating a role of the microflora in the death of the corals. Evidence was obtained implicating predatory bacteria, Desulfovibrio and Beggiatoa, in the destruction of the stressed coral colonies.
4251081|The bacterial flora on the heads of four different witloof chicory varieties was examined. The 590 isolates were characterized by their SDS-PAGE protein profiles; they revealed 149 different protein fingerprint types. The fluorescent Pseudomonas fingerprint type CH001 was abundantly found on all heads examined. Fourteen other fingerprint types occurred in high densities more than twice. Among these, the following were identified: fluorescent Pseudomonas, nonfluorescent Pseudomonas sp., Erwinia herbicola, Erwinia sp., and Flavobacterium sp. The majority of the fingerprint types (90%) was found only once. It was also our objective to isolate bacteria applicable in the biological control of chicory phytopathogens. Isolates of all fingerprint types were tested for in vitro antagonistic activity and for possible deleterious effect on plant growth. Fluorescent Pseudomonas and Serratia liquefaciens isolates were antagonistic against fungi. Among the 161 fluorescent Pseudomonas strains, five were able to produce disease symptoms on chicory leaves upon inoculation. Comparison of the results of this study with those obtained in two previous analyses revealed that the leaf microflora showed some similarities with the bacterial flora of chicory roots. The chicory seed microflora differed from that of both leaves and roots.
4250804|Microbial assimilation of 3 amino acids (glutamic acid, alanine, and ornithine) was characterized in 3 lakes and 2 marine stations using the Michaelis-Menten kinetic approach. The calculated K
4250923|Bacteria were desorbed from the skin of healthy, fast-swimming fish by several procedures, including brief exposure to sonic oscillation and treatment with nontoxic surface active agents. The surface properties of these bacteria were studied by measuring their adhesion to hexadecane, as well as by a newly developed, simple method for studying the hydrophobicity of bacterial lawns. This method, referred to as the "Direction of Spreading" (DOS) method, consists of recording the direction to which a water drop spreads when introduced at the border between bacterial lawns and other surfaces. Of the 13 fish skin isolates examined, two strains were as hydrophobic as polystyrene by the DOS method. Suspended cells of one of these strains adhered strongly to hexadecane (84%), whereas cells of the other strain adhered poorly (13%). Another strain which was almost as hydrophobic as polystyrene by the DOS method did not adhere to hexadecane at all. Similarly, lawns of three other strains were more hydrophobic than glass by the DOS method, but cell suspensions prepared from these colonies showed little or no adhesion to hexadecane. The high colonial but relatively low cellular hydrophobicity could be due to a hydrophobic slime that is removed during the suspension and washing procedures. The possibility that specific bacteria assist in fish locomotion by changing the surface properties of the fish skin and by producing drag-reducing polymers is discussed.
4250644| A deep ocean sampler (DOS) has been developed for microbiological sampling and is capable of aseptically collecting 400-ml water samples from any depth in the world oceans. The instrument maintains samples under in situ pressure and temperature. A hyperbaric transfer system has also been developed, enabling transfer of sample volumes up to 150 ml, without decompression or dilution, to pressurized incubation chambers. Utilization of
23469198|Actinobacteria are widely distributed in the marine environment. To date, few studies have been performed to explore the coral-associated Actinobacteria, and little is known about the diversity of coral-associated Actinobacteria. In this study, the actinobacterial diversity associated with one soft coral Alcyonium gracllimum and one stony coral Tubastraea coccinea collected from the East China Sea was investigated using both culture-independent and culture-dependent approaches. A total of 19 actinobacterial genera were detected in these two corals, among which nine genera (Corynebacterium, Dietzia, Gordonia, Kocuria, Microbacterium, Micrococcus, Mycobacterium, Streptomyces, and Candidatus Microthrix) were common, three genera (Cellulomonas, Dermatophilus, and Janibacter) were unique to the soft coral, and seven genera (Brevibacterium, Dermacoccus, Leucobacter, Micromonospora, Nocardioides, Rhodococcus, and Serinicoccus) were unique to the stony coral. This finding suggested that highly diverse Actinobacteria were associated with different types of corals. In particular, five actinobacterial genera (Cellulomonas, Dermacoccus, Gordonia, Serinicoccus, and Candidatus Microthrix) were recovered from corals for the first time, extending the known diversity of coral-associated Actinobacteria. This study shows that soft and stony corals host diverse Actinobacteria and can serve as a new source of marine actinomycetes.
23597846|The diversity of heterotrophic flagellates is generally based on cultivated strains, on which ultrastructural, physiological, and molecular studies have been performed. However, the relevance of these cultured strains as models of the dominant heterotrophic flagellates in the marine planktonic environment is unclear. In fact, molecular surveys typically recover novel eukaryotic lineages that have refused cultivation so far. This study was designed to directly address the culturing bias in planktonic marine heterotrophic flagellates. Several microcosms were established adding increasing amounts and sources of organic matter to a confined natural microbial community pre-filtered by 3 m. Growth dynamics were followed by epifluorescence microscopy and showed the expected higher yield of bacteria and heterotrophic flagellates at increased organic matter additions. Moreover, protist diversity analyzed by molecular tools showed a clear substitution in the community, which differed more and more from the initial sample as the organic matter increased. Within this gradient, there was also an increase of sequences related to cultured organisms as well as a decrease in diversity. Culturing bias is partly explained by the use of organic matter in the isolation process, which drives a shift in the community to conditions closer to laboratory cultures. An intensive culturing effort using alternative isolation methods is necessary to allow the access to the missing heterotrophic flagellates that constitute the abundant and active taxa in marine systems.
4250970| Bacterial productivity (
4251157| Culturable counts of antibiotic resistant, genetically engineered Pseudomonas fluorescens were determined on antibiotic-containing plate count agar during starvation in water. Prior to starvation, colony counts obtained on all media separated into two groups. The mean of the colony counts on plate count agar with or without tetracycline (4.9 
23361592|Viruses infecting the conifer pathogenic fungus Heterobasidion annosum sensu lato are intracellular and spread via anastomosis contacts. In the laboratory, these viruses transmit readily even between somatically incompatible isolates, but their dispersal capacity in natural conditions has not been previously studied. We introduced a mycovirus to a heavily diseased forest site by inoculating Norway spruce stumps with heartrot decay using a mycelial suspension of Heterobasidion parviporum strain RT3.49C hosting the partitivirus strain HetRV4-pal. The Heterobasidion population at the sample plot was screened for mycoviruses prior to and after the inoculation. Based on sequence analysis, the resident H. parviporum strains harbored six different strains of the virus species Heterobasidion RNA virus 6 (HetRV6) and one strain of HetRV4 prior to the inoculation. After three growth seasons, the inoculated H. parviporum host strain was not detected, but the introduced virus had infected two resident H. parviporum genets. The presence of a preexisting HetRV6 infection did not hinder spread of the introduced partitivirus but resulted in coinfections instead. The resident HetRV6 virus population seemed to be highly stable during the incubation period, while the single indigenous HetRV4 infection was not detected after the inoculation. In laboratory infection experiments, the introduced virus could be transmitted successfully into all of the resident H. parviporum genets. This study shows for the first time transmission of a Heterobasidion virus between somatically incompatible hosts in natural conditions.
4251314| The objective of this study was to analyze the flux of biomass through the communities of bacteria and phagotrophic protists in the cold and warm conditions occurring seasonally in Butrn River. Bacterial and heterotrophic protistan (flagellate and ciliate) abundance was determined by epifluorescence direct counts; protistan grazing on planktonic bacteria was measured from fluorescently labeled bacteria uptake rates; and the estimate of bacterial secondary production was obtained from [
23361612|We investigated the ecological strategies exerted by the soil bacterium Burkholderia terrae BS001 at the hyphae of the soil saprotrophic fungus Lyophyllum sp. strain Karsten. Recently, this bacterium has been reported to form biofilms around, and to comigrate with, growing hyphae of Lyophyllum sp. strain Karsten. In addition, it was found to be able to utilize fungal metabolites. Here, we extend this work to shed some light on the interactions between the bacterial and fungal partner which allow ecological success for the former. In standing liquid microcosms inoculated with Lyophyllum sp. strain Karsten, we detected, upon prolonged incubation, the formation of a mycelial mat at the liquidair interface. From this mat, primordia were formed after 46 weeks, which eventually resulted in mushrooms. However, upon addition of strain BS001 to the bulk liquid, mushroom formation from the fungal mat was clearly inhibited, as evidenced by (1) the formation of significantly lower numbers of primordia and (2) a delay of the onset of primordia formation. Moreover and importantly, the presence of strain BS001 caused the fungus to secrete large amounts of exudates at the mycelial mat, whereas such exudation was absent from control (uninoculated) or Escherichia coli K12- or Variovorax paradoxus BS64-inoculated microcosms. In the exudates, glycerol was the main carbonaceous component, and this compound could be easily utilized by strain BS001. Thus, in different experimental set-ups with the fungal partner, strain BS001 was shown to grow in the fungal exudates on the mat. The two fungal-interactive phenotypes were specific for B. terrae strain BS001, as the other bacteria used in our study, i.e. E. coli K12 and V. paradoxus BS64, did not exhibit any of these phenomena.
25153063| Biofilms are major sites of carbon cycling in streams and rivers. Here we elucidate the relationship between biofilm structure and function and river DOC dynamics. Metabolism (extracellular enzymatic activity) and structure (algae, bacteria, C/N content) of light-grown (in an open channel) and dark-grown (in a dark pipe) biofilms were studied over a year, and variations in dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and biodegradable DOC (BDOC) were also recorded. A laboratory experiment on C-glucose uptake and DOC dynamics was also performed by incubating natural biofilms in microcosms. On the basis of our field (annual DOC budget) and laboratory results, we conclude that light-grown biofilm is, on annual average, a net DOC consumer. This biofilm showed a high monthly variability in DOC uptake/release rates, but, on average, the annual uptake rate was greater than that of the dark-grown biofilm. The higher algal biomass and greater structure of the light-grown biofilm may enhance the development of the bacterial community (bacterial biomass and activity) and microbial heterotrophic activity. In addition, the light-grown biofilm may promote abiotic adsorption because of the development of a polysaccharide matrix. In contrast, the dark-grown biofilm is highly dependent on the amount and quality of organic matter that enters the system and is more efficient in the uptake of labile molecules (higher C-glucose uptake rate per mgC). The positive relationships between the extracellular enzymatic activity of biofilm and DOC and BDOC content in flowing water indicate that biofilm metabolism contributes to DOC dynamics in fluvial systems. Our results show that short-term fluvial DOC dynamics is mainly due to the use and recycling of the more labile molecules. At the river ecosystem level, the potential surface area for biofilm formation and the quantity and quality of available organic carbon might determine the effects of biofilm function on DOC dynamics. 
4251621| The kinetics of bacterial hydrolytic ectoenzymatic activity and the uptake of monomeric compounds were investigated in the Northwestern Mediterranean Sea. Aminopeptidase and - and -glucosidase activities were analyzed by using fluorogenic substrates at 15-22 concentrations ranging from 1 nM to 500 M. Radiolabeled glucose and a mixture of amino acids were chosen as representatives of monomeric compounds, and the bacterial uptake rates (assimilation plus respiration) were determined over a wide range of substrate concentrations (from 0.2 nM to 3 M). We found biphasic kinetics both for hydrolytic enzymes and uptake systems: high affinity enzymes at low concentrations of substrates (K
25152979| Seasonal and depth variations of the abundance, biomass, and bacterivory of protozoa (heterotrophic and mixotrophic flagellates and ciliates) were determined during thermal stratification in an oligomesotrophic lake (Lake Pavin, France). Maximal densities of heterotrophic flagellates (1.9  10 cells ml) and ciliates (6.1 cells ml) were found in the metalimnion. Pigmented flagellates dominated the flagellate biomass in the euphotic zone. Community composition of ciliated protists varied greatly with depth, and both the abundance and biomass of ciliates was dominated by oligotrichs. Heterotrophic flagellates dominated grazing, accounting for 84% of total protistan bacterivory. Maximal grazing impact of heterotrophic flagellates was 18.9  10 bacterial 1h. On average, 62% of nonpigmented flagellates were found to ingest particles. Ciliates and mixotrophic flagellates averaged 13% and 3% of protistan bacterivory, respectively. Attached protozoa (ciliates and flagellates) were found to colonize the diatom Asterionella formosa. Attached bacterivores had higher ingestion rates than free bacterivorous protozoa and may account for 66% of total protozoa bacterivory. Our results indicated that even in low numbers, epibiotic protozoa may have a major grazing impact on free bacteria. 
40343412|Cyanophages are ecologically abundant, genetically diverse in aquatic environments, and affect the population and evolutionary trajectories of their hosts. After reporting the cyanophage Pf-WMP4 genome (Liu et al. in Virology 366: 28-39, 2007), we hereby present a related cyanophage, Pf-WMP3, which also infects the freshwater cyanobacterium Phormidium foveolarum. The Pf-WMP3 genome contains 43,249 bp with 234 bp direct terminal repeats. The overall genome organization and core genes of the two phages are comparable to those of the T7 supergroup phages. Compared with Pf-WMP4, cyanophage Pf-WMP3 has diverged extensively at the DNA level; however, they are closely related at the protein level and genome architecture. The left arm genes for the two phages, which mainly encode the DNA replication machinery, are not conserved in the gene order. Whereas the right arm genes of the two phages coding for structural proteins show high similarity in amino acid sequences and modular architecture, indicating that they have retained similar development strategies. The differences in similarity levels between the left and right arm genes suggest that the structural genes are the most conserved elements for a phage.
25256178|A systematic study was made of the endophytes of Azadirachta indica A. Juss (the neem tree) growing in several of its natural habitats in India. A total of 233 isolates of endophytic fungi representing 18 fungal taxa were obtained from segments of bark, stem, and leaves of this tree. Hyphomycetes (62.2%) were the most prevalent followed by the Coelomycetes (27.4%) and Mycelia Sterilia (7.7%). As mathematically determined, the maximum species richness and frequency of colonization of endophytes appeared in leaf segments rather than stem and bark tissues from each location. Endophytic colonization frequency was also greater in leaves (45.5%) than bark (31.5%). The leaf samples from all locations were nearly constant in their endophytic composition, whereas bark samples showed maximum diversity at different locations. Inter-site comparisons for endophytic diversity, however, were not significantly different with Loc1 and Loc2 having a maximum of
25153062|Phytoplankton and allochthonous matter are important sources of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) for planktonic bacteria in aquatic ecosystems. But in small temperate lakes, aquatic macrophytes may also be an important source of DOC, as well as a source or sink for inorganic nutrients. We conducted micro- and mesocosm studies to investigate the possible effects of an actively growing macrophyte, Vallisneria americana, on bacterial growth and water chemistry in mesotrophic Calder Lake. A first microcosm (1 L) study conducted under high ambient
27770591|Characterization of complex microbial communities is frequently based on the examination of polymerase chain reaction amplified sequences from a single phylogenetic marker, usually the 16S rRNA gene. However, this commonly used target often does not offer robust resolution of species or sub-species and is thus not a sufficiently informative target for understanding microbial population dynamics occurring at the strain level. We have used the cpn60 universal target sequence to characterize Enterococcus isolates from feces of growing pigs and have shown that sub-species groups, not detected using 16S rRNA sequences, can be resolved. Furthermore, groups resolved by cpn60-based phylogenetic analysis have distinct phenotypes. We report changes in the structure and function of Enterococcus communities in pig feces sampled from individual animals at three times, from suckling through to maturity. Enterococcus faecalis was largely replaced by Enterococcus hirae between suckling and 9 weeks of age, and a shift from one sub-species group of E. hirae to another was observed in all animals between 9 and 15 weeks. Conversely, E. faecalis strains remained consistent throughout the study period. Our results demonstrate that cpn60 sequences can be used to detect strain level changes in Enterococcus populations during succession in the fecal microbiota of growing pigs.
41489115|The export of nitrogen from urban catchments is a global problem, and denitrifying bacteria in stream ecosystems are critical for reducing in-stream N. However, the environmental factors that control the composition of denitrifying communities in streams are not well understood. We determined whether denitrifying community composition in sediments of nine streams on the eastern fringe of Melbourne, Australia was correlated with two measures of catchment urban impact: effective imperviousness (El, the proportion of a catchment covered by impervious surfaces with direct connection to streams) or septic tank density (which affects stream water chemistry, particularly stream N concentrations). Denitrifying community structure was examined by comparing terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms of nosZ genes in the sediments, as the nosZ gene codes for nitrous oxide reductase, the last step in the denitrification pathway. We also determined the chemical and physical characteristics of the streams that were best correlated with denitrifying community composition. El was strongly correlated with community composition and sediment physical and chemical properties, while septic tank density was not. Sites with high El were sandier, with less fine sediment and lower organic carbon content, higher sediment cations (calcium, sodium and magnesium) and water filterable reactive phosphorus concentrations. These were also the best small-scale environmental variables that explained denitrifying community composition. Among our study streams, which differed in the degree of urban stormwater impact, sediment grain size and carbon content are the most likely drivers of change in community composition. Denitrifying community composition is another in a long list of ecological indicators that suggest the profound degradation of streams is caused by urban stormwater runoff. While the relationships between denitrifying community composition and denitrification rates are yet to be unequivocally established, landscape-scale indices of environmental impact such as El may prove to be useful indicators of change in microbial communities.
4251582|The microbial mat was chosen as a model ecosystem to study dynamics of dimethyl sulfide (DMS) in marine sediments in order to gain insight into key processes and factors which determine emission rates. A practical advantage, compared to open ocean ecosystems, is that microbial mats contain high biomasses of different functional groups of bacteria involved in DMS dynamics, and that DMS concentrations are generally high enough to allow direct measurement of emission rates. Field data showed that, during the seasonal development of microbial mats, concentrations of chlorophyll a corresponded to dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP). DMSP is an important precursor of DMS. It was demonstrated, with laboratory cultures, that various species of benthic diatoms produce substantial amounts of DMSP. The abundances of aerobic and anaerobic DMS- or DMSO-utilizing bacteria were estimated using the most-probable-number technique. Laboratory experiments with relatively undisturbed sediment cores showed that microbial mats act as a sink for DMS under oxic/light (day) conditions, and as a source of DMS under anoxic/dark (night) conditions. Axenic culture studies with Chromatium vinosum M2 and Thiocapsa pfennigii M8 (isolated from a microbial mat) showed that, under anoxic/light conditions, DMS was quantitatively converted to dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). T. roseopersicina M11 converted DMSP to DMS and acrylate, apparently without use of either substrate.
40343385|Bacteroides fragilis constitutes 1-2% of the natural microbiota of the human digestive tract and is the predominant anaerobic opportunistic pathogen in gastrointestinal infections. Most bacteria use quorum sensing (QS) to monitor cell density in relation to other cells and their environment. In Gram-negative bacteria, the LuxRI system is common. The luxR gene encodes a transcriptional activator inducible by type I acyl-homoserine lactone autoinducers (e.g., N-[3-oxohexanoyl] homoserine lactone and hexanoyl homoserine lactone [C6-HSL]). This study investigated the presence of QS system(s) in B. fragilis. The genome of American-type culture collection strain no. ATCC25285 was searched for QS genes. The strain was grown to late exponential phase in the presence or absence of synthetic C6-HSL and C8-HSL or natural homoserine lactones from cell-free supematants from spent growth cultures of other bacteria. Growth, susceptibility to antimicrobial agents, efflux pump gene (bmeB) expression, and biofilm formation were measured. Nine luxR and no luxl orthologues were found. C6-HSL and supematants from Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholerae, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa caused a significant (1) reduction in cellular density and (2) increases in expression of four putative luxR genes, bmeB3 9 bmeB6, bmeB7, and bmeB10, resistance to various antibiotics, which was reduced by carbonyl cyanide-m-chlorophenyl hydrazone (CCCP, an uncoupler that dissipates the transmembrane proton gradient, which is also the driving force of resistance nodulation division efflux pumps) and (3) increase in biofilm formation. Susceptibility of ATCC25285 to C6-HSL was also reduced by CCCP. These data suggest that (1) B. fragilis contains putative luxR orthologues, which could respond to exogenous homoserine lactones and modulate biofilm formation, bmeB efflux pump expression, and susceptibility to antibiotics, and (2) BmeB efflux pumps could transport homoserine lactones.
25256118|The rainforest of French Guiana is still largely unaffected by human activity. Various pristine sites like the Paracou Research Station are devoted to study this tropical ecosystem. We used culture-independent techniques, like polymerase chain reaction-temperature gradient gel electrophoresis, and construction of clone libraries of partial 16S rRNA and nifH genes, to analyze the composition of the bacterial community in the rhizosphere of mature trees of Eperua falcata and Dicorynia guianensis, both species within the Caesalpiniaceae family. E. falcata is one of the more abundant pioneer tree species in this ecosystem and so far, no root nodules have ever been found. However, its nitrogen-fixing status is regarded as "uncertain", whereas D. guianensis is clearly considered a non-nitrogen-fixing plant. The rhizospheres of these mature trees contain specific bacterial communities, including several currently found uncultured microorganisms. In these communities, there are putative nitrogen-fixing bacteria specifically associated to each tree: D. guianensis harbors several Rhizobium spp. and E. falcata members of the genera Burkholderia and Bradyrhizobium. In addition, nifH sequences in the rhizosphere of the latter tree were very diverse. Retrieved sequences were related to bacteria belonging to the -, , and -Proteobacteria in the E. falcata rhizoplane, whereas only two sequences related to -Proteobacteria were found in D. guianensis. Differences in the bacterial communities and the abundance and diversity of nifH sequences in E. falcata rhizosphere suggest that this tree could obtain nitrogen through a nonnodulating bacterial interaction.
41693856|Recurrent vaginal candidiasis (RVC) is considered to be a hypersensitivity disorder that is associated with allergic rhinitis (AR) in immune deficiencies; however, whether or not the composition of the vaginal fungal flora in patients with AR and RVC is altered and if such alterations in patients with AR are associated with the development of RVC remain unclear. In the present study, a cultivation-independent method with the 18S rRNA gene clone library was used to analyze the diversity and composition of the vaginal fungal flora in patients with AR and RVC and to explore the association. Three fungal phyla (Ascomycotae, 22 out of 28; Basidiomycetes, 5 out of 28; and Oomycetes, 1 out of 28) were identified from groups of healthy volunteers, patients with AR, patients with RVC, and patients with RVC complicated by AR, including 28 phylotypes of fungal flora (10,15, 17, and 21 phylotypes for each group, respectively). The predominant genera of fungi identified in the vagina included Candida, uncultured fungi, and Dothideomycetes. An increased proportion of Candida albicans accompanied with decreased proportions of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and uncultured fungi was observed in patients with AR or RVC (P<0.05). Candida glabrata, Eladia saccula, Trichosporon jirovecii, and Phytophthora spp. occurred simultaneously in the three patient groups. The composition of the fungal communities in the four groups was statistically different (P<0.001). The vaginal fungal diversity in patients with AR or RVC was significantly higher compared with healthy volunteers (P<0.05). The data revealed an increased diversity and varied composition of the vaginal fungal flora in patients with AR and RVC and indicated that disturbed vaginal fungal flora in patients with AR might be correlated with disease progression in patients with RVC.
25256234|Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) are potentially important in nutrient cycling in agricultural soils and particularly in soils managed for organic production; little is known, however, about the interrelationships between AMF and other members of soil microbial communities. Ammonia oxidizing bacteria (AOB) are a trophic group of bacteria having an enormous impact on nitrogen availability in soils and are expected to be influenced by the presence of AMF. In a field study, we utilized a unique genetic system comprised of a mycorrhiza defective tomato mutant (named rmc) and its mycorrhiza wild-type progenitor (named 76RMYC+). We examined the effect of AMF by comparing AOB community composition and populations in soil containing roots of the two tomato genotypes in an organically managed soil. Responses of AOB to soil N and P amendments were also studied in the same experiment. Phylogenetic analysis of cloned AOB sequences, derived from excised denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) bands, revealed that the organic farm soil supported a diverse yet stable AOB community, which was neither influenced by mycorrhizal colonization of roots nor by N and P addition to the soil. Real-time TaqMan polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to quantify AOB population sizes and showed no difference between any of the treatments. An alternative real-time PCR protocol for quantification of AOB utilizing SYBR green yielded similar results as the TaqMan real-time PCR method, although with slightly lower resolution. This alternative method is advantageous in not requiring the detailed background information about AOB community composition required for adaptation of the TaqMan system for a new soil.
25152992| Denitrification processes were measured by the acetylene-blockage technique under changing flood conditions along the aquatic/terrestrial transition zone on the Amazon floodplain at Lago Camaleo, near Manaus, Brazil. In flooded sediments, denitrification was recorded after the amendment with NO (100 mol liter) throughout the whole study period from August 1992 to February 1993. It ranged from 192.3 to 640.7 mol N m h in the 0- to 5-cm sediment layer. Without substrate amendment, denitrification was detected only during low water in November and December 1992, when it occurred at a rate of up to 12.2 mol N m h. Higher rates of denitrification at an average rate of 73.3 mol N m h were measured in sediments from the shallow lake basin that were exposed to air at low water. NO evolution was never detected in flooded sediments, but in exposed sediments, it was detected at an average rate of 28.3 mol N m h during the low-water period. The results indicate that under natural conditions there is denitrification and hence a loss in nitrogen from the Amazon floodplain to the atmosphere. Rates of denitrification in flooded sediments were one to two orders of magnitude smaller than in temperate regions. However, the nitrogen removal of exposed sediments exceeded that of undisturbed wetland soils of temperate regions, indicating a considerable impact of the flood pulse on the gaseous turnover of nitrogen in the Amazon floodplain. 
40802289|Escherichia coli 0157:H7 gfp and Salmonella enterica Typhimurium gfp passed through six successive habitats within a microbial cycle. Pathogen cultures were introduced into cow dung or fodder. Microscopically observed cells and CFUs were monitored in fodder, dung, dung-soil mix, rhizosphere and phyllosphere of cress or oat plants grown in infested dung-soil mix, and in excrements of snails or mice fed with contaminated cress or oat shoots.Both methods were sensitive enough to monitor cells and CFUs throughout the chain. There was a positive correlation between cells and CFUs. Both pathogens declined through the successive habitats, but with unexpected increased densities on plants compared to dung-soil mix.Pathogen densities were higher in the phyllosphere than the rhizosphere of cress, but for oat plants this was reverse.Survival in dung was better after passage through the digestive tract of cows than after introduction of cultures into dung. Positive correlations between pathogens and copiotrophic bacteria (CB) and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) were observed in dung and dung-soil mixtures, but at low DOC contents CB densities were higher than pathogen densities. Thus, the pathogens are able to cycle through different habitats, surviving or growing better at high DOC concentrations, but maintaining population densities that are sufficiently high to cause disease in humans.
4250873|Procedures designed to meet the physiological needs of petroleum hydrocarbon (PHC) degrading microorganisms are useful in mitigating environmental damage caused by marine and terrestrial PHC spills. By similar approaches, soil can be utilized as a cost-effective biological incinerator for hazardous PHC wastes. Physiological ecology needs to complement genetic engineering efforts for an effective attack on environmental pollution problems.
25256166|This study investigated the species diversity and substrate utilization patterns of culturable thermophilic bacterial communities in hot aerobic poultry and cattle manure composts by coupling 16S rDNA analysis with Biolog data. Based on the phylogenetic relationships of 16S rDNA sequences, 34 thermophilic (grown at 60C) bacteria isolated during aerobic composting of poultry manure and cattle manure were classified as Bacillus licheniformis, B. atrophaeus, Geobacillus stearothermophilus, G. thermodenitrificans, Brevibacillus thermoruber, Ureibacillus terrenus, U. thermosphaericus, and Paenibacillus cookii. In this study, B. atrophaeus, Br. thermoruber, and P. cookii were recorded for the first time in hot compost. Physiological profiles of these bacteria, obtained from the Biolog Gram-positive (GP) microplate system, were subjected to principal component analysis (PCA). All isolates were categorized into eight different PCA groups based on their substrate utilization patterns. The bacterial community from poultry manure compost comprised more divergent species (21 isolates, seven species) and utilized more diverse substrates (eight PCA groups) than that from cattle manure compost (13 isolates, five species, and four PCA groups). Many thermophilic bacteria isolated in this study could use a variety of carboxylic acids. Isolate B110 (from poultry manure compost), which is 97.6% similar to U. terrenus in its 16S rDNA sequence, possesses particularly high activity in utilizing a broad spectrum of substrates. This isolate may have potential applications in industry.
25153130|The Salt Plains National Wildlife Refuge (SPNWR) near Cherokee, Oklahoma, contains a barren salt flat where Permian brine rises to the surface and evaporates under dry conditions to leave a crust of white salt. Rainfall events dissolve the salt crust and create ephemeral streams and ponds. The rapidly changing salinity and high surface temperatures, salinity, and UV exposure make this an extreme environment. The Salt Plains Microbial Observatory (SPMO) examined the soil microbial community of this habitat using classic enrichment and isolation techniques and phylogenetic rDNA studies. Rich growth media have been emphasized that differ in total salt concentration and composition. Aerobic heterotrophic enrichments were performed under a variety of conditions. Heterotrophic enrichments and dilution plates have generated 105 bacterial isolates, representing 46 phylotypes. The bacterial isolates have been characterized phenotypically and subjected to rDNA sequencing and phylogenetic analyses. Fast-growing isolates obtained from enrichments with 10% salt are predominantly from the gamma subgroup of the Proteobacteria and from the low GC Gram-positive cluster. Several different areas on the salt flats have yielded a variety of isolates from the Gram-negative genera Halomonas, Idiomarina, Salinivibrio, and Bacteroidetes. Gram-positive bacteria are well represented in the culture collection including members of the Bacillus, Salibacillus, Oceanobacillus, and Halobacillus.
4250725|Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a free-living bacterial species, is a major nosocomial pathogen, especially of compromised patients within medical facilities. Numerous factors contribute to the ecological selection of this bacterial species within the hospital environment, among which the expression of newly acquired or quiescent enzymatic capability seems paramount. The emergence of pathogenic strains of P. aeruginosa appears to be gradual, embodying a transition of strains from their natural aquatic environment, to establishing inanimate (hospital) and animate (human) reservoirs. In this stepwise transition, subsets of P. aeruginosa may evolve which express a survival trait, for example, gentamicin resistance, but concomitantly suffer a loss of invasive potential. In this study, P. aeruginosa strains from natural [22], hospital [11], and stool [17] sources were evaluated for their physiological and exoenzymatic activity and compared with gentamicin-resistant P. aeruginosa (GRPA) strains [49] of clinical origin. As a whole, environmental and hospital isolates showed reduced enzymatic potential, for example, frequency of production of elastase, lipase, deoxyribonuclease, and pyocyanin production. Human fecal isolates most closely resembled the prototype of human invasive P. aeruginosa in their gentamicin susceptibility (95%) and increased frequencies of exoenzymes, including elastase production. On the other hand, GRPA were frequently apyocyanogenic (9/49), lacked extracellular enzymes correlated with pathogenicity, and were rarely isolated from systemic sites. When encountered, these strains appeared to represent colonization of a body site rather than incitants of overt infection. As a "subset" of P. aeruginosa, gentamicin resistance was seen predominantly among serotype 11 strains, and encountered most frequently from patients with localized urinary tract infections.
4251204| The ability of hydrogen diffusion to account for the rates of methane production in microbial aggregates was studied in a defined co-culture consisting of a sulfate reducer grown as a syntrophic hydrogen producer in the absence of sulfate and a methanogen. The hydrogen uptake kinetics of the methanogen were determined using the infinite dilution technique. The maximum hydrogen uptake velocity was 7.1 nmol/min/g protein and the half saturation constant for hydrogen uptake was 386 nmol/liter. A threshold of 28 nmol/liter below which no further hydrogen consumption occurred was observed. The reconstituted co-culture was shown to produce methane at rates similar to mixed culture enrichments grown on lactate. The diffusion model demonstrated that for the particular system studied, the rates of hydrogen diffusion could account for the overall rate of methane production. 
40802270|In this study, we investigated under laboratory conditions the bacterial communities inhabiting quarry and decayed ornamental carbonate stones before and after the application of a Myxococcus jcaw^ ws-inoculated culture medium used for consolidation of the stones. The dynamics of the community structure and the prevalence of the inoculated bacterium, M. xanthus, were monitored during the time course of the consolidation treatment (30 days). For this purpose, we selected a molecular strategy combining fingerprinting by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) with the screening of eubacterial 16S rDNA clone libraries by DGGE and sequencing. Quantification of the inoculated strain was performed by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) using M. xanthus-specific primers designed this work. Results derived from DGGE and sequencing analysis showed that, irrespective of the origin of the stone, the same carbonatogenic microorganisms were activated by the application of a M. xanthus culture. Those microorganisms were Pseudomonas sp., Bacillus sp., and Brevibacillus sp. The monitoring of M. xanthus in the culture media of treated stones during the time course experiment showed disparate results depending on the applied technique. By culture-dependent methods, the detection of this bacterium was only possible in the first day of the treatment, in showing the limitation of these conventional techniques. By PCR-DGGE analysis, M. xanthus was detected during the first 3-6 days of the experiment. At this time, the population of this bacterium in the culture media varied between 10 -10 cells ml, as showed by qPCR analyses. Thereafter, DGGE analyses showed to be not suitable for the detection of M. xanthus in a mixed culture. Nevertheless, qPCR analysis using specific primers for M. xanthus showed to be a more sensitive technique for the detection of this bacterium, revealing a population of 10 cells ml in the culture media of both treated stones at the end of the consolidation treatment. The molecular strategy used in this study is proposed as an effective monitoring system to evaluate the impact of the application of a bacterially induced carbonate mineralization as restoration/conservation treatment for ornamental stones.
25153404| The community structure of the bacteria associated with Nodularia spumigena (Mertens) cyanobacterial aggregates in the Baltic Sea was studied with temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE), using a 16S rRNA gene fragment as a target. Various developmental stages of the aggregates and free-floating cyanobacterial filaments were sampled to reveal possible changes in associated microbial community structure during development and senescence of the aggregates. The microbial community structures of all samples differed, and the communities of young and decaying aggregates were separated by cluster analysis of the TGGE fingerprint data. Sequencing of the TGGE fragments indicated the presence of bacteria from the -, -, and -proteobacterial groups, as well as members of Cytophaga-Flexibacter-Bacteroides lineages and gram-positive Actinobacteria spp. The majority of the Nodularia-associated sequences were not closely related to previously reported 16S rDNA sequences from the Baltic Sea or any other environment. The structure of the bacterial assemblage reflects the environmental changes associated with the succession and decay of the cyanobacterial aggregates. In addition, the sequence data suggest that the N. spumigena (Mertens) blooms in the Baltic Sea may host thus far uncharacterized bacterial species. 
4250697|Bacterial secondary production in lake water was measured by
4250511|The microorganisms on the surface of the brown alga Ascophyllum nodosum, collected from an intertidal area in Nahant, Massachusetts, were examined using scanning electron microscopy. Differences in the microbial populations on the holdfast, internodal regions of the stipe, and the apical tips were apparent. The populations ranged from a lawn of end-attached bacteria above the holdfast to microcolonies of yeast cells near the apical tips. The greatest diversity of microorganisms was noted in the internodal region representing the fourth year of growth where a dense lawn of end-attached bacteria was overlaid by filamentous bacteria, pennate diatoms, and filamentous blue-green algae. A simple procedure was developed to estimate the number of bacteria on the surface of the seaweed using the scanning electron microscope. The observed distribution of epiphytes may be explained in terms of the age of the algal surface, differences in light intensity, and the differential secretion of tannin by various parts of Ascophyllum.
23597827|In this study, we explore variation in resource use among Streptomyces in prairie soils. Resource use patterns were highly variable among Streptomyces isolates and were significantly related to location, phylogeny, and nitrogen (N) amendment history. Streptomyces populations from soils less than 1 m apart differed significantly in their ability to use resources, indicating that drivers of resource use phenotypes in soil are highly localized. Variation in resource use within Streptomyces genetic groups was significantly associated with the location from which Streptomyces were isolated, suggesting that resource use is adapted to local environments. Streptomyces from soils under long-term N amendment used fewer resources and grew less efficiently than those from nonamended soils, demonstrating that N amendment selects for Streptomyces with more limited catabolic capacities. Finally, resource use among Streptomyces populations was correlated with soil carbon content and Streptomyces population densities. We hypothesize that variation in resource use among Streptomyces reflects adaptation to local resource availability and competitive species interactions in soil and that N amendments alter selection for resource use phenotypes.
4251272|Isolation and identification of the bacteria from a hydrogenotrophic reactor for the denitrification of drinking water revealed that several microorganisms are involved. Acinetobacter sp., Aeromonas sp., Pseudomonas sp. and Shewanella putrefaciens were repeatedly isolated from the hydrogenotrophic sludge and postulated to be of primary importance in the process. Nitrate reduction to nitrite appears to be a property of a diverse group of organisms. Nitrite reduction was found to be stimulated by the presence of organic growth factors. Thus, in a mixed culture, hydrogenotrophic denitrification reactor, NO
4287537|We examined changes in bacterioplankton standing stock and production in subarctic lakes in the north of Sweden to elucidate their coupling to lake physical, chemical, and biological characteristics. Sixteen lakes situated along an altitude gradient extending from the coniferous forest to the high-alpine belt were studied during 1998 and 1999. The summer mean bacterial numbers and production varied substantially between the lakes, with a general trend toward decreasing values with increasing altitude. The results demonstrate that P probably restricted bacterial utilization of DOC in the coniferous forest lakes, while low DOC concentrations limited bacterial growth during the summer in the alpine lakes. The primary production of plankton was insufficient to support bacterial production in the lakes. High input of allochthonous DOC to the alpine lakes in spring was sufficient both to increase the bacterial production and to induce P-limitation. As a consequence, there was a tendency toward higher bacterial activity in the spring compared to the summer in the alpine lakes. The results indicate that most of the bacterial standing stock and production are supported by allochthonous DOC plus DOC from benthic production, and more or less limited by the phosphorus supply. We therefore suggest that bacteria populations in subarctic lakes may be indirectly affected by climate variations through its impact on the input of DOC and nutrients from the lake catchments.
4251118|In pure culture, the marine ammonia oxidizer, Nitrosococcus oceanus, exhibits normal Michaelis Menten kinetics with respect to its primary substrate, ammonia. N. oceanus also exhibits a kinetic response to methane. In the absence of methane, oxidation of ammonia is first order with respect to ammonia concentration under atmospheric oxygen concentrations at seawater pH. In the presence of methane, ammonia oxidation is inhibited, and the amount of inhibition is related to the relative concentrations of methane and ammonia. Using semicontinuous batch cultures as a source of organisms for short-term kinetic experiments, I investigated the relationship between ammonia and methane oxidation in N. oceanus by varying the absolute and relative concentration of both substrates. Methane appeared to act as a substrate analogue, and its effect on ammonia oxidation was modeled as a permutation of competitive inhibition involving a cooperative enzyme system. Methane was oxidized by N. oceanus, even in the absence of measurable ammonia oxidation, but the process was inhibited at increasing methane concentrations. Of the two product pools analyzed, an average of 37% of methane oxidized was detected in particulate (cell) material and the remainder was detected in
25153239|The community composition and ecophysiological features of microbial autotrophic biofilms were studied in Fuente Podrida, a cold sulfur spring located in East Spain. We demonstrated how different ecophysiological strategies, such as resistance and/or utilization of sulfide and oxygen, light adaptation, or resistance to high water flow, allow each of the microorganisms described to efficiently colonize several areas within the environmental gradient. In the zone of the spring constantly influenced by sulfide-rich waters, biofilms were formed by purple bacteria, cyanobacteria, and filamentous colorless sulfur bacteria. Purple bacteria showed higher photosynthetic efficiency per pigment unit than cyanobacteria, although they were dominant only in anoxic areas. Two filamentous cyanobacteria, strain UVFP1 and strain UVFP2, were also abundant in the sulfide-rich area. Whereas the cyanobacterial strain UVFP2 shows a strategy based on the resistance to sulfide of oxygenic photosynthesis, strain UVFP1, additionally, has the capacity for sulfide-driven anoxygenic photosynthesis. Molecular phylogenetic analyses cluster the benthic strain UVFP1 with genus Planktothrix, but with no particular species, whereas UVFP2 does not closely cluster with any known cyanobacterial species. The colorless sulfur bacterium Thiothrix sp. extended throughout the zone in which both sulfide and oxygen were present, exhibiting its capacity for chemolithoautotrophic dark carbon fixation. Downstream from the source, where springwater mixes with well-oxygenated stream water and sulfide disappears, autotrophic biofilms were dominated by diatoms showing higher photosynthetic rates than cyanobacteria and, by a lesser extent, by a sulfide-sensitive cyanobacterium (strain UVFP3) well adapted to low light availability, although in the areas of higher water velocity far from the river shore, the dominance shifted to crust-forming cyanobacteria. Both types of microorganisms were highly sensitive to sulfide impeding them from occupying sulfide-rich areas of the spring. Sulfide, oxygen, light availability, and water velocity appear as the main factors structuring the autotrophic community of Fuente Podrida spring.
41412393|The addition of antibiotics to livestock feed has contributed to the selection of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in concentrated animal feeding operations and agricultural ecosystems. The objective of this study was to assess the occurrence of resistance to chlortetracycline and tylosin among bacterial populations at the Swine Complex of McGill University (Province of Quebec, Canada) in the absence of antibiotic administration to pigs for 2.5 years prior to the beginning of this study. Feces from ten pigs born from the same sow and provided feed without antibiotic were sampled during suckling (n= 6 for enumerations, n= 10 for PCR), weanling (n= 10 both for PCR and enumerations), growing (n = 10 both for PCR and enumerations), and finishing (n = 10 both for PCR and enumerations). The percentage of chlortetracycline-resistant anaerobic bacterial populations (Tet R ) was higher than that of tylosin-resistant anaerobic bacterial populations (Ty1 R ) at weanling, growing, and finishing. Prior to the transportation of animals to the slaughterhouse, resistant populations varied between 6.5 and 9.4 Log colony-forming units g humid feces-. In all pigs, tet(L), tet(O), and erm(B) were detected at suckling and weanling, whereas only tet(O) was detected at growing and finishing. The abundance of tet(O) was similar between males and females at weanling and growing and reached 5.1  10 5 and 5.6  10 5 copies of tet(O)/ng of total DNA in males and females, respectively, at finishing. Results showed high abundances and proportions of Tet R and Tyl R anaerobic bacterial populations, as well as the occurrence of tet and erm resistance genes within these populations despite the absence of antibiotic administration to pigs at this swine production facility since January 2007, i. e., 2.5 years prior to the beginning of this study. This work showed that the occurrence of bacterial resistance to chlortetracycline and tylosin is high at the Swine Complex of McGill University.
25153283|Temporal bacterial community changes in river biofilms were studied using 16S rRNA gene-based polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) followed by sequence analysis. Naturally occurring biofilms were sampled in 2001 during an undisturbed 7-month low-water period in the River Garonne (SW France). During the sampling period epilithic biomass exhibited a particular pattern: two 3-month periods of accumulation that resulted in two peaks in summer and fall, each at about 25 g ash-free dry mass per square meter. Bacterial community DGGE profiles differed between the summer and fall biomass peaks and shared only 30% common operational taxonomic units (OTUs), suggesting the influence of seasonal factors on these communities. During the second biomass accrual phase, bacterial richness and the appearance of new OTUs fitted a conceptual model of bacterial biofilm succession. During succession, five OTUs (corresponding to Dechloromonas sp., Nitrospira sp., and three different Spirosoma spp.) exhibited particular patterns and were present only during clearly defined successional stages, suggesting differences in life-history strategies for epilithic bacteria. Co-inertia analysis of DGGE banding patterns and physical-chemical data showed a significant relationship between community structure and environmental conditions suggesting that bacterial communities were mainly influenced by seasonal changes (temperature, light) and hydrodynamic stability. Within the periods of stability, analysis of environmental variables and community patterns showed the dominant influence of time and maturation on bacterial community structure. Thus, succession in these naturally occurring epilithic biofilm assemblages appears to occur through a combination of allogenic (seasonal) and autogenic changes.
4287687| Fungi colonizing fine roots of containerized Picea glauca seedlings were assessed in four large conifer nurseries in northern Alberta. PCR amplification of fungal rDNA (internal transcribed spacer and a portion of the 5 end of the large subunit gene) from random samples of fine feeder roots gave between 1 and 4 amplicons per seedling. Amplicons were either separated by electrophoresis and sequenced directly, or cloned and sequenced. The resulting sequences were compared to sequences obtained from cultures established from seedling roots and from Gen-Bank by maximum parsimony analysis. ITS sequences formed 11 distinct clades, each including at least one reference sequence. The ectomycorrhizal basidiomycetes Thelephora americana and Amphinema byssoides were dominant, whereas ascomycetes were less common. Fungi with sequences similar to members of the Heleotiales which form ericoid mycorrhizas were also present. Correspondence analysis revealed strong positive and negative associations among fungal taxa as well as an influence of applied fertilizer level on fungal diversity and species composition. 
41412438|Relationships between environmental factors and bacterial communities were investigated in 41 freshwater lakes located in mountainous regions of eastern Japan. Bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) was determined by polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of the 16S rRNA gene and then evaluated on the basis of physicochemical and biological variables of the lakes. Canonical correspondence analysis revealed that BCC of oligotrophic lakes was significantly influenced by dissolved organic carbon (DOC) content, but its effect was not apparent in the analysis covering all lakes including mesotrophic and eutrophic ones. The generalized linear model showed the negative association of DOC on the taxon richness of bacterioplankton communities. DOC was positively correlated with the catchment area per lake volume, suggesting that a large fraction of DOC supplied to the lake was derived from terrestrial sources. These results suggest that allochthonous DOC has a significant effect on bacterioplankton communities especially in oligotrophic lakes. The genus Polynucleobacter was detected most frequently. The occurrence of Polynucleobacter species was positively associated with DOC and negatively associated with total phosphorus (TP) levels. In addition, TP had a stronger effect than DOC, suggesting that oligotrophy is the most important factor on the occurrence of this genus.
4287702|In a previous experiment [Ranjard et al. (2000) FEMS Microbiol Ecol 31:107-115], the spatial heterogeneity of a mercury impact on soil bacterial community was revealed by an increase of mercury-resistant (
4250461|Scanning electron microscopy was used to observe microbiological primary fouling of glass surfaces exposed in estuarine waters. Observations on clean glass, and glass treated with water-repellent coatings, showed that bacterial slimes adhered less strongly to the water-repellent glass. An experiment using pure cultures of bacteria and latex particles showed that attached bacteria promoted the settlement of latex particles on the glass.
25153161| The impact of grazing by soil flagellates Heteromita globosa on aerobic biodegradation of benzene by Pseudomonas strain PS+ was examined in batch culture. Growth of H. globosa on these bacteria obeyed Monod kinetics (
4287602|The functional potential of bacteria isolated from the rhizosphere of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) in May, July, and August and cultivated on nutrient-rich substrate (1/10 TSBA) and nutrient-poor substrate (cold soil extract agar) was determined. There was no significant difference in numbers of CFU when counted on nutrient rich or poor substrate. Bacterial numbers increased approximately 3-fold in the rhizosphere soil from May to August but was unchanged in bulk soil over the same period. A total of 4474 randomly isolated bacteria were screened for enzymatic activities involved in carbon turnover (amylase, cellulase, mannanase, xylanase, and chitinase), nitrogen turnover (protease, nitrate and nitrite reductase), and phosphate turnover (phosphatase). In the rhizosphere soil, bacteria carrying C and P turnover enzymes were not stimulated by the growing plant whereas protease and nitrate and nitrite reductase were stimulated by the growing plant. No changes were observed in the bulk soil. Two taxonomic groups were followed: Cytophaga-like bacteria (CLB) and fluorescent pseudomonads, the latter being abundant in the rhizosphere and important contributors to the cycling of organic matter in soil. Unexpectedly in the spring samples, CLB were around 25% of all bacteria isolated, whereas fluorescent pseudomonads made up less than 10%. The relative proportion of these bacterial groups then decreased during the plant growth season but at all times showing a clear rhizosphere effect. Furthermore, up to 70% of the isolates carrying enzymes involved in the turnover of carbon, in the May sample, were identified as CLB, indicating the importance of this group in early colonization of the rhizosphere. The fluorescent pseudomonad group contributed less than 3%.
4287748| Phylogenetic analysis of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes revealed the presence of archaea in picoplankton collected from the Laurentian Great Lakes in North America, Africa's Lake Victoria, and Lakes Ladoga and Onega in northeastern Eurasia. From 1 to 10% of the rRNA extracted from size-fractionated picoplankton (>0.2 m but <1.2 m) collected in the epilimnion and hypolimnion of these lakes was specific to the Archaea, whereas the majority of rRNA was derived from Bacteria. Analysis of the 16S rRNA genes cloned from these samples indicated they were closely related to crenarchaeal sequences that have been widely characterized from marine environments. The presence of nearly identical 16S rDNA clones in several of these geographically disparate lakes suggests a cosmopolitan distribution of specific subgroups of these Archaea in freshwater environments. Despite their abundance in the water column of freshwater lakes, we have no representatives of these crenarchaea in pure culture, and so their physiological characteristics and ecological role remain unknown. 
41412415|The phylum Fibrobacteres currently comprises one formal genus, Fibrobacter, and two cultured species, Fibrobacter succinogenes and Fibrobacter intestinalis, that are recognised as major bacterial degraders of lignocellulosic material in the herbivore gut. Historically, members of the genus Fibrobacter were thought to only occupy mammalian intestinal tracts. However, recent 16S rRNA gene-targeted molecular approaches have demonstrated that novel centres of variation within the genus Fibrobacter are present in landfill sites and freshwater lakes, and their relative abundance suggests a potential role for fibrobacters in cellulose degradation beyond the herbivore gut. Furthermore, a novel subphylum within the Fibrobacteres has been detected in the gut of wood-feeding termites, and proteomic analyses have confirmed their involvement in cellulose hydrolysis. The genome sequence of F succinogenes rumen strain S85 has recently suggested that within this group of organisms a "third" way of attacking the most abundant form of organic carbon in the biosphere, cellulose, has evolved. This observation not only has evolutionary significance, but the superior efficiency of anaerobic cellulose hydrolysis by Fibrobacter spp., in comparison to other cellulolytic rumen bacteria that typically utilise membrane-bound enzyme complexes (cellulosomes), may be explained by this novel cellulase system. There are few bacterial phyla with potential functional importance for which there is such a paucity of phenotypic and functional data. In this review, we highlight current knowledge of the Fibrobacteres phylum, its taxonomy, phylogeny, ecology and potential as a source of novel glycosyl hydrolases of biotechnological importance.
41489165|Land-use change is known to have a significant effect on the indigenous soil microbial community, but it is unknown if there are any general trends regarding how this effect varies over time. Here, we describe a comparative analysis of microbial communities from three adjacent agricultural fields: one-century-old paddy field (OP) and two vegetable fields (new vegetable field (NV) and old vegetable field (OV)) that were established on traditional paddy fields 10 and 100 years ago, respectively. Soil chemical and physical analysis showed that both vegetable fields were more nutrient rich than the paddy field in terms of organic C, total N, total P, and available K. The vegetable fields possessed relatively higher abundance of culturable bacteria, fungi, and specific groups of bacteria (Actinomyces, nitrifying bacteria, and cellulose-decomposing bacteria) but lower levels of microbial biomass C and N. Notably, the decrease of biomass was further confirmed by analysis of seven additional soils in chronosequence sampled from the same area. Next we examined the metabolic diversity of the microbial community using the EcoPlate system from Biolog Inc. (Hayward, CA, USA). The utilization patterns of 31 unique C substrates (i.e., community-level physiological profile) showed that microorganisms in vegetable soil and paddy soil prefer to use different C substrates (polymeric compounds for NV and OV soils, phenolic acids for OP soil). Principal component analysis and the average well color development data showed that the NV is metabolically more distinct from the OV and OP. The effect was likely attributable to the elevated soil pH in NV soil. Furthermore, we assessed the diversity of soil bacterial populations using the cultivation-independent technology of amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA). Results showed that levels of bacterial diversity in OP and NV soils were similar (Shannon's diversity index H=4.83 and 4.79, respectively), whereas bacteria in OV soil have the lowest score of diversity (H= 3.48). The low level of bacterial diversity in OV soil was supported by sequencing of ten randomly selected 16S rDNA clones from each of the three rDNA libraries. Phylogenetic analysis showed that all the ten OV clones belonged to Proteobacteria with eight in the gamma-subdivision and two in the alpha-subdivision. In contrast, the ten clones from NV and OP soils were classified into four and eight bacterial classes or unclassified groups, respectively. Taken together, our data suggest that land-use change from rice to vegetables resulted in a decrease of bacterial diversity and soil biomass despite an increase in the abundance of culturable microorganisms and, moreover, the decrease of bacterial diversity occurred during longterm rather than short-term vegetable cultivation.
4250677|Interactions between bacteria and protozoa in soil were studied over 2-week periods in the field and in a pot experiment. Under natural conditions the total biological activity was temporarily synchronized by a large rainfall, and in the laboratory by the addition of water to dried-out soil, with or without plants. In the field, peaks in numbers and biomass of bacteria appeared after the rain, and a peak of naked amoebae quickly followed. Of the three investigated groups-flagellates, ciliates, and amoebae-only populations of the latter were large enough and fluctuated in a way that indicated a role as bacterial regulators. The bacterial increase was transient, and the amoebae alone were calculated to be able to cause 60% of the bacterial decrease. The same development of bacteria and protozoa was observed in the pot experiment: in the presence of roots, amoebic numbers increased 20 times and became 5 times higher than in the unplanted soil. In the planted pots, the amoebic increase was large enough to cause the whole bacterial decrease observed; but in the unplanted soil, consumption by the amoebae caused only one-third of the bacterial decrease.
4250613| A noninhibitory medium and GasPack anaerobic culture system were employed for the selective enumeration and isolation of Vibrionaceae in seawater and marine sediments. Vibrio counts obtained by the new method for seawater and sediment samples were compared with vibrio numbers in the heterotrophic bacterial population appearing on a medium routinely employed in the laboratory for such counts. The ratio of the former to the latter counts ranged from 0.5 to 1.3, the average being 0.96. The seawater and sediment bacteria that grew and produced visible colonies on the medium under anaerobic conditions for 3 days at 20C were almost exclusively vibrios. From the results reported here it is concluded that most of the vibrios present in seawater and sediment samples can be recovered by the new method developed in this study. 
41489158|Changes in the structure and composition of a protistan community were characterized through the analysis of small-subunit ribosomal RNA gene (18S) sequences for a 3-day bottle incubation using a single sample collected in the western North Atlantic. Cloning and sequencing was used to investigate changes in perceived species richness and diversity as a consequence of environmental perturbation. The treatments included a control (unamended seawater), inorganic nutrient enrichment, and enrichment with a complex organic mixture. Five clone libraries were constructed and analyzed at the time of collection (t-0 h) and after 24 (t-24 h) and 72 (t-72 h) h for the control, and at t-72 h for the inorganic and organic enrichments, resulting in an analysis of 1,626 partial 18S rDNA sequences that clustered into 238 operational taxonomic units (OTUs). Analysis of the clone libraries revealed that protistan assemblages were highly dynamic and changed substantially at both the OTU level and higher taxonomic classifications during time frames consistent with many ocanographie methods used for measuring biological rates. Changes were most dramatic in enrichments, which yielded community compositions that were strongly dominated by one or a few taxa. Changes in community structure during incubation dramatically influenced estimates of species richness, which were substantially lower with longer incubation and especially with amendment, even though all incubated samples originated from the same aliquot of seawater. Containment and enrichment of the seawater sample led to the detection of otherwise undetected protistan taxa, suggesting that characterization of protistan diversity in a sample only at the time of collection could lead to an underrepresentation of unique taxa. Additionally, the rapid increase in the relative abundance of some members of the "rare biosphere" in our results implies an ecological importance of at least some of the taxa comprising the "rare biosphere."
4251320|Natural assemblages of freshwater bacterioplankton in enriched lowland rivers had greater cell-specific metabolic activity than those in gravelpit ponds. Similarly, cell-specific activity and mean cell size in calcareous headstreams tended to be greater than in intermittently-acid headstreams on millstone grit. DNA was extracted and purified from bacterioplankton assemblages, and between-site comparisons were made in terms of percentage similarity as indicated by DNA hybridization. Cluster analysis, using percentage similarity matrices, placed bacterioplankton assemblages from different site types into distinct groups. This suggested that between-site physiological differences were related to intrinsically different bacterial composition rather than to different physiological response to different environmental conditions by essentially similar bacterial assemblages.
25153149|Nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPS) and type I polyketide synthases (PKS-I) are biosynthetic systems involved in the synthesis of a large number of important biologically active compounds produced by microorganisms, among others by actinomycetes. In order to assess the occurrence of these biosynthetic systems in this metabolically active bacterial group, we designed new PCR primers targeted to specifically amplify NRPS and PKS-I gene sequences from actinomycetes. The sequence analysis of amplified products cloned from two model systems and used to validate these molecular tools has shown the extreme richness of NRPS or PKS-I-like sequences in the actinomycete genome. When these PCR primers were tested on a large collection of 210 reference strains encompassing all major families and genera in actinomycetes, we observed that the wide distribution of these genes in the well-known productive Streptomyces species is also extended to other minor lineages where in some cases very few bioactive compounds have been identified to date.
41412456|The short-term response of induced perturbation by 4-ethylphenol on -proteobacterial ammonia oxidizers (-AOB) was investigated in two soils with initial differences in community structure. The hypotheses were that short-term effects of a disturbance of the AOB community is best monitored by specifically looking at the active populations and that soils with dissimilar active AOB populations would display different degree of resistance or resilience. Two soils from a previously characterized long-term field study fertilized with manure or sewage sludge was used. Soil microcosms were incubated in the laboratory over 15 days. The substrate-induced ammonia oxidation was measured, and the composition of -AOB communities was determined by PCR-DGGE of specific -AOB 16S rRNA gene fragments. Actively replicating members of the -AOB were distinguished by the use of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunocapture. This approach demonstrated that only a minor fraction of the total AOB community was active. Exposure to 4-ethylphenol resulted in approximately 90% lowered substrate-induced ammonia oxidation rates in both soils. This activity inhibition was not accompanied by shifts in -AOB community structure when total -AOB DNA was studied. By contrast, changes were seen in the DGGE banding pattern of the BrdU-labeled community DNA after 4-ethylphenol addition in the manure-fertilized soil. In the sewage sludge fertilized soil, the banding pattern of the BrdU-labeled -AOB remained unchanged, but bands were weaker after the disturbance. In conclusion, it was shown that BrdU immunocapture was applicable to detect shifts in community composition among replicating -AOB populations in soil. However, this was not reflected by the soils' ammonia oxidation capacity to resist to or recover from the induced perturbation suggesting that rapid population shifts may not influence soil functioning in a short-term perspective.
25256101|This study examined bacterial community structure of biofilms on stainless steel and polycarbonate in seawater from the Delaware Bay. Free-living bacteria in the surrounding seawater were compared to the attached bacteria during the first few weeks of biofilm growth. Surfaces exposed to seawater were analyzed by using 16S rDNA libraries, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Community structure of the free-living bacterial community was different from that of the attached bacteria according to FISH and DGGE. In particular, alpha-proteobacteria dominated the attached communities. Libraries of 16S rRNA genes revealed that representatives of the Rhodobacterales clade were the most abundant members of biofilm communities. Changes in community structure during biofilm growth were also examined by DGGE analysis. We hypothesized that bacterial communities on dissimilar surfaces would initially differ and become more similar over time. In contrast, the compositions of stainless steel and polycarbonate biofilms were initially the same, but differed after about 1 week of biofilm growth. These data suggest that the relationship between surface properties and biofilm community structure changes as biofilms grow on surfaces such as stainless steel and polycarbonate in estuarine water.
4251808|At Iron Mountain, CA, there is an extreme occurrence of acid mine drainage (AMD). This is a result of past mining activity that has exposed a sulfide ore body to weathering and microbial activity. This study presents seven new oligonucleotide probes for the detection of microorganisms at this AMD site by fluorescent in situ hybridization. In the design of these probes we have accounted for a large body of 16S rRNA sequence data recently compiled by us. This was obtained by PCR and cloning directly from environmental DNA and was mostly represented by novel sequences. The probes were developed to include detection of novel and uncultivated organisms. This includes detection for the Thermoplasmales group, a new group of Leptospirillum, the genus Sulfobacillus, the Acidiphilium genus, Acidimicrobium and relatives, and for organisms within the delta Proteobacteria. These probes have been used to examine the abundance and distribution of organisms, including novel and uncultivated taxa, and to clarify their potential contributions to AMD production at the site. We anticipate that these probes will be useful tools for exploration of the microbiology of other natural acidic environments and bioleaching systems.
4287541| The bacterioplankton of the marine and brackish water zones of the complex system Ria de Aveiro was characterized as profiles of bacterial abundance and biomass productivity. During the warm season, total bacteria ranged from 0.2 to
41412450|The genus Arsenophonus (Gammaproteobacteria) is comprised of intracellular symbiotic bacteria that are widespread across the arthropods. These bacteria can significantly influence the ecology and life history of their hosts. For instance, Arsenophonus nasoniae causes an excess of females in the progeny of parasitoid wasps by selectively killing the male embryos. Other Arsenophonus bacteria have been suspected to protect insect hosts from parasitoid wasps or to expand the host plant range of phytophagous sapsucking insects. In addition, a few reports have also documented some Arsenophonus bacteria as plant pathogens. The adaptation to a plant pathogenic lifestyle seems to be promoted by the infection of sap-sucking insects in the family Cixiidae, which then transmit these bacteria to plants during the feeding process. In this study, we define the specific localization of an Arsenophonus bacterium pathogenic to sugar beet and strawberry plants within the plant hosts and the insect vector, Pentastiridius leporinus (Hemiptera: Cixiidae), using fluorescence in situ hybridization assays. Phylogenetic analysis on 16S rRNA and nucleotide coding sequences, using both maximum likelihood and Bayesian criteria, revealed that this bacterium is not a sister taxon to "Candidates Phlomobacter fragariae," a previously characterized Arsenophonus bacterium pathogenic to strawberry plants in France and Japan. Ancestral state reconstruction analysis indicated that the adaptation to a plant pathogenic lifestyle likely evolved from an arthropodassociated lifestyle and showed that within the genus Arsenophonus, the plant pathogenic lifestyle arose independently at least twice. We also propose a novel Candidates status, "Candidates Arsenophonus phytopathogenicus" novel species, for the bacterium associated with sugar beet and strawberry diseases and transmitted by the planthopper P. leporinus.
4251011|A mixed culture of cyanobacteria (BGA) containing Aulosira sp., Aphanothece sp., and Gloeotrichia sp. were grown throughout the year to assess the influence of seasonal variables on their biomass production and nitrogen (N)-yield under field conditions. The seasonal variables considered in this study, i.e., water temperature (maximum, minimum), solar radiation, sunshine hours, and rainfall, fluctuated widely. Attempts were made to establish a relationship between seasonal changes as independent variables and BGA productivity and N-yield as dependent variables. The analysis indicated that solar radiation was the prime factor. Estimates of BGA biomass production varied from 3.3 to 366.5 kg (dry wt)/ha/month, and N-yield ranged from 0.1 to 11.8 kg N/ha/month. The nitrogen accumulated during the study period was 71.2 kg N/ha. The variations explained by seasonal changes were 52.3 and 50.3% for biomass production and N-yield of BGA, respectively.
23469151|The International Space Station (ISS) and the Antarctic Research Station Concordia are confined and isolated habitats in extreme and hostile environments. The human and habitat microflora can alter due to the special environmental conditions resulting in microbial contamination and health risk for the crew. In this study, 29 isolates from the ISS and 55 from the Antarctic Research Station Concordia belonging to the genera Staphylococcus and Enterococcus were investigated. Resistance to one or more antibiotics was detected in 75.8 % of the ISS and in 43.6 % of the Concordia strains. The corresponding resistance genes were identified by polymerase chain reaction in 86 % of the resistant ISS strains and in 18.2 % of the resistant Concordia strains. Plasmids are present in 86.2 % of the ISS and in 78.2 % of the Concordia strains. Eight Enterococcus faecalis strains (ISS) harbor plasmids of about 130 kb. Relaxase and/or transfer genes encoded on plasmids from gram-positive bacteria like pIP501, pRE25, pSK41, pGO1 and pT181 were detected in 86.2 % of the ISS and in 52.7 % of the Concordia strains. Most pSK41-homologous transfer genes were detected in ISS isolates belonging to coagulase-negative staphylococci. We demonstrated through mating experiments that Staphylococcus haemolyticus F2 (ISS) and the Concordia strain Staphylococcus hominis subsp. hominis G2 can transfer resistance genes to E. faecalis and Staphylococcus aureus, respectively. Biofilm formation was observed in 83 % of the ISS and in 92.7 % of the Concordia strains. In conclusion, the ISS isolates were shown to encode more resistance genes and possess a higher gene transfer capacity due to the presence of three vir signature genes, virB1, virB4 and virD4 than the Concordia isolates.
4251666|The dominant members of the bacterioplankton community in a set of 10 small, thermally stratified lakes in northeastern Indiana were determined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of a polymerase chain reaction amplified fragment of 16S rDNA. The variability in community composition was analyzed as function of vertical stratification (epilimnion vs metalimnion), time (July vs August samples), and geographical location. In 58 discrete samples, a range of 8-23 bands were detected (mean = 14, s.d. = 4). For all variables, sample pairs shared about 40-70% of bands. In comparisons between depth strata, pairs of oxic samples shared more bands than an oxic-anoxic pair. There was no obvious relationship between the geographical location of lakes (or their physical connection) and band sharing.
4250473|Sixty-two specimens of the sea nettle, Chrysaora quinquecirrha, were caught in the lower Chesapeake Bay, homogenized, and samples plated on a yeast extract-Bay water agar. Bacterial colonies were selected randomly, purified, and tested for 180 characteristics. Computer analysis permitted clustering of the 208 isolates into 15 groups (comprised of 133 strains) plus 75 nongrouped strains which failed to associate with any group at the 70% similarity level. The majority of the isolates (68.8%) were Vibrio species. These included 110 of the grouped strains (forming 12 of the 15 groups) and 33 of the nongrouped strains. The remainder of the isolates were distributed as follows: Pseudomonas (11.6%), Bacillus (8.2%), Flavobacterium (2.4%), Acinetobacter (2.4%), Moraxella (1.9%), Cytophaga (1.9%), Gram-positive cocci (1.4%), and miscellaneous (1.4%). All the Bacillus were isolated from a group of moribund nettles and reflect an abnormal condition. Vibrio species predominated in the five "catches" of healthy nettles, but were distinctly different for each catch.
25153359|We investigated the dynamics and diversity of heterotrophic bacteria, autotrophic and heterotrophic flagellates, and ciliates from March to July 2002 in the surface waters (0-50 m) of Lake Bourget. The heterotrophic bacteria consisted mainly of "small" cocci, but filaments (&gt;2 m), commonly considered to be grazing-resistant forms under increased nanoflagellate grazing, were also detected. These elongated cells mainly belonged to the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium (CF) cluster, and were most abundant during spring and early summer, when mixotrophic or heterotrophic flagellates were the main bacterial predators. The CF group strongly dominated fluorescent in situ hybridization-detected cells from March to June, whereas clear changes were observed in early summer when Beta-proteobacteria and Alpha-proteobacteria increased concomitantly with maximal protist grazing pressures. The analysis of protist community structure revealed that the flagellates consisted mainly of cryptomonad forms. The dynamics of Cryptomonas sp. and Dinobryon sp. suggested the potential importance of mixotrophs as consumers of bacteria. This point was verified by an experimental approach based on fluorescent microbeads to assess the potential grazing impact of all protist taxa in the epilimnion. From the results, three distinct periods in the functioning of the epilimnetic microbial loop were identified. In early spring, mixotrophic and heterotrophic flagellates constituted the main bacterivores, and were regulated by the availability of their resources mainly during April (phase 1). Once the "clear water phase" was established, the predation pressure of metazooplankton represented a strong top-down force on all microbial compartments. During this period only mixotrophic flagellates occasionally exerted a significant bacterivory pressure (phase 2). Finally, the early summer was characterized by the highest protozoan grazing impact and by a rapid shift in the carbon pathway transfer, with a fast change-over of the main predators contribution, i.e., mixotrophic, heterotrophic flagellates and ciliates in bacterial mortality. The high abundance of ciliates during this period was consistent with the high densities of resources (heterotrophic nanoflagellates, algae, bacteria) in deep layers containing the most chlorophyll. Bacteria, as ciliates, responded clearly to increasing phytoplankton abundance, and although bacterial grazing impact could vary largely, bacterial abundance seemed to be primarily bottom-up regulated (phase 3).
25256172|To model the physiological potential of marine heterotrophic bacteria, their role in the food web, and in the biogeochemical carbon cycle, we need to know their growth efficiency response within a matrix of different temperatures and degrees of organic substrate limitation. In this work, we present one part of this matrix, the carbon growth efficiencies of marine bacteria under different temperatures and nonlimiting organic and inorganic substrate supply. We ran aerobic turbidostats with glucose enriched seawater, inoculated with natural populations of heterotrophic marine bacteria at 10, 14, 18, 22, and 26C. The average cell-specific growth rates increased with temperature from 1.17 to 2.6 h. At steady-state total CO production, biomass production [particulate organic carbon (POC) and nitrogen (PON)], and viruslike particle abundance was measured. CO production and specific growth rate increased with increasing temperature. Bacterial carbon growth efficiency (BCGE), the particulate carbon produced per dissolved carbon utilized, varied between 0.12 and 0.70. Maximum BCGE values and decreased specific respiration rates occurred at higher temperatures (22 and 26C) and growth rates. This trend was largely attributable to an increase in POC per cell abundance; when the BCGE was recalculated, parameterizing the biomass as the product of cell concentration and a constant cellular carbon content, the opposite trend was observed.
4251542| Seventy-three bacterial strains were isolated from a clay-loam soil and screened for poly--hydroxybutyric acid (PHB) production. When grown in a nitrogen-free, carbon-rich medium, 23 strains produced PHB homopolymer. The pseudomonads, which were the majority of the Gram negatives, had a very high frequency (67%) in PHB production, and most of the strains with high productivity of the energy reserve material were placed in this group. When suspended in Winogradsky salt solution and starved at 21C, most strains survived very well over the starvation period (150 days and 70 days for two experiments, respectively). The survival ability was strain specific and depended on the growth conditions prior to starvation. The strains capable of producing PHB were not necessarily superior to the others. Accumulation of the energy reserve material had a positive effect on survival of starvation for an individual strain. One strain that did not produce any energy reserve material displayed a prolonged viability under starvation conditions when grown in a nitrogen-free, carbon-rich medium prior to starvation. 
4251410|In aquatic ecosystems, [
4251827|Viral and bacterioplankton dynamics were investigated, together with the temporal variation of phage-infected bacterioplankton in two oligotrophic lakes, one humic and the other clearwater. Bacterial abundance was significantly higher in the humic lake, while the abundance of virus-like particles (VLP) was significantly higher in the clearwater lake. There were no differences in either the frequency of infected bacterial cells (FIC), or in burst size between the lakes. Because of the higher bacterial abundance in the humic lake, a larger number of bacteria were lyzed in this lake. FIC showed large seasonal changes, varying between 9 and 43%, which covers almost the entire range of previously published data from both lacustrine and marine environments. The temporal changes in VLP abundance and FIC were slow in both the humic and clearwater lakes. The burst size was low in both lakes (average value, nine in each case), probably because of the oligotrophic status of the lakes. The chlorophyll a concentrations were higher and positively correlated with VLP numbers in the clearwater lake, indicating that a significant proportion of the viruses in this lake may be phytoplankton viruses.
25256199|We investigated if the plant growth promoting fungus Trichoderma harzianum Rifai 1295-22 (also known as "T22") could be used to enhance the establishment and growth of crack willow (Salix fragilis) in a soil containing no organic or metal pollutants and in a metal-contaminated soil by comparing this fungus with noninoculated controls and an ectomycorrhizal formulation commercially used to enhance the establishment of tree saplings. Crack willow saplings were grown in a temperature-controlled growth room over a period of 5 weeks' in a garden center topsoil and over 12 weeks in a soil which had been used for disposal of building materials and sewage sludge containing elevated levels of heavy metals including cadmium (30 mg kg), lead (350 mg kg), manganese (210 mg kg), nickedl (210 mg kg), and zinc (1,100 mg kg). After 5 weeks' growth in clean soil, saplings grown with T. harzianum T22 produced shoots and roots that were 40% longer than those of the controls and shoots that were 20% longer than those of saplings grown with ectomycorrhiza (ECM). T. harzianum T22 saplings produced more than double the dry biomass of controls and more than 50% extra biomass than the ECM-treated saplings. After 12 weeks' growth, saplings grown with T. harzianum T22 in the metal-contaminated soil produced 39% more dry weight biomass and were 16% taller than the noninoculated controls. This is the first report of tree growth stimulation by application of Trichoderma to roots, and is especially important as willow is a major source of wood fuel in the quest for renewable energy. These results also suggest willow trees inoculated with T. harzianum T22 could be used to increase the rate of revegetation and phytostabilization of metal-contaminated sites, a property of the fungus never previously demonstrated.
4251736|The distribution of soil microorganisms is generally believed to be patchy and to reflect habitat heterogeneity. Despite this general rule, the amount of existing data on species distribution patterns is scarce. Testate amoebae (Protozoa; Rhizopoda) are an important component of soil microbial communities and are increasingly used in ecological and paleoecological studies of Sphagnum-dominated peatlands, but data on the spatial structure of communities are completely lacking. This is an important aspect since quantitative models used for paleoecological reconstruction and monitoring are based on species assemblages. We explored the distribution patterns of testate amoebae distribution in a macroscopically homogeneous Sphagnum carpet, down to a scale of several centimeters. Distributions maps of the species and spatially constrained sample groups were produced. Multivariate and individual spatial autocorrelations were calculated. The importance of spatial structure was quantified by canonical correspondence analysis. Our ultimate goal is to find the finest resolution of environmental monitoring using testate amoebae. The distribution patterns differed among species, resulting in a complex spatial structure of the species assemblage in a whole. Spatial structure accounted for 36% of the total variation of species abundance in a canonical correspondence analysis constrained by spatial variables. This structure was partly correlated to altitude (microtopography) at a very fine scale. These results confirmed the existence of significant broad-and fine-scale spatial structures within testate amoebae communities that could in part be interpreted as effects of ecological gradients. This shows that, on a surface area of 0.25 m
4287713|Epiphytic bacteria are subjected to very stressful environments, including UV radiation. Bacterial assemblages on Zea mays (maize) leaves exposure were examined with and without UV-B radiation. Culture-independent molecular techniques were utilized for bacterial identification, diversity analysis and selection of putative UV exposure marker sequences. Few sequences corresponded to previously characterized phyllosphere bacteria. There was a strong tendency toward increased 16S rDNA sequence diversity in UV samples. Overall community structure was assessed using denaturing gel gradient electrophoresis; significant alterations in community structure were found in comparisons of phyllosphere bacterial samples from control and solar UV-B exposed plants.
4251745|The ability of microorganisms to form biofilms has been well documented. Bacterial cells make a transition from a planktonic state to a sessile state, replicate, and subsequently populate a surface. In this study, organisms that initially colonize a "clean" surface are referred to as "primary" biofilm cells. The progeny of the first generation of sessile cells are known as "secondary" biofilm cells. This study examined the growth of planktonic, primary, and secondary biofilm cells of a green fluorescent protein producing (GFP+) Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA01. Biofilm experiments were performed in a parallel plate flow cell reactor with a glass substratum. Individual cells were tracked over time using a confocal scanning laser microscope (CSLM). Primary cells experience a lag in their growth that may be attributed to adapting to a sessile environment or undergoing a phenotypic change. This is referred to as a surface associated lag time. Planktonic and secondary biofilm cells both grew at a faster rate than the primary biofilm cells under the same nutrient conditions.
25256203|Plant roots are associated with diverse communities of endophytic bacteria which do not exert adverse effects. The diversity of bacterial endophytes associated with ginseng roots cultivated in three different areas in Korea was investigated. Sixty-three colonies were isolated from the interior of ginseng roots. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the isolates belonged to three major phylogenetic groups: the high G+C Gram-positive bacteria (HGCGPB), low G+C Gram-positive bacteria (LGCGPB), and the Proteobacteria. The dominant species at the three different ginseng growing areas were: HGCGPB at Ganghwa (55.0%), LGCGPB at Geumsan (45.5%), and Proteobacteria at Jinan (61.9%). Most cellulase-, xylanase-, and pectinase-producing colonies among the isolates belong to the LGCGPB group, except for Pectobacterium carotovora which belonged to the Proteobacteria. The 13 isolates belonging to LGCGPB and Proteobacteria were assessed for their antifungal activity against phytopathogenic fungi such as Rhizoctonia solani. Among them, Paenibacillus polymyxa GS01, Bacillus sp. GS07, and Pseudomonas poae JA01 show potential activity as biocontrol agents against phytopathogenic fungi. Finally, most of the low G+C Gram-positive bacteria with antifungal activity against phytopathogenic microorganisms showed cellulolytic enzyme activity while some Proteobacteria with the antifungal activity and the high G+C Gram-positive bacteria did not show any cellulolytic activity.
4287720| We investigated the bacterial decomposition of dissolved amino acids (DAA) and carbohydrates (DCHO) bound to humic substances and in the nonhumic fraction, and of low (<3 kDa) and high (>3 kDa) molecular weight (MW). Experiments were conducted in mesotrophic Lake Constance, Germany, in October and November 1997 and June 1998 during periods of low phytoplankton biomass. Dilution cultures, inoculated with bacterioplankton of the <1 m size fraction from 3 m, were run over 5 to 8 days to determine bacterial consumption of the various fractions of DAA and DCHO. In all experiments consumption rates of DCHO were higher than that of DAA. On average, 70% of the DAA and DCHO consumed were associated with the humic fraction, which, however, also consisted of a substantial recalcitrant component. In contrast, there was no preferential consumption of DAA and DCHO in either of the two MW fractions. Overall, we found a highly significant positive correlation between the consumption of the various fractions of DAA and DCHO and their initial concentrations. The consumed DAA, i.e., their labile pool, was dominated by serine and glutamate and that of DCHO by arabinose. In contrast, the residual DAA, i.e., the recalcitrant pool, comprised highest proportions of glycine + threonine and that of DCHO of mannose + xylose. These results indicate that the bacterial consumption of DAA and DCHO was mainly a function of their concentrations, irrespective of the molecular weight and whether they are bound to humic substances or not and despite the fact that they consist of a more labile and a more refractory pool. 
4287759| Little is known of the factors shaping sediment bacterial communities, despite their high abundance and reports of high diversity. Two factors hypothesized to shape bacterial communities in the water column are nutrient (resource) availability and virus infection. The role these factors play in benthic bacterial diversity was assessed in oligotrophic carbonate-based sediments of Florida Bay (USA). Sediment-water mesocosm enclosures were made from 1-m diameter clear polycarbonate cylinders which were pushed into sediments to 201 cm sediment depth enclosing 80 L of water. Mesocosms were amended each day for 14 d with 10 M NH
40343431|A total of 128 bacterial test strains originated from Astragalus, Caragana, Gueldenstaedtia, Medicago, Melilotus, Oxytropis, Trifolium, and Vicia grown in Tibet were characterized phenotypically and genomically. Based upon the consensus of grouping results, they were identified as 16 putative species. Twenty-five test strains belonging to seven putative species of Agrobacterium, Brady rhizobium, and Rhizobium might be nonsymbiotic bacteria and the remaining 103 test strains were symbiotic bacteria belonging to Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium, and Sinorhizobium meliloti. Although no novel taxon was detected in the symbiotic bacteria, several characters including the alkaliphilic psychrotolerance revealed that the Tibetan rhizobia could be ecotypes adapted to the local conditions. The results also demonstrated that frequent lateral transfer of symbiotic genes might have happened in the Tibetan rhizobia since nodC genes similar to that of S. meliloti were found in several Rhizobium test strains and all the Mesorhizobium species had very similar nodC genes despite their genomic background. All of these findings demonstrated that the Tibetan rhizobia were an important resource for further studies on rhizobial ecology and application.
4251514|Over two growing seasons, 273 bacterial strains were isolated from soybean leaves without and with bacterial blight symptoms caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. glycinea (Psg). The majority of the isolates from leaves with symptoms were identified as Psg (43%), followed by Erwinia herbicola (21%), and Enterobacter/Erwinia (19%). The isolates from leaves without symptoms included mainly a group of unidentified Gram-negative bacteria (22%), Psg (21%), and E. herbicola (18%). Psg colonized the soybean leaves prior to saprophytic bacteria, and remained dominant during both seasons on healthy, as well as infected, leaves. Eighty-two saprophytic isolates were tested in vitro for their antagonistic activities against Psg, using an agar-diffusion assay. For the in planta assay, Psg and each isolate were simultaneously inoculated into wounds of pin-pricked leaves of greenhouse-grown soybean plants. Twenty-nine isolates were antagonistic in vitro. Nineteen isolates were able to suppress the growth of Psg and prevented the formation of leaf spots in planta when mixtures of isolate and pathogen were inoculated at ratios >1. Only 9 of the 82 isolates inhibited Psg in vitro as well as in planta. Most antagonists detected belonged to the genera Pseudomonas and the species Erwinia herbicola. The in planta assay should be a reliable predictor of field performance for screening of biological control agents.
4250542|The dynamics of nutrient transformations at the soil-root interface are complex but amenable to controlled experimental study. Using a conceptual model we introduce a series of papers which ascertain the role of microfloral-faunal trophic interactions in carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus transformations in soil microcosms.
25153141| Composition and distribution of planktonic protists were examined relative to microbial food web dynamics (growth, grazing, and nitrogen cycling rates) at the Old Woman Creek (OWC) National Estuarine Research Reserve during an episodic storm event in July 2003. More than 150 protistan taxa were identified based on morphology. Species richness and microbial biomass measured via microscopy and flow cytometry increased along a stream-lake (Lake Erie) transect and peaked at the confluence. Water column ammonium (
40343492|The Bacteriovorax, previously in the genus Bdellovibrio, are prokaryotes that prey upon many Gramnegative bacteria. They are ubiquitous in salt-water environments and have been reported to have a strong association with biofilms. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that this association affords protection for the Bacteriovorax and enhances their survival in nature when exposed to extreme environmental conditions. Experiments were designed to compare their survival in biofilms versus in suspension when exposed to extremes in salinity and temperature. Natural mixed-population biofilms generated in moderate-salinity (16) Patuxent River water and containing Bacteriovorax were exposed to drastic changes in salinity by placing in low-salinity (1) river water and salt-free (no measurable salinity) distilled water for up to 14 days. In a separate trial, the biofilm was exposed to extremes in temperature, 5C and 35C, for up to 12 weeks in aquarium mesocosms. Simultaneously, suspensions of the Bncteriovorax were exposed to the same extremes in salinity and temperature as biofilms. The results revealed that the Bactenovorax typically were able to survive for a week or longer while in association with biofilms than when in suspension. These results are consistent with observations from nature and establish that biofilms are important in the survival and ecology of the Bactenovorax.
41489236|The potentially important roles of intestinal bacteria on immune response, disease resistance, and nutrition for the black tiger shrimp Penaeus monodon have been increasingly investigated. However, so far, little is known about the intestinal bacterial community of the shrimp in the commercial aquaculture settings. In this study, the intestinal bacterial communities of juvenile P. monodon (70 individuals) from eight commercial farms in Thailand were examined using 16S rDNA PCR-DGGE, and seven 16S rDNA clone libraries from representative DGGE profiles were constructed. Bacteria in the -Proteobacteria class were the only common bacteria group found in the intestinal tracts of shrimp from all farms. The dominant bacterial genera in the intestinal population of each shrimp varied among different farms, and these genera were Vibrio, Photobacterium, Aeromonas, or Propionigenium (phylum Fusobacteria). Other commonly found genera included Actinomyces, Anaerobaculum, Halospirulina, Pseudomonas, Mycoplasma, and Shewanella. Twelve phyla of bacteria including Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Fusobacteria, Actinobacteria, Cyanobacteria, Tenericutes, Deinococcus-Thermus, Planctomycetes, Spirochaetes, Synergistetes, Thermotogae, and Verrucomicrobia were represented in the sequences. Additionally, strictly anaerobic bacteria such as Propionigenium and Fusibacter were found. These intestinal bacterial communities varied significantly among different commercial farms and were distinct from their rearing water. The results provide descriptive structures of the intestinal bacterial communities of P. monodon in commercial farms, which can further be applied to areas of research on the immunity, disease resistance, and nutrition of shrimp to improve aquaculture of the black tiger shrimp.
4251709| Phosphorus is scarce in Beacon Sandstone of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica, and any input from precipitation is minimal. In endolithic microbial communities recycling of P by the action of phosphatases may therefore be important. The phosphatase activities of three different types of endolithic communities in the McMurdo Dry Valley, Antarctica, were studied in the laboratory. The dominant phototrophs were Chroococcidiopsis, mixed Gloeocapsa and Trebouxia, and Trebouxia. Bacteria were also visually conspicuous in the latter two communities, and the Trebouxia in both cases formed a lichenized association with fungal hyphae. In each case marked phosphomonoesterase (PMEase) activity was found in assays with 4-methylumbelliferyl phosphate (MUP) or p-nitrophenyl phosphate as substrate, and phosphodiesterase activity with bis-p-nitrophenyl phosphate as substrate. The pH optimum of PMEase (assayed at 0.5 pH intervals) of the Chroococcidiopsis, Gloeocapsa-Trebouxia, and Trebouxia communities was 9.5, 5.5, and 8.0, respectively. These values are similar for aqueous extracts of the respective rocks (pH 9.2, 6.2, 7.5). All three communities showed significantly higher PMEase activity at 5 than 1C, and the first two also showed much higher activity at 5 than 10C. All three communities also showed slightly lower activity in the light (7 mol photon m
4251629| Bacterial abundance and bacterivorous protist abundance and activity were examined in ice-brine and water column communities of a cold temperate Japanese lagoon (Saroma-Ko Lagoon, Hokkaido, 44N, 144E), during the late winter phase of ice community development (February-March 1992). Bacterial abundance averaged 6 and 1 10
4251809|Saprotrophic microfungi associated with roots of Calamagrostis epigeios growing in industrial waste contaminated with high concentrations of heavy metals (manganese, iron, zinc) were isolated on three different media. The isolates were obtained from three plots colonized by plant cenoses, representing three different succession series of plant cover: initial, intermediate, and advanced. A total of 60 species of saprotrophic microfungi were found in the roots during three samplings. In addition, unidentified dark and white sterile mycelia were frequently isolated. Trichoderma koningii was frequent in the roots formed under the advanced phytocenose. The abundance of dark sterile mycelium gradually decreased with progressing succession of the plant cover. Chrysosporium merdarium was rarely observed in the roots under the intermediate and advanced plant cenoses. Multivariate redundancy analysis showed that the effect of succession stage of phytocenoses on incidence of saprotrophic microfungi in mycocenoses present in roots was statistically significant. When the similarity of root mycocenoses of the three plots was studied using the similarity coefficients, the results proved that the similarities between the initial and intermediate or intermediate and advanced mycocenoses were higher than that between the initial and advanced mycocenoses. This corresponds to a different speed of succession of the mycocenoses. The results suggest that the dark sterile mycelia, abundant at slowly developing plots, play a dominant role during the first stages of succession where the plant cover is poor.
23469192|Stimulation of plant productivity caused by Agaricus fairy rings has been reported, but little is known about the effects of these fungi on soil aggregation and the microbial community structure, particularly the communities that can bind soil particles. We studied three concentric zones of Agaricus lilaceps fairy rings in Eastern Montana that stimulate western wheatgrass (Pascopyrum smithii): outside the ring (OUT), inside the ring (IN), and stimulated zone adjacent to the fungal fruiting bodies (SZ) to determine (1) soil aggregate proportion and stability, (2) the microbial community composition and the N-acetyl--D-glucosaminidase activity associated with bulk soil at 015 cm depth, (3) the predominant culturable bacterial communities that can bind to soil adhering to wheatgrass roots, and (4) the stimulation of wheatgrass production. In bulk soil, macroaggregates (4.752.00 and 2.000.25 mm) and aggregate stability increased in SZ compared to IN and OUT. The high ratio of fungal to bacteria (fatty acid methyl ester) and N-acetyl--D-glucosaminidase activity in SZ compared to IN and OUT suggest high fungal biomass. A soil sedimentation assay performed on the predominant isolates from root-adhering soil indicated more soil-binding bacteria in SZ than IN and OUT; Pseudomonas fluorescens and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia isolates predominated in SZ, whereas Bacillus spp. isolates predominated in IN and OUT. This study suggests that growth stimulation of wheatgrass in A. lilaceps fairy rings may be attributed to the activity of the fungus by enhancing soil aggregation of bulk soil at 015 cm depth and influencing the amount and functionality of specific predominant microbial communities in the wheatgrass root-adhering soil.
41489068|Bacteria and archaea represent the vast majority of biodiversity on Earth. The ways that dynamic ecological and evolutionary processes interact in the microbial world are, however, poorly known. Here, we have explored community patterns of planktonic freshwater bacteria inhabiting stratified lakes with oxic/anoxic interfaces and euxinic (anoxic and sulfurous) water masses. The interface separates a welloxygenated upper water mass (epilimnion) from a lower anoxic water compartment (hypolimnion). We assessed whether or not the vertical zonation of lakes promoted endemism in deeper layers by analyzing bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences from the water column of worldwide distributed stratified lakes and applying a community ecology approach. Community similarity based on the phylogenetic relatedness showed that bacterial assemblages from the same water layer were more similar across lakes than to communities from different layer within lakes and that anoxic hypolimnia presented greater -diversity than oxic epilimnia. Higher -diversity values are attributable to low dispersal and small connectivity between community patches. In addition, surface waters had significant spatial but non-significant environmental components controlling phylogenetic -diversity patterns, respectively. Conversely, the bottom layers were significantly correlated with environment but not with geographic distance. Thus, we observed different ecological mechanisms simultaneously acting on the same water body. Overall, bacterial endemicity is probably more common than previously thought, particularly in isolated and environmentally heterogeneous freshwater habitats. We argue for a microbial diversity conservation perspective still lacking in the global and local biodiversity preservation policies.
4250577|Scanning electron microscopic (SEM) observations of naturally and artificially diseased corals reveal that the disease is characterized by a filamentous matrix of cyanobacterial and Beggiatoa filaments. Spiral bacteria are commonly embedded in the matrix. The artificial disease is not manifested as the characteristic "black line disease" and does not contain filaments of cyanobacteria. This suggests that cyanobacteria are necessary for the black line phenomenon. The colorless, sulfide-oxidizing bacterium Beggiatoa, however, is always associated with the disease.
25153370|Protistan grazing on biofilms is potentially an important conduit enabling energy flow between microbial trophic levels. Contrary to the widely held assumption that protistan feeding primarily involves ingestion of biofilm cells, with negative consequences for the biofilm, this study demonstrated preferential grazing on the noncellular biofilm matrix by a ciliate, with selective ingestion of yeast and bacterial cells of planktonic origin over attached and biofilm-derived planktonic cells. Introducing a ciliate to two biofilm-forming Cryptococcus species, as well as two bacterial species in a model biofilm system, fluorescent probes were applied to determine ingestion of cellular and noncellular biofilm fractions. Fluoromicroscopy, as well as photometric quantification, confirmed that protistan grazing enhanced yeast biofilm metabolism, and an increase in biofilm biomass and viability. We propose that the extracellular polymeric matrix of biofilms may act as an interface regulating interaction between predator and prey, while serving as source of nutrients and energy for protists.
4251186|The presence and digestive capabilities of bacteria associated with the digestive systems and habitats of two saltmarsh-burrowing detritivore thalassinid prawns (Upogebia africana and Callianassa kraussi) was examined. U. africana is a filter-feeding prawn inhabiting muddy deposits, whereas C. kraussi, a deposit feeder, inhabits coarser more sandy deposits. Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the gut lining and associated microflora and the nature of the ingested food of both prawns. The gut contents of both prawns included plant fragments, fragmented diatoms, partially degraded protozoa, and bacteria attached to organic matter. In both U. africana and C. kraussi the midgut walls and gut contents were extensively coated by filamentous bacteria which were absent in the hindgut. The hindgut epithelium of U. africana was coated by mats of rodshaped bacteria, not reported in marine invertebrates previously. The digestive glands of both species contained bacteria in the lumen. Isolation of gut and habitat bacteria suggests that both U. africana and C. kraussi maintain a gut microflora distinct from the habitat microflora. Bacteria isolated from the guts of both species of prawn differed from those isolated from their respective habitats with regards to both the genera isolated and their digestive capabilities. The dominant genera isolated from the guts of both U. africana and C. kraussi were Vibrio and Pseudomonas, with an unidentified fermenter and Pseudomonas, respectively dominating in the digestive glands. Bacteria of the genus Acinetobacter dominated the isolates from the habitats of both species of prawn. Resident gut bacteria isolated from the guts of both species of prawn exhibited lipase, protease, chitinase, and lysozyme, but not cellulase activity, and may contribute to nitrogen aquisition by the prawns. Isolates from the prawns' habitat exhibited alginase, gelatinase, and lipase activity, a few (3%) from U. africana habitat having cellulases. In this study a distinction between resident gut bacteria and transient gut bacteria was made. Results suggest that some habitat bacteria remain viable in the guts of U. africana, but not in C. kraussi.
41489048|An increasing number of studies reveal that ticks and their hosts are infected with multiple pathogens, suggesting that coinfection might be frequent for both vectors and wild reservoir hosts. Whereas the examination of associations between coinfecting pathogen agents in natural host-vector-pathogen systems is a prerequisite for a better understanding of disease maintenance and transmission, the associations between pathogens within vectors or hosts are seldom explicitly examined. We examined the prevalence of pathogen agents and the patterns of associations between them under natural conditions, using a previously unexamined host-vector-pathogen system green lizards Lacerta viridis, hard ticks Ixodes ricinus, and Borrelia, Anaplasma, and Rickettsia pathogens. We found that immature ticks infesting a temperate lizard species in Central Europe were infected with multiple pathogens. Considering I. ricinus nymphs and larvae, the prevalence of Anaplasma, Borrelia, and Rickettsia was 13.1% and 8.7%, 12.8% and 1.3%, and 4.5% and 2.7%, respectively. The patterns of pathogen prevalence and observed coinfection rates suggest that the risk of tick infection with one pathogen is not independent of other pathogens. Our results indicate that Anaplasma can play a role in suppressing the transmission of Borrelia to tick vectors. Overall, however, positive effects of Borrelia on Anaplasma seem to prevail as judged by higher-than-expected Borrelia-Anaplasma coinfection rates.
4287555| Natural photosynthetic biofilms were incubated under light (100 mol m
40802180|The study of transparent exopolymer particles in the Mediterranean Sea is particularly relevant as they can be promoters of mucilage events, a frequent phenomenon there. We assessed the influence of bacterioplankton on distribution and dynamics across the westeast axis of the Mediterranean Sea. We performed an extensive study of dissolved carbohydrates, and their relationships with bacterial abundance and bacterial production (BP). A significant and positive relationship was observed between BP and in the study region (r= 0.51, P< 0.001). The direct release of by bacteria was experimentally corroborated using regrowth cultures where increases in tracked bacterial growth in abundance and production. These increases were positively related to the increases in BP (r = 0.78, p < 0.05). The consistency (similar slopes) of the regression lines between BP and in the experiments underlines the relevant role of bacteria in the formation of in this area.
25153447|We examined morphology, elemental composition (C, N, P), and orthophosphate-uptake efficiency in the marine heterotrophic bacterium Vibrio splendidus grown in continuous cultures. Eight chemostats were arranged along a gradient of increasing glucose concentrations in the reservoirs, shifting the limiting factor from glucose to phosphate. The content of carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus was measured in individual cells by x-ray microanalysis using a transmission electron microscope (TEM). Cell volumes (V) were estimated from length and width measurements of unfixed, air-dried cells in TEM. There was a transition from coccoid cells in C-limited cultures toward rod-shaped cells in P-limited cultures. Cells in P-limited cultures with free glucose in the media were significantly larger than cells in glucose-depleted cultures (P&lt;0.0001). We found functional allometry between cellular C-, N-, and P content (in femtograms) and V (in cubic micrometers) in V. splendidus
4287625| Bacterioplankton community composition was studied in 12 lakes in three dierent geographic regions in Scandinavia using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and sequencing of 16S rDNA. Area-specific abundant taxa were found in the lakes in two of the regions. In the region of Uppland the lakes had an -proteobacterium, belonging to the subgroup Alpha V in common. The Alpha V bacteria appeared to be favored by neutral or higher pH values. The lakes in Lappland were found to harbor Actinobacteria, which appeared to be favored in bog lakes. No abundant taxon was found to be in common for the lakes in Svalbard, the third region studied. 
4251693| We analyzed the soil microbial communities from one uncontaminated and two metal-impacted soils and found that while cadmium adversely affected the numbers of culturable bacteria in all soils, cadmium-resistant isolates were found from each of the soils. With exposure to 24 and 48 g ml
4251481| A field study over an annual cycle in a shallow, wetland pond dominated by Nymphaea odorata was combined with laboratory experiments to determine the fate of DOM from aquatic macrophyte primary productivity in the microbial food web. DOM concentrations, bacterial abundance and productivity, and protistan abundance were more than an order of magnitude higher during warm months (water temperatures >20C) than during cool months (<20C). Out-of-phase oscillations between microbial populations suggested protistan bacterivore grazing pressure affected bacterial abundance during the warm months. Microcosm experiments designed to mimic warm-month conditions using wetland pond microbial communities showed similar rates of macrophyte leachate uptake by both grazed and ungrazed bacteria. However, in the presence of heterotrophic nanoflagellates, bacterial biomass accumulation was less than one-half of that in treatments without bacterivores, and calculated carbon mineralization was fivefold greater in the treatment with bacterivores. No difference in amounts of NH
4287742| A set of microcosm experiments was performed to assess different bioremediation strategies, i.e., biostimulation and bioaugmentation, for groundwater contaminated with chlorobenzenes. The biodegradative potential was stimulated either by the supply of electron acceptors (air, ( NO
4250651|The predatory activity of bdellovibrios is affected by various environmental pollutants such as detergents, heavy metals, and pesticides. This was shown in a two-membered system of Bdellovibrio and Photobacterium, in which the effect of the predator on the bioluminescence of the prey indicated the activity of the former. The high sensitivity of the bdellovibrios toward certain chemicals (e.g., CdCl
4251112|The persistence and interaction between newly isolated strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and resident bacteriophages indigenous to a freshwater environment was monitored over 45 days in lake water microcosms. The interaction between susceptible and resistant bacteria with pure phage (UT1) particles or a mixed phage population (M1) was investigated by following temporal changes in host density, phage-to-bacteria ratio (PBR), and the appearance of apparent prophage carriers within the host population. Decay rates of the phage (UT1) ranged from 0.054
25153348| Mono Lake is a meromictic, hypersaline, soda lake that harbors a diverse and abundant microbial community. A previous report documented the high viral abundance in Mono Lake, and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis analysis of viral DNA from lake water samples showed a diverse population based on a broad range of viral genome sizes. To better understand the ecology of bacteriophages and their hosts in this unique environment, water samples were collected between February 2001 and July 2004 for isolation of bacteriophages by using four indigenous bacterial hosts. Plaque assay results showed a differential seasonal expression of cultured bacteriophages. To reveal the diversity of uncultured bacteriophages, viral DNA from lake water samples was used to construct clone libraries. Sequence analysis of viral clones revealed homology to viral as well as bacterial proteins. Furthermore, dot blot DNA hybridization analyses showed that the uncultured viruses are more prevalent during most seasons, whereas the viral isolates (A and 2) were less prevalent, confirming the belief that uncultured viruses represent the dominant members of the community, whereas cultured isolates represent the minority species. 
40605848|The aim of this work was to investigate the dynamics of assembly of bacterial populations in activated sludge floes. We approached this question by following the development of active bacterial populations during floe development in four replicated lab-scale activated sludge reactors, in which solid retention time (SRT) was set at 4 days. The null hypothesis was that the similarities in community composition could be accounted for by the probability that the same organisms occur in more than one replicated reactor. Microscopic imaging showed that the size of floes in reactors with biomass retention increased during the first few days until a steady-state size was reached. The diversity and community structure of the sludge in all reactors were analyzed during a period of up to ten SRT, using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction-amplified 16S rRNA. High rates of change in DGGE profiles from consecutive sampling points suggested a high level of dynamics in all reactors. This conclusion was confirmed by the application of the Raup and Crick probability-based similarity index (S RC ) for the comparison of rRNA-based fingerprinting patterns, which indicated that bacterial communities within reactors were not significantly similar after three SRT (0.05 < S RC < 0.95) and became significantly dissimilar after five SRT (S RC < 0.05). More importantly, significant similarity between replicate reactors was observed at all times analyzed (S RC > 0.95). The fact that the patterns between replicates were more reproducible than expected by chance under highly dynamic conditions allowed us to reject the null hypothesis that activated sludge floe communities assemble randomly from the available source pool of bacteria. We suggest that communities progressively recruit from the available pool of bacterial species, each with particular ecological requirements that determine their time of emergence into the community.
41489029|The aims of this study were to investigate patterns of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) colonisation and community structure on nursery grown seedlings of Pinus sylvestris, spatial distribution of ECMs in the nursery plot and genetic diversity of commonly isolated ECM basidiomycete Hebeloma cavipes. One hundred seedlings were sampled in 225 m area using a systematic grid design. For each seedling, 20 individual root tips were randomly collected, morphotyped, and surface sterilised for fungal isolation in pure culture. Results showed that ECM community was comprised of nine distinct morphotypes among which Thelephora terrestris (39.7%), Hebeloma sp. (17.8%) and Suillus luteus (6.1%) were the most abundant. Spatial distribution of ECMs in the nursery plot was determined by their relative abundance: even in common ECMs and random in rare ones. Fungal isolation yielded 606 pure cultures, representing 71 distinct taxa. The most commonly isolated fungi were the ascomycetes Neonectria macrodidyma (20.3%), Phialocephala fortinii (13.5%), Neonectria radicicola (6.3%) and the ECM basidiomycete H. cavipes (4.5%). Intraspecific genetic diversity within 27 H. cavipes isolates was studied using two methods: restriction digestion of the amplified intergenic spacer of nuclear ribosomal DNA and genealogical concordance of five genetic markers. Five and eight genotypes were revealed by each respective method, but both of those were largely consistent, in particular, in determining the largest genotype (A) composed of 18 isolates. Mapping positions for each H. cavipes isolate and genotype in the field showed that isolates of the A genotype covered a large part of the nursery plot. This suggests that H. cavipes is largely disseminated by vegetative means of local genotypes and that nursery cultivation practices are likely to contribute to the dissemination of this species in the forest nursery soils.
41489151|This study examines the microbial colonization of three fronts of an abandoned dolostone quarry (Reduea, Madrid, Spain) exposed to atmospheric conditions for different time periods since Roman times to the present. Through scanning electron microscopy in backscattered electron mode (SEM-BSE), endolithic colonization was predominantly detected in the most recently exposed front, while in the longer exposed quarry fronts, epilithic forms of growth were most often observed. These observations were confirmed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis. Based on the distribution pattern of microbial colonization in the different quarry fronts, we then established a sequence of colonization events that took place over this long time frame. Bioalteration processes related to this sequential colonization were also identified. Characterizing these sequential processes can be useful for interpreting biodeterioration processes in historic dolostone monuments, especially those affecting constructions in the area of the Reduea stone quarry. In a second experimental stage, different biocide treatments were tested on this quarry rock to find the best way to avoid the microbial colonization effects identified. Through combined SEMBSE/DGGE analysis, the efficacy of several biocides against the microorganisms inhabiting the dolostones was assessed after 4 and 16 months treatment. In general, all treatments were effective at reducing around 80% of the lichen cover, although effects on endolithic lithobiontic communities were dependant on how well the rock surface had been mechanically cleaned prior to treatment and gradually disappeared over time.
4287692|Bacterial and fungal decomposers of aquatic plant litter may exhibit either synergistic or antagonistic interactions, which are likely to influence microbial growth as well as the decomposition of litter and, eventually, the carbon metabolism of aquatic systems. To elucidate such interactions, we inoculated decomposing Phragmites culms in microcosms with fungal isolates and with natural communities of bacteria and fungi in different combinations. The development of fungal and bacterial biomass and the carbon dynamics were studied during several months of degradation. The results show a bilateral antagonistic relationship between bacteria and fungi. After 3 months, fungal biomass accumulation was approximately 12 times higher in the absence than in the presence of bacteria. Bacterial biomass accumulation was about double in the absence of fungi compared to when fungi were present. Similar interactions developed between a natural assemblage of bacteria and five different fungal strains isolated from Phragmites litter (three identified hyphomycetes and two unidentified strains). Despite the great difference in biomass development between the treatments, the carbon metabolism was similar regardless of whether fungi and/or bacteria were present alone or in coexistence. We suggest that the antagonism between bacteria and fungi is an important controlling factor for microbial colonization and growth on aquatic plant litter.
4250518|An ecological study of Vibrio parahaemolyticus was carried out from December 1970 to December 1971 in the Rhode River of Chesapeake Bay. The annual cycle of the organism was elucidated and factors restricting its distribution in the estuary were described, including the association of the organism with zooplankton. Numerical taxonomy was employed for identification and classification of "V. parahaemolyticus" and related organisms on the basis of substrate utilization tests. From characteristics recorded for "V. parahaemolyticus", it is concluded to be an estuarine organism.
4250916|Fifty-two aerobic and facultative anaerobic and 57 anaerobic bacterial isolates were obtained from an acidogenic phase digestion system. These isolates were characterized and the similarities between the different strains were calculated using Sokal and Michener's similarity coefficient. The aerobic and facultative anaerobic strains clustered in two major groups with the strains of the first main group being gram-negative fermentative rods, representing the genera Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Escherichia and Aeromonas. Isolates of the second group were gram-positive streptococci similar to Streptococcus lactis. The strict anaerobic isolates also clustered into two main groups with strains of cluster A being identified as members of the genus Fusobacterium while strains in cluster B were members of the genus Bacteroides. Hypothetical mean organisms were calculated for each cluster and used in further culture studies. The major products of the continuously fed acidogenic phase reactor were ethanol and acetic, propionic, and butyric acids. In batch cultures, ethanol, acetic acid, diacetyl, and 2,3-butanediol were formed by the strains as major products both under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The ability of the aerobic and facultative anaerobic strains to be metabolically active under anaerobic conditions indicates a prominent role in acidogenic reactors.
4251317|In the course of an in situ bioremediation, different hydrologically controllable test plots were installed on the ground of a waste-oil contaminated site, and continuously injected with nutrient solution and the electron acceptors NO
23597845|The hypothesis that outcomes of phosphorus and light competition between Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii and Microcystis aeruginosa are strain dependent was tested experimentally. Critical requirements of phosphorus (P*) and of light (I*) of two strains of each species were determined through monoculture experiments, which indicated a trade-off between species and also between Microcystis strains. Competition experiments between species were performed using the weakest predicted competitors (with the highest values of P* and of I*) and with the strongest predicted competitors (with the lowest values of P* and of I*). Under light limitation, competition between the weakest competitors led C. raciborskii to dominate. Between the strongest competitors, the opposite was observed, M. aeruginosa displaced C. raciborskii, but both strains co-existed in equilibrium. Under phosphate limitation, competition between the weakest competitors led C. raciborskii to exclude M. aeruginosa, and between the strongest competitors, the opposite was observed, M. aeruginosa displaced C. raciborskii, but the system did not reach an equilibrium and both strains were washed out. Hence, outcomes of the competition depended on the pair of competing strains and not only on species or on type of limitation. We concluded that existence of different trade-offs among strains and between species underlie our results showing that C. raciborskii can either dominate or be displaced by M. aeruginosa when exposed to different conditions of light or phosphate limitation.
4251105| The effects of simulated acid rain on the population of birch phyllosphere fungi and species/genera/group composition of fungi on birch leaves were investigated in a field study in the subarctic region of northern Finland. The acid rain treatments consisted of a mixture of H
41489788|The distribution of extracellular enzymatic activities (EEA) [leucine aminopeptidase (LAP), -glucosidase (GLU), alkaline phosphatase (AP)], as well as that of prokaryotic abundance (PA) and biomass (PB), dissolved organic carbon (DOC), particulate organic carbon and particulate total nitrogen PTN), was determined in the epi-, meso-, and bathypelagic waters of the Mediterranean Sea along a West-East transect and at one Atlantic station located outside the Strait of Gibraltar. This study represents a synoptical evaluation of the microbial metabolism during early summer. Decreasing trends with depth were observed for most of the parameters (PA, PB, AP, DOC, eastern basins of the Mediterranean Sea were found, displaying higher rates of LAP and GLU and lower C/N ratios more in the eastern than in the western areas. Conversely, in the epipelagic layer, PA and PB were found to be higher in the western than in the eastern basins. PB was significantly related to DOC concentration (all data, n = 145, r= 0.53, P<0.01), while significant correlations of EEA with and PTN were found in the epipelagic layer, indicating an active PTN). Significant differences between the western response of microbial metabolism to organic substrates. Specific enzyme activities normalized to cell abundance pointed out high values of LAP and GLU in the bathypelagic layer, especially in the eastern basin, while cellspecific AP was high in the epi-and bathypelagic zone of the eastern basin indicating a rapid regeneration of inorganic P for both prokaryotes and phytoplankton needs. Low activity and abundance characterized the Atlantic station, while opposite trends of these parameters were observed along the Mediterranean transect, showing the uncoupling between abundance and activity data. In the east Mediterranean Sea, decomposition processes increased probably in response to mesoscale structures which lead to organic matter downwelling.
23469158|Next-generation sequencing has increased the coverage of microbial diversity surveys by orders of magnitude, but differentiating artifacts from rare environmental sequences remains a challenge. Clustering 16S rRNA sequences into operational taxonomic units (OTUs) organizes sequence data into groups of 97 % identity, helping to reduce data volumes and avoid analyzing sequencing artifacts by grouping them with real sequences. Here, we analyze sequence abundance distributions across environmental samples and show that 16S rRNA sequences of >99 % identity can represent functionally distinct microorganisms, rendering OTU clustering problematic when the goal is an accurate analysis of organism distribution. Strict postsequencing quality control (QC) filters eliminated the most prevalent artifacts without clustering. Further experiments proved that DNA polymerase errors in polymerase chain reaction (PCR) generate a significant number of substitution errors, most of which pass QC filters. Based on our findings, we recommend minimizing the number of PCR cycles in DNA library preparation and applying strict postsequencing QC filters to reduce the most prevalent artifacts while maintaining a high level of accuracy in diversity estimates. We further recommend correlating rare and abundant sequences across environmental samples, rather than clustering into OTUs, to identify remaining sequence artifacts without losing the resolution afforded by high-throughput sequencing.
4251024| Four ecological zones of the Gambia River were sampled during four different hydrologic seasons for determination of microbial, nutrient, and physical parameters. A Greco-Latin Square experimental design was used to define the particular transect, station, depth, and tide/time-of-day of samples taken. Ranges of total bacterioplankton densities (10
40605672|A soil microorganism identified as Bacillum megaterium was found to produce several antibiotics substances after growth for 20 h at 37C in a mineral culture medium. Analysis both by electron spray ionization (ESI) and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionizationtime of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry (MS) identified these substances as lipopeptides. Predominant peaks at m/z 1,041 and m/z 1,065 revealed ions which are compatible with surfactins and lichenysins, respectively. Two other ions m/z 1,057 and m/z 1,464 were further studied by collision-induced dissociation (CID) unveiling an iturin A at the first and fengycins A and at the second m/z peaks. The CID spectrum of the m/z 1,464 ion also suggests the existence of fengycins A and variants in which He was changed to Val in the position 10 of the peptide moiety. Raw mixtures of all these compounds were also assayed for antibiotic features. The data enlighten the unusual diversity of the lipopeptide mixture produced by a sole Bacillus species.
4250650|The interaction of Bdellovibrio with its prey can be affected by the presence of other microorganisms regardless of whether they serve as a prey for the bdellovibrios. This was shown in a system in which the fate of one prey could be followed in mixed bacterial populations thanks to a specific trait, bioluminescence. The attacking bdellovibrio causes decay of bioluminescence, and the rate of light decay of the population indicates the rate at which the luminous bacteria are attacked. Using this system it was found that different bacteria affected the predator-prey interaction in different ways: some "competed" with the original prey for the predator; others enhanced the activity of the predator toward the original prey, and others inhibited it. The significance of these findings in relation to the distribution and activity of Bdellovibrio in the natural ecosystem is discussed.
25153451|Aerobic, alkaliphilic bacteria were isolated and characterized from water and sediment sample collected in the winter season, January 2002 from alkaline Lonar lake, India, having pH 10.5. The total number of microorganisms in the sediment and water samples was found to be 10-10 cfu g and 10-10 cfu ml, respectively. One hundred and ninetysix strains were isolated using different enrichment media. To study the bacterial diversity of Lonar lake and to select the bacterial strains for further characterization, screening was done on the basis of pH and salt tolerance of the isolates. Sixty-four isolates were subjected to phenotypic, biochemical characterization and 16S rRNA sequencing. Out of 64, 31 bacterial isolates were selected on the basis of their enzyme profile and further subjected to phylogenetic analysis. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that most of the Lonar lake isolates were related to the phylum Firmicutes, containing Low G+C, Gram-positive bacteria, with different genera: Bacillus, Paenibacillus, Alkalibacillus, Exiguobacterium, Planococcus, Enterococcus and Vagococcus. Seven strains constituted a Gram-negative bacterial group, with different genera: Halomonas, Stenotrophomonas and Providencia affiliated to -Proteobacteria, Alcaligenes to -Proteobacteria and Paracoccus to -Proteobacteria. Only five isolates were High G+C, Gram-positive bacteria associated with phylum Actinobacteria, with various genera: Cellulosimicrobium, Dietzia, Arthrobacter and Micrococcus. Despite the alkaline pH of the Lonar lake, most of the strains were alkalitolerant and only two strains were obligate alkaliphilic. Most of the isolates produced biotechnologically important enzymes at alkaline pH, while only two isolates (ARI 351 and ARI 341) showed the presence of polyhydroxyalkcanoate (PHA) and exopolysaccharide (EPS), respectively.
25153421| We examined the effect of light on extracellular enzyme activities of periphytic/endogenous microbial assemblages associated with decomposing litter of an emergent macrophyte Typha angustifolia within a small inland wetland in southeastern Michigan. Standing-dead Typha leaf litter was collected, placed into floating wire mesh litter baskets, and submerged in a wetland pool. Enzyme saturation assays were conducted on three occasions following litter submergence (days 9, 28, and 44) to generate saturation curves for the individual enzymes tested and to examine potential differences in enzyme saturation kinetics during microbial colonization and development. Experimental light manipulations were conducted on two occasions during microbial development (days 10 and 29). Short-term (30 min) light exposure significantly increased extracellular -glucosidase activity of litter-associated microbial communities. Activities of -xylosidase and leucine-aminopeptidase were not stimulated, and stimulation of phosphatase activity was variable. The exact mechanism for increased enzyme activity remains unknown, but it may have been increased pH arising from periphytic algal photosynthesis. These results suggest that extracellular enzyme activity in microbial communities colonizing natural organic substrata may be influenced by light/photosynthesis, as has previously been demonstrated for periphyton communities grown on artificial, inert substrata. Thus, light/photosynthetic mediated stimulation of extracellular enzyme activities may be a common occurrence in microbial communities associated with natural decaying plant litter in wetlands and might engender diurnal patterns in other microbial decay processes (e.g., production, organic matter decomposition, and mineralization). 
4251228|The effects of films of two strains of a marine bacterium, Deleya marina (ATCC 25374 and 27129) on the attachment response of cypris larvae of the balanomorph barnacle, Balanus amphitrite, were examined in the laboratory. Tests showed that the cell-surface hydrophobicities of the two bacteria in suspension were different. In contrast, films derived from these cells were both highly wettable (i.e., displayed high surface free energy). Assays (22 hours) compared permanent attachment of larval barnacles to films derived from exponential and stationary phase cells for both bacteria. These films either had no effect or inhibited attachment of both 0-day- and 4-day-old cypris larvae when compared with unfilmed controls. Our data indicate that inhibition of larval barnacle attachment by films of the two bacteria is the result of factors other than surface free energy. Production of chemical barnacle settlement inhibitors by the bacteria is hypothesized.
25256241|The diversity of methanogenic archaea in enrichment cultures established from the sediments of Lonar Lake (India), a soda lake having pH  10, was investigated using 16S rDNA molecular phylogenetic approach. Methanogenic enrichment cultures were developed in a medium that simulated conditions of soda lake with three different substrates viz., H:CO, sodium acetate, and trimethylamine (TMA), at alkaline pH. Archaeal 16S rRNA clone libraries were generated from enrichment cultures and 13 RFLP groups were obtained. Representative sequence analysis of each RFLP group indicated that the majority of the 16S rRNA gene sequences were phylogenetically affiliated with uncultured Archaea. Some of the groups may belong to new archaeal genera or families. Three RFLP groups were related to Methanoculleus sp, while two related to Methanocalculus sp. 16S rRNA gene sequences found in Lonar Lake were different from sequences reported from other soda lakes and more similar to those of oil reservoirs, palm oil waste treatment digesters, and paddy fields. In culture-based studies, three isolates were obtained. Two of these were related to Methanoculleus sp. IIE1 and one to Methanocalculus sp. 01F97C. These results clearly show that the Lonar Lake ecosystem harbors unexplored methanogens.
4250983|The bacterial generic composition of biofilms was investigated by determining colony-forming units on 1/2 PYG (peptone, yeast extract, and glucose medium) agar plates. The biofilms developed on the upper and lower surfaces of artificial substrata submerged in river water at Unazawa in the Tamagawa River in Tokyo, Japan. Greater variation in the number and generic composition in platable colonies was obtained on the upper surface of an artificial substratum than on the lower surface. This variation corresponded to the variation in algal biomass. Accompanying the growth of the algae, specific bacteria commensal with the algae proliferated on the upper surface. The biofilm exfoliated when the surface density of chlorophyll was 11.2
25153309|Biological soil crust is composed of lichens, cyanobacteria, green algae, mosses, and fungi. Although crusts are a dominant source of nitrogen (N) in arid ecosystems, this study is among the first to demonstrate their contribution to N availability in xeric temperate habitats. The study site is located in Lucas County of Northwest Ohio. Using an acetylene reduction technique, we demonstrated potential N fixation for these crusts covering sandy, acidic, low N soil. Similar fixation rates were observed for crust whether dominated by moss, lichen, or bare soil. N inputs from biological crusts in northwestern Ohio are comparable to those in arid regions, but contribute substantially less N than by atmospheric deposition. Nitrate and ammonium leaching from the crust layer were quantified using ion exchange resin bags inserted within intact soil cores at 4 cm depth. Leaching of ammonium was greater and nitrate less in lichen than moss crusts or bare soil, and was less than that deposited from atmospheric sources. Therefore, biological crusts in these mesic, temperate soils may be immobilizing excess ammonium and nitrate that would otherwise be leached through the sandy soil. Moreover, automated monitoring of microclimate in the surface 7 cm of soil suggests that moisture and temperature fluctuations in soil are moderated under crust compared to bare soil without crust. We conclude that biological crusts in northwestern Ohio contribute potential N fixation, reduce N leaching, and moderate soil microclimate.
40343398|Fluorescent pseudomonads have been associated, via diverse mechanisms, with suppression of root disease caused by numerous fungal and fiingal-like pathogens. However, inconsistent performance in disease abatement, after their employment, has been a problem. This has been attributed, in part, to the inability of the biocontrol bacterium to maintain a critical threshold population necessary for sustained biocontrol activity. Our results indicate that a nitrogen stabilizer (N-Serve , Dow Agrosciences) selectively and significantly enhanced, by two to three orders of magnitude, the resident population of fluorescent pseudomonads in the amended (i.e., 25 g ml" 1 nitrapyrin, the active ingredient) and recycled nutrient solution used in the cultivation of hydroponically grown gerbera and pepper plants. Pseudomonas putida was confirmed as the predominant bacterium selectively enhanced. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of 16S rDNA suggested that N-Serve  selectively increased P. putida and reduced bacterial diversity 72 h after application. In vitro tests revealed that the observed population increases of fluorescent pseudomonads were preceded by an early growth suppression of indigenous aerobic heterotrophic bacteria (AHB) population. Interestingly, the fluorescent pseudomonad population did not undergo this decrease, as shown in competition assays. Xylene and 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene (i.e., the inert ingredients in N-Serve) were responsible for a significant percentage of the fluorescent pseudomonad population increase. Furthermore, those increases were significantly higher when the active ingredient (i.e., nitrapyrin) and the inert ingredients were combined, which suggests a synergistic response. P. putida strains were screened for the ability to produce antifungal compounds and for the antifungal activity against Pythium aphanidermatum and Phytophthora capsici. The results of this study suggest the presence of diverse mechanisms with disease-suppressing potential. This study demonstrates the possibility of using a specific substrate to selectively enhance and maintain desired populations of a natural-occurring bacterium such as P. putida, a trait considered to have great potential in biocontrol applications for plant protection.
4251089| Groundwater bacteria isolated from an oligotrophic-saturated soil showed a mixed strategy of economized metabolism and migration when grown in a continuous-flow column system simulating poor or nutrient-amended growth conditions. The cells were generally <0.5 m in diameter in pure groundwater, but doubled in size when the concentration of dissolved organic carbon and phosphate in groundwater was increased 10-fold. The biomass, estimated from analysis of muramic acid (MuAc) in cell wall peptidoglucans, increased at the same time by a factor of 5 when the solid support in the columns was gravel and by a factor of 10 when it was glass beads. Bacteria in pure groundwater stored 10 times more of the energy-rich polysaccharide, poly--hydroxybutyric acid (PHB), than bacteria in enriched groundwater, and those cells that were attached to the gravel stored 10 times as much as cells in the interstitial pore water. Once phosphate was added to groundwater, stored PHB was metabolized. The proportion of free-living to attached bacteria was 2 to 10 times higher in enriched compared with pure groundwater indicating a mass transport of cells as the carrying capacity of their habitat rose. 
4251456|Microbial communities from soil and groundwater of oil-contaminated sites (Beelitzhof in Berlin-Nikolassee and the former Pintsch site in Hanau, both in Germany) were characterized by description of the physiological potential of arbitrary samples of 48 aerobic heterotrophic bacterial isolates. It was demonstrated that the sum of metabolic abilities, presented as a percentage of substrate-degrading microorganisms in a sample, is both site specific and reproducible. The percentage of hydrocarbon-degrading microorganisms in the communities was most strongly influenced by the diversity and amount of carbon supply (whereas after addition of mineral salts, total cell counts increased). For example, in groundwater of the waste oil-contaminated Pintsch site, only the accessible short-chain alkanes up to dodecane could be metabolized. After dosing with hydrogen peroxide, long-chain alkane-degrading bacteria were found in significant amounts among the predominant microorganisms, which was apparently due to a solubilization effect that brought the longer alkanes (and their degraders) into the groundwater. Because the addition of precultured organisms to a soil-composting windrow had no effect on the degradation pattern of its microbiota, the carbon sources available probably determined whether allochthonous bacteria would become indigenous. Although the physiological potentials of the individual bacteria complemented each other and thus determined the distinctive profile characteristic of the microbial community, the individual members could differ in their metabolic abilities, as was shown by the distribution of positive test results in different samples, and they could also differ in their taxonomic status. Evidently, the taxonomic status of the bacteria did not determine their activities: Strains of the same species showed different degradation abilities for hydrocarbon substrates. However, the taxonomic status of isolates seemed to be highly dependent on the physicochemical factors of a site (soil structure, water capacity, etc.).
4250799| The addition of carbaryl (100 g/ml) to a model estuarine ecosystem did not affect the number of bacteria in the sediment, but reduced the diversity (as measured by the rarefaction technique) of the microbial community as compared with a control model ecosystem. Two carbaryl-tolerant strains of bacteria were isolated from the carbaryl-treated system, but none were isolated from the control system. Bacterial growth and filter paper decomposition in mixed cultures was prevented by 100 g/ml carbaryl, but this amount had no effect on the extracellular cellulase of an estuarine isolate. Increasing the amount of organic matter in the medium attenuated the toxicity of carbaryl to pure cultures of an estuarine isolate. The addition of 1, 10, or 100 g/ml carbaryl to field plots had no effect on bacterial numbers, diversity, or filter paper decomposition. The amount of carbaryl in sediments exposed to 100 g/ml fell below the limit of detection by thin-layer chromatography within 12 hours. In sterile and nonsterile model systems, carbaryl rapidly adsorbed to sediment, and hydrolyzed to 1-naphthol in both sediment and water. Although carbaryl may be toxic to bacteria under some conditions, the amounts that might enter and persist in an estuary are insufficient to have a significant impact on the sediment microbial community. 
25256179|The tick species, Amblyomma neumanni (Acari: Ixodidae) is the most frequent tick parasitizing humans in northwestern Argentina. The present study evaluated the rickettsial infection among 55 A. neumanni adult free-living ticks collected in Dean Funes, Crdoba Province. Ticks were individually processed by the hemolymph test with Gimenez staining, isolation of rickettsia in Vero cell culture by the shell vial technique, and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting the citrate synthase rickettsial gene. Through the shell vial technique, rickettsiae were successfully isolated and established in Vero cell culture from two ticks (ticks 4 and 13), which previously showed to contain Rickettsia-like organisms by the hemolymph test. These two Rickettsia isolates were designated as An4 and An13. Molecular characterization (partial DNA sequences of two to three rickettsial genes were determined) of these two isolates and phylogenetic analyses identified them as Rickettsia bellii (isolate An4) and Candidatus "Rickettsia amblyommii" (isolate An13). After testing all A. neumanni ticks by PCR, the prevalence of Candidatus R. amblyommii and R. bellii was 23.6% (13/55) and 3.6% (2/55), respectively. These two rickettsiae have been considered of unknown pathogenicity and appropriate studies to test their pathogenicity to humans or animals need to be conducted. This is the first report of Rickettsia in ticks from Argentina, and also in the species A. neumanni. The results reinforce previous findings that R. bellii (and probably Candidatus R. amblyommii) are widespread among some Neotropical Amblyomma species, suggesting that these ticks gained these bacterial agents from a common ancestor and/or by recent horizontal transmission of rickettsiae between ticks.
4250914|A morphological study of bacteria associated with the "Pompei worm," Alvinella pompejana, collected from East Pacific rise hydrothermal vents, revealed four types of epidermal associations on the dorsal part of the animals: various single cells distributed on the animal tegument; clump-like associations located in the intertegumentary spaces; and filamentous bacteria associated with epidermal expansions, or inserted on the posterior parapodia. The bacterial morphologies were illustrated by SEM and TEM pictures and compared to bacteria previously described. The functional significance of these associations is discussed.
27770590|Thirty-two genome sequences of various Vibrionaceae members are compared, with emphasis on what makes V. cholerae unique. As few as 1,000 gene families are conserved across all the Vibrionaceae genomes analysed; this fraction roughly doubles for gene families conserved within the species V. cholerae. Of these, approximately 200 gene families that cluster on various locations of the genome are not found in other sequenced Vibrionaceae; these are possibly unique to the V. cholerae species. By comparing gene family content of the analysed genomes, the relatedness to a particular species is identified for two unspeciated genomes. Conversely, two genomes presumably belonging to the same species have suspiciously dissimilar gene family content. We are able to identify a number of genes that are conserved in, and unique to, V. cholerae. Some of these genes may be crucial to the niche adaptation of this species.
23469587|A massive algal bloom of the dinoflagellate Noctiluca miliaris (green) was located in the Northern Arabian Sea by IRS-P4-2 (OCM-II) for microbiological studies, during two consecutive cruises of February-March 2009. Culturable bacterial load during bloom were 23-fold higher in comparison to non-bloom waters and ranged from 3.20  10 5 to 6.84  10 5 cfu ml -1 . An analysis of the dominant heterotrophs associated with Noctiluca bloom resulted in phylogenetic and a detailed metabolic characterization of 70 bacterial isolates from an overlapping active and declining bloom phase location near north-central Arabian Sea. The active phase flora was dominated by Gram-positive forms (70.59 %), a majority of which belonged to Bacillus (35.29 %) of Firmicutes. As the bloom declined, Gram-negative forms (61.11 %) emerged dominant, and these belonged to a diverse -proteobacterial population consisting of Shewanella (16.67 %) and equal fractions of a CobetiaPseudomonas-PsychrobacterHalomonas population (36.11 %). A Unifrac-based principal coordinate analysis of partial 16S rDNA sequences showed significant differences among the active and declining phase flora and also with reported endocytic flora of Noctiluca (red). A nonparametric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) of antibiogram helped differentiation among closely related strains. The organic matter synthesized by N. miliaris appears to be quickly utilized and remineralized as seen from the high efficiency of isolates to metabolize various complex and simple C/N substrates such as carbohydrates, proteins/amino acids, lipids, sulfide production from organic matter, and solubilize phosphates. The ability of a large fraction of these strains (5041.67 %) to further aerobically denitrify indicates their potential for nitrogen removal from these high-organic microniches of the Noctiluca bloom in the Arabian Sea, also known for high denitrification activity. The results indicate that culturable euphotic bacterial associates of Noctiluca are likely to play a critical role in the biogeochemical ramifications of these unique seasonally emerging tropical open-water blooms of the Northern Arabian Sea.
25153204|The sediment-stabilizing effect of benthic diatoms was investigated in a laboratory setting. Axenic cultures of the benthic diatoms Nitzschia cf. brevissima and Cylindrotheca closterium were inoculated in Petri dishes containing sand and incubated under axenic conditions. By ensuring aseptic routines throughout the experiments, interference from other organisms occurring with diatoms in natural photothrophic biofilms was avoided. This allowed the examination of the role of benthic diatoms in sediment stabilization. Increases in the critical erosion shear stress of the sediment were observed in the presence of both diatom taxa relative to sterile sediment. However, N. cf. brevissima was more effective than C. closterium. Values of critical shear stress in the experimental system were in the same range as those observed in natural biofilms, which indicates that diatoms are important agents for biogenic stabilization. Extracellular carbohydrate contents in the microcosms were similar for both diatom species. However, in the presence of N cf. brevissima, extracellular carbohydrate correlated significantly to critical shear stress, explaining up to 80% of the variation, whereas this was not the case for C. closterium. Therefore, it was concluded that the quantity of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) alone did not explain the biogenic stabilization. Observed adsorption of EPS to sediment particles depended on the relative amount of uronic acids in the exopolymers. Using fluorescently labeled lectins, confocal laser scanning microscopy showed that EPS secretion by N. cf. brevissima resulted in ordered three-dimensional matrix structures. It is suggested that the structuring of EPS plays an prominent role in the process of biostabilization, and that diatoms such as N. cf. brevissima are actively involved in producing the structure of EPS, whereas others such as C. closterium do not do so to the same extent.
25153327|A community of endolithic microorganisms dominated by phototrophs was found as a distinct band a few millimeters below the surface of bare exposed dolomite rocks in the Piora Valley in the Alps. Using in situ reflectance spectroscopy, we detected chlorophyll a (Chl a), phycobilins, carotenoids, and an unknown type of bacteriochlorophyll-like pigment absorbing in vivo at about 720 nm. In cross sections, the data indicated a defined distribution of different groups of organisms perpendicular to the rock surface. High-performance liquid chromatography analyses of pigments extracted with organic solvents confirmed the presence of two types of bacteriochlorophylls besides chlorophylls and various carotenoids. Spherical organisms of varying sizes and small filaments were observed in situ with scanning electron microscopy and confocal laser scanning microscopy (one- and two-photon technique). The latter allowed visualization of the distribution of phototrophic microorganisms by the autofluorescence of their pigments within the rock. Coccoid cyanobacteria of various sizes predominated over filamentous ones. Application of fluorescence-labeled lectins demonstrated that most cyanobacteria were embedded in an exopolymeric matrix. Nucleic acid stains revealed a wide distribution of small heterotrophs. Some biological structures emitting a green autofluorescence remain to be identified.
41489147|The bacterial community compositions in Chenopodium album and Stellaria media seeds recovered from soil (soil weed seedbank), from bulk soil, and from seeds harvested from plants grown in the same soils were compared. It was hypothesized that bacterial communities in soil weed seedbanks are distinct from the ones present in bulk soils. For that purpose, bacterial polymerase chain reaction denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCRDGGE) fingerprints, made from DNA extracts of different soils and seed fractions, were analyzed by principal component analysis. Bacterial fingerprints from C. album and S. media seeds differed from each other and from soil. Further, it revealed that bacterial fingerprints from soilrecovered and plant-harvested seeds from the same species clustered together. Hence, it was concluded that microbial communities associated with seeds in soil mostly originated from the mother plant and not from soil. In addition, the results indicated that the presence of a weed seedbank in arable soils can increase soil microbial diversity. Thus, a change in species composition or size of the soil weed seedbank, for instance, as a result of a change in crop management, could affect soil microbial diversity. The consequence of increased diversity is yet unknown, but by virtue of identification of dominant bands in PCR-DGGE fingerprints as Lysobacter oryzae (among four other species), it became clear that bacteria potentially antagonizing phytopathogens dominate in C. album seeds in soil. The role of these potential antagonists on weed and crop plant growth was discussed.
4287574|The absolute amount of microbial biomass and relative contribution of fungi and bacteria are expected to vary among types of organic matter (OM) within a stream and will vary among streams because of differences in organic matter quality and quantity. Common types of benthic detritus [leaves, small wood, and fine benthic organic matter (FBOM)] were sampled in 9 small (1st-3rd order) streams selected to represent a range of important controlling factors such as surrounding vegetation, detritus standing stocks, and water chemistry. Direct counts of bacteria and measurements of ergosterol (a fungal sterol) were used to describe variation in bacterial and fungal biomass. There were significant differences in bacterial abundance among types of organic matter with higher densities per unit mass of organic matter on fine particles relative to either leaves or wood surfaces. In contrast, ergosterol concentrations were significantly greater on leaves and wood, confirming the predominance of fungal biomass in these larger size classes. In general, bacterial abundance per unit organic matter was less variable than fungal biomass, suggesting bacteria will be a more predictable component of stream microbial communities. For 7 of the 9 streams, the standing stock of fine benthic organic matter was large enough that habitat-weighted reach-scale bacterial biomass was equal to or greater than fungal biomass. The quantities of leaves and small wood varied among streams such that the relative contribution of reach-scale fungal biomass ranged from 10% to as much as 90% of microbial biomass. Ergosterol concentrations were positively associated with substrate C:N ratio while bacterial abundance was negatively correlated with C:N. Both these relationships are confounded by particle size, i.e., leaves and wood had higher C:N than fine benthic organic matter. There was a weak positive relationship between bacterial abundance and streamwater soluble reactive phosphorus concentration, but no apparent pattern between either bacteria or fungi and streamwater dissolved inorganic nitrogen. The variation in microbial biomass per unit organic matter and the relative abundance of different types of organic matter contributed equally to driving differences in total microbial biomass at the reach scale.
40343414|We investigated how a community of microbial decomposers adapted to a reference site responds to a sudden decrease in the water quality. For that, we assessed the activity and diversity of fungi and bacteria on decomposing leaves that were transplanted from a reference (El) to a polluted site (E2), and results were compared to those from decomposing leaves either at El or E2. The two sites had contrasting concentrations of organic and inorganic nutrients and heavy metals in the stream water. At E2, leaf decomposition rates, fungal biomass, and sporulation were reduced, while bacterial biomass was stimulated. Fungal diversity was four times lower at the polluted site. The structure of fungal community on leaves decomposing at E2 significantly differed from that decomposing at El, as indicated by the principal response curves analysis. Articulospora tetracladia, Anguillospora filiformis, and Lunulospora curvula were dominant species on leaves decomposing at El and were the most negatively affected by the transfer to the polluted site. The transfer of leaves colonized at the reference site to the polluted site reduced fungal diversity and sporulation but not fungal biomass and leaf decomposition. Overall, results suggest that the high diversity on leaves from the upstream site might have mitigated the impact of anthropogenic stress on microbial decomposition of leaves transplanted to the polluted site.
41693747|The research field of animal and plant symbioses is advancing from studying interactions between two species to whole communities of associates. High-throughput sequencing of microbial communities supports multiplexed sampling for statistically robust tests of hypotheses about symbiotic associations. We focus on ambrosia beetles, the increasingly damaging insects primarily associated with fungal symbionts, which have also been reported to support bacteria. To analyze the diversity, composition, and specificity of the beetles' prokaryotic associates, we combine global sampling, insect anatomy, 454 sequencing of bacterial rDNA, and multivariate statistics to analyze prokaryotic communities in ambrosia beetle mycangia, organs mostly known for transporting symbiotic fungi. We analyze six beetle species that represent three types of mycangia and include several globally distributed species, some with major economic importance (Dendroctonus frontalis, Xyleborus affinis, Xyleborus bispinatus-ferrugineus, Xyleborus glabratus, Xylosandrus crassiusculus, and Xylosandrus germanus). Ninety-six beetle mycangia yielded 1,546 bacterial phylotypes. Several phylotypes appear to form the core microbiome of the mycangium. Three Mycoplasma (originally thought restricted to vertebrates), two Burkholderiales, and two Pseudomonadales are repeatedly present worldwide in multiple beetle species. However, no bacterial phylotypes were universally present, suggesting that ambrosia beetles are not obligately dependent on bacterial symbionts. The composition of bacterial communities is structured by the host beetle species more than by the locality of origin, which suggests that more bacteria are vertically transmitted than acquired from the environment. The invasive X. glabratus and the globally distributed X. crassiusculus have unique sets of bacteria, different from species native to North America. We conclude that the mycangium hosts in multiple vertically transmitted bacteria such as Mycoplasma, most of which are likely facultative commensals or parasites.
4287501| The possibility that two principal bacterial communities expressing different levels of heterotrophic activity might coexist in an estuarine ecosystem (Ria de Aveiro, Portugal) and could quickly respond to tidal fluctuations of environmental factors was experimentally tested in diffusion chambers by swapping the dissolved components of the natural water between the two communities and comparing their reactivity against the unaltered controls. The results for ectoenzymatic activity (Leuaminopeptidase and -glucosidase), glucose incorporation and biomass production after transference of the marine bacterial community to brackish water showed maxima in the range of 241-384% of the control values. The opposite transference of the brackish-water bacterial community to marine water produced maximal decreases to 0.14-0.58% of the control values. In a reverse experiment, designed as the return to the initial conditions after 2 hours of the first exposure, the marine community rapidly re-acquired the characteristic low profile of activity. Contrastingly, the negative effects of 2 hours of exposure to marine water on the activity of the brackish water bacteria persisted, at least for 4 hours, after return to their own water. The apparent short-term irreversibility of the decline in activity of the brackish water bacteria when exposed to marine water, in parallel with the quick and reversible positive response of the marine water bacteria to the brackish water, suggests the development of two distinct bacterioplankton communities adapted to the environmental conditions prevailing at distinct sections of the estuary. The reactivity to environmental changes demonstrated by the two communities allows the prediction of estuarine profiles of bacterial activity steeper than those expected from the conservative transport of bacterial cells associated with tidal currents. 
40605765|Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is one of the most important macromolecules in the cell. It is well established that high-temperature environmental conditions destabilize rRNA, leading to a selection for G+C-rich stabilizing structures. Our knowledge about the nucleotide composition effect of other environmental conditions, however, is limited. In the present work, I addressed this by correlating the rRNA nucleotide composition to known environmental habitats for bacteria. The bacterial phyla Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Proteobacteria were chosen for in-depth analyses due to the abundance of information available in the databases. Major differences in nucleotide composition were identified between these phyla. In addition to the G+CA+T gradients, a main gradient of G+AC+T was identified for Firmicutes, while a G+TA+C gradient was identified for Actinobacteria. With respect to correlation to environmental conditions, the Firmicutes showed a main structure of high G+ C being correlated to thermophilic conditions, high A+T to anaerobic conditions, and high C+T to halophilic conditions. The main patterns detected for Firmicutes can be explained by structural stability for high G+C, chemical instability of G under aerobic conditions, and structural stability by purine/pyrimidine skew for halophilic conditions. On the contrary, the correlations for Actinobacteria cannot easily be explained by chemical and/or structural stability. This may indicate interference with factors not included in my work. Finally, I found a main correlation between high A+T and endosymbiosis for Proteobacteria. High A+T probably reflects adaptation to cell internal growth. Further support for environmentally driven nucleotide composition shaping was found and that polyphyletic bacteria were associated with the same environment/nucleotide correlations. My conclusion is that environmental conditions and habitats have a major effect on rRNA nucleotide composition but that the effects may differ between the bacterial phyla.
40605856|Reef-building corals may be seen as holobiont organisms, presenting diverse associated microbial communities. Best known is the symbiotic relationship with zooxanthellae, but Archaea, Bacteria, fungi, viruses, and algal plastids are also abundant. Until now, there is little information concerning microbial communities associated with Brazilian corals. The present study aims to describe the diversity of Archaea, Bacteria, and eukaryotic algal plastid communities associated with two sympatric species, Siderastrea stellata and Mussismilia hispida, from Southeastern Brazil, using 16S rRNA gene libraries. Since corals present a high number of other associated invertebrates, coral barcoding (COI) was performed to confirm the exclusive occurrence of coral DNA in our samples. Our analysis yielded 354 distinct microbial OTUs, represented mainly by novel phylotypes. Richness (Chaol and ACE) and diversity (H') estimations of the microbial communities associated with both species were high and comparable to other studies. Rarefaction analyses showed that microbial diversity of S. stellata is higher than that of M. hispida. Libshuff comparative analyses showed that the highest microbial community similarity between the two coral species occurred in the bacterial libraries, while archaeal and plastidial communities were significantly different. Crenarchaeota dominated archaeal communities, while Proteobacteria was the most abundant bacterial phylum, dominated by alpha-Proteobacteria. Plastids were also represented by novel phylotypes and did not match with any 16S rRNA sequences of Cyanobacteria and zooxanthellae from GenBank. Our data improves the pool of available information on Brazilian coral microbes and shows corals as sources of diverse prokaryotic and picoeukaryotic communities.
4287728| The effect of bacterial specific growth rates of abundance () and protein synthesis (b) on conversion factor (CF) variability was explored in order to provide an alternative approach to the controversial application of just one universal CF to field data. Nine regrowth cultures (RCs) were set up from very diverse aquatic ecosystems, controlling temperature and adding N and P to avoid mineral limitation and force organic carbon limitation. The values of  varied one order of magnitude from 0.26 to 3.34 d
40926492|An endophytic fungus of Persea indica was identified, on the basis of its anamorphic stage, as Nodulosporium sp. by SEM. Partial sequence analysis of ITS rDNA revealed the identity of the teleomorphic stage of the fungus as Hypoxylon sp. It produces an impressive spectrum of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), most notably 1,8-cineole, 1-methyl-1,4-cyclohexadiene, and tentatively identified (+)-. alpha.-methylene-,alpha,-fenchocamphorone, among many others, most of which are unidentified. Six-day-old cultures of Hypoxylon sp. displayed maximal VOC-antimicrobial activity against Botrytis cinerea, Phytophthora cinnamomi, Cercospora beticola, and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum suggesting that the VOCs may play some role in the biology of the fungus and its survival in its host plant. Media containing starch- or sugar-related substrates best supported VOC production by the fungus. Direct on-line quantification of VOCs was measured by proton transfer mass spectrometry covering a continuous range with optimum VOC production occurred at 6 days at 145 ppmv with a rate of production of 7.65 ppmv/h. This report unequivocally demonstrates that 1,8-cineole (a monoterpene) is produced by a microorganism, which represents a novel and important source of this compound. This monoterpene is an octane derivative and has potential use as a fuel additive as do the other VOCs of this organism. Thus, fungal sourcing of this compound and other VOCs as produced by Hypoxylon sp. greatly expands their potential applications in medicine, industry, and energy production.
23469583|This piece is being submitted as a short commentary for the special edition on Oceans and Human Health (OHH). It is written from the perspective of a student who has attended all three biennial Gordon Research Conferences and Seminars on OHH beginning in 2008.
4287588|Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) are widespread environmental contaminants that can, under proper conditions, be degraded by microorganisms. The responses of a riverine sedimentary microbial community to PAH contamination were examined using an integrated biochemical assay that yielded data on PAH concentration, total microbial biomass, and microbial community structure and were interpreted using perturbation theory and the subsidy-stress gradient. Microbial mineralization of naphthalene, anthracene, fluorene, and phenanthrene was observed 24 h after their addition to all sediments sampled and ranged from 0.9 to 16.3% in ambient sediments and from 14.8 to 35.8% in contaminated sediments. Total microbial biomass, determined by phospholipid phosphate, increased in response to intermediate PAH concentration and decreased at sites with the highest PAH concentration (p <0.05) during seven out of nine (78%) seasonal sampling periods. The two sampling periods that were not statistically different followed periods of high water and cold temperatures. Phospholipid fatty acid analysis of microbial community structure analysis indicated that increases in the relative abundance of gram-negative aerobes and heterotrophic eukaryotes were responsible, in part, for these observed increases in total microbial biomass. These findings (increased degradation rates, increased biomass at intermediate PAH concentrations, and altered community structure) indicate that a component of the microbial community responded to PAH as a usable input and are consistent with the predictions of perturbation theory and a subsidy-stress gradient.
23361683|Describing the biogeography of bacterial communities within the human body is critical for establishing healthy baselines from which to detect differences associated with diseases. Little is known, however, about the baseline of normal salivary microbiota from healthy Chinese children and adults. With parallel barcoded 454 pyrosequencing, the bacterial diversity and richness of saliva were thoroughly investigated from ten healthy Chinese children and adults. The overall taxonomic distribution of our metagenomic data demonstrated that the diversity of salivary microbiota from children was more complex than adults, while the composition and richness of salivary microbiota were similar in children and adults, especially for predominant bacteria. A large number of bacterial phylotypes were shared by healthy children and adults, indicating the existence of a core salivary microbiome. In children and adults, the vast majority of sequences in salivary microbiota belonged to Streptococcus, Prevotella, Neisseria, Haemophilus, Porphyromonas, Gemella, Rothia, Granulicatella, Fusobacterium, Actinomyces, Veillonella, and Aggregatibacter, which constituted the major components of normal salivary microbiota. With the exception of Actinomyces, the other seven non-predominant bacteria including Moraxella, Leptotrichia, Peptostreptococcus, Eubacterium, and members of Neisseriaceae, Flavobacteriaceae, and SR1 showed significant differences between children and adults (p<0.05). We first established the framework of normal salivary microbiota from healthy Chinese children and adults. Our data represent a critical step for determining the diversity of healthy microbiota in Chinese children and adults, and our data established a platform for additional large-scale studies focusing on the interactions between health and diseases in the future.
4287527| Efforts to understand and improve soil bioremediation are limited by our ability to determine how treatment variables affect microbial communities. A method was developed to monitor the density and metabolic activity of the total bacterial community in soil. This method was used to monitor the bacterial community in microcosms of Arctic soil after addition of N plus P to stimulate biodegradation of hydrocarbon contaminants. During 29 days of incubation, the total petroleum hydrocarbon level in the soil was reduced from 850 to 360 g/g of soil. DNA and RNA were extracted from soil using a bead beating method, purified by ammonium acetate precipitation, and assayed by competitive PCR and RT-PCR assays with universal bacterial primers. The copy number of 16S rDNA in the soil microbial community was relatively stable and ranged from
23469180|Metagenomics and the development of high throughput next generation sequencing capabilities have forced significant development in the field of phylogenetics: the study of the evolutionary relatedness of the planet's inhabitants. Herein, I review the major tree-building strategies, challenges and opportunities which exist in this rapidly expanding field of evolutionary biology.
25153339|Bacterial decomposition of organic matter is frequently enhanced when protozoa are present. Various mechanisms have been proposed to account for this phenomenon, including effects associated with grazing by protozoa (such as increased recycling of limiting nutrients, removal of senescent cells, or reduction of competition among bacteria) and indirect effects of grazers (such as excretion of bacterial growth factors). Few studies have examined the role of protozoa in bacterial degradation of xenobiotic compounds in sediment containing a natural community of microbes. The effect of protozoa on mineralization of naphthalene was investigated in this study. Laboratory experiments were conducted using field-contaminated estuarine sediment, with the indigenous microbial populations. Mineralization of naphthalene was up to four times greater in treatments with actively grazing protozoa than in treatments containing the grazing inhibitor cytochalasin B. Control experiments confirmed that the grazing inhibitor was not toxic to ciliates but did prevent them from grazing. The grazing inhibitor did not affect growth rates of a mixed culture of sediment bacteria or a pure polycyclic-aromatic-hydrocarbon-degrading strain. Once grazing had been inhibited, supplementing treatments with inorganic N and P, glucose, or additional protozoa failed to stimulate naphthalene mineralization. Naphthalene-degrading bacteria were four to nine times less abundant when protozoan grazing was suppressed. We suggest that protozoa enhance naphthalene mineralization by selectively grazing on those sediment bacteria that ordinarily would outcompete naphthalene-degrading bacteria.
4251036|The dynamics of bacterial populations in annual sea ice were measured throughout the vernal bloom of ice algae near Resolute in the Canadian Arctic. The maximum concentration of bacteria was
25153044| Massive chimney structures, which are characteristic of many hydrothermally active zones, harbor diverse microbial communities containing both thermophilic and hyperthermophilic microbes. However, vent chimneys ultimately become hydrothermally inactive, and the changes that occur in the microbial communities upon becoming inactive have not been documented. We thus collected inactive chimneys from two geologically and geographically distinct hydrothermal fields, Iheya North in the western Pacific Ocean and the Kairei field in the Indian Ocean. The chimneys displayed easily distinguishable strata, which were analyzed with regard to both mineralogical and microbiological properties. X-ray diffraction pattern and energy-dispersive spectroscopic analyses revealed that the main mineral components of the chimney substructures from Iheya North and the Kairei field were barite (BaSO) and chalcopyrite (CuFeS), respectively. Microbial cell densities in the substructures determined by DAPI counting ranged from 1.7  10 cells g to 3.0  10 cells g. The proportions of archaeal rDNA in the whole microbial rDNA assemblages in all substructures were, at most, a few percent as determined by quantitative fluorogenic PCR. The microbial rDNA clone analysis and whole-cell fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed a community that was decidedly different from any communities previously reported in active chimneys. Curiously, both samples revealed the abundant presence of a group of Bacteria related to a magnetosome-bearing bacterium, "Magnetobacterium bavaricum" of the Nitrospirae division. These results suggest that inactive chimneys provide a distinct microbial habitat. 
23468242|Phylogenetic examinations of communities sampled along geochemical gradients provide a framework for inferring the relative importance of niche-based ecological interactions (competition, environmental filtering) and neutral-based evolutionary interactions in structuring biodiversity. Great Salt Lake (GSL) in Utah exhibits strong spatial gradients due to both seasonal variation in freshwater input into the watershed and restricted fluid flow within North America's largest saline terminal lake ecosystem. Here, we examine the phylogenetic structure and composition of archaeal, bacterial, and eukaryal small subunit (SSU) rRNA genes sampled along a stratified water column (DWR3) in the south arm of GSL in order to infer the underlying mechanism of community assembly. Communities sampled from the DWR3 epilimnion were phylogenetically clustered (i.e., coexistence of close relatives due to environmental filtering) whereas those sampled from the DWR3 hypolimnion were phylogenetically overdispersed (i.e., coexistence of distant relatives due to competitive interactions), with minimal evidence for a role for neutral processes in structuring any assemblage. The shift from phylogenetically clustered to overdispersed assemblages was associated with an increase in salinity and a decrease in dissolved O 2 (DO) concentration. Likewise, the phylogenetic diversity and phylogenetic similarity of assemblages was strongly associated with salinity or DO gradients. Thus, salinity and/or DO appeared to influence the mechanism of community assembly as well as the phylogenetic diversity and composition of communities. It is proposed that the observed patterns in the phylogenetic composition and structure of DWR3 assemblages are attributable to the meromictic nature of GSL, which prevents significant mixing between the epilimnion and the hypolimnion. This leads to strong physicochemical gradients at the halocline, which are capable of supporting a greater diversity. However, concomitant shifts in nutrient availability (e.g., DO) at and below the halocline drive competitive interactions leading to hypolimnion assemblages with minimal niche overlap.
4251581|Extracellular enzymes are important agents for microbial foraging and material cycling in diverse natural and man-made systems. Their abundance and effects are analyzed empirically on scales much larger than the forager. Here, we use a modelling approach to analyze the potential costs and benefits, to an individual immobile microbe, of freely releasing extracellular enzymes into a fluid-bathed, stable matrix of both inert and food-containing particles. The target environments are marine aggregates and sediments, but the results extend to biofilms, bioreactors, soils, stored foods, teeth, gut contents, and even soft tissues attacked by disease organisms. Model predictions, consistent with macroscopic observations of enzyme activity in laboratory and environmental samples, include: support of significant bacterial growth by cell-free enzymes; preponderance of particle-attached, as opposed to dissolved, cell-free enzymes; solubilization of particulate substrates in excess of resident microbe growth requirements; and constitutive, abundant enzyme release in some environments. Feeding with cell-free enzymes appears to be limited to substrates within a well-defined distance of the enzyme source. Fluxes of dissolved organic material out of pelagic oceanic aggregates and marine sediments, and difficulty detecting dissolved enzymes in such environments, may reflect characteristics of cell-free enzyme foraging and properties of the enzymes. Our calculations further suggest that cell-free enzymes may often be used by microorganisms as the fastest means to search for food.
40605732|Ecophysiological investigations on the salinity acclimation of the cyanobacterium Prochlorothrix hollandica SAG 10.89 led to significantly revised salinity tolerance limits. Besides potential effects of cultivation techniques, clear ion composition effects mainly explain formerly described hypersensitivity to NaCl-mediated salinity and lack of osmolyte detection. An extraordinarily broad plasticity of cellular chlorophyll alb ratios occurred with variations of NaCl-induced salinity. Photosynthesis characteristics, pigment regulation, respiration, and biomass yield in growth medium with field-like ion composition indicated generally reduced acclimation pressure. A simultaneously significant increase in osmolyte (sucrose) accumulation indicated more efficient osmotic acclimation. Minor growth inhibition up to salinities of 10 practical salinity units enlarged the potential habitat of  hollandica but at the most to about 300,000 km 2 in the Baltic Sea. This supports probable observations of Prochlorothrix sp. in phytoplankton assemblages of open waters in Baltic Seamonitoring studies. Brackish habitats differ from so far known habitats of Prochlorothrix spp. in turbidity, productivity, and plankton composition. Adjusted physiological features dispel fundamental doubts on the establishment of filamentous prochlorophytes in brackish waters.
25256237|The effects of spilled oil on sedimentary bacterial communities were examined in situ at 20 m water depth in a Mediterranean coastal area. Sediment collected at an experimental site chronically subjected to hydrocarbon inputs was reworked into PVC cores with or without a massive addition of crude Arabian light oil (20 g kg dry weight). Cores were reinserted into the sediment and incubated in situ at the sampling site (20 m water depth) for 135 and 503 days. The massive oil contamination induced significant shifts in the structure of the indigenous bacterial communities as shown by ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA). The vertical heterogeneity of the bacterial communities within the sediment was more pronounced in the oiled sediments particularly after 503 days of incubation. Response to oil of the deeper depth communities (8-10 cm) was slower than that of superficial depth communities (0-1 and 2-4 cm). Analysis of the oil composition by gas chromatography revealed a typical microbial alteration of n-alkanes during the experiment. Predominant RISA bands in oiled sediments were affiliated to hydrocarbonoclastic bacteria sequences. In particular, a 395-bp RISA band, which was the dominant band in all the oiled sediments for both incubation times, was closely related to hydrocarbonoclastic sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB). These bacteria may have contributed to the main fingerprint changes and to the observed biodegradation of n-alkanes. This study provides useful information on bacterial dynamics in anoxic contaminated infralittoral sediments and highlights the need to assess more precisely the contribution of SRB to bioremediation in oil anoxic contaminated areas.
23469187|The phylogenetic diversity of the microbial community assemblage of the carpet-like mucilaginous cyanobacterial blooms in the eutrophic Lake Taihu was investigated. 16S ribosomal DNA clone libraries produced from the DNA of cyanobacterial assemblages that had been washed to remove unattached bacteria contained only cyanobacteria. However, a further treatment which included grinding the freeze-dried material to physically detach cells followed by the removal of larger cells by filtration allowed us to detect a large variety of bacteria within the cyanobacterial bloom community. Interestingly, the dominant members of the microbial community were Planctomycetes followed by CytophagaFlavobacteriumBacteroides (CFB), Betaproteobacteria, and Gammaproteobacteria. The analysis of the 16S ribosomal DNA clone libraries made from enrichment culture revealed much higher phylogenetic diversity of bacteria. Dominant bacterial groups in the enrichment system were identified as members of the Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, and Deltaproteobacteria subdivisions, CFB group, and Planctomycetes. In addition, the clone libraries constructed from Planctomycetes-specific 16S ribosomal RNA primers also verified that the enrichment allowed a diversity of Planctomycetes to proliferate, although the community composition was altered after enrichment.
4250527| The growth rate or numerical response of five species of bactivorous ciliates to the abundance of Enterobacter aerogenes was examined in monoxenic culture. The ciliates Colpidium campylum, C. colpoda, Glaucoma scintillans, G. frontata, and Cyclidium glaucoma were isolated from a small pond. Four were grown in shaken cultures, while three were grown in cultures in which the bacteria were allowed to settle on the bottom of the culture vessel. Of the seven response curves generated, four had distinct thresholds, so that the Michaelis-Menten model usually fitted to ciliate numerical response curves was not appropriate. In shaken cultures, half-saturation prey densities ranged from 5.5  10
4251619|The growth rate of 31 stocks of Euplotes, a cosmopolitan, marine, unicellular protist, on six food species representing two different food types, microalgae and bacteria, has been determined. The 31 stocks represented nine reproductively isolated groups (biological species?) based on breeding relationships. Three morphospecies, E. vannus, E. crassus, and E. minuta, each with both autogamous and cross-breeding breeding groups, were included. The mean number of fissions completed in 5 days of a breeding group growing on one of the six food species varied from zero to 17.06. There is a strong interaction between morphospecies and food type. The largest morphospecies, E. vannus, translates the nutritional content of algae into growth better than it translates that of bacteria, while the reverse is true for E. minuta, the smallest morphospecies. Autogamous breeding groups grow more rapidly on algae than on bacteria when compared to cross-breeding groups in the same morphospecies. Two breeding groups cannot grow on Escherichia coli. ANOVA of fissions completed in 5 days revealed significant main effects and interactions between many hierarchical levels of stocks and food species. These significant interactions indicate that genetically determined ecologically important information is present at all taxonomic levels-morphospecies, breeding system, breeding group, and stock. As all these levels are biologically meaningful, measuring biodiversity in the E. vannus-crassus-minuta complex solely on morphospecies will inadequately represent the ecological diversity present in the organisms and their environment.
25153297| Nitrogen (N) enrichment of the biosphere is an expanding problem to which arid ecosystems may be particularly sensitive. In semiarid grasslands, scarce precipitation uncouples plant and microbial activities, and creates within the soil a spatial mosaic of rhizosphere and cyanobacterial crust communities. We investigated the impact of elevated N deposition on these soil microbial communities at a grama-dominated study site located in central New Mexico (USA). The study plots were established in 1995 and receive 10 kg ha year of supplemental N in the form of NHNO. Soil samples were collected in July 2004, following 2 years of severe drought, and again in March 2005 following a winter of record high precipitation. Soils were assayed for potential activities of 20 extracellular enzymes and NO production. The rhizosphere and crust-associated soils had peptidase and peroxidase potentials that were extreme in relation to those of temperate soils. N addition enhanced glycosidase and phosphatase activities and depressed peptidase. In contrast to temperate forest soils, oxidative enzyme activity did not respond to N treatment. Across sampling dates, extracellular enzyme activity responses correlated with inorganic N concentrations. NO generation did not vary significantly with soil cover or N treatment. Microbial responses to N deposition in this semiarid grassland were distinct from those of forest ecosystems and appear to be modulated by inorganic N accumulation, which is linked to precipitation patterns. 
40926462|Communities of archaea, bacteria, and fungi were examined in forest soils located in the Oregon Coast Range and the inland Cascade Mountains. Soils from replicated plots of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) and red alder (Alnus rubra) were characterized using fungal ITS (internal transcribed spacer region), eubacterial 16S rRNA, and archaeal 16S rRNA primers. Population size was measured with quantitative (Q)-PCR and composition was examined using length heterogeneity (LH)-PCR for fungal composition, terminal restriction fragment length (T-RFLP) profiles for bacterial and archaeal composition, and sequencing to identify dominant community members. Whereas fungal and archaeal composition varied between sites and dominant tree species, bacterial communities only varied between sites. The abundance of archaeal gene copy numbers was found to be greater in coastal compared to montane soils accounting for 11% of the prokaryotic community. Crenarchaea groups 1.1a-associated, 1.1b, 1.1c, and 1.1c-associated were putatively identified. A greater abundance of Crenarchaea 1.1b indicator fragments was found in acidic (pH 4) soils with low C:N ratios under red alder. In coastal soils, 25% of fungal sequences were putatively identified as basidiomycetous yeasts belonging to the genus Cryptococcus. Although the function of these yeasts in soil is not known, they could significantly contribute to decomposition processes in coastal soils distinguished by rapid tree growth, high N content, low pH, and frequent water-saturation events.
23469162|We report that associations between mutualistic fungi and their economically and ecologically important woodwasp hosts are not always specific as was previously assumed. Woodwasps in the genus Sirex engage in obligate nutritional ectosymbioses with two species of Amylostereum, a homobasid\iomycete genus of white rot fungi. In the present study, the Amylostereum species and genotypes associated with three species of Sirex native to eastern North America and one relatively recent invasive Sirex from Europe were investigated by comparing intergenic spacer regions (IGS). Sirex spp. were sampled over 6 years from 23 sites in six US states, ranging from Maine in the northeast to Louisiana in the southeast, to obtain samples of Amylostereum from mycangia of adult females. Two of the native Sirex species (Sirex nigricornis and Sirex nitidus) were associated with either Amylostereum chailletii or Amylostereum areolatum, refuting the hypothesis of strict species-specific relationships. However, the invasive Sirex noctilio and the native Sirex cyaneus were each collected with only A. areolatum or A. chailletii, respectively, although S. noctilio was associated with two different IGS genotypes of A. areolatum and S. cyaneus occurs sympatrically with the other native Sirex. In Pinus, the preferred host tree of S. nigricornis and S. noctilio, these species co-occurred in 25.9 % of trees sampled, and horizontal transmission of fungal strains from S. noctilio to S. nigricornis was documented, although only in one tree. The extent that further spread and establishment of S. noctilio will alter the composition of symbionts carried by native Sirex is unknown but will depend in part on the degree of flexibility in these hostsymbiont associations.
4251289| This report presents results on relationships between the kinetics ( V
40926486|The aim of this study was to characterize the bacterial community diversity of the Brazilian Atlantic forest soil by means of both cultivation and 16S rRNA clone libraries. A collection of 86 representative isolates, obtained from six samples of Atlantic forest soils from the National Park of Serra dos rgos (PARNASO), belonged to the genera Arthrobacter, Bacillus, Burkholderia, Leifsonia, Paenibacillus, Pseudomonas, Ralstonia, Serratici, and Streptomyces according to the 16S rRNA sequences. Representative isolates from the different genera degraded cellulose and lignin. The culture-independent analysis based on 894 partial 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that the most frequently retrieved groups belonged to the phyla Acidobacteria (29-54%), Proteobacteria (16-38%), and Verrucomicrobia (0.6-14%). The majority of the sequences (82.6%) were unidentified singletons and doubletons, indicating a high diversity of rare unique sequences. Chaol estimator disclosed a high number of phyla (41-152) and species (263-446). This is the first survey on the Atlantic Forest soils using a combination of cultivation and culture-independent approaches. We conclude that the Brazilian Atlantic Forest soil represents a vast source of novel bacteria.
4250875| Bacterial counts on the liquid phase of an anaerobic, fixed-bed digester, treating a deproteinated, prefermented cheese whey substrate, were conducted on two different media under aerobic and facultative conditions. Average counts of 16.6  10
4250514| Segmented, filamentous prokaryotic microorganisms colonize and attach to the cells in the epithelium of the mucosa of the small bowels of mice and rats. Scanning electron micrographs, derived from specimens of mouse small intestine, reveal microbial filaments of at least two types. One type is thin (0.8 m) with only faint lines suggesting septa; the other is thicker (1.4 m) and has distinct segments with pronounced septa. Most of the segments are rounded; a few are thin and elongated. Immediately surrounding the attachment site of these organisms, the surface of the epithelial cells appears roughened and occasionally stringy. The filaments may differ morphologically because they represent different phases in the life cycle of a single microbial type. Alternatively, however, they may differ because they are the cells of different microbial types colonizing the same epithelial habitat. 
4251361|The biodegradation of phenolic compounds under sulfate-reducing conditions was studied in sediments from northern Indiana. Phenol, p-cresol and 4-chlorophenol were selected as test substrates and added to sediment suspensions from four sites at an initial concentration of 10 mg/liter. Degradative abilities of the sediment microorganisms from the four sites could be related to previous exposure to phenolic pollution. Time to onset of biodegradation of p-cresol and phenol in sediment suspensions from a nonindustrialized site was approximately 70 and 100 days, respectively, in unacclimated cultures. In sediment slurries from three sites with a history of wastewater discharges containing phenolics, time to onset of biodegradation was 50-70 days for p-cresol and 50-70 days for phenol in unacclimated cultures. In acclimated cultures from all four sites, the length of the lag phase was reduced to 14-35 days for p-cresol and 25-60 days for phenol. Length of the biodegradative phase varied from 25 to 40 days for phenol and 10 to 50 days for p-cresol and was not markedly affected by acclimation. Substrate mineralization by sulfate-reducing bacteria was confirmed with radiotracer techniques using an acclimated sediment culture from one site. Addition of molybdate, a specific inhibitor of sulfate reduction, and bacterial cell inactivation inhibited sulfate reduction and substrate utilization. None of the sites exhibited the ability to degrade 4-chlorophenol, nor were acclimated phenol and p-cresol degrading cultures from a particular site able to cometabolize 4-chlorophenol.
4251655|The intensive rearing of various fish species in aquaculture has revealed intimate relationships between fish and bacteria that eventually may affect establishment of a "normal" mucosal microflora or result in disease epizootics. Interactions between bacteria and mucosal surfaces play important roles both at the egg and larval stages of marine fish. Bacterial adhesion and colonization of the egg surface occur within hours after fertilization. The diverse flora which eventually develops on the egg appears to reflect the bacterial composition and load of the ambient water, but species-specific adhesion at the egg surface may also play a role in development of the egg epiflora. Proteolytic enzymes produced by members of the adherent epiflora may cause serious damage to the developing egg and may also affect further adhesion of the epiflora. Ingestion of bacteria at the yolk sac stage results in establishment of a primary intestinal microflora which seems to persist beyond first feeding. Establishment of a gut microflora is likely to undergo several stages, resulting in an "adult" microflora weeks to months after first feeding. Ingested bacteria may serve as an exogenous supply of nutrients or essential factors at an early life stage. Early exposure to high bacterial densities is probably important for immune tolerance, and thus for the establishment of a protective intestinal microflora. Successful rearing of early life stages of several marine fish species depends on knowledge of the complex interactions among the cultured organisms and the bacterial communities which develop at the mucosal surfaces and in the ambient water and rearing systems. The routine use of antibiotics during rearing of fish larvae is not advisable, since it may increase the risk of promoting antibiotic resistance and adversely affect the indigenous microflora of the larvae. The use of probiotics has proven advantageous in domestic animal production, and the search for effective probiotics may have a great potential in aquaculture of marine organisms. Bacteria with antagonistic effects against fish pathogens have been successfully administered to several fish species, resulting in decreased mortality or increased growth rate.
25153323|Bacterivory by heterotrophic nanoflagellates and ciliates has been widely studied in aquatic environments, but data on the grazing of amoebae, are still scarce. From the water samples of Dianchi Lake (Kunming, Yunnan Province, China), we isolated an amoeba, designated as Naegleria sp. strain W2, which had potent grazing effects on some kind of cyanobacteria. The food selection mechanism and the digestion process of the amoeba were investigated in batch experiments. Predation experiments showed that filamentous cyanobacteria (e.g., Anabaena, Cylindrospermum, Gloeotrichia, and Phormidium) were readily consumed, with clearance rates ranging from 0.332 to 0.513 nL amoeba h. The tight threads (Oscilltoria) and aggregates (Aphanizomenon) could not be ingested; however, their sonicated fragments were observed inside food vacuoles, suggesting that their morphologies prevent them from being ingested. Live video microscopy noted that unicellular Chroococcaceae (e.g., Synechococcus, Aphanocapsa, and Microcystis) were excreted after ingestion, indicating that food selection takes place inside food vacuoles. To determine whether the tastes or the toxins prevented them from being digested, heat-killed cells were retested for predation. Digestion rates and ingestion rates of the amoebae for filamentous cyanobacteria were estimated from food vacuole content volume. Through a "cold-chase" method, we found that the food vacuole contents declined exponentially in diluted amoebae cells, and digestion rates were relatively constant, averaging about 1.5% food vacuole content min at 28C. Ingestion strongly depended on the satiation status of the amoebae, starved amoebae fed at higher rates compared with satiated amoebae. Our results suggest that the food selection and food processing mechanisms of the amoeba are similar to those of interception feeding flagellates; however, filamentous cyanobacteria cannot obtain a refuge under the grazing pressure of phagotrophic amoebae, which may widen our knowledge on the grazing of protists.
4287632|Of bacterial cells in a sample of activated sludge, 34% contained detectable intracellular polyphosphate inclusions following Neisser staining when grown on glucose/mineral salts medium at pH 5.5; at pH 7.5 only 7% of cells visibly accumulated polyphosphate. In a sludge isolate of Burkholderia cepacia chosen for further study, maximal removal of phosphate and accumulation of polyphosphate occurred at pH 5.5; levels were up to 220% and 330% higher, respectively, than in cells grown at pH 7.5. During the early stationary phase of growth at pH 5.5 a maximum level of intracellular polyphosphate that comprised 13.6% of cellular dry weight was reached. Polyphosphate kinase activity was detected in actively growing cells only when cultured at pH 5.5. The phenomenon of acid-stimulated phosphate uptake and polyphosphate accumulation in this environmental bacterial population parallels observations previously made by us in the yeast Candida humicola and may thus represent a widespread microbial response to low external pH values.
40605669|Ground beetles such as Poecilus chalcites (Coleoptera: Carabidae) are beneficial insects in agricultural systems where they contribute to the control of insect and weed pests. We assessed the complexity of bacterial communities occurring in the digestive tracts of fieldcollected P. chalcites using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses of polymerase chain reactionamplified 16S rRNA genes. Bacterial identification was performed by the construction of 16S rRNA gene clone libraries and sequence analysis. Intestinal bacteria in fieldcollected beetles were then compared to those from groups of beetles that were reared in the lab on an artificial diet with and without antibiotics. Direct cell counts estimated 1.510 bacteria per milliliter of gut. The digestive tract of fieldcollected P. chalcites produced an average of 4.8 terminal restriction fragments (tRF) for each beetle. The most abundant clones were affiliated with the genus Lactobacillus, followed by the taxa Enterobacteriaceae, Clostridia, and Bacteriodetes. The majority of the sequences recovered were closely related to those reported from other insect gastrointestinal tracts. Lab-reared beetles produced fewer tRF, an average of 3.1 per beetle, and a reduced number of taxa with a higher number of clones from the family Enterobacter- iaceae compared to the field-collected beetles. Antibiotic treatment significantly (p<0.05) reduced the number of tRF per beetle and selected for a less diverse set of bacterial taxa. We conclude that the digestive tract of P. chalcites is colonized by a simple community of bacteria that possess autochthonous characteristics. Laboratory-reared beetles harbored the most common bacteria found in field-collected beetles, and these bacterial communities may be manipulated in the laboratory with the addition of antibiotics to the diet to allow study of functional roles.
4287534| We have investigated the ecological importance of N
4251447|The occurrence of Aeromonas spp. and hygienic indicator organisms in raw and treated waters of five drinking water production plants in Flanders (Belgium) was surveyed over a period of 17 months. Aeromonads were isolated on ampicillin-dextrin agar (ADA) and further identified by gasliquid chromatographic analysis of their cellular fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) content. ADA medium was found to be highly specific for the enumeration of Aeromonas spp. In general, Aeromonas counts were very low in untreated groundwater but numbered
25153162| Differential emergence and diversity of bacterial communities from activated sludge in response to varied cultural conditions using 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) were investigated by coupling molecular analyses based on 16S rDNA with functional genes. We employed three different cultural conditions: (1) a culture sequentially fed a high concentration (300 mg/L) of 2,4-D (HS); (2) a culture continuously fed a low concentration (10 mg/L) of 2,4-D (LC); and (3) a serial batch culture in which 1% (v/v) of culture was transferred to a fresh medium containing a high concentration (300 mg/L) of 2,4-D (HB). The HS and LC bioreactors were operated for 3 months and HB was repeatedly transferred for 1 month. The 2,4-D was stably degraded under all the cultural conditions tested. PCR amplification and cloning-based analysis of functional genes using community DNAs from the cultures revealed five different oxygenase genes that may be involved in the initial step of 2,4-D degradation. All five gene-types were present in HS, while one of the five genes, type V (tftA) was not detected in LC. Quantitative PCR analysis showed that in HS, Ralstonia eutropha JMP 134 type-tfdA4 (type I) was the most abundant in copy number (2.0  0.1  10 copies/g DNA) followed by RASC type-tfdA (type II) (1.8  1.0  10 copies/g DNA), putative cadA-like gene (type IV) (2.6  0.8  10 copies/g DNA), cadA gene (type III) (1.3  1.0  10 copies/g DNA), and tftA gene (type V) (3.5  1.1  10 copies/g DNA). Similar results were obtained in LC. In contrast, HB contained only type I and type III genes, and the type I gene was five orders of magnitude greater in copy number than the type III gene. Denaturing gel gradient electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis of PCR, amplified 16S rDNA fragments of bacterial communities in the three different cultures showed low similarity coefficient values (0.35) when compared to the original activated sludge, suggesting that 2,4-D amendment caused a drastic change in the bacterial community. Particularly, HB showed only six bands (16-18 bands in the other cultures) and very low similarity coefficient values when compared to the other communities (0.10 to HS, 0.17 to LC, and 0.0 to original sludge). These results indicated that serial batch culturing (HB) resulted in a phylogenetically limited number of 2,4-D degrading bacteria carrying limited catabolic genes whereas more diverse 2,4-D degraders and catabolic genes were present in HS and LC. Therefore, the approach used for monitoring should be taken into account when one evaluates the population dynamics of contaminant-degrading bacteria at bioremediation sites. 
41489038|The social amoebae (dictyostelids) are the only truly multicellular lineage within the superkingdom Amoebozoa, the sister group to Ophistokonts (Metazoa+Fungi). Despite the exceptional phylogenetic and evolutionary value of this taxon, the environmental factors that determine their distribution and diversity are largely unknown. We have applied statistical modeling to a set of data obtained from an extensive and detailed survey in the south-western of Europe (The Iberian Peninsula including Spain and Portugal) in order to estimate some of the main environmental factors influencing the distribution and diversity of dictyostelid in temperate climates. It is the first time that this methodology is applied to the study of this unique group of soil microorganisms. Our results show that a combination of climatic (temperature, water availability), physical (pH) and vegetation (species richness) factors favor dictyostelid species richness. In the Iberian Peninsula, dictyostelid diversity is highest in colder and wet environments, indicating that this group has likely diversified in relatively cold places with high levels of water availability.
4287725|Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and fluorescent in situ hybridization revealed that spirochete-related populations dominated two glucose-fed methanogenic bioreactor communities at dilution rates of 0.06, 0.13, and 0.17 day
4250897|High cellulolytic activity of particular strains did not cause dominance of one, or a few, species of fiber-digesting bacteria in a cattle-waste anaerobic digester. The population contained a large number of species and varieties with different cellulolytic and fiber-digesting activities. Although mixed cultures of some of these bacteria showed no intereffects, with others, cellulolysis was less or in some cases greater than that shown by individual components of the cultures. The interactions were probably related to effects on growth of the bacteria rather than on activities of components of the cellulase enzyme complex, and culture filtrates of two of the more numerous cellulolytic species of Clostridium affected growth of other cellulolytic bacteria. The inhibitory factor(s) appeared to be of bacteriocin type, but the stimulatory factor(s) was unknown. It was suggested that these interactions are localized or short-lived in the digester, and so the population remains in a "dynamic" steady state. Some inhibitions of growth of rumen cellulolytic bacteria were caused by the digester bacteria, but it was suggested that factors other than these inhibitions are responsible for the absence of rumen bacteria from anaerobic digesters.
4251480| Improved enumeration methods were developed for marine bacteria and protozoa in muddy sediment containing large amounts of organic detritus. In sediment from polluted and nonpolluted sites, total bacterial counts ranged from 6.2  10
41412403|-N-Methylamino-L-alanine (BMAA), a nonproteinogenic amino acid, has been detected in a range of cyanobacteria, including terrestrial, aquatic, free living and endosymbiotic species. The widespread occurrence of cyanobacteria in the environment raises concerns regarding the ecological and toxicological impact of BMAA, and consequently, studies have focussed extensively on the toxicity and environmental impact of BMAA, while no research has addressed the ecophysiological or metabolic role of the compound in cyanobacteria. In this study, both the uptake of exogenous BMAA by and the effect of exogenous BMAA on the growth of Synechocystis PCC6803 were investigated. BMAA was rapidly taken up by the non-diazotrophic cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC6803 in a concentration dependent manner. The presence of exogenous BMAA resulted in a substantial and concentration-dependent decrease in cell growth and the substantial loss of photosynthetic pigmentation. Similar effects were seen in the presence of the non-proteinogenic amino acid, 2,4-diaminobutyric acid but to a lesser degree than that of BMAA. The effects were reversed when light was decreased from 16 to 10 mol s. Control cultures grown in the presence of L-arginine, Lasparagine, L-glutamate and glycine showed normal or slightly increased growth with no change in pigmentation. The decrease in growth rate coupled to bleaching indicates that BMAA may induce chlorosis in the presence of adequate photosynthetic radiation suggesting a connection between BMAA and the induction of conditions, such as nitrogen or sulphur depletion, that result in growth arrest and the induction of chlorosis.
4287524| In a combined isotope geochemical and microbiological investigation, a setting of multiple aquifers was characterized. Biologically mediated redox processes were observed in the aquifers situated in marine sands of Tertiary age and overlying Quaternary gravel deposits. Intercalated lignite seams define the aquitards, which separate the aquifers. Bacterial oxidation of organic matter is evident from dissolved inorganic carbon characterized by average carbon isotope values between -18.4 and -15.7 (PDB). Strongly positive sulfur isotope values of up to +50 (CTD) for residual sulfate indicate sulfate reduction under closed system conditions with respect to sulfate availability. Both, hydrochemical and isotope data are thus consistent with the recent activity of sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB). Microbiological investigations revealed the presence of an anaerobic food chain in the aquifers. Most-probable-number (MPN) determinations for SRB and fermenting microorganisms reached highest values at the interface between aquifer and lignite seam (1.5 10
25152967| Viruses were found to be very abundant in the top layer of the sediments of Lac Gilbert, Qubec. Viruses were extracted from the sediments using pyrophosphate buffer, and viruses from the diluted extracts were pelleted onto grids and enumerated using transmission electron microscopy. Viral abundance in the sediments ranged from 6.5  10 to 1.83  10 ml, which is 10- to 1,000-fold greater than the number observed in the water column. This increase corresponds well with the 100- to 1,000-fold increase in bacterial abundance in the sediments. Viral abundance differed significantly among the surface sediment samples taken at different bottom depths and among samples taken at different depths of the water column. Viral abundance also varied significantly between the oxic and anoxic zones of the water column and the sediments. The virus-to-bacteria ratio varied greatly among the different sediment sites but not among depths in the water column. Viral abundance in the water column was related to bacterial abundance and chlorophyll concentration, whereas viruses in the sediments were most abundant in sediments with high organic matter content. Elevated viral abundance and their erratic distribution in the sediments suggest that viruses might play an important role in sediment microbial dynamics. 
4250623|A Gram-positive bacterium that inhibits several root-rot pathogens was isolated from alder forest soil on the Oregon coast. This organism, similar to Bacillus cereus, produces in culture media a heat-stable, broad-spectrum antibiotic which inhibits growth of four important Northwest conifer root disease fungi: Phellinus weirii (Murr.) Gilbertson, Fomes annosus (Fr.) Cke., Armillariella mellea (Fr.) Karst., and Phytophthora cinnamomi Rands.
4251826|Despite considerable attention in recent years, the composition and dynamics of lake bacterial communities over annual time scales are poorly understood. This study used automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA) to explore the patterns of change in lake bacterial communities in three temperate lakes over 2 consecutive years. The study lakes included a humic lake, an oligotrophic lake, and a eutrophic lake, and the epilimnetic bacterial communities were sampled every 2 weeks. The patterns of change in bacterial communities indicated that seasonal forces were important in structuring the behavior of the bacterial communities in each lake. All three lakes had relatively stable community composition in spring and fall, but summer changes were dramatic. Summertime variability was often characterized by recurrent drops in bacterial diversity. Specific ARISA fragments derived from these lakes were not constant among lakes or from year to year, and those fragments that did recur in lakes in different years did not exhibit the same seasonal pattern of recurrence. Nonetheless, seasonal patterns observed in 2000 were fairly successful predictors of the rate of change in bacterial communities and in the degree of autocorrelation of bacterial communities in 2001. Thus, seasonal forces may be important structuring elements of these systems as a whole even if they are uncoupled from the dynamics of the individual system components.
23361605|Geothermal influenced soils exert unique physical and chemical limitations on resident microbial communities but have received little attention in microbial ecology research. These environments offer a model system in which to investigate microbial community heterogeneity and a range of soil ecological concepts. We conducted a 16S bar-coded pyrosequencing survey of the prokaryotic communities in a diatomaceous geothermal soil system and compared communities across soil types and along a conspicuous photic depth gradient. We found significant differences between the communities of the two different soils and also predictable differences between samples taken at different depths. Additionally, we targeted three ecologically relevant bacterial phyla, Cyanobacteria, Planctomycetes, and Verrucomicrobia, for clade-wise comparisons with these variables and found strong differences in their abundances, consistent with the autecology of these groups.
41693744|Agricultural runoff of phosphorus (P) in the northern Florida Everglades has resulted in several ecosystem level changes, including shifts in the microbial ecology of carbon cycling, with significantly higher methane being produced in the nutrient-enriched soils. Little is, however, known of the structure and activities of methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB) in these environments. To address this, 0 to 10 cm plant-associated soil cores were collected from nutrient-impacted (F1), transition (F4), and unimpacted (U3) areas, sectioned in 2-cm increments, and methane oxidation rates were measured. F1 soils consumed approximately two-fold higher methane than U3 soils; additionally, most probable numbers of methanotrophs were 4-log higher in F1 than U3 soils. Metabolically active MOB containing pmo A sequences were characterized by stable-isotope probing using 10 % (v/v) CH. pmo A sequences, encoding the alpha subunit of methane monooxygenase and related to type I methanotrophs, were identified from both impacted and unimpacted soils. Additionally, impacted soils also harbored type II methanotrophs, which have been shown to exhibit preferences for high methane concentrations. Additionally, across all soils, novel pmoA-type sequences were also detected, indicating presence of MOB specific to the Everglades. Multivariate statistical analyses confirmed that eutrophic soils consisted of metabolically distinct MOB community that is likely driven by nutrient enrichment. This study enhances our understanding on the biological fate of methane being produced in productive wetland soils of the Florida Everglades and how nutrient-enrichment affects the composition of methanotroph bacterial communities.
41489117|Microbial food webs dominate heterotrophic food webs in large rivers with bacterial metabolism being a key component of carbon processing. Thus, analysis of bacterial population dynamics is critical to understanding patterns and mechanisms of material cycling and energy fluxes in large rivers. Within the frame of the Joint Danube Survey (JDS) 2007, the longitudinal development of the natural bacterial community in the Danube in terms of bacterial numbers, morphotype composition, and heterotrophic production of the suspended and particle-attached fractions was followed at a fine spatial resolution of approximately 30 km for the first time in such a large river along a 2,600-km stretch. Twenty-one major tributaries anD branches were also included. This allowed us to investigate whether bacterial standing stock and production undergo continuous, linear changes or whether discontinuities and local processes like the merging of tributaries or the potential impact of sewage input drive the bacterial population in the Danube. The presented investigation revealed surprising continuous patterns of changes of bacterial parameters along the Danube River. Despite the presence of impoundments or hydropower plants, large municipalities, and the discharge of large tributaries, most bacterial parameters (standing stock, morphotype succession, and attached bacterial production) developed gradually, indicating that mainly broad-scale drivers and not local onditions shape and control the bacterial community in the midstream of this large river. As most important broad-scale drivers, nutrients (inorganic and organic) and changes in particle concentrations were identified. These data are also in remarkable accordance with the patterns of changes of the genetic bacterial community composition, observed during the first JDS (2001) 6 years before. In contrast, bacterial activity did not follow a continuous trend and was mainly controlled by the input of sewage from large cities in the middle section, leading to a bloom of phytoplankton. The observed patterns and the comparison between the Danube, its tributaries and other large rivers worldwide indicate that the bacterial community in rivers has a powerful indicator function for estimating the ecological status of large river ecosystems once enough information has been collected at various temporal and spatial scales.
4250671|Microbial ecologists attempting to describe community structures through the use of synthetic parameters face enormous difficulties. These stem in part from the necessity of using standard taxonomic reference levels in a field where the species level is poorly defined. This paper presents an attempt to obviate this problem. A "functional evenness" index (E) is defined using information measures; it is based directly on the characteristics of the bacteria, as determined, for example, with the API 20B method. Comparisons of this index with classic structure indices, such as taxonomic evenness (Pielou) or systematic dominance (Hulburt), show that it behaves like an evenness index, while bypassing the taxonomic study required before computation of the classic indices. Its use is illustrated with samples of aerobic heterotrophic bacteria obtained from brackish lagoon sediments.
25256236|The enumeration of methanotrophic bacteria in the cover soil of an aged municipal landfill was carried out using (1) fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) with horseradish peroxidase-labeled oligonucleotide probes and tyramide signal amplification, also known as catalyzed reporter deposition-FISH (CARD-FISH), and (2) most probable number (MPN) method. The number of methanotrophs was determined in cover soil samples collected during April-November 2003 from a point with low CH emission. The number of types I and II methanotrophs obtained by CARD-FISH varied from 15  2 to 56  7  10 cells g absolute dry mass (adm) of soil and methanotrophs of type I dominated over type II. The average number of methanotrophs throughout the cover soil profile was highest during May-September when the cover soil temperature was above 13C. Methanotrophs accounted for about 50% of the total bacterial population in the deepest cover soil layer owing to higher availability of substrate (CH). A lower number of methanotrophs (7  10 to 17  10 cells g adm of soil) was determined by the MPN method compared to the CARD-FISH counts, thus confirming previous results that the MPN method is limited to the estimation of the culturable species that can be grown under the incubation conditions used. The number of culturable methanotrophs correlated with the methane-oxidizing activity measured in laboratory assays. In comparison to the incubation-based measurements, the number of methanotrophs determined by CARD-FISH better reflected the actual characteristics of the environment, such as release and uptake of CH, temperature, and moisture, and availability of substrates.
4251390|Simulation modeling has been an integral, albeit ad hoc, component of the field of aquatic microbial ecology for the past two decades. One of the most critical steps in simulation modeling is the initial formulation of a clear set of questions and goals. It is doubtful that a single generic model could be constructed to address adequately all questions of interest concerning the microbial loop because of the tremendous range in time scales that define these questions. Progress in the field of aquatic microbial ecology will benefit from an integrated research program including experimental and modeling approaches. A submodel of bacterial utilization of various qualities of organic matter that we have under construction is presented. This submodel will be a component of a larger model to evaluate the effects of quality and quantity of organic matter and inorganic nutrient inputs on estuarine food web structure and efficiency. The overall model will be general enough in its structure that it should be applicable to a wide range of questions concerning the microbial loop, with time scales ranging from hours to days.
25153180|We compared the genetic diversity of the 16S-23S spacer of the rRNA gene (ITS1) in benthic and pelagic colonies of the Microcystis genus isolated from two different sampling stations with different depths and at two different sampling times (winter and summer) in the French storage reservoir of Grangent. In all, 66 ITS1 sequences were found in the different clone libraries. The nucleotide diversity of all the sampled isolates were in the same range (average number = 0.022) regardless of their origin, showing that several clones are involved in the summer bloom event and contribute to the high biomass production. Phylogenetic study and analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) revealed no obvious genetic differentiation between the benthic and pelagic isolates. This finding confirms that the Microcystis genus in this lake is characterized by having both a benthic phase in winter and spring allowing this organism to survive in unfavorable environmental conditions, and a pelagic phase in summer and autumn when environmental conditions allow them to grow in the water column. Finally, comparing these sequences with those available in the Gen-Bank database showed that some highly conserved genotypes are found throughout the world.
4250451|Several strains resembling members of the Acinetobacter-Moraxella-Mima group of bacteria were isolated from activated sludge-type sewage treatment plants designed for phosphate removal. The bacteria are obligate aerobes but utilize as carbon and energy sources low-molecular intermediates generated anaerobically, particularly acetate and ethanol. These bacteria can be shown to be responsible for the phosphate luxury uptake occurring in these treatment plants. The bacteria are physiologically unusual in that they perform luxury uptake of phosphates in a complete growth medium. Phosphate release occurs on addition of a carbon source to the carbon-starved bacteria, lowering pH or both. The bacteria persist in the system by virtue of their ability to form floc.
4250947|Ion exchange resins and glass microscope slides were used to investigate factors affecting attachment of nitrifying bacteria to solid surfaces and the effect of attachment on inhibition of Nitrobacter by potassium ethyl xanthate. The ammonium oxidizer Nitrosomonas attached preferentially to cation exchange resins while the nitrite oxidizer Nitrobacter colonized anion exchange resins more extensively. Colonization was always associated with growth, and the site of substrate ( NH
4251593|Toxic cyanobacterial mass occurrences have caused animal poisonings worldwide and may pose a health hazard for humans. Strains of the genus Anabaena are either non-toxic or produce hepatotoxins, microcystins (MCYST), or neurotoxins (such as anatoxin-a). In order to study which growth conditions favor hepatotoxic vs neurotoxic strains and how production of toxins varies, we compared the responses of two microcystin- and two anatoxin-a-producing Anabaena strains in continuous turbidostat cultures, at different temperatures, under growth-limiting light levels. Growth rates consistently remained <0.8 divisions per 24 h. Differences were strain-specific and not associated with hepatotoxicity or neurotoxicity. Thus, differential adaptation of strains to temperature and to growth-limiting light levels cannot explain why, in some cyanobacterial water blooms, hepatotoxic strains, and in others, neurotoxic ones become dominant. A statistical analysis of field data showed that the most significant discriminating factors between different types of blooms were the concentrations of dissolved
4287569|Biological soil crusts consisting of algae, cyanobacteria, lichens, fungi, bacteria, and mosses are common in habitats where water and nutrients are limited and vascular plant cover is discontinuous. Crusts alter soil factors including water availability, nutrient content, and erosion susceptibility, and thus are likely to both directly and indirectly affect plants. To establish this link, we must first understand the crust landscape. We described the composition, abundance, and distribution of microalgae in crusts from a periodically burned, xeric Florida shrubland, with the goal of understanding the underlying variability they create for vascular plants, as well as the scale of that variability. This is the first comprehensive study of crusts in the southeastern United States, where the climate is mesic but sandy soils create xeric conditions. We found that crusts were both temporally and spatially heterogeneous in depth and species composition. For example, cyanobacteria and algae increased in abundance 10-15 years after fire and away from dominant shrubs. Chlorophyll a levels recovered rapidly from small-scale disturbance relative to intact crusts, but these disturbances added to crust patchiness. Plants less than 1 m apart can experience different crust environments that may alter plant fitness, plant interactions, and plant community composition.
25153249| Inoculation with Azospirillum brasilense exerts beneficial effects on plant growth and crop yields. In this study, a comparative analysis of maize (Zea mays) root inoculated or not inoculated with A. brasilense strains was performed in two soils. Colonization dynamics of the rhizobacteria were tracked in various root compartments using 16S rRNA-targeted probes and 4,6diamidino-2-phenylindole staining, and the structure of bacterial populations in the same samples was analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of polymerase chain reaction products of the 16S rRNA gene. Based on whole cell hybridization, a large fraction of the bacterial community was found to be active in both the rhizoplane-endorhizosphere and rhizosphere soil compartments, in both soil types. A DGGE fingerprint analysis revealed that plant inoculation with A. brasilense had no effect on the structural composition of the bacterial communities, which were also found to be very similar at the root tip and at zones of root branching. However, rhizobacterial populations were strongly influenced by plant age, and their complexity decreased in the rhizoplane-endorhizosphere in comparison to rhizosphere soil. A clone library generated from rhizosphere DNA revealed a highly diverse community of soil and rhizosphere bacteria, including an indigenous Azospirillum-like organism. A large proportion of these clones was only distantly related to known species. 
40343372|Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)-based analyses of 16S rRNA, aprA, and amo A genes demonstrated that a phylogenetically diverse and complex microbial community was associated with the Caribbean deep-water sponge Polymastia cf. corticata Ridley and Dendy, 1887. From the 38 archaeal and bacterial 16S rRNA phylotypes identified, 53% branched into the spongespecific, monophyletic sequence clusters determined by previous studies (considering predominantly shallow-water sponge species), whereas 26% appeared to be P. cf. corticata specifically associated microorganisms ("specialists"); 21% of the phylotypes were confirmed to represent seawater-and sediment-derived proteobacterial species ("contaminants") acquired by filtration processes from the host environment. Consistently, the aprA and amoA genebased analyses indicated the presence of environmentally derived sulfur-and ammonia-oxidizers besides putative sponge-specific sulfur-oxidizing Gammaproteobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria and a sulfate-reducing archaeon. A sponge-specific, endosymbiotic sulfur cycle as described for marine oligochaetes is proposed to be also present in P. cf. corticata. Overall, the results of this work support the recent studies that demonstrated the sponge species specificity of the associated microbial community while the biogeography of the host collection site has only a minor influence on the composition. In P. cf. corticata, the specificity of the sponge-microbe associations is even extended to the spatial distribution of the microorganisms within the sponge body; distinct bacterial populations were associated with the different tissue sections, papillae, outer and inner cortex, and choanosome. The local distribution of a phylotype within P. cf. corticata correlated with its (1) phylogenetic affiliation, (2) classification as spongespecific or nonspecifically associated microorganism, and (3) potential ecological role in the host sponge.
4250692|Yeast communities of decaying Stenocereus gummosus were analyzed for spatial, temporal, and physiological characteristics. Analysis of random samples within plants, between plants, and between localities shows that the species proportions of the yeast community are relatively constant within plants and between localities, but that there is significant variability between rotting plants. It is suggested that the increased variability between plants represents sampling of different stages of succession. The physiological abilities of the yeast community also show a relatively constant pattern within plants and between localities yet more variability between plants. The variablity profiles of species proportions and community physiological characters are demonstrated to be correlated within and between plants. This observation is an extension of the Kluge-Kerfoot phenomenon to the level of the community. The correlation of within and between plant variability profiles is suggested to be a result of the temporal and spatial availability of resources during the stages of rotting plant succession. The community structure is thus postulated to result from a set of possible future resource states of the habitat.
41489082|Siderophore production confers to bacteria competitive advantages to colonize plant tissues and to exclude other microorganisms from the same ecological niche. This work shows that the community of endophytic siderophoreproducing bacteria (SPB) associated to Oryza sativa cultivated in Uruguayan soils is dynamic and diverse. These bacteria were present in grains, roots, and leaves, and their density fluctuated between log 3.44 and log 5.52 cfu g fresh weight (fw) during the plant growth. Less than 10% of the heterotrophic bacteria produced siderophores in roots and leaves of young plants, but most of the heterotrophic bacteria were siderophore-producers in mature plants. According to their amplified restriction DNA ribosomal analysis (ARDRA) pattern, 54 of the 109 endophytic SPB isolated from different plant tissues or growth stages from replicate plots, were unique. Bacteria belonging to the genera Sphingomonas, Pseudomonas, Burkholderia, and Enterobacter alternated during plant growth, but the genus Pantoea was predominant in roots at tillering and in leaves at subsequent stages. Pantoea ananatis was the SPB permanently associated to any of the plant tissues, but the genetic diversity within this speciesrevealed by BOX-PCR fingerprinting-showed that different strains were randomly distributed along time and plant tissue, suggesting that a common trait of the species P. ananatis determined the interaction with the rice plant. Several isolates were stronger IAA producers than Azospirillum brasilense or Herbaspirillum seropedicae. In vitro inhibition assays showed that SPB of the genus Burkholderia were good antagonists of pathogenic fungi and that only one SPB isolate of the genus Pseudomonas was able to inhibit A. brasilense and H. seropedicae. These results denoted that SPB were selected into the rice plant. P. ananatis was the permanent and dominant associated species which was unable to inhibit two of the relevant plant growth-promoting bacteria.
4251727| Indigenous ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) in a clay loam soil were extremely difficult to release from soil particles compared to most heterotrophic bacteria; less than 1% of indigenous AOB (estimated as potential ammonia oxidation rate) were extractable by the dispersion-density-gradient centrifugation technique. This is at least 10-fold less than the extractability of heterotrophic bacteria. Urea applications to the same soil induced a 5-fold increase in the potential ammonia oxidation rate, and this resulted in a much higher percentage (8%) extractability of AOB. Thus, the newly grown AOB in the urea-treated soil were less strongly attached to the soil particles. The contrast suggests that the strong attachment of indigenous AOB is a gradual process taking place due to a long residence time (infrequent/slow cell division) compared to heterotrophic organisms. However, the contrast could also reflect differences in species composition of the original AOB community and those growing in response to urea inputs. Specific detection of AOB in extinction dilution cultures was done by PCR and sequencing of the products. Considerable diversity was found within the genus Nitrosospira, but severe problems with the specificity of the primers were observed. Two allegedly AOB specific PCR primers pairs were used: one specific for Nitrosospira (SPIRA) and one which should encompass all AOB within the -Proteobacteria (GAOB). Only 33% of the cultures that gave PCR products with GAOB also gave products with the SPIRA primer pair, suggesting the presence of AOB other than Nitrosospira. However, the phylogeny based on the sequencing placed all the cultures in various clusters of the Nitrosospira clade, suggesting that the SPIRA primers do not match all members of the Nitrosospira genus. The cultures obtained from the urea-treated soil were different from the others in giving PCR products only with the SPIRA primers and not with the GAOB. Since sequencing also here confirmed the presence of Nitrosospira, these observations suggest that the GAOB primers do not match all AOB species. 
25153401|We surveyed the diversity of soil Archaea across a large scale elevational gradient of ecosystem types, from foothills forest to alpine tundra in the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains. We used a dilution technique to sequence the single most abundant archaeal 16S rDNA sequence in each of the 40 soil cores distributed across the gradient to compare our results to those of typical 16S clone library studies. We found a greater diversity of sequences than has typically been found in clone library studies from a single site or core, identifying sequences both from the Terrestrial Group and the FFSB Group at several sites. We did not observe any significant environmental correlates with the dominant sequence type, nor was there any relationship between the spatial distance between samples and the phylogenetic similarity of the dominant sequence types. Despite using a very different methodology, our collective results are in remarkably good agreement with other studies of soil Crenarchaeota in terms of the diversity and relative abundance of sequence types identified. We are able to identify two instances of very tightly clustered sequences which we suggest are the results of global selective sweeps-one closely related to SCA1145, an abundant globally distributed group within the Terrestrial Group of Crenarchaeota, and another nested within the more basal FFSB group of sequences. We replicated our sequence results at two levels: first, by repeating the dilution and PCR processes from the same soil core DNA extraction, and second, by performing a replicate DNA extraction from the same homogenized soil core sample. Pairs of sequences produced by the dilution replicates were significantly more similar than the pairs of sequences produced by the extraction replicates, suggesting that soil Crenarchaeota exists in highly localized and discrete clonal populations.
4250546|Regeneration of nutrients from relatively nutrient-poor organic residues is essential for overall operation of an ecosystem. Nutrients thus released are, however, inadequate for the needs of the decomposer populations, and a much faster nutrient turnover involving bacterial immobilization and release occurs concurrently. Evidence from aquatic ecosystems indicates that bacteria release little phosphorus, for which they have high demand, whereas bacterial grazers play an important role in regeneration of bacterial phosphorus. Our studies extend these relationships to terrestrial ecosystems. We studied phosphorus immobilization and mineralization in soil incubations, simulating rhizospheres with combinations of bacterial, amoebal, and nematode populations. Bacteria quickly assimilated and retained much of the labile inorganic phosphorus as carbon substrates were metabolized. Most of this bacterial phosphorus was mineralized and returned to the inorganic phosphorus pool by the amoebae. Nematode effects on phosphorus mineralization were small, except for indirect effects on amoebal activity. The observed remineralization may reflect direct excretion by the amoebae, physiological effects on the bacterial populations, or both. These results suggest a major role of microfauna in nutrient cycling.
41412447|Understanding the pathogenic potential of a new pathogen strain or a known pathogen in a new locale is crucial for management of disease in both wild and farmed animals. The Ostreid herpesvirus-1 (OsHV-1), a known pathogen of early-life-stage Pacific oysters, Crassostrea gigas, has been associated with mortalities of juvenile oysters in many locations around the world including Tmales Bay, California. In two trials, the California OsHV-1 strain was transmitted from infected juvenile C. gigas to nave C. gigas larvae. Survival of control larvae was high throughout both trials (97-100%) and low among those exposed to OsHV-1. No OsHV-1-exposed larvae survived to day 9 in trial 1, while trial 2 was terminated at day 7 when survival was 36.90  8.66%. To assess the amount of OsHV-1 DNA present, we employed quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assays based on the A fragment and OsHV-1 catalytic subunit of a DNA polymerase  (DNA pol) gene. Viral genome copy numbers based on qPCR assays peaked between 3 and 5 days. To measure the presence of viable and actively transcribing virus, the DNA pol gene qPCR assay was optimized for RNA analysis after being reverse transcribed (RT-qPCR). A decline in virus gene expression was measured using RTqPCR: relative to earlier experimental time points copy numbers were significantly lower on day 9, trial 1 (p<0.05) and day 7, trial 2 (p<0.05). Peaks in copies of active virus per genome occurred during two periods in trial 1 (days 1 and 5/7, p<0.05) and one period in trial 2 (day l, p<0.05). Transmission electron microscopy confirmed OsHV-1 infection; herpesvirus-like nucleocapsids, capsids, and extracellular particles were visualized. We demonstrated the ability to transmit OsHV-1 from infected juvenile oysters to nave larvae, which indicates the spread of OsHV-1 between infected hosts in the field and between commercial farms is possible. We also developed an important tool (OsHV-1-specific RT-qPCR for an active virus gene) for use in monitoring for active virus in the field and in laboratory based transmission experiments.
41693730|Allelopathy is considered to be one of the factors underlying the global expansion of the toxic cyanobacterium Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii. Although the production and release of allelopathic compounds by cyanobacteria is acknowledged to be influenced by environmental parameters, the response of C. raciborskii remains generally unrecognized. Here, the growth and allelopathic potential of C. raciborskii strain LEGE 99043 towards the ubiquitous microalga Ankistrodesmus falcatus were analyzed under different biotic and abiotic conditions. Filtrates from C. raciborskii cultures growing at different cell densities displayed broad inhibitory activity. Moreover, higher temperature, higher light intensity as well phosphate limitation further enhanced this activity. The distinct and comprehensive patterns of inhibition verified during the growth phase, and under the tested parameters, suggest the action of several, still unidentified allelopathic compounds. It is expectable that the observed increase in allelopathic activity can result in distinct ecological advantages to C. raciborskii.
40343351|The characteristics of microbial mats within the waste stream from a seafood cannery were compared to a microbial community at a pristine site near a sandy beach at Puerto San Carlos, Baja California Sur, Mexico. Isolation of poly--hydroxybutyrate (PHB)-producing bacteria, recognition of brightly refractile cytoplasmatic inclusions, lipophilic stains with Sudan Black and Nile Red, and chemical extraction of PHB were used as a culturedependent strategy for the detection of PHB-producing bacteria. The culture-independent approach included denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of phylotypes of 16S rRNA of microbial communities from environmental samples. Significant differences in community structure were found among the polluted and pristine sites. These differences were correlated with the physicochemical characteristics of the seawater column. At the polluted site, the seawater was rich in nutrients (ammonia, phosphates, and organic matter), compared to the pristine location. Partial sequencing of 16S rDNA of cultures of bacteria producing PHB included Bacillus and Staphylococcus at both sites; Paracoccus and Micrococcus were found only at the polluted site and Rhodococcus and Methylobacterium were found only at the pristine site. Bands of the sequences of 16S rDNA from both field samples in the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analyses affiliated closely only with bacterial sequences of cultures of Bacillus and Staphylococcus. High concentrations of organic and inorganic nutrients at the polluted site had a clear effect on the composition and diversity of the microbial community compared to the unpolluted site.
41412409|Sulfate-and sulfite-reducing prokaryotes (SSRP) communities play a key role in both sulfur and carbon cycles. In estuarine ecosystems, sulfate concentrations change with tides and could be limited in tidal freshwater reach or deep sediments. In a subtropical estuary of northern Taiwan in December 2007, we examined the compositional changes of SSRP communities. We examined three sites: from the lower estuarine brackish-water reach (site GR and mangrove vegetation site, GM) to the upper estuarine tidal freshwater reach (site HR), as well as from surface to a 50-cm depth. The partial sequence of sulfite reducase (dsrB) genes was used as a molecular marker of SSRP, linked to polymerase chain reaction and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) techniques. SSRP communities of the DGGE profiles varied with sites according to one-way analyses of similarities (Global R= 0.69, P= 0.001). Using cluster analysis, the DGGE profile was found to show site-specific clusters and a distinct depth zonation (five, six, and two SSRP communities at the GM, GR, and HR sites, respectively). SSRP composition was highly correlated to the combination of salinity, reduced sulfur, and total organic carbon contents (BIO-ENV analysis, r s = 0.56). After analyzing a total of 35 dsrB sequences in the DGGE gel, six groups with 15 phylotypes were found, which were closely related to marinefreshwater gradient. Moreover, sequences neighboring sulfite-reducing prokaryotes were observed, in addition to those affiliated to sulfate-reducing prokaryotes. Four phylotypes harvested in HR resembled the genus Desulfitobacterium, a sulfite-reducing prokaryote, which failed to use sulfate as an electron acceptor and were active in freshwater and sulfate-limited habitat. The other five phylotypes in the HR reach belonged to the sulfatereducing prokaryotes of the genera Desulfatiferula, Desulfosarcina, Desulfovibrio, and Desulfotomaculum, which appeared to tolerate low salinity and low sulfate supply. SSRP phylotypes at the mangrove-vegetated GM site (five phylotypes in two groups) were phylogenetically less diverse, when compared with those at the non-mangrovevegetated GR site (three phylotypes in three groups) and the tidally influenced freshwater HR site (nine phylotypes in five groups). Phylotypes found at GR and GM were all affiliated to marine sulfate-reducing prokaryote strains of the genera Desulfofaba, Desulfobotulus, Desulfatiferula, Desulfosarcina, and Desulfotomaculum. Notably, a phylotype recorded in the surface sediment at GR resembled the genus Desulfobulbus, which was recorded from freshwater environment consisting of the freshwater input at GR during ebb tides.
4250898|The process of wastewater treatment was studied by modeling the relationships between physical, chemical, and biological (bacteria, phytoplankton, zooplankton) components of the sewage treatment lagoons of an urban wastewater center, based upon a two-year sampling program. The models of interactions between variables were tested by path analysis. The path coefficients were computed from the results of ridge regression, instead of linear multiple regression. The results show that fecal coliforms were effectively controlled by the environmental variables included in the model, which have a cyclic seasonal behavior. This control grew stronger with distance from the input (R
4250924| Four species of heterotrophic microflagellates were examined for their ability to graze attached and unattached bacteria. The species tested displayed pronounced differences in their ability to graze the bacterium Pseudomonas halodurans attached to chitin particles. Two species of microflagellates (Monas and Cryptobia sp.) efficiently grazed unattached bacteria but showed little or no ability to graze attached or aggregated cells. In contrast, Rhynchomonas nasuta and Bodo sp. showed marked preferences for attached and aggregated bacteria and a limited ability to graze unattached cells. The density of attached bacteria was reduced by an order of magnitude due to grazing by Bodo and R. nasuta, even though the density of unattached bacteria was 5-90 the density of attached cells. The maximum densities attained by microflagellates in the cultures were related to the density of unattached bacteria for Monas and Cryptobia but not for Bodo and R. nasuta. Growth of the latter two species appeared to be related to the density of attached or aggregated bacteria. Based on the results of these experiments, it is concluded that the pelagic existence of microflagellates that graze attached bacteria may be strongly linked to the distribution of suspended particles and their associated bacteria. In addition, the removal of attached bacteria by microflagellates can significantly affect the density of bacteria attached to particles in the plankton. This activity may have important implications for the controversy concerning the relative importance of attached and free-living bacteria in the plankton. 
25153379| The relationship between functional redundancy and microbial community structure-diversity was examined using laboratory incubations to ensure constant environmental conditions. Serial dilutions of a sewage microbial community were prepared, used to inoculate sterile sewage, and maintained in batch culture. Probability suggests that dilution of the initial community should remove rare organism types, creating mixtures of cells differing in diversity. Regrowth of the diluted mixtures generated communities similar in abundance but differing in community structure and relative diversity (as determined using two DNA fingerprinting techniques and dilution-to-extinction analysis of community-level physiological profiles). The in situ function of each regrown community was examined by monitoring the short-term uptake of five different C-labeled compounds (glucose, acetate, citrate, palmitic acid, and an amino acid mixture). No significant differences were detected between treatments in either the rate of uptake of a substrate or the efficiency with which each community assimilated each compound. The fact that the activity of the original community was the same as that of a community regrown from an inoculum containing fewer that 100 cells (10 dilution) indicates that functional redundancy was quite high in this system. For each organism type eliminated during the dilution process, at least one of the remaining types was able to provide the same function at the same level as the lost one. Further research is necessary to determine what impact this functional redundancy may have on overall ecosystem function and stability. 
25153427|Microorganisms will be an integral part of biologically based waste processing systems used for water purification or nutrient recycling on long-term space missions planned by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. In this study, the function and stability of microbial inocula of different diversities were evaluated after inoculation into plant-based waste processing systems. The microbial inocula were from a constructed community of plant rhizosphere-associated bacteria and a complexity gradient of communities derived from industrial wastewater treatment plant-activated sludge. Community stability and community function were defined as the ability of the community to resist invasion by a competitor (Pseudomonas fluorescens 5RL) and the ability to degrade surfactant, respectively. Carbon source utilization was evaluated by measuring surfactant degradation and through Biolog and BD oxygen biosensor community level physiological profiling. Community profiles were obtained from a 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer region array. A wastewater treatment plant-derived community with the greatest species richness was the least susceptible to invasion and was able to degrade surfactant to a greater extent than the other complexity gradient communities. All communities resisted invasion by a competitor to a greater extent than the plant rhizosphere isolate constructed community. However, the constructed community degraded surfactant to a greater extent than any of the other communities and utilized the same number of carbon sources as many of the other communities. These results demonstrate that community function (carbon source utilization) and community stability (resistance to invasion) are a function of the structural composition of the community irrespective of species richness or functional richness.
41489064|Forest management often results in changes in the soil and its microbial communities. In the present study, differences in the soil bacterial community caused by forest management practices were characterized using small subunit (SSU) ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene clone libraries. The communities were from a native hardwood forest (HWD) and two adjacent conifer plantations in a lowelevation montane, subtropical experimental forest at the Lienhuachi Experimental Forest (LHCEF) in central Taiwan. At this locality, the elevation ranges from 600 to 950 m, the mean annual precipitation is 2,200 mm, the mean annual temperature is 20.8C, and the soil pH is 4. The conifer forests included a Cunninghamia konishii Hay (CNH) plantation of 40 years and an old growth Calocedrus formosana (Florin) Florin (CLC) forest of 80 years. A total of 476 clones were sequenced and assigned into 12 phylogenetic groups. Proteobacteria-afnlmted clones (53%) predominated in the library from HWD soils. In contrast, Addobacteria was the most abundant phylum and comprised 39% and 57% in the CLC and CNH libraries, respectively. Similarly, the most abundant OTUs in HWD soils were greatly reduced or absent in the CLC and CNH soils. Based on several diversity indices, the numbers of abundant OTUs and singletons, and rarefaction curves, the diversity of the HWD community (0.95 in evenness and Shannon diversity indices) was somewhat less than that in the CNH soils (0.97 in evenness and Shannon diversity indices). The diversity of the community in CLC soils was intermediate. The differences in diversity among the three communities may also reflect changes in abundances of a few OTUs. The CNH forest soil community may be still in a successional phase that is only partially stabilized after 40 years. Analysis of molecular variance also revealed that the bacterial community composition of HWD soils was significantly different from CLC and CNH soils (p=0.001). These results suggest that the disturbance of forest conversion and tree species composition are important factors influencing the soil bacterial community among three forest ecosystems in the same climate.
25153490|Fecal prevalence of Escherichia coli O157 in ruminants is highest in the summer decreasing to very low levels in the winter. We hypothesize that this seasonal variation is a result of physiological responses within the host animal to changing day-length. To determine the effects of melatonin (MEL) on fecal shedding of E. coli O157:H7 in cattle, eight crossbred beef steers identified as shedding E. coli O157:H7, were allotted to treatment: control or MEL (0.5 mg/kg body weight (BW); 1) administered orally daily for 7 days. After a 5-day period of no treatment, a second MEL dose (5.0 mg/kg BW; 10) was administered daily for 4 days. Fecal samples were collected daily for qualification of E. coli O157:H7. No differences (P&gt;0.10) were observed in the percentage of E. coli O157:H7 positive fecal samples in steers receiving the 1 MEL dose, however the 10 dose decreased (P=0.05) the percentage of fecal samples E. coli O157:H7 positive. Serum MEL concentrations were higher in the 1, but not 10, treated animals compared to control animals. Although it is difficult to explain, this may be a result of decreasing day-length increasing serum melatonin concentrations that may have masked any treatment effect on serum melatonin. In a second similar experiment, a second group of cattle (heifers and steers) were administered tryptophan (TRP) over a 17-day experimental period (5 g/head/day for 10 days followed by 10 g/head/day for 7 days). Tryptophan had no effect (P&gt;0.20) on the percentage of fecal samples positive for E. coli O157. Serum TRP (P&lt;0.05), but not MEL (P&gt;0.20), concentrations were elevated in TRP-treated animals. The decrease in the number of positive fecal samples observed in the first experiment, may be related to gastrointestinal MEL, affected by the 10, but not 1 MEL dose.
25153187| Bacterial abundance and production, free (uncomplexed) copper ion concentration, total dissolved copper concentration, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), total suspended solids (TSS), and chlorophyll a were measured over the course of 1 year in a series of 27 sample "Boxes" established within San Diego Bay. Water was collected through a trace metal-clean system so that each Box's sample was a composite of all the surface water in that Box. Bacterial production, chlorophyll a, TSS, DOC, and dissolved copper all generally increased from Box 1 at the mouth of the Bay to Box 27 in the South or back Bay. Free copper ion concentration generally decreased from Box 1 to Box 27 presumably due to increasing complexation capacity within natural waters. Based on correlations between TSS, chlorophyll a, bacterial production or DOC and the ratio of dissolved to free Cu ion, both DOC and particulate (bacteria and algae) fractions were potentially responsible for copper complexation, each at different times of the year. CuCl was added to bacterial production assays from 0 to 10 g L to assess acute copper toxicity to the natural microbial assemblage. Interestingly, copper toxicity appeared to increase with decreases in free copper from the mouth of the Bay to the back Bay. This contrasts the free-ion activity model in which higher complexation capacity should afford greater copper protection. When cell-specific growth rates were calculated, faster growing bacteria (i.e. toward the back Bay) appeared to be more susceptible to free copper toxicity. The protecting effect of natural dissolved organic material (DOM) concentrated by tangential flow ultra-filtration (&gt;1 kDa), illite and kaolinite minerals, and glutathione (a metal chelator excreted by algae under copper stress) was assessed in bacterial production assays. Only DOM concentrate offered any significant protection to bacterial production under increased copper concentrations. Although the potential copper protecting agents were allowed to interact with added copper before natural bacteria were added to production assays, there may be a temporal dose-response relationship that accounts for higher toxicity in short production assays. Regardless, it appears that effective natural complexation of copper in the back portions of San Diego Bay limits exposure of native bacterial assemblages to free copper ion, resulting in higher bacterial production. 
4251136|One hundred and five strains isolated from aquifer sediments and Escherichia coli ML30S were tested for their ability to reduce manganese oxides. Eighty-two strains, including E. coli, reduced manganese. In most cases the bacterial activity decreased the pH and Eh below 6.75 and 350 mV, respectively, enhancing a spontaneous and nonspecific reduction of manganese. However, for 12 strains the reduction was specifically catalyzed by bacteria; the high pH and Eh values would not permit a spontaneous reduction of manganese. Some of the most active strains were identified as genera common in soils and waters, i.e., Pseudomonas, Bacillus, Corynebacterium, and Acinetobacter. Two strains were studied in detail. One of the strains, identified as Pseudomonas fluorescens, required contact between the cells and the manganese oxides for reduction to occur. The reduction was inhibited by 15 mM of sodium azide. The other strain, identified as Acinetobacter johnsonii, catalyzed manganese reduction by an inductive and dialyzable substance which was excreted by the bacteria. The mechanism involved has not been previously demonstrated.
25256196|Microbial ecology has undergone a profound change in the last two decades with regard to methods employed for the analysis of natural communities. Emphasis has shifted from culturing to the analysis of signature molecules including molecular DNA-based approaches that rely either on direct cloning and sequencing of DNA fragments (shotgun cloning) or often rely on prior amplification of target sequences by use of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The pool of PCR products can again be either cloned and sequenced or can be subjected to an increasing variety of genetic profiling methods, including amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis, automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, temperature gradient gel electrophoresis, single strand conformation polymorphism, and denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography. In this document, we present and critically compare these methods commonly used for the study of microbial diversity.
23361673|Caves are relatively accessible subterranean habitats ideal for the study of subsurface microbial dynamics and metabolisms under oligotrophic, non-photosynthetic conditions. A 454-pyrotag analysis of the V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene was used to systematically evaluate the bacterial diversity of ten cave surfaces within Kartchner Caverns, a limestone cave. Results showed an average of 1,994 operational taxonomic units (97 % cutoff) per speleothem and a broad taxonomic diversity that included 21 phyla and 12 candidate phyla. Comparative analysis of speleothems within a single room of the cave revealed three distinct bacterial taxonomic profiles dominated by either Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, or Acidobacteria. A gradient in observed species richness along the sampling transect revealed that the communities with lower diversity corresponded to those dominated by Actinobacteria while the more diverse communities were those dominated by Proteobacteria. A 16S rRNA gene clone library from one of the Actinobacteria-dominated speleothems identified clones with 99 % identity to chemoautotrophs and previously characterized oligotrophs, providing insights into potential energy dynamics supporting these communities. The robust analysis conducted for this study demonstrated a rich bacterial diversity on speleothem surfaces. Further, it was shown that seemingly comparable speleothems supported divergent phylogenetic profiles suggesting that these communities are very sensitive to subtle variations in nutritional inputs and environmental factors typifying speleothem surfaces in Kartchner Caverns.
4250417|The scanning electron microscope was used to study the microorganisms on wheat roots grown in both soil and sand. Bacteria became common on the root surface only in the root hair region of young roots; nearer the tip of the root they were rare. Older roots had relatively high populations of bacteria. Bacteria were sometimes embedded in mucilage, of either plant or microbial origin, which seemed to bind the bacteria firmly to the root surface. Mineral grains on or near the roots of wheat were generally free of mucilage.
25153474|In this report, real-time quantitative PCR (TaqMan qPCR) of the small subunit (SSU) 16S-like rRNA molecule, a universal phylogenetic marker, was used to quantify the relative abundance of individual bacterial members of a diverse, yet mostly unculturable, microbial community from a marine sponge. Molecular phylogenetic analyses of bacterial communities derived from Caribbean Lithistid sponges have shown a wide diversity of microbes that included at least six major subdivisions; however, very little overlap was observed between the culturable and unculturable microbial communities. Based on sequence data of three culture-independent Lithistid-derived representative bacteria, we designed probe/primer sets for TaqMan qPCR to quantitatively characterize selected microbial residents in a Lithistid sponge, Vetulina, metagenome. TaqMan assays included specificity testing, DNA limit of detection analysis, and quantification of specific microbial rRNA sequences such as Nitrospira-like microbes and Actinobacteria up to 172 million copies per microgram per Lithistid sponge metagenome. By contrast, qPCR amplification with probes designed for common previously cultured sponge-associated bacteria in the general Rheinheimera and Marinomonas and a representative of the CFB group resulted in only minimal detection of the Rheiheimera in total DNA extracted from the sponge. These data verify that a large portion of the microbial community within Lithistid sponges may consist of currently unculturable microorganisms.
41489211|The global changes in rainfall frequency and quantity have subjected arid and semi-arid regions to long periods of drought. As this phenomenon corresponds to increasing trend of water shortage, the use of treated wastewater (TWW) has been suggested as an alternative for irrigation of agricultural crops in these areas. The aim of the study was to investigate the short-and middle-term effects of TWW irrigation on the soil microbial activities and organic carbon content. The microbial community activity was measured every 1-3 months for 4 years in a persimmon (Diospyros kaki) orchard. These activities were used here as an indicator for the soil health. The hydrolysis activity (detected by fluorescein diacetate hydrolysis (FDA) assay) increased during the irrigation season and was significantly higher in soils irrigated with TWW compared to those irrigated with freshwater (FW). This activity was also negatively correlated with dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations during the irrigation season, suggesting that the community degraded the DOC in the soils regardless of its origin. The irrigation season was also characterized by an increase in nitrification potential in both TWW-and FW-irrigated soils, which coincided with high concentrations of nitrate (50 mg kg soil). Overall, there was an increase in all measured activities during the irrigation season, and they were higher in the TWW soils. However, it appears that after each irrigation season, the potential activity of the community returned to levels similar to or even slightly lower than those of FWirrigated soil during the wet season, suggesting that the periodic irrigation did not significantly change the soil microbial activity.
40343457|Microbial biodiversity provides an increasingly important source of medically and industrially useful compounds. We have isolated 14 actinomycete species from a collection of approximately 300 plant stem samples from the upper Amazonian rainforest in Peru. All of the cultured isolates produce substances with inhibitory activity directed at a range of potential fungal and bacterial pathogens. For some organisms, this activity is very broad in spectrum while other organisms show specific activity against a limited number of organisms. Two of these organisms preferentially inhibit bacterial test organisms over eukaryotic organisms. rDNA sequence analysis indicates that these organisms are not equivalent to any other cultured deposits in GenBank. Our results provide evidence of the untapped biodiversity in the form of biologically active microbes present within the tissues of higher plants.
4250619| The changes in respiration rate and mean cell volume induced by temperature within the range 10C-25C were investigated in two small species of freshwater amoebae, Saccamoeba limax Page and Vannella sp. Mean cell volume varied in response to temperature, with maxima at 20C in Vannella sp. (10.15  10
25153153| A total of 1246 Pseudomonas strains were isolated from the rhizosphere of two perennial grasses (Lolium perenne and Molinia coerulea) with different nitrogen requirements. The plants were grown in their native soil under ambient and elevated atmospheric CO content (pCO) at the Swiss FACE (Free Air CO Enrichment) facility. Root-, rhizosphere-, and non-rhizospheric soil-associated strains were characterized in terms of their ability to reduce nitrate during an in vitro assay and with respect to the genes encoding the membrane-bound (named NAR) and periplasmic (NAP) nitrate reductases so far described in the genus Pseudomonas. The diversity of corresponding genes was assessed by PCR-RFLP on narG and napA genes, which encode the catalytic subunit of nitrate reductases. The frequency of nitrate-dissimilating strains decreased with root proximity for both plants and was enhanced under elevated pCO in the rhizosphere of L. perenne. NAR (54% of strains) as well as NAP (49%) forms were present in nitrate-reducing strains, 15.5% of the 439 strains tested harbouring both genes. The relative proportions of narG and napA detected in Pseudomonas strains were different according to root proximity and for both pCO treatments: the NAR form was more abundant close to the root surface and for plants grown under elevated pCO. Putative denitrifiers harbored mainly the membrane-bound (NAR) form of nitrate reductase. Finally, both narG and napA sequences displayed a high level of diversity. Anyway, this diversity was correlated neither with the root proximity nor with the pCO treatment. 
4250432|Hydrostatic pressure was found to cause a marked narrowing of pH ranges for growth and reductions in growth yields for a variety of bacteria. In many cases, reduced yields under pressure could be directly related to increased sensitivities to metabolic acids that accumulated in the enclosed culture vessels used. Magnesium and calcium ions partially reversed increases in sensitivities of representative gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria to low, but not high, pH. Growth inhibition of these organisms at both extremes of pH was associated with enhanced loss of K
25153407|The presence of cytotoxin K (cytK), nonhemolytic (NHE), and hemolytic (HBL) enterotoxin genes was investigated in 74 Bacillus thuringiensis strains recovered from the intestines of wild mammals from northeast Poland, using polymerase chain reaction amplification and Southern hybridization. All the isolates harbored genes coding for toxin(s) that could cause diarrhea. The B. thuringiensis strains containing the nhe genes were found more frequently (nheA 100%, nheB 77%, nheC 96%) than those with the hblACD (74%) and cytK (73%) genes. The presence/absence of the nheA, hblA, and cytK genes was confirmed in all of the B. thuringiensis strains by Southern hybridization. Interestingly, these experiments also indicated that the nheA locus is located on a more variable chromosome region compared with hblA and, to a lesser degree, cytK. Detection of the 41-kDa component of NHE enterotoxin by the TECRA assay revealed various protein levels by B. thuringiensis strains. These results indicate the existence of environmental B. thuringiensis strains bearing the potential virulence arsenal for the production of diarrheal toxins, and emphasize the importance of small animals in the spread of B. cereus-like enterotoxin genes in nature. However, further investigation is needed to clarify any possible involvement of environmental B. thuringiensis strains in human health issues.
25256184|Our understanding of mineralogical influences on subsurface microbial community structure and diversity has been difficult to assess due to difficulties in isolating this variable from others in the subsurface environment. In this study, biofilm coupons were used to isolate specific geological substrata from the surrounding geological matrix during colonization by microorganisms suspended in the surrounding groundwater for an 8-week period. Upon retrieval, the structure and diversity of the microbial community associated with each type of substratum was evaluated using 16S rDNA-based terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP). Phylogenetic affiliations of the populations associated with each type of substratum were established based on sequence analysis of near full-length 16S rDNA obtained through construction of a clone library. Hematite, quartz, and saprolite each harbored a community dominated by members of the division Proteobacteria (&gt;67% of community). However, the different substrata selected for different subdivisions of bacteria within the Proteobacteria. After accounting for the influence exerted by substratum type on recovery of DNA from the attached populations, both phylogenetic data and Jaccard and Bray-Curtis similarity indices derived from terminal-restriction fragment (T-RF) profiles suggested a strong mineralogical influence on the structure and composition of the solid phase-associated community. The results suggest that mineralogical heterogeneity influences microbial community structure and diversity in pristine aquifers.
41693739|Litter soil cover constitutes an important microecosystem in sustainable viticulture having a key role in nutrient cycling and serving as a habitat of complex microbial communities. Ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA) are known to regulate nitrification in soil while little is known regarding their function and diversity in litter. We investigated the effects of two fungicides, penconazole and cyprodinil, commonly used in vineyards, on the function and diversity of total and active AOB and AOA in a microcosm study. Functional changes measured via potential nitrification and structural changes assessed via denaturating gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) at the DNA and RNA levels were contrasted with pesticide dissipation in the litter layer. The latter was inversely correlated with potential nitrification, which was temporarily inhibited at the initial sampling dates (0 to 21 days) when nearly 100 % of the applied pesticide amounts was still present in the litter. Fungicides induced changes in AOB and AOA communities with RNA-DGGE analysis showing a higher sensitivity. AOA were more responsive to pesticide application compared to AOB. Potential nitrification was less sensitive to the fungicides and was restored faster than structural changes, which persisted. These results support the theory of microbial redundancy for nitrification in a stressed litter environment.
4251794|Mesocosms provide a powerful tool for investigating bacterial dynamics at small scales; however, even these controlled studies are not exempt from spatial influences. Differences in mesocosm shape and size may have profound effects on the enclosed community since these features may influence the behavior of the system. Studies were conducted in mesocosms of varying dimensions (narrow, deep and wide, shallow tanks) and volumes (0.1, 1, and 10 m
23361678|The ecological interaction between microorganisms and seaweeds depends on the production of secondary compounds that can influence microbial diversity in the water column and the composition of reef environments. We adapted the 3 H-leucine incorporation technique to measure bacterial activity in biofilms associated with the blades of the macroalgae Sargassum spp. We evaluated (1) if the epiphytic bacteria on the blades were more active in detritus or in the biofilm, (2) substrate saturation and linearity of 3 H-leucine incorporation, (3) the influence of specific metabolic inhibitors during 3 H-leucine incorporation under the presence or absence of natural and artificial light, and (4) the efficiency of radiolabeled protein extraction. Scanning electron microscopy showed heterogeneous distribution of bacteria, diatoms, and polymeric extracellular secretions. Active bacteria were present in both biofilm and detritus on the blades. The highest 3 H-leucine incorporation was obtained when incubating blades not colonized by macroepibionts. Incubations done under field conditions reported higher 3 H-leucine incorporation than in the laboratory. Light quality and sampling manipulation seemed to be the main factors behind this difference. The use of specific metabolic inhibitors confirmed that bacteria are the main group incorporating 3 H-leucine but their association with primary production suggested a symbiotic relationship between bacteria, diatoms, and the seaweed.
23469189|The microbial community plays an essential role in the high productivity in mangrove wetlands. A proper understanding of the spatial variations of microbial communities will provide clues about the underline mechanisms that structure microbial groups and the isolation of bacterial strains of interest. In the present study, the diversity and composition of the bacterial community in sediments collected from four locations, namely mudflat, edge, bulk, and rhizosphere, within the Mai Po Ramsar Wetland in Hong Kong, SAR, China were compared using the barcoded Illumina paired-end sequencing technique. Rarefaction results showed that the bulk sediment inside the mature mangrove forest had the highest bacterial -diversity, while the mudflat sediment without vegetation had the lowest. The comparison of -diversity using principal component analysis and principal coordinate analysis with UniFrac metrics both showed that the spatial effects on bacterial communities were significant. All sediment samples could be clustered into two major groups, inner (bulk and rhizosphere sediments collected inside the mangrove forest) and outer mangrove sediments (the sediments collected at the mudflat and the edge of the mangrove forest). With the linear discriminate analysis scores larger than 3, four phyla, namely Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Nitrospirae, and Verrucomicrobia, were enriched in the nutrient-rich inner mangrove sediments, while abundances of Proteobacteria and Deferribacterias were higher in outer mangrove sediments. The rhizosphere effect of mangrove plants was also significant, which had a lower -diversity, a higher amount of Nitrospirae, and a lower abundance of Proteobacteria than the bulk sediment nearby.
41693752|On May 9-10, 2011, the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, as the Army Center of Excellence for Infectious Disease, assembled over a dozen leaders in areas related to research into the communities of microorganisms which colonize and infect traumatic wounds. The objectives of the workshop were to obtain guidance for government researchers, to spur research community involvement in the field of traumatic wound research informed by a microbiome perspective, and to spark collaborative efforts serving the Wounded Warriors and similarly wounded civilians. During the discussions, it was made clear that the complexity of these infections will only be met by developing a new art of clinical practice that engages the numerous microbes and their ecology. It requires the support of dedicated laboratories and technologists who advance research methods such as community sequencing, as well as the kinds of data analysis expertise and facilities. These strategies already appear to be bearing fruit in the clinical management of chronic wounds. There are now funding announcements and programs supporting this area of research open to extramural collaborators.
23597817|Mariculture is one of the major seafood supplies worldwide and has caused serious environmental concerns on the coastal zone. Its rapid development has been shown to disrupt the sediment ecosystems and thus influence the benthic bacterial communities. Bacterial diversity and community structure within both adjacent farms and non-cultured zones intertidal sediments along the coasts of Qinhuangdao and Dalian, China, were investigated using full-length 16S rRNA gene-based T-RFLP analyses and clone library construction. Richness and ShannonWiener index were significantly increased at sites adjacent the mariculture farm with mean values of 29 and 2.97 from peak profiles of T-RFLP result. Clustering analyses suggested that impacts of mariculture on bacterial diversity of sediment were significantly larger than those resulted from temporal and spatial scales. Upon comparisons of RFLP patterns from 602 clones from libraries of the selected five samples, 137 OTUs were retrieved. Members of - and -Proteobacteria, Bacilli, Flavobacteria, and Actinobacteria were recorded in all libraries. In addition, -Proteobacteria were dominant in all samples (21.745.0 %). Redundancy analysis revealed that the distribution of bacterial composition seemed to be determined by the variables of salinity, PO 4 3- -P, NH 4 + -N, and Chlorophyll a content. The phyla of -Proteobacteria, Clostridia, Flavobacteria, Bacilli, and Planctomycetes were principal components to contribute to the bacterial differences of clone libraries. Our finding demonstrated that these phyla could display variations of bacterial composition linked to environmental disturbance resulted from mariculture.
40605764|High-molecular-weight (HMW) polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are pollutants that persist in the environment due to their low solubility in water and their sequestration by soil and sediments. Although several PAHdegrading bacterial species have been isolated, it is not expected that a single isolate would exhibit the ability to degrade completely all PAHs. A consortium composed of different microorganisms can better achieve this. Twoliquid phase (TLP) culture systems have been developed to increase the bioavailability of poorly soluble substrates for uptake and biodgradation by microorganisms. By combining a silicone oil-water TLP system with a microbial consortium capable of degrading HMW PAHs, we previously developed a highly efficient PAH-degrading system. In this report, we characterized the bacterial diversity of the consortium with a combination of culture-dependent and culture-independent methods. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of part of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene (rDNA) sequences combined with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis was used to monitor the bacterial population changes during PAH degradation of the consortium when pyrene, chrysene, and benzo pyrene were provided together or separately in the TLP cultures. No substantial changes in bacterial profiles occurred during biodgradation of pyrene and chrysene in these cultures. However, the addition of the low-molecular-weight PAHs phenanthrene or naphthalene in the system favored one bacterial species related to Sphingobium yanoikuyae. Eleven bacterial strains were isolated from the consortium but, interest- ingly, only one IAFILS9 affiliated to Novosphingobium pentaromativorans  was capable of growing on pyrene and chrysene as sole source of carbon. A 16S rDNA library was derived from the consortium to identify noncultured bacteria. Among 86 clones screened, 20 were affiliated to different bacterial species-genera. Only three strains were represented in the screened clones. Eighty-five percent of clones and strains were affiliated to Alphaproteobacteria and Betaproteobacteria; among them, several were affiliated to bacterial species known for their PAH degradation activities such as those belonging to the Sphingomonadaceae. Finally, three genes involved in the degradation of aromatic molecules were detected in the consortium and two in IAFILS9. This study provides information on the bacterial composition of a HWM -degrading consortium and its dynamics in a TLP biosystem during PAH degradation.
4251714|The upper few millimeters of intertidal sediment supports a varied biomass of microbial consortia and microphytobenthos. Many of these organisms release extracellular polymers into the surrounding sediment matrix that can result in sediment cohesion and the increased stability of the sediment. The relationship between the heterotrophic and autotrophic components of these biofilms is not well understood. A combination of mesocosm and field investigations were used to investigate the relationship between microbial production rate (algae and bacteria), the extracellular carbohydrates, biomass, and stability in conjunction with a variety of environmental factors. An inverse relationship was found between rates of algal production and sediment stability both in the field and in laboratory mesocosms, though the relationship was significant only in the field (P < 0.001). Stability of sediments increased with increasing bacterial production rate (P < 0.001). Positive correlations were found between sediment stability and a range of other variables, including algal biomass (P < 0.001), colloidal-S EPS (P < 0.001), colloidal-S carbohydrate (P < 0.01), colloidal-S EDTA (P < 0.01), and sediment water content (P < 0.001). Using the data acquired, a preliminary model was developed to predict changes in sediment stability. Chlorophyll a, water content, and colloidal-S EPS were found to be the most important predictors of stability in intact cores incubated under laboratory conditions. Differences observed in patterns of the surface (0-2 mm) distribution of colloidal-S carbohydrate and chlorophyll a when expressed on a dry weight or areal basis were attributed to effects of dewatering and concomitant changes in wet bulk density. The polymeric carbohydrate (colloidal-S EPS) component of the biofilms was not found to be a constant fraction of the colloidal-S carbohydrate extract, varying from 16 to 58%, and the percentage of polymer decreased logarithmically as chlorophyll a concentrations increased and the biofilms matured (P < 0.001). Changes in the relationships between these variables over the period of biofilm development and maturation highlight the difficulties in their use to predict sediment stability. Exopolymer concentrations were more closely correlated with algal biomass than with bacterial numbers. Rates of algal carbon fixation were considerably greater than those for bacteria, suggesting that the algae have a much greater potential for exopolymer production. It is suggested that the microphytobenthos secretions make a more important contribution to sediment stability.
4250630|The light-dependent incorporation of NaH
4251482|The effect on growth of a conjugated bile salt (sodium taurocholate) at physiological concentration was determined using cultures of Lactobacillus strains of murine origin. The bile salt stimulated the growth of one strain, did not affect the growth of another, but inhibited the growth of strains that produced relatively large amounts of the enzyme bile salt hydrolase. Comparison of the growth of isogenic strains that differed in the ability to produce bile salt hydrolase demonstrated that inhibition of growth was due to the accumulation of cholic acid in the culture medium as a result of the enzyme activity.
25153442| In this study, the search for new antibiotics was combined with quantitative ecological studies. The cultured fraction of the associated bacterial communities from ten different Mediterranean sponge species was investigated. To obtain quantitative and qualitative data of sponge-associated bacterial communities and to expand the cultured diversity, different media were used. The largest morphological diversity and highest yield of isolates was obtained by using oligotrophic media, which consisted of natural habitat seawater amended with (1% additional carbon sources. The dominant bacterial morphotypes were determined and bacterial isolates were tested for antimicrobial activity and identified using 16S rDNA sequencing. The sponge-associated most abundant morphotypes were all affiliated to the Alphaproteobacteria and showed antimicrobial activity against at least one of the tested strains. In contrast, the ambient seawater was dominated by Gammaproteobacteria. One single alphaproteobacterium, which was related to Pseudovibrio denitrificans, was shown to dominate the cultured community of at least six of the sponges. This designated MBIC3368-like alphaproteobacterium has been isolated from sponges before and seems to be restricted to associations with members of the phylum Porifera. It displays a weak and unstable antimicrobial activity, which gets easily lost during cultivation. However, this bioactive bacterium was present in the sponges by up to 10 cells per gram wet-weight sponge tissue and dominated the cultured fraction with up to 74%. The association of this alphaproteobacterium with sponges is probably evolutionary young and facultative and possibly involves biologically active secondary metabolities. Besides a demonstrated vertical transfer, additional horizontal transfer between the sponges is assumed. Members of the genus Bacillus displaying antimicrobial activity were found regularly, too. However, actinomycetes, which are known for their production of bioactive substances, were present in very low abundance. 
40343401|We investigated the genetic diversity of eukaryotic microorganisms (0.8-20 m) by sequencing cloned 18S rRNA genes in six genetic libraries constructed from six locations in Lake Taihu, a large shallow subtropical lake in China. Genetic libraries of eukaryotic ribosomal RNA were screened by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis, and one clone representative of each RFLP pattern was partially sequenced. A total of 528 clones were clustered into 165 RFLP patterns and finally into 131 operational taxonomic unit (OTUs). Phylogenetic analysis revealed that each library included many unique OTUs, as well as members of distantly related phylogenetic groups. A majority of the clones were from alveolates, stramenopiles, cercozoa, cryptophytes, chlorophytes, and fungi, with members of choanoflagellida, euglenida, centroheliozoa, ancyromonadidae, ichthyosporea, and kathablepharid representing a minor fraction of the library. Six OTUs (15 clones) were not related to any known eukaryotic group. Canonical correspondence analysis suggested that the differences in eukaryotic microorganism community composition of in the six regions were partially related to trophic status, sediment resuspension, and top-down regulation by metazooplankton.
4251333|Forest soil biology in Scots pine forests of the Empetrum-Vaccinium type was studied around the industrialized city of Oulu, northern Finland since 1987. The forest sites lie along a sulphur and nitrogen concentration gradient in the mor humus ranging from 1.6 to 3.9 mg S g
4251049|Phenol was administered to landfill waste in concentrations from 150 to 1,000 ppm via the feed-liquor of lysimeter systems over an 18-week incubation period. Biotic contributions to phenol removal in the landfill waste were of greater significance than abiotic removal. The addition of phenol did not cause the isolation of thermophilic phenol degraders. Plates inoculated from the test lysimeter receiving phenol were eventually predominated by mesophilic phenol-degrading Micrococcus, Nocardia, and Arthrobacter spp.; plates inoculated from the control lysimeter, receiving water, were predominated by species incapable of utilizing phenol.
25153251| Dissolved microcystins (MC) are regularly present in water dominated by microcystin-producing, bloom-forming cyanobacteria. In vitro experiments with environmentally feasible concentrations (5  10 M) of the three most common microcystins, MC-LR, -RR, and -YR, revealed that they influence the metabolism of different representative phytoplanktons. At light intensities close to the cyanobacterial bloom environment (50 mol m s), they produce morphological and physiological changes in both microcystin-producing and nonproducing Microcystis aeruginosa strains, and also have similar effects on the green alga Scenedesmus quadricauda that is frequently present in cyanobacterial blooms. All three microcystin variants tested induce cell aggregation, increase in cell volume, and overproduction of photosynthetic pigments. All three effects appear to be related to each other, but are not necessarily caused by the same mechanism. The biological activity of microcystins toward the light-harvesting complex of photobionts can be interpreted as a signal announcing the worsening of light conditions due to the massive proliferation of cyanobacteria. Although the function of microcystins is still unknown, it is evident that they have numerous effects on phytoplankton organisms in nature. These effects depend on the individual organism as well as on the various intracellular and extracellular signaling pathways. The fact that dissolved microcystins also influence the physiology of microcystin-producing cyanobacteria leads us to the conclusion that the role of microcystins in the producing cells differs from their role in the water environment. 
4251413| Lake Hayward is a hypersaline lake that stratifies seasonally and maintains oxygen supersaturation in its bottom water for about 6 months each year. This phenomenon was found to be the result of photosynthesis by the benthic microbial communities, composed primarily of the cyanobacteria Cyanothece spp., Spirulina sp., and Oscillatoria sp. When these communities were present and the lake was stratified, the bottom water was supersaturated with oxygen (up to 370%). During illumination, the benthic microbial communities rapidly developed very high concentrations (e.g., >500 M) of oxygen, which then diffused into the overlying water. However, while the overlying water became supersaturated, the concentration in the water was lower than in the benthic microbial communities because (1) transport across the sediment-water interface was limited by diffusion, and (2) turbulence rapidly mixed the oxygen throughout the much larger volume of the bottom water (approximately 1.5 m deep). Thus, import of oxygen by the benthic microbial communities at night proceeded more slowly than daytime export, allowing supersaturation of the bottom water to develop. 
41692853|Wild populations of brown marine algae (Phaeophyta) provide extensive surfaces to bacteria and epiphytic eukaryotes for colonization. On one hand, various strategies allow kelps prevent frond surface fouling which would retard growth by reducing photosynthesis and increasing pathogenesis. On the other hand, production and release of organic xudates of high energy value, sometimes in association with more or less selective control of settlement of epiphytic strains, allow bacteria to establish surface consortia not leading to macrofouling. Here, we present the analysis of adhesion and biofilm formation of bacterial isolates from the kelp Laminaria digitata and of characterized and referenced marine isolates. When they were grown in flow cell under standard nutrient regimes, all used bacteria, except one, were able to adhere on glass and then develop as biofilms, with different architecture. Then, we evaluated the effect of extracts from undisturbed young Laminaria thalli and from young thalli subjected to oxidative stress elicitation; this latter condition induced the production of defense molecules. We observed increasing or decreasing adhesion depending on the referenced strains, but no effects were observed against strains isolated from L. digitata. Such effects were less observed on biofilms. Our results suggested that L. digitata is able to modulate its bacterial colonization. Finally, mannitol, a regular surface active component of Laminaria xudates was tested individually, and it showed a pronounced increased on one biofilm strain. Results of these experiments are original and can be usefully linked to what we already know on the oxidative halogen metabolism peculiar to Laminaria. Hopefully, we will be able to understand more about the unique relationship that bacteria have been sharing with Laminaria for an estimated one billion years.
25153454|Moderately saline soda lakes harbor extremely abundant and fast growing bacterial communities. An interesting phenomenon of an explosive bacterial growth in shallow soda lakes in Eastern Austria after dilution with rainwater, concomitantly with a significant decrease in temperature was observed in a former study. In the present study, we tried to identify the factors being responsible for this enhanced bacterial growth in laboratory batch cultures. Three experiments were performed with water taken from two different lakes at different seasons. Natural soda lake water was diluted with distilled water, artificial lake water, sterile filtered soda lake water, and grazer-free water to test (1) for the influence of compatible solutes released to the environment and reduced salt stress after osmotic downshock, (2) for the influence of nutrients, which may be washed in from the dry areas of the lake bottom after rainfall and (3) for the decrease of grazing pressure due to dilution. The potential influence of (4) viruses was indirectly deduced. The response of the bacterial community to the manipulations was measured by changes in bacterial numbers, the incorporation of H-leucine and the concomitant determination of the amount of H-leucine uptaking bacteria by microautoradiography. The influence of the environmental factors enhancing bacterial growth after a simulated rainfall event showed variations between the lakes and over the seasons. The addition of nutrients was, in all experiments, the main factor triggering bacterial growth. The decrease in grazing pressure and viral lysis after dilution was of significant importance in two of three experiments. In the experiment with the highest salinity, we could show that either compatible solutes released after osmotic down-shock and used as a source of nutrients for the soda lake bacterial populations or reduced salt stress were most probably responsible for the observed marked enhancement of bacterial growth.
41412455|Bacteria and nutrients were determined in upper soil samples collected underneath and between canopies of the dominant perennial in each of three sites along a steep precipitation gradient ranging from the Negev desert in the south of Israel to a Mediterranean forest in the north. Bacterial abundance, monitored by phospholipid fatty acid analysis, was significantly higher under the shrub canopy (compared to barren soils) in the arid and semi-arid sites but not in the Mediterranean soils. Bacterial community composition, determined using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and clone libraries, differed according to the sample's origin. Closer examination revealed that in the arid and semiarid sites, a-Proteobacteria are more abundant under the shrub canopy, while barren soils are characterized by a higher abundance of Actinobacteria. The bacterial communities in the Mediterranean soils were similar in both patch types. These results correspond to the hypothesis of "resource islands", suggesting that shrub canopies provide a resource haven in low-resource landscapes. Yet, a survey of the physicochemical parameters of inter-and under-shrub soils could not attribute the changes in bacterial diversity to soil moisture, organic matter, or essential macronutrients. We suggest that in the nutrient-poor soils of the arid and semi-arid sites, bacteria occupying the soil under the shrub canopy may have longer growth periods under favorable conditions, resulting in their increased biomass and altered community composition.
23469571|Vibrio vulnificus is an estuarine bacterium which occurs in high numbers in filter-feeding molluscan shellfish, such as oysters. In individuals with certain underlying diseases, ingestion of the bacterium, e.g., in raw or undercooked oysters, can lead to a rapid and extremely fatal infection. Indeed, this one bacterium is responsible for 95 % of all seafood-borne deaths. In addition, the bacterium is capable of entering a preexisting lesion or cut obtained during coastal recreational activities, resulting in potentially fatal wound infections. This brief review, which comprised a presentation made at the Gordon Research Conference on "Oceans and Human Health," reflects over 35 years of research on this bacterium in the author's laboratory. It describes some of the known virulence factors and why males account for ca 85 % of all V. vulnificus cases. It notes the two genotypes now known to exist and how this pathogen enters a dormant, "viable but nonculturable" state during the winter months. Finally, the review discusses how global warming may be causing worldwide increases in the frequency and geographical extent of Vibrio infections.
4250428| The growth rates of 30 different strains of Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Vibrio alginolyticus at 37 C was determined. Each species consists of two major groups, one having a short generation time (12-14 min) and one with a longer generation time (20-25 min). The diversity in generation times of different strains belonging to the same species is discussed. The effect of temperature, salt, and nutrient concentrations on the growth rate of one V. alginolyticus strain (NCMB 1803) was studied. The most striking is the effect of the temperature; at 39 C the generation time is 10-11 min, while at 21 C it is 60 min. The heat of activation for growth calculating from such data is 22,580
4250948|Numbers and types of microorganisms in uranium mill tailings were determined using culturing techniques. Arthrobacter were found to be the predominant microorganism inhabiting the sandy tailings, whereas Bacillus and fungi predominated in the slime tailings. Sulfate-reducing bacteria, capable of leaching radium, were isolated in low numbers from tailings samples but were isolated in significantly high numbers from topsoil in contact with the tailings. The results are placed in the context of the magnitude of uranium mill tailings in the United States, the hazards posed by the tailings, and how such hazards could be enhanced or diminished by microbial activities. Patterns in the composition of the microbial population are evaluated with respect to the ecological variables that influence microbial growth.
40605725|Anabaenopsis spp. are heterocytous cyanobacteria commonly found in tropical, subtropical, and temperate water bodies. So far, the knowledge about the phylogeny of this genus is poor. Therefore, we have isolated 15 Anabaenopsis spp. strains from Kenyan and Mexican alkaline and saline water bodies and from a Ugandan freshwater body and studied the morphology and phylogeny in a polyphasic approach. Morphologically, the investigated strains could be discriminated in two groups. One group was containing six Anabaenopsis abijatae and A. cf. abijatae strains with up to more than 500 vegetative cells in one filament, mostly single intercalary heterocyte formation, and the ability to branch out. The other group comprised nine strains of Anabaenopsis elenkinii with short filaments with up to 38 vegetative cells, intercalary heterocytes in pairs, and no ability to branch out. The morphological differences were reflected in the two distinct clusters, which were found in the phylogenetic trees of 16S rDNA and PC-IGS. While the high 16S rDNA similarity values > 97.5% found between all investigated A. abijatae and A. elenkinii strains support the assignment of these two species to one single genus, the morphological differences and the low similarity values (< 87.3) found in PC-IGS sequences between the two clusters indicate two separate genera. A close morphological and phylogenetic relationship was found for A. abijatae and Anabaenopsis (Cyanospira) rippkae.
4251441| The detrital food web is a major nexus of energy flow in nearly all aquatic ecosystems. Energy enters this nexus by microbial assimilation of detrital carbon. To link microbiological variables with ecosystem process, it is necessary to understand the regulatory hierarchy that controls the distribution of microbial biomass and activity. Toward that goal, we investigated variability in microbial abundance and activities within the tidal freshwater estuary of the Hudson River. Surface sediments were collected from four contrasting sites: a mid-channel shoal, two types of wetlands, and a tributary confluence. These samples, collected in June to August 1992, were sorted into two to four size fractions, depending on the particle size distribution at each site. Each fraction was analyzed for bacterial biomass (by acridine orange direct counting), bacterial production (by
4251547| In many intertidal cohesive-sediment habitats, epipelic diatoms are the dominant microphyto-benthic organisms. In such sediments, concentrations of colloidal carbohydrate [including the exopolymeric substances (EPS) produced by diatoms during motility] are closely correlated with the biomass (chlorophyll a) of epipelic diatoms. A model describing this relationship (log (conc. coll. carbo. + 1) = 1.40 + 1.02(log (chl. a conc. + 1)) was derived from published data. It was validated against published and unpublished data from 6 different estuaries, and accounted for 64.6% of the variation in sediment colloidal carbohydrate concentrations. The model was valid for intertidal habitats with cohesive sediments where epipelic diatoms constituted >50% of the microphytobenthic assemblage. In sites with noncohesive sediments, or where the microphytobenthic assemblage was dominated by other algal groups, the model was not applicable. The mean percentage of EPS in colloidal carbohydrate extracts varied between 11 and 37% for axenic cultures of epipelic diatoms (with higher values obtained during stationary phase), and between 22.7% and 24.3% for natural sediments dominated by epipelic diatoms. Assuming an EPS percentage of 25% in colloidal extracts yielded an EPS chl. a ratio of 2.62:1. Maximum rates of EPS production in diatom cultures occurred at the beginning of stationary phase (1.6-5.09 g EPS  g
41693734|Reductive acetogenesis is not competitive with methanogenesis in adult ruminants, whereas acetogenic bacteria are the dominant hydrogenotrophs in the early rumen microbiota. The ecology of hydrogenotrophs in the developing rumen was investigated using young lambs, raised in sterile isolators, and conventional adult sheep. Two lambs were born naturally, left with their dams for 17 h and then placed into a sterile isolator and reared aseptically. They were inoculated with cellulolytic bacteria and later with Methanobrevibacter sp. 87.7 to investigate the effect of methanogen establishment on the rumen acetogen population since they lacked cultivable representatives of methanogens. Putative acetogens were investigated by acetyl-CoA synthase and formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase gene analysis and methanogens by methyl coenzyme reductase A gene analysis. Unexpectedly, a low abundant but diverse population of methanogens (predominantly Methanobrevibacter spp.) was identified in isolated lambs preinoculation with Mbb. sp 87.7, which was similar to the community structure in conventional sheep. In contrast, potential acetogen diversity in isolated lambs and conventional sheep was different. Potential acetogens affiliated between the Lachnospiraceae and Clostridiaceae in conventional sheep and with the Blautia genus and the Lachnospiraceae in isolated lambs. The establishment of Mbb. sp. 87.7 (1,000-fold increase in methanogens) did not substantially affect acetogen diversity.
25153049| The microbial diversity of Zns-forming biofilms in 8C, circumneutral-pH groundwater in tunnels within the abandoned Piquette Zn, pb mine (Tennyson, Wisconsin, USA) has been investigated by molecular methods, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and cultivation techniques. These biofilms are growing on old mine timbers that generate locally anaerobic zones within the mine drainage system. Sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) exclusively of the family Desulfobacteriaceae comprise a significant fraction of the active microbiota. Desulfosporosinus strains were isolated, but could not be detected by molecular methods. Other important microbial clusters belonged to the , , and -Proteobacteria, the Cytophaga/Flexibacter/Bacteroides-group (CFB), Planctomycetales, Spirochaetales, Clostridia, and green nonsulfur bacteria. Our investigations indicated a growth dependence of SRB on fermentative, cellulolytic, and organic acid-producing Clostridia. A few clones related to sulfur-oxidizing bacteria were detected, suggesting a sulfur cycle related to redox gradients within the biofilm. Sulfur oxidation prevents sulfide accumulation that would lead to precipitation of other sulfide phases. FISH analyses indicated that Desulfobacteriaceae populations were not early colonizers in freshly grown and ZnS-poor biofilms, whereas they were abundant in older, naturally established, and ZnS-rich biofilms. Gram-negative SRB have been detected in situ over a period of 6 months, supporting the important role of these organisms in selective ZnS precipitation in Tennyson mine. Results demonstrate the complex nature of biofilms responsible for in situ bioremediation of toxic metals in a subsurface mine drainage system. 
41489053|Little is known about the changes in abundance of microbial taxa in relation to the chronosequence of receding glaciers. This study investigated how the abundances of ten bacterial phyla or classes varied along successional gradients in two glaciers, denwinkelkees and Rotmoosferner, in the central Alps. Quantitative PCR was used to estimate the abundance of the different bacterial taxa in extended glacier chronosequences, including 10-to 160-year-old successional stages, the surface of the glacier, and a fully established soil. Actinobacteria (15-30%) was the dominant group within the chronosequences. Several taxa showed significant differences in the number of taxa-specific 16S rRNA gene copies per nanogram of DNA and/or in the ratio of taxa-specific to the total bacterial 16S rRNA gene copies (i. e., the relative abundance of the different taxa within the bacterial community) between the established soils or the glacier surface and the 10-to 160-year-old successional stages. A significantly higher proportion of Betaproteobacteria (20%) was observed on the surface of both glaciers. However, no differences were observed between the 10-to 160-year-old successional stages in the number of taxa-specific 16S rRNA gene copies per nanogram of DNA or in the ratio of taxa-specific to the total bacterial 16S rRNA gene copies for the different taxa. Nevertheless, when the relative abundance data from all the studied taxa were combined and analyzed altogether, most of the sites could be distinguished from one other. This indicates that the overall composition of the bacterial community was more affected than the abundance of the targeted taxa by changes in environmental conditions along the chronosequences.
41489240|Although birdmicrobial interactions have become a topic of increasing research, the influence of nest-site characteristics, such as cavity orientation, on nest microbial communities in free-living passerines has not, to our knowledge, been investigated. This is despite the possibility of microbial differences explaining non-random patterns in nest-site selection and offspring quality, such as those exhibited by great tits (Parus major). We swabbed great tit nestboxes that faced either south-southwest (180-269) or north-northeast (0-89). Overall, 28 bacterial species and 11 fungal species were isolated, but the culturable microbial community differed substantially between different orientationsindeed nestboxes could be classified to their orientation group with high accuracy using microbial data. Nestboxes facing south-southwest had a significantly higher fungal load (typically double) than those facing north-northeast due to a higher abundance of two species, Epicoccum purpurascens and Cladosporium cladosporioides. There was no relationship between total bacterial load and orientation, although the abundance of one species, Pseudomonas veronii, was significantly lower in south-southwest boxes. The abundance of the allergen E. purpurascens explained almost 20% of the variation in offspring quality, being significantly and inversely related to chick size (high loads associated with small, poor quality, chicks). Our results provide empirical evidence for a correlation between nestbox orientation and culturable microbial load and a further correlation between abundance of one species, E. purpurascens, and offspring quality. Thus, microbial load, which is itself influenced by nest cavity parameters, could be the proximate factor that influences nest-site choice through its effect on offspring quality (and thus, overall fecundity).
25256177|In this study, we report evidence that temperature plays a key role in determining the relative abundance of two mutualistic fungi associated with an economically and ecologically important bark beetle, Dendroctonus ponderosae. The symbiotic fungi possess different optimal temperature ranges. These differences determine which fungus is vectored by dispersing host beetles as temperatures fluctuate over a season. Grosmannia clavigera is the predominant fungus carried by dispersing beetles during cool periods but decreases in prevalence as daily maximum temperatures approach 25C, and becomes extremely rare when temperatures reach or exceed 32C. In contrast, Ophiostoma montium increases in prevalence as temperatures approach 25C, and becomes the predominant symbiont dispersed when temperatures reach or exceed 32C. The possession of different optimal growth temperatures may facilitate the stable coexistence of the two fungi by supporting growth of each fungus at different times, minimizing direct competition. Furthermore, the beetle may reduce its risk of being left aposymbiotic by exploiting not one, but two symbionts, whose combined growth optima span a wide range of environmental conditions. The possession of multiple symbionts with different temperature tolerances may allow the beetle to occupy highly variable habitats over a wide geographic range. Such temperature-driven symbionts, shifts are likely to have major consequences for both the host and its symbionts under current temperature regimes and those predicted to occur because of climate change.
25153089|A growing body of evidence now supports the isolation of microorganisms from ancient materials. However, questions about the stringency of extraction methods and the genetic relatedness of isolated organisms to their closest living relatives continue to challenge the authenticity of these ancient life forms. Previous studies have successfully isolated a number of spore-forming bacteria from organic and inorganic deposits of considerable age whose survival is explained by their ability to enter suspended animation for extended periods of time. However, despite a number of putative reports, the isolation of nonspore-forming bacteria and an explanation for their survival have remained enigmatic. Here we describe the isolation of non-spore-forming cocci from a 120-million-year-old block of amber, which by genetic, morphological, and biochemical analyses are identified as belonging to the bacterial species Micrococcus luteus. Although comparison of 16S rRNA sequences from the ancient isolates with their modern counterparts is unable to confirm the precise age of these bacteria, we demonstrate, using complementary molecular and cell biological techniques, evidence supporting the view that these (and related modern members of the genus) have numerous adaptations for survival in extreme, nutrient-poor environments, traits that will assist in this bacteria's persistence and dispersal in the environment. The bacteria's ability to utilize succinic acid and process terpine-related compounds, both major components of natural amber, support its survival in this oligotrophic environment.
25152993| In order to estimate the potential utilization of N-fixing (heterocystous) cyanobacteria as natural biofertilizers in the Valencian rice fields (Spain), the distribution and seasonal variation of these microorganisms in water and sediment samples were evaluated, and the relationships among cyanobacterial abundance and physical and chemical characteristics of soil and water were investigated. N-fixing cyanobacteria were present in all the samples analyzed (25 sampling points sampled three times per year during two years). The relative cyanobacterial abundance in soil and water followed contrasting patterns, maximum presence in soil coincided with minimum abundance in water. Correlation analysis showed that cyanobacterial abundance in the two phases (water and sediment) was influenced more by water than by soil properties. Salinity, mineralization variables, and soluble reactive phosphate (SRP) correlated positively with heterocystous cyanobacteria presence. Furthermore, dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) and the ratio DIN:SRP correlated negatively with cyanobacterial abundance. However DIN:SRP ratio better described the cyanobacterial distribution, with a threshold effect: below the Redfield ratio value (7.2 in mass units) cyanobacterial abundance was clearly higher. 
41489180|Tsetse flies were sampled in three villages of the Campo sleeping sickness focus in South Cameroon. The aim of this study was to investigate the flies' gut bacterial composition using culture-dependent techniques. Out of the 32 flies analyzed (27 Glossina palpalis palpalis, two Glossina pallicera, one Glossina nigrofusca, and two Glossina caliginea), 17 were shown to be inhabited by diverse bacteria belonging to the Proteobacteria, the Firmicutes, or the Bacteroidetes phyla. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated the presence of 16 bacteria belonging to the genera Acinetobacter (4), Enterobacter (4), Enterococcus (2), Providencia (1), Sphingobacterium (1), Chryseobacterium (1), Lactococcus (1), Staphylococcus (1), and Pseudomonas (1). Using identical bacterial isolation and identification processes, the diversity of the inhabiting bacteria analyzed in tsetse flies sampled in Cameroon was much higher than the diversity found previously in flies collected in Angola. diversity found previously in flies collected in Angola. Furthermore, bacterial infection rates differed greatly between the flies from the three sampling areas (Akak, Campo Beach/Ipono, and Mabiogo). Last, the geographic distribution of the different bacteria was highly uneven; two of them identified as Sphingobacterium spp. and Chryseobacterium spp. were only found in Mabiogo. Among the bacteria identified, several are known for their capability to affect the survival of their insect hosts and/or insect vector competence. In some cases, bacteria belonging to a given genus were shown to cluster separately in phylogenetic trees; they could be novel species within their corresponding genus. Therefore, such investigations deserve to be pursued in expanded sampling areas within and outside Cameroon to provide greater insight into the diverse bacteria able to infect tsetse flies given the severe human and animal sickness they transmit.
23597857|Rising atmospheric CO 2 levels alter the physiology of many plant species, but little is known of changes to root dynamics that may impact soil microbial mediation of greenhouse gas emissions from wetlands. We grew co-occurring wetland plant species that included an invasive reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea L.) and a native woolgrass (Scirpus cyperinus L.) in a controlled greenhouse facility under ambient (380 ppm) and elevated atmospheric CO 2 (700 ppm). We hypothesized that elevated atmospheric CO 2 would increase the abundance of both archaeal methanogen and bacterial methanotroph populations through stimulation of plant root and shoot biomass. We found that methane levels emitted from S. cyperinus shoots increased 1.5-fold under elevated CO 2 , while no changes in methane levels were detected from P. arundincea. The increase in methane emissions was not explained by enhanced root or shoot growth of S. cyperinus. Principal components analysis of the total phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) recovered from microbial cell membranes revealed that elevated CO 2 levels shifted the composition of the microbial community under S. cyperinus, while no changes were detected under P. arundinacea. More detailed analysis of microbial abundance showed no impact of elevated CO 2 on a fatty acid indicative of methanotrophic bacteria (18:26c), and no changes were detected in the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) relative abundance profiles of acetate-utilizing archaeal methanogens. Plant carbon depleted in 13 C was traced into the PLFAs of soil microorganisms as a measure of the plant contribution to microbial PLFA. The relative contribution of plant-derived carbon to PLFA carbon was larger in S. cyperinus compared with P. arundinacea in four PLFAs (i14:0, i15:0, a15:0, and 18:19t). The  13 C isotopic values indicate that the contribution of plant-derived carbon to microbial lipids could differ in rhizospheres of CO 2 -responsive plant species, such as S. cyperinus in this study. The results from this study show that the CO 2 methane link found in S. cyperinus can occur without a corresponding change in methanogen and methanotroph relative abundances, but PLFA analysis indicated shifts in the community profile of bacteria and fungi that were unique to rhizospheres under elevated CO 2 .
4250466| Analysis of continuous culture methodology suggests that this potentially powerful tool for kinetic analysis can be improved by minimizing several inherent shortcomings. Medium background substrates-organic carbon, phosphate, and manganese-were shown to dominate kinetic observations at concentrations below chemical detection methods. Reactor wall growth, culture size distribution changes, sample removal-induced steady state perturbations, and limiting substrate leakage from organisms are treated in terms of kinetic measurement errors. Large variations in maximal growth rates and substrate uptake rates found are attributed to experimental protocol-induced transient states. Relationships are presented for correcting limiting substrate concentrations for lability during sampling, contamination with unreacted medium, and background substrate effects. Analytical procedures are discussed for improved measurement of limiting substrate kinetics involving enzymes, isotopes, and material balance manipulation. Relaxation methods as applied to continuous culture are introduced as a means for isolating separate rate constants describing net substrate transport and for evaluating cellular metabolite leakage. Low velocity growth, multiple substrate metabolism, and endogenous metabolism are discussed along with measurements showing that 1-month generation times for aquatic microorganisms can be quite normal and that the kinetics are compatible with g/liter limiting substrate concentrations. The concept of regarding growth kinetics as the sum of several net accumulation processes is suggested. 
4251263| Predatory bacteria that attack Chromatiaceae (purple sulfur bacteria) recovered from Lake Cis (a mostly anaerobic holomictic lake) have been studied over two annual cycles. During the mixing period the lake was completely anaerobic; both predator and prey populations were found along the water column, and even at the surface. Throughout the stratification period maximum Chromatiaceae occurred between a depth of 1 and 3 m depth. The maximum numbers of predators and prey (Chromatiaceae) also occurred in this range. A collapse took place in the lake during the second annual cycle in 1986. It brought about changes in the physicochemical parameters of the lake, thus altering the population dynamics. Nevertheless, during both cycles the number of predatory bacteria was maximum immediately below the depth at which the maximum number of prey bacteria occurred. 
4251820| Shredded straw of Miscanthus was composted in 800-L boxes with different amounts of pig slurry added as nitrogen source. The impact of the different initial C/N ratios (11, 35, 47, 50, and 54) on the composting process and the end product was evaluated by examining chemical and microbiological parameters during 12 months of composting. Low initial C/N ratios caused a fast degradation of fibers during the first three months of composting (hemicellulose: 50-80%, cellulose: 40-60%), while high initial C/N ratios resulted in 10-20% degradation of both hemicellulose and cellulose. These differences were reflected in the microbial biomass and respiration, which initially were higher in low C/N treatments than in high C/N treatments. After 12 months of composting, this situation was reversed. Composts with high initial C/N ratios had high microbial biomass (15-20 g ATP g
4251828| The diversity of prokaryotes in the groundwater deep below the surface of the Baltic Sea at the sp Hard Rock Laboratory (HRL) in southeast Sweden is well documented. In addition, there is some evidence that eukaryotes, too, are present in the deep groundwater at this site, although their origins are uncertain. To extend the knowledge of eukaryotic life in this environment, five yeast, three yeastlike, and 17 mold strains were isolated from sp HRL groundwater between 201 and 444 m below sea level. Phenotypic testing and phylogenetic analysis of 18S rDNA sequences of the five yeast isolates revealed their relationships to Rhodotorula minuta and Cryptococcus spp. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy demonstrated that the strains possessed morphological characteristics typical for yeast, although they were relatively small, with an average length of 3 m. Enumeration through direct counting and most probable number methods showed low numbers of fungi, between 0.01 and 1 cells mL
4251583| Attachment of Enterobacter cloacae EcCT-50,-a biological seed protectant used to control the seed-rotting fungi, Pythium ultimum-to cotton seed was examined using conventional fluorescent microscopy (CFM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and laser scanning microscopy (LSM). In sand microcosms, E. cloacae quickly attached to the seed coat, with maximum attachment, 3 to 5 h after inoculation at 24C. In contrast, initial attachment of non-bacterized seed by Pythium ultimum was not observed until 6 h (and not until 8 h on bacterized seeds). Comparison of the movement of E. cloacae and P. ultimum in seed exudate gradient semi-soft agar showed faster movement by the bacterium within the first 6 h, and reduction of P. ultimum hyphal and germ tube growth in the presence of the bacterium. Microscopic observation of the seed coat revealed an early, intimate association, mediated, in part, by fimbriae, and confirmed a loose association of E. cloacae with the seed coat previously reported. Spatially, the attached E. cloacae cells were distributed over the entire surface of the seed coat, but were especially abundant in the groves and near cracks where water imbibition and seed exudate release may occur. As the seed germinated and exposed various seed tissues, the bacterium rapidly attached to these tissues. Attachment of the bacterium to the surface of intact germinating seeds, excised seed coat, polystyrene, and glass was 300, 110, 51, and <1 cell
25256186|Despite having a typical carnivorous digestive tract, the giant panda has a diet consisting exclusively of bamboo, a low-efficiency food source. Given this paradox, we sought to investigate if the giant panda digestive tract is inhabited by organisms indicative of high cellulose diet or their gastrointestinal tract anatomy. The diversity and dynamics of the predominant bacteria in the fecal flora of two adult (male and female) and one young (male) giant panda reared in two different zoos over a 2-year period was studied using 16S rDNA-based approaches. The temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE) profiles of the 16S rDNA V3 region of the three individuals were highly similar. The structure of their fecal flora remained relatively stable over the 2-year period. Both the most predominant band in TGGE patterns shared by the three pandas and the biggest operational taxonomic unit (OTU) in the clone library were phylogenetically related to Escherichia coli. Gram-negative, facultative bacteria constituted almost 60% of the whole community in the clone library. All the OTUs were related to previously described phylotypes known to reside in the intestine or rumen. The results of our study indicate that the predominant bacterial populations in the intestine of the three pandas were markedly different from that of herbivores. The unbalanced intestinal community structure may play a role in the inefficient digestion of bamboo by the giant pandas.
4251611| Two chronosequences of unsaturated, buried loess sediments, ranging in age from <10,000 years to >1 million years, were investigated to reconstruct patterns of microbial ecological succession that have occurred since sediment burial. The relative importance of microbial transport and survival to succession was inferred from sediment ages, porewater ages, patterns of abundance (measured by direct counts, counts of culturable cells, and total phospholipid fatty acids), activities (measured by radiotracer and enzyme assays), and community composition (measured by phospholipid fatty acid patterns and Biolog substrate usage). Core samples were collected at two sites 40 km apart in the Palouse region of eastern Washington State, near the towns of Washtucna and Winona. The Washtucna site was flooded multiple times during the Pleistocene by glacial outburst floods; the Winona site elevation is above flood stage. Sediments at the Washtucna site were collected from near surface to 14.9 m depth, where the sediment age was 250 ka and the porewater age was 3700 years; sample intervals at the Winona site ranged from near surface to 38 m (sediment age: 1 Ma; porewater age: 1200 years). Microbial abundance and activities declined with depth at both sites; however, even the deepest, oldest sediments showed evidence of viable microorganisms. Same-age sediments had equal quantities of microorganisms, but different community types. Differences in community makeup between the two sites can be attributed to differences in groundwater recharge and paleoflooding. Estimates of the microbial community age can be constrained by porewater and sediment ages. In the shallower sediments (<9 m at Washtucna, <12 m at Winona), the microbial communities are likely similar in age to the groundwater; thus, microbial succession has been influenced by recent transport of microorganisms from the surface. In the deeper sediments, the populations may be considerably older than the porewater ages, since microbial transport is severely restricted in unsaturated sediments. This is particularly true at the Winona site, which was never flooded. 
23361613|The genus Holospora (Rickettsiales) includes highly infectious nuclear symbionts of the ciliate Paramecium with unique morphology and life cycle. To date, nine species have been described, but a molecular characterization is lacking for most of them. In this study, we have characterized a novel Holospora-like bacterium (HLB) living in the macronuclei of a Paramecium jenningsi population. This bacterium was morphologically and ultrastructurally investigated in detail, and its life cycle and infection capabilities were described. We also obtained its 16S rRNA gene sequence and developed a specific probe for fluorescence in situ hybridization experiments. A new taxon, "Candidatus Gortzia infectiva", was established for this HLB according to its unique characteristics and the relatively low DNA sequence similarities shared with other bacteria. The phylogeny of the order Rickettsiales based on 16S rRNA gene sequences has been inferred, adding to the available data the sequence of the novel bacterium and those of two Holospora species (Holospora obtusa and Holospora undulata) characterized for the purpose. Our phylogenetic analysis provided molecular support for the monophyly of HLBs and showed a possible pattern of evolution for some of their features. We suggested to classify inside the family Holosporaceae only HLBs, excluding other more distantly related and phenotypically different Paramecium endosymbionts.
4251422| Only a limited number of phenotypic tests are available for the differentiation of all 13 known hybridization groups (HG) of Aeromonas spp. These organisms have a wide spectrum of warm-blooded and cold-blooded hosts. In the present study, the maximum growth temperatures (
25153267| To gain insight into the microorganisms involved in direct and indirect methane formation from methanol in a laboratory-scale thermophilic (55C) methanogenic bioreactor, reactor sludge was disrupted and serial dilutions were incubated in specific growth media containing methanol and possible intermediates of methanol degradation as substrates. With methanol, growth was observed up to a dilution of 10. However, when Methanothermobacter thermoautotrophicus strain Z245 was added for H removal, growth was observed up to a 10-fold dilution. With H/CO and acetate, growth was observed up to dilutions of 10 and 10, respectively. Dominant microorganisms in the different dilutions were identified by 16S rRNA-gene diversity and sequence analysis. Furthermore, dilution polymerase chain reaction (PCR) revealed a similar relative abundance of Archaea and Bacteria in all investigated samples, except in enrichment with acetate, which contained 100 times less archaeal DNA than bacterial DNA. The most abundant bacteria in the culture with methanol and strain Z245 were most closely related to Moorella glycerini. Thermodesulfovibrio relatives were found with high sequence similarity in the H/CO enrichment, but also in the original laboratory-scale bioreactor sludge. Methanothermobacter thermoautotrophicus strains were the most abundant hydrogenotrophic archaea in the H/CO enrichment. The dominant methanol-utilizing methanogen, which was present in the 10-dilution, was most closely related to Methanomethylovorans hollandica. Compared to direct methanogenesis, results of this study indicate that syntrophic, interspecies hydrogen transfer-dependent methanol conversion is equally important in the thermophilic bioreactor, confirming previous findings with labeled substrates and specific inhibitors. 
4251669|Diazotroph assemblage compositions were assessed in rhizosphere sediments from the tall and short form Spartina alterniflora growth zones over an annual cycle. Sediment cores were collected for DNA extraction and nitrogenase (acetylene reduction) activity assays, and porewater samples were analyzed for several chemical parameters in March, June, September, and December 1997. These data were collected to determine if within- or between-zone differences in the diazotroph assemblage composition correlated with differences inkey environmental variables or acetylene reduction activity. Acetylene reduction rates differed between zones and within a zone over an annual period. Soluble sulfide concentrations were higher in the short form S. alterniflora zone on all dates except those in June and differed within both zones on different sample dates. nifH sequences were recovered from rhizosphere sediment DNA by PCR amplification using nifH specific primers. These amplimers were analyzed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), and the resulting patterns were compared by neural network and linear discriminant analyses. Ten prominent amplimers, four of which were apparent heteroduplexes, were observed. DGGE banding profiles showed minor differences among sampling dates and between sample zones, but the overall banding pattern was remarkably consistent. This reflects overall similarity between the amplifiable diazotroph assemblages in the tall and short S. alterniflora growth zones and substantial seasonal stability in assemblage composition.
4250872|Recent microbiological findings show how compounds, regarded hitherto as unusual substrates for anaerobic bacteria, are degraded under anaerobic conditions. The complete conversion of halobenzoic acids and halophenolic compounds to methane by lake sediment and sewage sludge microorganisms has been demonstrated. Since haloaromatic compounds are widely used and may be found in such effluents as those from the forest industry, these studies could stimulate a broader interest in anaerobic treatment of industrial waste waters which contain unusual organic compounds.
41489161|Sheath blight infection of rice by Rhizoctonia solani Khn AG1-IA often results in serious yield losses in intensive rice cultivation. Biological control agents (BCAs) have previously been isolated but poor efficiency is often observed when applied under field conditions. This study compares a traditional dual-culture plate assay and a new water-surface microcosm assay for isolation of antagonistic soil bacteria. In the water-surface microcosm assay, floating pathogen mycelium is used as a source for isolation of hyphae-colonizing soil bacteria (HCSB), which are subsequently screened for antagonism. Ten antagonistic soil bacteria (ASB) isolated from a variety of Vietnamese rice soils using dual-culture plates were found to be affiliated with Bacillus based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing. However, all the ASB isolates grew poorly and showed no antagonism in the water-surface microcosm assay. In contrast, 11 (out of 13) HCSB isolates affiliated with Burkholderia sp. all grew well by colonizing the hyphae in the microcosms. Two of the Burkholderia sp. isolates, assigned to B. vietnamiensis based on recA gene sequencing, strongly inhibited fungal growth in both the dual-culture and water-surface microcosm assays; HCSB isolates affiliated to other species or species groups showed limited or no inhibition of R. solani in the microcosms. Our results suggest that HCSB obtained from floating pathogen hyphae can be a new source for isolation of efficient BCAs against R. solani, as the isolation assay mimics the natural habitat for fungal-bacterial interaction in the fields.
25256176|A stable and specific bacterial community was shown to be associated with the Mediterranean sponge Chondrilla nucula. The associated bacterial communities were demonstrated to be highly similar for all studied specimens regardless of sampling time and geographical region. In addition, analysis of 16S rDNA clone libraries revealed three constantly C. nucula-associated bacterial phylotypes belonging to the Acidobacteria, the Gamma- and Deltaproteobacteria present in sponge specimens from two Mediterranean regions with distinct water masses (Ligurian Sea and Adriatic Sea). For the first time, candidate division TM7 bacteria were found in marine sponges. A major part (79%) of the C. nucula-derived 16S rDNA sequences were closely related to other sponge-associated bacteria. Phylogenetic analysis identified 14 16S rRNA gene sequence clusters, seven of which consisted of exclusively sponge-derived sequences, whereas the other seven clusters contained additional environmental sequences. This study adds to a growing database on the stability and variability of microbial consortia associated with marine sponges.
23361593|In situ chemical oxidation with permanganate has become an accepted remedial treatment for groundwater contaminated with chlorinated solvents. This study focuses on the immediate and short-term effects of sodium permanganate (NaMnO 4 ) on the indigenous subsurface microbial community composition in groundwater impacted by trichloroethylene (TCE). Planktonic and biofilm microbial communities were studied using groundwater grab samples and reticulated vitreous carbon passive samplers, respectively. Microbial community composition was analyzed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and a high-density phylogenetic microarray (PhyloChip). Significant reductions in microbial diversity and biomass were shown during NaMnO 4 exposure, followed by recovery within several weeks after the oxidant concentrations decreased to <1 mg/L. BrayCurtis similarities and nonmetric multidimensional scaling showed that microbial community composition before and after NaMnO 4 was similar, when taking into account the natural variation of the microbial communities. Also, 16S rRNA genes of two reductive dechlorinators (Desulfuromonas spp. and Sulfurospirillum spp.) and diverse taxa capable of cometabolic TCE oxidation were detected in similar quantities by PhyloChip across all monitoring wells, irrespective of NaMnO 4 exposure and TCE concentrations. However, minimal biodegradation of TCE was observed in this study, based on oxidized conditions, concentration patterns of chlorinated and nonchlorinated hydrocarbons, geochemistry, and spatiotemporal distribution of TCE-degrading bacteria.
27770618|We determined whether Francisella spp. are present in water, sediment, and soil from an active tularemia natural focus on Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, during a multiyear outbreak of pneumonic tularemia. Environmental samples were tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting Francisella species 16S rRNA gene and succinate dehydrogenase A (sdhA) sequences; evidence of the agent of tularemia was sought by amplification of Francisella tularensis-specific sequences for the insertion element ISFTu2, 17-kDa protein gene tul4, and the 43-kDa outer membrane protein gene fopA. Evidence of F. tularensis subsp. tularensis, the causative agent of the human infections in this outbreak, was not detected from environmental samples despite its active transmission among ticks and animals in the sampling site. Francisella philomiragia was frequently detected from a brackish-water pond using Francisella species PCR targets, and subsequently F. philomiragia was isolated from an individual brackish-water sample. Distinct Francisella sp. sequences that are closely related to F. tularensis and Francisella novicida were detected from samples collected from the brackish-water pond. We conclude that diverse Francisella spp. are present in the environment where human cases of pneumonic tularemia occur.
4250624| Mixed bacterial cultures capable of using 2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid (MCPA) and 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2, 4-D) as the sole source of carbon and energy were isolated from field soil treated with the herbicide ()2-(2-methyl-4-chloro)phenoxypropionic acid (mecoprop). An enrichment technique with two aromatic compounds as sources of carbon was used. Effects of temperature and substrate concentration were studied. The mixed cultures retained their ability to degrade MCPA although the bacteria were grown for 3 months (32 successive passages) with glucose as the sole source of carbon and energy. With benzoic acid as co-substrate, one of the cultures was also able to degrade mecoprop and ()2-(2, 4-dichloro)phenoxypropionic acid (dichlorprop). This ability was not maintained, however, over more than 10 passages. 
40605663|Microbial communities on aerial plant leaves may contribute to the degradation of organic air pollutants such as phenol. Epiphytic bacteria capable of phenol degradation were isolated from the leaves of green ash trees grown at a site rich in airborne pollutants. Bacteria from these communities were subjected, in parallel, to serial enrichments with increasing concentrations of phenol and to direct plating followed by a colony autoradiography screen in the presence of radiolabeled phenol. Ten isolates capable of phenol mineralization were identified. Based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis, these isolates included members of the genera Acinetobacter, Alcaligenes, and Rhodococcus. The sequences of the genes encoding the large subunit of a multicomponent phenol hydroxylase (mPH) in these isolates indicated that the mPHs of the gram-negative isolates belonged to a single kinetic class, and that is one with a moderate affinity for phenol; this affinity was consistent with the predicted phenol levels in the phyllosphere. PCR amplification of genes for catechol 1,2-dioxygenase (C12O) and catechol 2,3-dioxygenase (C23O) in combination with a functional assay for C23O activity provided evidence that the gram-negative strains had the 120-, but not the C23O-, phenol catabolic pathway. Similarly, the Rhodococcus isolates lacked C23O activity, although consensus primers to the 120 and C23O genes of Rhodococcus could not be identified. Collectively, these results demonstrate that these leaf surface communities contained several taxonomically distinct phenoldegrading bacteria that exhibited diversity in their mPH genes but little diversity in the catabolic pathways they employ for phenol degradation.
4250529| The nitrite formed from nitrogen dioxide ( NO
4251522| To determine the risks of microbial air pollution from microorganisms used for pesticides and bioremediation, or emanating from composting, fermentation tanks, or other agricultural and urban sources, airborne microbial levels must be evaluated. This study surveyed the atmospheric load of culturable bacteria at four locations in Oregon: a city street, a rye grass field, a Douglas fir forest, and a bluff on the Pacific coast. Samples (20-60 min each) were taken using slit and six-stage cascade samplers. Samples were taken over two 10- or 24-h periods, depending on the site. Meteorological measurements were made at each location. The quantity and type of bacteria found varied by location and time. The highest average number of bacteria during daylight hours was exhibited at the urban site (609
4287657|The objective of this study was to determine whether host, compartment, or environmental specific factors play an important role in the establishment of the intestinal microflora in broiler chickens during growth. This objective was addressed using a 16S rDNA approach. PCR-amplicons from the V6 to V8 regions of the 16S rDNA of intestinal samples were separated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). The number of bands in all intestinal compartments increased when broilers grew older, indicating that the dominant bacterial community becomes more complex when chickens age. Each chicken had a unique banding pattern for all locations in the intestinal tract, irrespective of the age of chickens. This suggests that host-related factors affect the establishment of the dominant bacterial community. Banding patterns of intestinal compartments within one chicken were different from each other for broilers older than 4 days, except for both ceca which were highly similar. In 4-day-old broilers, banding patterns from crop, duodenum, and ileum were very similar. We conclude that (unknown) host specific factors play an important role in the development of the intestinal bacterial community in each broiler chicken. Furthermore, compartment-specific factors play an important role in the bacterial development of each intestinal compartment within one chicken.
40343376|Knowledge of variations in microbial food web interactions resulting from atmospheric nutrient loads is crucial to improve our understanding of aquatic food web structure in pristine ecosystems. Three experiments mimicking atmospheric inputs at different nitrogen/phosphorus (N/P) ratios were performed in situ covering the seasonal biological succession of the pelagic zone in a highmountain Spanish lake. In all experiments, abundance, biomass, algal cell biovolume, P-incorporation rates, P-cell quota, and N/P ratio of algae strongly responded to Penrichment, whereas heterotrophic bacteria remained relatively unchanged. Ciliates were severely restricted when a strong algal exploitation of the available P (bloom growth or storage strategies) led to transient (mid-ice-free experiment) or chronic (late ice-free experiment) P-deficiencies in bacteria. In contrast, maximum development of ciliates was reached when bacteria remained P-rich (N/P <20) and algae approached Redfield proportions (N/P~16). Evidence of a higher P-incorporation rate supports the proposition that algae and bacteria shifted from a mainly commensalisticmutualistic to a competitive relationship for the available P when bacterial P-deficiency increased, as reflected by their unbalanced N/P ratio (N/P>2024). Hence, the bacterial N/P ratio proved be a key factor to understand the algaebacteria relationship and microbial food web development. This study not only demonstrates the interdependence of life history strategies, stoichiometric nutrient content, and growth but also supports the use of bacterial N/P thresholds for diagnosing ciliate development, a little-studied aspect worthy of further attention.
4251425|For two strains, the green alga Pleurococcus CVB4 and the cyanobacterium Lyngbya CCB2, isolated from the pioneering algal biocoenosis present on a marble statue, we determined the optimum range of growth in selective cultural media in relation to pH, light intensity, and temperature, together with the ability of these organisms to colonize stone surfaces that differed either in the structure-texture or in the physico-chemical composition of the various lithotypes. The results showed a higher capacity of the green alga to withstand environmental factor changes. For both organisms the preferential colonization of the stone surface was correlated primarily, together with the environmental factors (pH, temperature, irradiance), to the physical characteristics (roughness and porosity) and secondarily to the chemical composition of the assayed lithotypes.
4251573| Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profiles were measured in soils from organic, low-input, and conventional farming systems that are part of the long term Sustainable Agriculture Farming Systems (SAFS) Project. The farming systems differ in whether their source of fertilizer is mineral or organic, and in whether a winter cover crop is grown. Sustained increases in microbial biomass resulting from high organic matter inputs have been observed in the organic and low-input systems. PLFA profiles were compared to ascertain whether previously observed changes in biomass were accompanied by a change in the composition of the microbial community. In addition, the relative importance of environmental variables on PLFA profiles was determined. Redundancy analysis ordination showed that PLFA profiles from organic and conventional systems were significantly different from April to July. On ordination plots, PLFA profiles from the low-input system fell between organic and conventional systems on most sample dates. A group of fatty acids (i14:0, a15:0, 16:17c, 16:15c, 14:0, and 18:26c) was enriched in the organic plots throughout the sampling period, and another group (10Me16:0, 2OH 16:1 and 10Me17:0) was consistently lower in relative abundance in the organic system. In addition, another group (15:0, a17:0, i16:0, 17:0, and 10Me18:0) was enriched over the short term in the organic plots after compost incorporation. The relative importance of various environmental variables in governing the composition of microbial communities could be ranked in the order: soil type > time > specific farming operation (e.g., cover crop incorporation or sidedressing with mineral fertilizer) > management system > spatial variation in the field. Measures of the microbial community and soil properties (including microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen, substrate induced respiration, basal respiration, potentially mineralizable nitrogen, soil nitrate and ammonium, and soil moisture) were seldom associated with the variation in the PLFA profiles. 
4287664| Biomass recycle reactors (BRRs) were used as a model system to study the functional and structural adaptations of mixed bacterial communities in response to the imposition of increasingly severe nutrient limitation. BRRs were fed synthetic media containing either spinach homogenate or autoclaved yeast cells to simulate the complex mixtures of particulate carbon sources that are often present in nature. In the BRRs fed spinach homogenate, the biomass (measured as particulate protein) exhibited a physiological response similar to previous studies as detected by 40-80% reductions in respiratory potential and by relatively stable catabolic ectoenzyme activities. Concomitant adaptations in bacterial community structure were detected by PCR-DGGE and RT-PCR-DGGE of 16S rDNA and 16S rRNA fragments, respectively. The microbial community structure was dynamic even after the biomass had reached a quasi-steady state with respect to physiological measurements. In the BRRs fed yeast cells, respiratory potentials increased 2- to 5-fold during the initial portion of the BRR run and -glucosidase and -glucosidase activities increased 2- to 4-fold. Substantial bacterial community shifts were also detected in both the rDNA and rRNA profiles, indicating that this community was also structurally dynamic. These experiments suggest that phylogenetically different bacteria sustained the functional activities in these ecosystems in response to increasingly stringent nutrient limitation. 
23469142|Arcellacea (testate lobose amoebae) were examined in 24 sedimentwater interface samples collected over two late August field seasons in 2010 and 2011, from James and Granite lakes, Temagami Region, Northeastern Ontario. The work was carried out to quantitatively test speciesenvironment relationships in a lake system known to be characterized by a significant pH gradient, partially the result of contamination from the early twentieth century Northland Pyrite Mine Co., located on the shoreline in the southern basin of James Lake. Redundancy analysis confirmed that arcellacean assemblage structure was most strongly controlled by pH, explaining 14.06 % (p<0.002) of the total variance. Q- and R-mode cluster analysis supported by detrended correspondence analysis yielded two major faunal assemblages. The Oligotrophic Assemblage (1) had a Shannon Diversity Index (SDI) ranging up to 2.45, typical of healthy boreal lakes. This assemblage characterized samples collected from higher pH stations within James and Granite lakes away from the immediate area of the mine site, while the Low pH Assemblage 2010 (2a) and Low pH Assemblage 2011 (2b) groupings were from the very low pH environments of James Lake adjacent to the former mine site. Both low diversity assemblages (SDI ranging from 0.62 to 1.22) were characterized by Arcella vulgaris, a species known to thrive in hostile lacustrine environments. Differing depositional conditions during August 2010, a probable result of different prevailing wind patterns that summer, led to allochthonous specimens of the seasonally planktic Cucurbitella tricuspis dominating the Low pH Assemblage 2010 (2a) fauna.
41489033|The survival and persistence of Ralstonia solanacearum biovar 2 in temperate climates is still poorly understood. To assess whether genomic variants of the organism show adaptation to local conditions, we compared the behaviour of environmental strain KZR-5, which underwent a deletion of the 17.6 kb genomic island PGI-1, with that of environmental strain KZR-1 and potato-derived strains 1609 and 715. PGI-1 harbours two genes of potential ecological relevance, i.e. one encoding a hypothetical protein with a RelA/SpoT domain and one a putative cellobiohydrolase. We thus assessed bacterial fate under conditions of amino acid starvation, during growth, upon incubation at low temperature and invasion of tomato plants. In contrast to the other strains, environmental strain KZR-5 did not grow on media that induce amino acid starvation. In addition, its maximum growth rate at 28C in rich medium was significantly reduced. On the other hand, long-term survival at 4C was significantly enhanced as compared to that of strains 1609,715 and KZR-1. Although strain KZR-5 showed growth rates (at 28C) in two different media, which were similar to those of strains 1609 and 715, its ability to compete with these strains under these conditions was reduced. In singly inoculated tomato plants, no significant differences in invasiveness were observed among strains KZR-5, KZR-1, 1609 and 715. However, reduced competitiveness of strain KZR-5 was found in experiments on tomato plant colonisation and wilting when using 1:1 or 5:1 mixtures of strains. The potential role of PGI-1 in plant invasion, response to stress and growth in competition at high and moderate temperatures is discussed.
4251704|Plant rhizospheres are dynamic environments in which microbes compete for resources, particularly plant-derived organic carbon/energy sources. Altering plant productivity changes the availability of carbon/energy resources to rhizosphere microbiota. This limitation is expected to intensify competition for the remaining carbon supply and could cause the loss of poor competitors from the assemblage. We clipped or shaded plots of the salt marsh cord grass, Spartina alterniflora, to shift plant carbon resource allocation from the rhizosphere to the aboveground shoots. We then examined key porewater parameters (pH, salinity, H
4250625|Closed culture experiments showed that the ability of an estuarine chemolithotrophic ammonium-oxidizer, Nitrosomonas sp., to convert ammonium to nitrite was substantially increased by as much as 150% and 50% when grown in the presence of two heterotrophs isolated from the same environment. The heterotrophs were identified as Nocardia atlantica and Pseudomonas sp. The growth of the heterotrophs was stimulated by as much as one order of magnitude in the presence of the ammonium-oxidizer.
4251452| A method of simultaneously quantifying photoautotrophic (algae and cyanobacteria) and bacterial production in periphyton communities by
4250999| Microbial growth rates in subsurface sediment from three sites were measured using incorporation of tritiated thymidine into DNA. Sampling sites included Lula, Oklahoma, Traverse City, Michigan, and Summit Lake, Wisconsin. Application of the thymidine method to subsurface sediments required (1) thymidine concentrations greater than 125 nM, (2) incubation periods of less than 4 hours, (3) addition of SDS and EDTA for optimum macromolecular extraction, and (4) DNA purification, in order to accurately measure the rate of thymidine incorporation into DNA. Macromolecule extraction recoveries, as well as the percentage of tritium label incorporated into the DNA fraction, were variable and largely dependent upon sediment composition. In general, sandy sediments yielded higher extraction recoveries and demonstrated a larger percentage of label incorporated into DNA than sediments that contained a high silt-clay component. Reported results also indicate that the acid-base hydrolysis procedure routinely used for macromolecular fractionation in water samples may not be routinely applicable to the modified sediment procedure where addition of SDS and EDTA are required for macromolecule extraction. Growth rates exhibited by subsurface communities are relatively slow, ranging from 5.1 to 10.2  10
41489112|Coarse woody debris supports large numbers of saproxylic fungal species. However, most of the current knowledge comes from Scandinavia and studies relating the effect of stand or log characteristics on the diversity and composition of decomposer fungi have not been conducted in Northeastern Canada. Logs from five tree species were sampled along a decomposition gradient in nine stands representing three successional stages of the boreal mixed forest of Northwestern Quebec, Canada. Using a molecular fingerprinting technique, we assessed fungal community Shannon-Weaver diversity index, richness, and composition. We used linear mixed models and multivariate analyses to link changes in fungal communities to log and stand characteristics. We found a total of 33 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) including an indicator species for balsam fir (similar to Athelia sp.) and one found only in aspen stands (similar to Calocera cornea). Spruce logs supported the highest fungal Shannon-Weaver diversity index and OTU number. Our results support the hypothesis that log species influences fungal richness and diversity.However, log decay class does not. Stand composition, volume of coarse woody debris, and log chemical composition were all involved in structuring fungal communities. Maintaining the diversity of wood-decomposing communities therefore requires the presence of dead wood from diverse log species.
41693858|We monitored the bacterial communities in the gaswater separator and water storage tank of two newly drilled natural gas wells in the Barnett Shale in north central Texas, using a 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing approach over a period of 6 months. Overall, the communities were composed mainly of moderately halophilic and halotolerant members of the phyla Firmicutes and Proteobacteria (classes Beta-, Gamma-, and Epsilonproteobacteria) in both wells at all sampling times and locations. Many of the observed lineages were encountered in prior investigations of microbial communities from various fossil fluid formations and production facilities. In all of the samples, multiple HS-producing lineages were encountered; belonging to the sulfate- and sulfur-reducing class Deltaproteobacteria, order Clostridiales, and phylum Synergistetes, as well as the thiosulfate-reducing order Halanaerobiales. The bacterial communities from the separator and tank samples bore little resemblance to the bacterial communities in the drilling mud and hydraulic-fracture waters that were used to drill these wells, suggesting the in situ development of the unique bacterial communities in such well components was in response to the prevalent geochemical conditions present. Conversely, comparison of the bacterial communities on temporal and spatial scales suggested the establishment of a core microbial community in each sampled location. The results provide the first overview of bacterial dynamics and colonization patterns in newly drilled, thermogenic natural gas wells and highlights patterns of spatial and temporal variability observed in bacterial communities in natural gas production facilities.
41412453|Recent work has suggested that in temperate and subtropical trees, leaf surface bacterial communities are distinctive to each individual tree species and dominated by Alpha-and Gammaproteobacteria. In order to understand how general this pattern is, we studied the phyllosphere bacterial community on leaves of six species of tropical trees at a rainforest arboretum in Malaysia. This represents the first detailed study of 'true' tropical lowland tree phyllosphere communities. Leaf surface DNA was extracted and pyrosequenced targeting the V1-V3 region of 16S rRNA gene. As was previously found in temperate and subtropical trees, each tree species had a distinctive bacterial community on its leaves, clustering separately from other tree species in an ordination analysis. Bacterial communities in the phyllosphere were unique to plant leaves in that very few operational taxonomic units (0.5%) co-occurred in the surrounding soil environment. A novel and distinctive aspect of tropical phyllosphere communities is that Acidobacteria were one of the most abundant phyla across all samples (on average, 17%), a pattern not previously recognized. Sequences belonging to Acidobacteria were classified into subgroups 1-6 among known 24 subdivisions, and subgroup 1 (84%) was the most abundant group, followed by subgroup 3 (15%). The high abundance of Acidobacteria on leaves of tropical trees indicates that there is a strong relationship between host plants and Acidobacteria in tropical rain forest, which needs to be investigated further. The similarity of phyllosphere bacterial communities amongst the tree species sampled shows a significant tendency to follow host plant phylogeny, with more similar communities on more closely related hosts.
4251357| Metabolic activity of bacteria was investigated in open water, newly forming sea ice, and successive stages of pack ice in the Weddell Sea. Microautoradiography, using [
41489116|Despite the considerable attention that has been paid to bacterioplankton over recent decades, the dynamic of aquatic bacterial community structure is still poorly understood, and long-term studies are particularly lacking. Moreover, how the environment governs diversity patterns remains a key issue in aquatic microbial ecology. In this study, we used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of PCR-amplified partial 16S rRNA gene fragments and multivariable statistical approaches to explore the patterns of change in the free-living bacterial community in the mesotrophic and monomeromictic Lake Bourget (France). A monthly sampling was conducted over two consecutive years (2007 and 2008) and at two different depths characterizing the epi-and hypolimnion of the lake (2 and 50 m, respectively). Temporal shifts in the bacterial community structure followed different patterns according to depth, and no seasonal reproducibility was recorded from 1 year to the next. Our results showed that the bacterial community structure displayed lower diversity at 2 m (22 bands) compared to 50 m (32 bands) and that bacterial community structure dynamics followed dissimilar trends between the two depths. At 2 m, five shifts in the bacterial community structure occurred, with the temporal scale varying between 2 and 8 months whereas, at 50 m, four shifts in the bacterial community structure took place at 50 m, with the temporal scale fluctuating between 3 and 13 months. More than 60% of the bacterial community structure variance was explained by seven variables at 2 m against eight at 50 m. Nutrients (PO-P, NH-N and NO-N) and temperature were responsible for 49.6% of the variance at 2 m whereas these nutrients, with dissolved oxygen and chlorophyll a accounting for 59.6% of the variance at 50 m. Grazing by ciliates played also a critical role on the bacterial community structure at both depths. Our results suggest that the freeliving bacterial community structure in the epi-and hypolimnion of Lake Bourget is mainly driven by combined, but differently weighted, top-down and bottom-up factors at 2 and 50 m.
25256185|The haptophyte Prymnesium parvum has lytic properties, and it affects coexisting phytoplankton species through allelopathy. We studied the effect of P. parvum allelochemicals on the lysis of the nontoxic and nonaxenic cryptomonad Rhodomonas salina and the consequent release of dissolved organic carbon (DOC). Changes in production, cell density, and biomass of associated bacteria were measured over 12 h. Six different combinations of P. parvum and R. salina cultures, their cell- and bacteria-free filtrates, and growth media as controls were used in the experiments. When P. parvum and R. salina cells were mixed, a significant increase in DOC concentration was measured within 30 min. Bacterial biomass increased significantly during the next 6 to 12 h when R. salina was mixed either with the P. parvum culture or the cell-free P. parvum filtrates (allelochemicals only). In contrast, bacterial biomass did not change in the treatments without the allelopathic action (without R. salina cells). Blooms of P. parvum alter the functioning of the planktonic food web by increasing carbon transfer through the microbial loop. In addition, P. parvum may indirectly benefit from the release of DOC as a result of its ability to ingest bacteria, by which it can acquire nutrients during limiting conditions.
4250497|Many marine bacteria demonstrate antibiotic activity against organisms of terrestrial origin. Low molecular weight antibiotics have been extracted and, in some cases, purified, but few attempts have been made to isolate high molecular weight antibiotics produced by marine bacteria. In the study reported here, a high molecular weight antibiotic was extracted from whole cells of Alteromonas strain P18 (NCMB 1890) grown on 2216E medium. Purification included ammonium sulfate precipitation, ultracentrifugation, chromatography on DEAE cellulose, and gel filtration on Ultrogel. A rapid method for measuring specific activity of the antibiotic was developed.
4251435| Mesocosms (4.5 m
4251231|Ten obligately anaerobic, cellulolytic mesophilic bacteria were isolated from a municipal solid waste digestor used for biogas production. The isolates were rod-shaped, spore-forming bacteria in anaerobic conditions, and stained Gram-positive in young cultures, and hence were identified as Clostridium. Small regular translucent and unpigmented colonies were observed on cellulose plates. The strains were gelatinase-negative, hydrolyzed esculin and starch, and fermented xylose and arabinose. The lecithinase, lipase, and indole tests were negative. The major fermentation products from cellulose included ethanol and acetate. The morphological and other biochemical characteristics indicated that these clostridia did not correspond to any previously described species. All the strains produced high activities of extracellular cellulases in cellulose media and degraded paper.
25153256|Temporal temperature gradient electrophoretic (TTGE) analysis of 16S rDNA sequences was optimized to monitor the methanogen population present in water and sediments of a small eutrophic lake, Priest Pot, in the English Lake district. The production of nonrepresentative TTGE profiles due to the generation of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) artifacts initially proved problematical. The use of a proofreading polymerase in the PCR was found to be essential and fully optimized protocols were established and tested to ensure confidence that the TTGE profiles truly reflected sequence diversity. TTGE analysis revealed the methanogen population to be less diverse in water than in sediment. The most genetic diversity was observed in TTGE profiles of sediment DNA isolated in winter and the least was in sediment DNA isolated in summer. DNA sequencing analysis of bands recovered from TTGE gels revealed the presence of two methanogen communities. One clustered with Methanosaeta species and the other with the Methanomicrobiales. Many sequences showed low DNA sequence similarity to known methanogens, suggesting that Priest Pot harbors previously undescribed methanogen species.
25153414| We investigated the survival of Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts during winter in an aquatic environment (approximate temperature measurements between 1 and 7C) in Norway, using morphology and uptake of dyes as indicators of viability. Previous research has shown that in the terrestrial environment, shear forces caused by freeze and thaw cycles probably cause the parasites to be inactivated. Such forces occurred infrequently in the aquatic environment, as freezing of the water around the parasites was not observed during the study period (although freezing of the water surface did occur). The rate of decline in viability (log
4251420| Abundance, production and extracellular enzymatic activity of free-living and attached bacteria were measured during the development and collapse of a spring bloom in a eutrophic lake. Free-living bacteria accounted for most of the total bacterial production during the first part of the bloom. Their production had a significant positive correlation to chlorophyll (P < .01) and polysaccharide concentration (P < .02) and to potential -glucosidase and aminopeptidase activity (P < .05), suggesting that algal release of dissolved polymeric compounds provided an important carbon source for bacterial production. As the bloom collapsed, we observed a change in the activity and structure of the microbial community. The mean contribution of attached bacteria to total bacterial production increased from 12% during the first part of the bloom to 26% at the end. Also, the extracellular enzymatic activity of attached bacteria increased as the bloom collapsed and constituted up to 75% of the total hydrolytic activity. An estimated disparity between hydrolytic activity and the corresponding carbon demand of attached bacteria suggested a net release of dissolved organic compounds from organic particles via polymer hydrolysis by attached bacteria. 
23468243|Anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) and denitrification are two important processes responsible for nitrogen loss; monitoring of microbial communities carrying out these two processes offers a unique opportunity to understand the microbial nitrogen cycle. The aim of the current study was to characterize community structures and distribution of anammox and nirS-encoding nitrite-reducing bacteria in surface sediments of the northern South China Sea (SCS). The consistent phylogenetic results of three biomarkers of anammox bacteria, including 16S rRNA, hzo, and Scalindua-nirS genes, showed that Scalindua-like bacteria were the only anammox group presenting in surface sediments of the SCS. However, a relatively high micro-diversity was found within this group, including several SCS habitat-specific phylotypes, Candidatus "Scalindua zhenghei". Comparing to 16S rRNA gene, hzo and Scalindua-nirS genes provided a relatively higher resolution to elucidate anammox bacteria. For the nirS-encoding nitrite-reducing bacteria, the detected nirS gene sequences were closely related to various marine nirS denitrifiers, especially those which originated from coastal and estuarine sediments with a much higher diversity than anammox bacteria. Anammox bacterial communities shifted along with the seawater depth, while nirS-encoding nitrite-reducing bacteria did not. Although nirS-encoding nitrite-reducing bacteria have a much higher abundance and diversity than anammox bacteria, they showed similar abundance variation patterns in research sites, suggesting the two microbial groups might be affected by the similar environmental factors. The significant correlations among the abundance of the two microbial groups with the molar ratio of NH 4 + to (NO 2 - +NO 3 - ), pH, and organic matters of sediments strongly supported this hypothesis.
4251171| Fifty cyanobacterial strains (10 genera) were tested in batch culture for their ability to use organic phosphorus compounds (1 mg
41489199|A Penicillium decumbens strain was collected from a water-damaged building, and the production of microbial volatile organic compounds (MVOCs) was investigated by means of headspace solid-phase microextraction, followed by GC-MS analysis. The strain was characterized by a high production of (+)-thujopsene. The influence of various temperatures, relative humidity (RH) values, substrates, and inoculum concentrations on fungal growth and (+)-thujopsene production was studied. The optimal temperature and relative humidity for P. decumbens growth were 30C and 100% RH, respectively. In general, the more favourable the incubation parameters were for growth, the faster maximum (+)-thujopsene production was reached. Moreover, the antifungal activity of thujopsene was tested against 16 fungal strains. The growth of five of these fungal strains was negatively affected both by thujopsene alone and when grown in contact with the MVOCs produced by P. decumbens. Following these results and since growth of P. decumbens itself was also inhibited by thujopsene, an autoregulatory function for this compound was proposed. Few data are present in the literature about chemical communication between fungi. The present research could, therefore, contribute to understanding fungal metabolism and behaviour in indoor environments.
4251716|The arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus Gigaspora margarita harbors a resident population of endosymbiontic Burkholderia in its cytoplasm. Nothing is known about the acquisition of such bacteria and about the molecular bases which allow colonization of the fungus. We wondered whether the intracellular Burkholderia strain possesses genetic determinants involved in colonization of a eukaryotic cell. Using degenerated oligonucleotide primers for vacB, a gene involved in host cell colonization by pathogenic bacteria, an 842 bp DNA fragment was cloned, sequenced, and identified as a part of the vacB gene in Burkholderia sp. The insert was used as a probe to screen a fungal library that, because of the presence of intracellular Burkholderia cells, was also representative of the bacterial genome. The complete nucleotide sequence of vacB and flanking genes was determined. The bacterial origin of this genomic region was established by PCR, using specific vacB primers on DNA from Gigasporaceae that did or did not contain cytoplasmic Burkholderia, as well as on DNA from other bacteria, including free-living Burkholderia. We hypothesize that the vacB gene is part of a new genetic region acquired by a rhizospheric Burkholderia strain, which became able to establish a symbiotic interaction with the AM fungus G. margarita.
4250876|A technique is described for studying hot spring microbial morphotypes by using electron microscope grids incubated in situ. Such studies revealed the presence of filaments bearing swollen saclike structures in a number of New Zealand hot springs. There was considerable variation in the size, structure, and morphology of the filaments and the saclike structures.
41489793|Testate amoeba (TA) assemblages were collected in 2005 from four ponds in Komofany (Prague, Czech Republic). An analysis of seasonal taxonomic variability of TA populations and its correlation with the limnological characteristics of the area (temperature, pH, total organic carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, heavy metals, etc.) was performed. The predominant genera were Difflugia, Arcella, and Centropyxis. The most significant changes in the TA community occurred between March and July. Arcella genus dominated in March and April; in May, Arcella and Centropyxis genera were present in the same amount; in June, Arcella genus disappeared, and Difflugia genus started to dominate the community. A multivariate redundancy analysis showed statistically significant correlations between the environmental parameters and the composition of the community. The results indicate a negative correlation between quantities and Ni, Cd, PAH, Mn, As, and Pb. were also affected by concentrations of NH4, NO, and P, as well as by temperature variations. The observed correlations between the species composition and environmental parameters can be used in paleoecological interpretations of fossil communities. Our results also prove the suitability of TA as water quality indicators in urban areas.
41489224|Plant diversity is considered one factor structuring soil fungal communities because the diversity of compounds in leaf litter might determine the extent of resource heterogeneity for decomposer communities. Lowland tropical rain forests have the highest plant diversity per area of any biome. Since fungi are responsible for much of the decomposition occurring in forest soils, understanding the factors that structure fungi in tropical forests may provide valuable insight for predicting changes in global carbon and nitrogen fluxes. To test the role of plant diversity in shaping fungal community structure and function, soil (0-20 cm) and leaf litter (O horizons) were collected from six established 1-ha forest census plots across a natural plant diversity gradient on the Isthmus of Panama. We used 454 pyrosequencing and phospholipid fatty acid analysis to evaluate correlations between microbial community composition, precipitation, soil nutrients, and plant richness. In soil, the number of fungal taxa increased significantly with increasing mean annual precipitation, but not with plant richness. There were no correlations between fungal communities in leaf litter and plant diversity or precipitation, and fungal communities were found to be compositionally distinct between soil and leaf litter. To directly test for effects of plant species richness on fungal diversity and function, we experimentally re-created litter diversity gradients in litter bags with 1, 25, and 50 species of litter. After 6 months, we found a significant effect of litter diversity on decomposition rate between one and 25 species of leaf litter. However, fungal richness did not track plant species richness. Although studies in a broader range of sites is required, these results suggest that precipitation may be a more important factor than plant diversity or soil nutrient status in structuring tropical forest soil fungal communities.
4250500| Paraquat, applied as Gramoxone, to a nonamended sandy loam soil at five times the suggested field application rate (10 lb/A  115  g/ cm
25256155|We demonstrated in a previous study that the biofilm of the methanol-fed fluidized marine denitrification reactor at the Montreal Biodome was composed of at least 15 bacterial phylotypes. Among those were 16S ribosomal RNA (rDNA) gene sequences affiliated to Hyphomicrobium spp., and Methylophaga spp.; the latter made up 70% of a clone library. By using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), we investigated the structure of the biofilm during the colonization process in the denitrification reactor by targeting most of the bacterial families that the 16S rDNA gene library suggested would occur in the biofilm. Our results revealed that gamma-Proteobacteria (mostly Methylophaga spp.) accounted for up to 79% of the bacterial population, confirming the abundance of Methylophaga spp. within the biofilm. alpha-Proteobacteria represented 27-57% of the population, which included Hyphomicrobium spp. that appeared after 20 days of colonization and represented 7-8% of the population. We noticed a great abundance and diversity of eukaryotic cells, which made up 20% of the biomass at the beginning of the colonization but decreased to 3-5% in the mature biofilm. We then used FISH combined with microautoradiography (MAR-FISH) to identify the methylotrophs in the biofilm. The results showed that alpha-Proteobacteria used C methanol in the presence of nitrate, suggesting their involvement in denitrification. Despite their abundance, Methylophaga spp. did not assimilate methanol under those conditions.
4250668|The problem of competition between Nitrobacter strains was posed by the fact that two serotypes (N.w and L) coexisted in a soil, as shown by immunofluorescence. The L serotype had a lower growth rate in pure culture than serotype N.w, as well as a slower nitrifying activity when inoculated to a sterilized soil percolated with NO
25153013|Bacterial transformation of mercury in the environment has received much attention owing to the toxicity of both the ionic form and organomercurial compounds. Bacterial resistance to mercury and the role of bacteria in mercury cycling have been widely studied. The genes specifying the required functions for resistance to mercury are organized on the mer operon. Gene probing methodologies have been used for several years to detect specific gene sequences in the environment that are homologous to cloned mer genes. While mer genes have been detected in a wide variety of environments, less is known about the expression of these genes under environmental conditions. We combined new methodologies for recovering specific gene mRNA transcripts and mercury detection with a previously described method for determining biological potential for mercury volatilization to examine the effect of mercury concentrations and nutrient availability on rates of mercury volatilization and merA transcription. Levels of merA-specific transcripts and Hg(II) volatilization were influenced more by microbial activity (as manipulated by nutrient additions) than by the concentration of total mercury. The detection of merA-specific transcripts in some samples that did not reduce Hg(II) suggests that rates of mercury volatilization in the environment may not always be proportional to merA transcription.
4250574|Densities of Aeromonas hydrophila were determined monthly from December 1975 to December 1977 in a South Carolina cooling reservoir which receives heated effluent from a single nuclear production reactor. Selected water quality parameters and prevalence of red-sore disease among largemouth bass were monitored simultaneously. Higher densities of A. hydrophila were observed in areas of the reservoir receiving effluent from the reactor. Densities of A. hydrophila generally were heterogeneous in the water column. The sediments had lower densities of A. hydrophila than water immediately above. A. hydrophila could not be isolated from sediments greater than 1 cm from the water interface. Temperature, redox potential, pH, and conductivity were all significantly correlated with densities of A. hydrophila in the water column. The temporal and spatial distribution and abundance of A. hydrophila in water were not related to total organic carbon, dissolved organic carbon, particulate organic carbon, inorganic carbon, or dissolved oxygen. High densities of A. hydrophila were observed in mats of decomposing Myriophyllum spicatum and, enterically, in largemouth bass, several other species of fish, turtles, alligators, and snails. The greatest densities of A. hydrophila in water occurred during March and June with a second peak in October. The mean monthly densities of A. hydrophila were positively correlated with the incidence of infection in largemouth bass. Largemouth bass from thermally altered parts of the reservoir had a significantly higher incidence of infection. It is concluded that thermal effluent significantly affects the ecology of A. hydrophila and the epizootiology of red-sore disease within Par Pond.
4251164|During the period 12 July 1985 to 23 December 1987, water samples were collected in two-week intervals for estimates of Aeromonas species in a waste treatment system located in the arid region of Marrakech, Morocco. Fecal coliforms, temperature, and chemical oxygen demand were measured simultaneously with Aeromonas species densities. Statistical methods were utilized to analyze the significance of average differences and temporal patterns of Aeromonas species numbers. Removal of Aeromonas in the whole system did not exceed 1.14 log. Aeromonas densities showed significantly higher resistance to the treatment process when compared with fecal coliforms; however, abundance of the two groups presented a similar seasonal change. The highest numbers occurred during the cold months, while the lowest appeared in the warm months. Statistical time-series analyses of the densities data showed the seasonal and cyclic distribution of Aeromonas in this treatment plant. These temporal changes were simultaneously observed in all the stations investigated and were negatively correlated with water temperature values. Aeromonas populations were dominated by A. caviae and A. hydrophila in the inlet samples. These two species were rapidly eliminated in the treatment plant. The temporal distribution of A. caviae was similar to the change in densities of Aeromonas and fecal coliforms. The seasonal fluctuations of abundance of Aeromonas were probably related to this species, which dominated in the winter samples but dropped during the summer. Meanwhile, A. sobria dominated all the final effluent samples. This greater survival of A. sobria and its known pathogenicity may limit the re-use of treated water for irrigation of fodder plants.
4251378|The abundance of viral-like particles in marine ecosystems ranges from $<10^{4}\ {\rm ml}^{-1}$ to $>10^{8}\ {\rm ml}^{-1}$. Their distribution in time and space parallels that of other biological parameters such as bacterial abundance and chlorophyll a. There is a lack of consensus between methods used to assess viral activity, i.e., rate of change in viral abundance (increase or decrease). The highest rates, 10-100
4251442| Extracellular -glucosidase, -glucosidase, and aminopeptidase activity variations (measured by use of fluorogenic substrate analogs) at a coastal station in the Mediterranean Sea were investigated over a 1-year period. A 27-h cycle and daily measurements were made in a summer situation. We observed strong relative diurnal variations, compared to seasonal variations, in - and -glucosidase. Within 24 h, 0-100% of both - and -glucosidase were found in the dissolved phase. The aminopeptidase activities did not show a strong diurnal variation, but day to day variations were similar in magnitude to seasonal changes. Consistently, high proportions of all three enzymes were found in the dissolved phase on a seasonal scale. Seasonal measurements at 50- and 100-m depths showed a weak negative dependency on depth for extracellular enzyme activity. The potential importance of both hourly and daily changes in extracellular enzyme activity and of free enzymes is considered. 
4251086|The effects of glucose and nitrogen depletion on the colonization of glass Petri plates by Pseudomonas fluorescens were studied in batch culture. Colonization of the surfaces was initiated before colonization of the bulk phase, and biofilm formation was observed. This resulted in an apparent lag in the batch growth curve for the cell suspension. The lag phase was an artifact caused by the partitioning of cells between the bulk and solid phase of the culture and was not due to a reduction in the growth rate of unattached cells. The specific growth rate of the unattached cells (0.331
25153188| The bacterial community composition of marine surface sediments originating from various regions of the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (12 sampling sites) was compared by parallel use of three fingerprinting methods: analysis of 16S rRNA gene fragment heterogeneity by denaturing gradient electrophoresis (DGGE), terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP), and analysis of phospholipid-linked fatty acid composition (PLFA). Sampling sites were located at variable depths (30-2860 m; water column depth above the sediments) and the sediments differed greatly also in their degree of petroleum contamination (0.4-18 g g), organic carbon (0.38-1.5%), and chlorophyll a content (0.01-7.7 g g). Despite a high degree of correlation between the three different community fingerprint methods, some major differences were observed. DGGE banding patterns showed a significant separation of sediment communities from the northern, more productive waters of the Thermaikos Gulf and the oligotrophic waters of the Cretan, S. Ionian, and Levantine Sea. T-RFLP analysis clearly separated the communities of deep sediments (&gt;1494 m depth) from their shallow (&lt;617 m) counterparts. PLFA analysis grouped a shallow station from the productive waters of the north with the deep oligotrophic sediments from the Ionian and Levantine Sea, with low concentrations of PLFAs, and hence low microbial biomass, as the common denominator. The degree of petroleum contamination was not significantly correlated to the apparent composition of the microbial communities for any of the three methods, whereas organic carbon content and sediment chlorophyll a were important in this regard. 
41412452|Six bacterial genera containing species commonly used as probiotics for human consumption or starter cultures for food fermentation were compared and contrasted, based on publicly available complete genome sequences. The analysis included 19 Bifldobacterium genomes, 21 Lactobacillus genomes, 4 Lactococcus and 3 Leuconostoc genomes, as well as a selection of Enterococcus (11) and Streptococcus (23) genomes. The latter two genera included genomes from probiotic or commensal as well as pathogenic organisms to investigate if their non-pathogenic members shared more genes with the other probiotic genomes than their pathogenic members. The pan-and core genome of each genus was defined. Pairwise BLASTP genome comparison was performed within and between genera. It turned out that pathogenic Streptococcus and Enterococcus shared more gene families than did the non-pathogenic genomes. In silico multilocus sequence typing was carried out for all genomes per genus, and the variable gene content of genomes was compared within the genera. Informative BLAST Atlases were constructed to visualize genomic variation within genera. The clusters of orthologous groups (COG) classes of all genes in the pan-and core genome of each genus were compared. In addition, it was investigated whether pathogenic genomes contain different COG classes compared to the probiotic or fermentative organisms, again comparing their pan-and core genomes. The obtained results were compared with published data from the literature. This study illustrates how over 80 genomes can be broadly compared using simple bioinformatic tools, leading to both confirmation of known information as well as novel observations.
4250491|In the course of a study of the microbial degradation of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), 16 cultures, representing 5 genera of bacteria, were isolated. A Pseudomonas sp. was found to degrade mixtures of PCB (Aroclor 1254) and pure isomers, i.e., hexachlorobiphenyl (HCB). Degradation was found to be variable, depending on length of incubation, purity, and degree of chlorination of the biphenyl molecule. In addition to apparent degradation of PCB, it was observed that PCB stimulated growth and oxygen uptake. Bioaccumulation of PCB residues was suggested since
25153196|The Sphingomonas genus hosts many interesting pollutant-degrading strains. Sphingomonas sp. EPA505 is the best studied polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-degrading Sphingomonas strain. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, Sphingomonas sp. strain EPA505 forms a separate branch in the Sphingomonas phylogenetic tree grouping exclusively PAH-degrading isolates. For specific PCR detection and monitoring of Sphingomonas sp. EPA505 and related strains in PAH-contaminated soils, a new 16S rRNA gene-based primer set was designed. The new primer set was shown to be highly selective for Sphingomonas sp. strain EPA505 as it only amplified DNA from strain EPA505 and not from other tested Sphingomonas strains or soil bacteria not belonging to the Sphingomonas genus. Using DNA extracts of a variety of inoculated PAH-contaminated soils, the primer pair was able to detect EPA505 in concentrations as low as 10 cells per gram of soil. Applying the new primer set, 16S rRNA gene fragments which were 99-100% similar to the corresponding gene of strain EPA505 were amplified from four of five PAH-contaminated soils. On the other hand, no PCR products were obtained from any of five tested uncontaminated soils. The preferential presence of EPA505 related Sphingomonas strains in PAH-contaminated soils with very different contamination profiles and different origin suggests an important role of this type of Sphingomonas in the natural Sphingomonas community colonizing PAH-contaminated sites.
40802282|In this study, we examined the bacterial endophyte community of potato (Solarium tuberosum) cultivar/clones using two different molecular-based techniques (bacterial automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (B-ARISA) and pyrosequencing). B-ARISA profiles revealed a significant difference in the endophytic community between cultivars (perMANOVA, p<0.001), and canonical correspondence analysis showed a significant correlation between the community structure and plant biomass (p= 0.001). Pyrosequencing detected, on average, 47771 bacterial operational taxonomie units (OTUs, 97% genetic similarity) residing within the roots of each cultivar, with a Chao estimated total OTU richness of 1,265313. Across all cultivars, a total of 238 known genera from 15 phyla were identified. Interestingly, five of the ten most common genera (Rheinheimera, Dyadobacter, Devosia, Pedobacter, and Pseudoxanthomonas) have not, to our knowledge, been previously reported as endophytes of potato. Like the B-ARISA analysis, the endophytic communities differed between cultivar/clones ([sumbol]-libshuff, p<0.001) and exhibited low similarities on both a presence/absence (0.1450.019) and abundance (0.4200.081) basis. Seventeen OTUs showed a strong positive (r>0.600) or negative (r<-0.600) correlation with plant biomass, suggesting a possible link between plant production and endophyte abundance. This study represents one of the most comprehensive assessments of the bacterial endophytic communities to date, and similar analyses in other plant species, cultivars, or tissues could be utilized to further elucidate the potential contribution(s) of endophytic communities to plant physiology and production.
40605858|Yuan Yang Lake (YYL), Taiwan, experiences both winter and typhoon-initiated mixing, and each type of mixing event is characterized by contrasting environmental conditions. Previous work suggested that after typhoon mixing, bacterial communities in YYL reset to a pioneer composition and then follow a predictable trajectory of change until the next typhoon. Our goal was to continue this investigation by observing bacterial community change after a range of mixing intensities, including seasonal winter mixing. We fingerprinted aquatic bacterial communities in the epilimnion and hypolimnion using automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis and then assessed community response using multi variate statistics. We found a significant linear relationship between water column stability and the epilimnion to hypolimnion divergences. In comparison to the summer, we found the winter community had a distinct composition and less variation. We divided the bacterial community into population subsets according to abundance (rare, common, or dominant) and occurrence (transient or persistent) and further explored the contribution of these subsets to the overall community patterns. We found that transient taxa did not drive bacterial community patterns following weak typhoon mixing events, but contributed substantially to patterns observed following strong events. Common taxa generally did not follow the community trajectory after weak or strong events. Our results suggest intensity, frequency, and seasonality jointly contribute to aquatic bacterial response to mixing disturbance.
25153103| Exciting opportunities exist for the application of simple fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) to microbiology. The technology is widely available, but critical reports on the efficiency of cell sorting using benchtop instruments are lacking. It is vital that single cell sorting be of the highest purity possible. If purity is compromised detrital material or unwanted cells will be captured along with target cells of interest. Here, the isolation of fluorescent bacteria using a benchtop FACSCalibur-sort flow cytometer is described. The efficiency and purity of isolated cells was determined using fluorescence microscopy, culturing, and molecular analysis. To achieve high purity it was essential that the total event rate did not exceed 300 cells per second. This instrument was capable of recovering &gt;55% sorted Escherichia coli cells, coupled with a purity exceeding 99%. However, the purity of recovered cells was substantially reduced (&lt;25%) when the event rate increased. Cell sorting onto polycarbonate membranes did not reduce the ability of E. coli to form colonies, and sorting of 1000 E. coli cells was sufficient for 16S rDNA amplification. Additionally, as few as 100 isolated Erwinia sp. carrying the gfp gene were amplified using seminested PCR targeting the single copy gfp gene. With such low numbers of bacteria being required for molecular identification, FACS can be achieved without the requirement for high-speed droplet cell sorters. 
4287522| Three aspects of size selective feeding by the scuticociliate Cyclidium glaucoma were studied in continuous cultivation systems. Firstly, grazing-induced changes in abundance, biomass, and size structure of a bacterial community were investigated. Secondly, we studied possible grazing-protection mechanisms of bacteria as a response to permanent presence of the predator. And finally, we were looking for potential feedback mechanisms within this predator-prey relationship, i.e., how the ciliate population reacted to a changed, more grazing-protected bacterial community. The first stage of the cultivation system consisted of the alga Cryptomonas sp. and the accompanying mixed bacterial community. These organisms were transferred to two second stage vessels, a control stage without ciliates and a second one inoculated with C. glaucoma. After the first week, the abundance of bacteria in the latter decreased by 60% and remained stable until the end of the experiment (65 d), whereas bacterial biomass was less affected (393 g C L
4287499|The impact of the oxygen supply rate (OSR) on the metabolic activity and on the composition of hexadecane-degrading bacterial communities in a quasi-anoxic milieu (nominal DOT = 0%) was studied in continuous cultures containing intertidal sediment. The dilution rate was kept constant at 0.035 h
40605883|Epiphytic survival of several Xanthomonas pathovars has been reported, but most studies failed to determine whether such populations were resident epiphytes, resulting from latent infections, or casual epiphytes. This study aimed at understanding the nature of Xanthomonas citri pv. mangiferaeindicae populations associated with asymptomatic leaves. When spray-inoculated on mango leaves cv. Maison Rouge, the pathogen multiplied markedly in association with juvenile leaves, but was most often detected as low population sizes (<1  10 cfu g) in association with mature leaves. Our results suggest a very low biological significance of biofilm-associated populations of X. citri pv. mangiferaeindicae, while saprophytic microbiota associated with mango leaves survived frequently as biofilms. A chloroform vapor-based disinfestation assay which kills cells specifically located on the leaf surface and not those located within the leaf mesophyll was developed. When applied to spray-inoculated leaves maintained under controlled environmental conditions, 155 out of the 168 analyzed dataseis collected over three assessment dates for seven bacterial strains representative of the genetic diversity of the pathogen failed to demonstrate a significant X. citri pv. mangiferaeindicae population decrease on chloroform treated leaves up to 13 days after inoculation. We conclude that an efficient survival of X. citri pv. mangiferaeindicae present on mango leaf surfaces following a limited dissemination event is largely dependent on the availability of juvenile plant tissues. The bacterium gains access to protected sites (e.g., mesophyll) through stornata where it becomes endophytic and eventually causes disease. Chloroform vapor-based disinfestation assays should be useful for further studies aiming at evaluating survival sites of bacteria associated with the phyllosphere.
4250967|The recovery of bdellovibrios from estuarine sediments over an annual cycle was studied. Greater numbers of the predators were recovered in sediment than in the water column. Increases in the number of bdellovibrios recovered from sediment over various periods of time suggest that multiplication of the predators occurred. Sediment was observed to be an important ecosystem for the survival of bdellovibrios in the winter months. As has been observed in water, the number of bdellovibrios in sediment fluctuated, with seasonal and temperature changes declining to very low numbers during the winter months. In the colder months, low numbers of the predators appeared to winter-over in sediment, with greater numbers of the organisms being recovered from deeper sediment. As the water temperature warmed in the spring, increases in the number of bdellovibrios occurred first in sediment and subsequently in water. This increase of bdellovibrios in sediment may have resulted in the shedding of the organisms into the water column where their numbers subsequently increased. Population fluctuations of bdellovibrios were similar in both water and sediment. Although the temperature may account for much of the observed fluctuation in the number of bdellovibrios, other factors, including salinity and the number of host bacteria, may also play a major role. The number of bdellovibrios recovered from sediment correlated positively with the water temperature, and negatively with the water salinity and the number of bacterial colony-forming units from sediment. The results of this study revealed the significance of sediment to the seasonal cycle, survival, and growth of the bdellovibrios in an estuarine environment.
40605762|Pathogenic Vibno parahaemolyticus (Vp) (tdhltrh) represent a small percentage of environmental Vp populations, and very little is known about this subpopulation. Repetitive extragenic palindromic PCR and multilocus sequence analysis revealed heterogeneity among 41 Vp containing thermostable direct hemolysin (tdh) and tdh related hemolysin (trh) that were isolated from Mississippi coastal environments from October 2006 to April 2007. There was no source-specific sequestering in oysters, water, or sediment.
40343390|Multi-trophic interactions between prokaryotes, unicellular eukaryotes, and ecologically intertwined metazoans are presumably common in nature, yet rarely described. The mountain pine beetle, Dendroctonus ponderosae, is associated with two filamentous fungi, Grosmannia clavigera and Ophiostoma montium. Other microbes, including yeasts and bacteria, are also present in the phloem, but it is not known whether they interact with the symbiotic fungi or the host beetle. To test whether such interactions occur, we performed a suite of in vitro assays. Overall, relative yield of O. montium grown with microbes isolated from larval galleries was significantly greater than when the fungus was grown alone. Conversely, the yield of G. clavigera grown with these same microbes was less than or equal to when it was grown alone, suggesting that O. montium, and at least some microbes in larval galleries, have a mutualistic or commensal relationship, while G. clavigera and those same microbes have an antagonistic relationship. A bacterium isolated from phloem not colonized by beetles was found to inhibit growth of both G. clavigera and O. montium and appears to be an antagonist to both fungi. Our results suggest that bacteria and yeasts likely influence the distribution of mycangial fungi in the host tree, which, in turn, may affect the fitness of D. ponderosae.
40343363|Natural fluctuations in soil microbial communities are poorly documented because of the inherent difficulty to perform a simultaneous analysis of the relative abundances of multiple populations over a long time period. Yet, it is important to understand the magnitudes of community composition variability as a function of natural influences (e.g., temperature, plant growth, or rainfall) because this forms the reference or baseline against which external disturbances (e.g., anthropogenic emissions) can be judged. Second, definition of baseline fluctuations in complex microbial communities may help to understand at which point the systems become unbalanced and cannot return to their original composition. In this paper, we examined the seasonal fluctuations in the bacterial community of an agricultural soil used for regular plant crop production by using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism profiling (T-RFLP) of the amplified 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) gene diversity. Cluster and statistical analysis of T-RFLP data showed that soil bacterial communities fluctuated very little during the seasons (similarity indices between 0.835 and 0.997) with insignificant variations in 16S rRNA gene richness and diversity indices. Despite overall insignificant fluctuations, between 8 and 30% of all terminal restriction fragments changed their relative intensity in a significant manner among consecutive time samples. To determine the magnitude of community variations induced by external factors, soil samples were subjected to either inoculation with a pure bacterial culture, addition of the herbicide mecoprop, or addition of nutrients. All treatments resulted in statistically measurable changes of T-RFLP profiles of the communities. Addition of nutrients or bacteria plus mecoprop resulted in bacteria composition, which did not return to the original profile within 14 days. We propose that at less than 70% similarity in T-RFLP, the bacterial communities risk to drift apart to inherently different states.
4251032| The hydrophobicity of six strains representing three species of Lactobacillus was measured using dextran-polyethylene glycol contact angle measurements. These ranged from 123.6 for Lactobacillus casei douche to 26.2 for L. casei RC-17 under identical growth conditions. The results indicated that the nutritional environment affected bacterial hydrophobicity. Electrophoretic mobilities of the lactobacilli were also determined and found to be negative for all specimens, and to vary with growth media, especially when sugars were added to urine. The electrophoretic mobility histograms showed one main peak for all strains, except Lactobacillus acidophilus T-13 which had two peaks, suggesting two morphological sizes or types within its population. In addition, strain T-13 was more positively charged than the other five strains after growth in agar, urine, and supplemented urine. The use of contact angle and electrophoretic mobility techniques allows examination of cell surface properties of lactobacilli that may have importance in the colonization of mucosal epithelia. 
4251246| Subsurface sediment samples were collected from 4 to 31 m below landsurface in glacio-fluvial sediments from the Quaternary period. The samples were described in terms of pH, electrical conductivity, chloride concentration, organic matter content, and grain size distribution. Viable counts of bacteria varied from 0.5 to 1,203  10
4250833|Saprophytic fungi have degradative abilities and interspecific interactions which suggest that resource use and yield should increase as species number increases, but previous studies show the opposite. As a test of the possibility that invertebrate activity changes fungal resource use patterns, we grew coprophilous fungi on rabbit feces at the same initial density singly or in mixtures of 2, 4, or 6 species, with or without activity of larval Lycoriella mali (Diptera: Sciaridae). Fungi in mixtures without larvae caused less weight loss in one mixture, and greater weight loss in 2 mixtures than when growing alone; fungi in 4 of 6 mixtures produced fewer spores than when growing alone. Overall, without larvae, weight loss did not increase as number of fungal species increased. Larvae did not change the pattern of weight loss or proportions of spores caused by mixing fungal species. Numbers of larvae surviving to pupate rose as fungal species numbers increased; as a result, weight loss increased with fungal species number in cultures with larvae.
4251773| In acidic mining-impacted lake sediments, the microbial reduction of Fe(III) is the dominant electron-accepting process, whereas the reduction of sulfate seems to be restricted to a narrow sediment zone of elevated pH and lower amounts of total and reactive iron. To evaluate the microbial heterogeneity and the commensal interactions of the microbial community, the flow of supplemental carbon and reductant was evaluated in four different zones of the sediment in anoxic microcosms at the in situ temperature of 12C. Substrate consumption, product formation, and the potential to reduce Fe(III) and sulfate were similar with both upper and lower sediment zones. In the upper acidic iron-rich sediment zone, the rate of Fe(II) formation 204 nmol
4250487| Direct measurements of bacterial denitrification in salt marsh sediments near Woods Hole, Massachusetts were made over a 10-month period using a simple and precise gas-chromatographic technique. Based on laboratory experiments at 5, 10, and 20C, it is shown that seasonal temperature variations select for at least two distinct populations of denitrifiers. In situ incubations suggest that resident populations of denitrifying bacteria are cold-sensitive. Salt marsh denitrifying bacteria are not optimally adapted to their thermal environment, but to temperatures 5-10C higher. In these water-logged muds, rates of bacterial denitrification (0.3-1.5 g N
4251499|Four strains of white rot fungi, including two strains of Pleurotus sp., one Dichomitus squalens, and one Ganoderma applanatum, were grown on milled straw. After colonization of the straw by the fungi, sterile or nonsterile plugs of soil were added to the fungal substrates. The influence of the sterile soil and the indigenous soil microbiota on fungal growth, overall respiration, and production of ligninolytic exoenzymes was assessed. A method for extraction of laccase from soil samples was developed.
25153261|Transcripts of ribosomal RNA have been used for assessing the structure and dynamics of active bacterial populations; however, it remains unclear whether the information provided by community profiling derived from RNA is different from that derived from DNA, particularly when a selective pressure is applied on the bacterial community. In the present work, terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) community profiles based on DNA and RNA extracted from soil microcosms treated with a toxic concentration of chromate were compared. Microcosms of a nonpolluted agricultural soil and of a heavy-metal-rich soil (serpentine) were treated with chromate and DNA and RNA were extracted. T-RFLP analysis was performed on amplified and retro-amplified 16SrRNA gene sequences, and band profiles obtained from samples of DNA and of RNA were compared. Some of the T-RFLP bands, identified as peculiar peaks in the profiles, were cloned and sequenced for taxonomic interpretation. Results indicated that: (1) community profiles derived from RNA and DNA were partly overlapping; (2) there was a strong correlation between the dynamics shown by RNA- and DNA-based T-RFLP profiles; (3) chromate addition exerted a clear effect on both agricultural and serpentine soil bacterial communities, either at the DNA and at the RNA level; however, the profiles derived from RNA showed sharper differences between treated and control samples than that of DNA-based profiles.
27770560|In the present study, we sequenced the RNA polymerase beta subunit (rpoB) gene of marine Vibrio species and assessed its discriminative power in identifying vibrios. Both the rpoB and 16S rRNA sequences of 29 phenotypically different Vibrio strains isolated from coastal waters were determined. Molecular and phylogenetic comparisons of the sequences of these two genes classified the 29 strains into 11 different species. The resolution of the Vibrio spp. on the rpoB phylogenetic tree was approximately three times greater than that on the 16S rRNA phylogenetic tree. Moreover, by comparing the rpoB sequences of 98 marine -Proteobacteria, including 38 marine Vibrio species, Vibrio-specific primers were developed to amplify a 730-bp fragment of the rpoB gene. Using these primers, we successfully detected Vibrio signals in environmental samples and determined their relative abundances via comparisons with known standards. This rpoB-targeting polymerase chain reaction assay can be used efficiently to monitor relative Vibrio abundance in marine waters.
4251817|Wood blocks inoculated with fungi were placed in a stream in order to investigate their interactions with the native mycota. Wood blocks were inoculated with single or paired isolates of tropical fungi, whereas no fungi were inoculated onto controls. After 3 months, the wood blocks were collected and the number of newly colonizing fungi were identified. More fungi were found on uninoculated than on wood blocks pre-inoculated with Chaetosphaeria sp. Neither Nais aquatica or Annulatascus velatisporus inhibited colonization when inoculated singly. However, in combination, they inhibited colonization by other fungi, indicating an interaction between the two species. Inoculated wood blocks were generally first colonized by hyphomycetes, with a low occurrence of ascomycetes. The study also showed that autoclaving wood for use in experiments affects the outcome of the experiments, i.e., affects the structure of the fungal community.
4251775|Previously, we discovered the phenomenon of wavelike spatial distributions of bacterial populations and total organic carbon (TOC) along wheat roots. We hypothesized that the principal mechanism underlying this phenomenon is a cycle of growth, death, autolysis, and regrowth of bacteria in response to a moving substrate source (root tip). The aims of this research were (i) to create a simulation model describing wavelike patterns of microbial populations in the rhizosphere, and (ii) to investigate by simulation the conditions leading to these patterns. After transformation of observed spatial data to presumed temporal data based on root growth rates, a simulation model was constructed with the Runge-Kutta integration method to simulate the dynamics of colony-forming bacterial biomass, with growth and death rates depending on substrate content so that the rate curves crossed over at a substrate concentration within the range of substrate availability in the model. This model was named "BACWAVE," standing for "bacterial waves." Cyclic dynamics of bacteria were generated by the model that were translated into traveling spatial waves along a moving nutrient source. Parameter values were estimated from calculated initial substrate concentrations and observed microbial distributions along wheat roots by an iterative optimization method. The kinetic parameter estimates fell in the range of values reported in the literature. Calculated microbial biomass values produced spatial fluctuations similar to those obtained for experimental biomass data derived from colony forming units. Concentrations of readily utilizable substrate calculated from biomass dynamics did not mimic measured concentrations of TOC, which consist not only of substrate but also various polymers and humic acids. In conclusion, a moving pulse of nutrients resulting in cycles of growth and death of microorganisms can indeed explain the observed phenomenon of moving microbial waves along roots. This is the first report of wavelike dynamics of microorganisms in soil along a root resulting from the interaction of a single organism group with its substrate.
4250482|A transport equation is used which describes the temporal behavior of interacting populations in changing environments. The formulation takes into account the internal state variables of the individuals. The general theory is applied to the transient analysis of a microbial predator-prey system using an approximate model for the specific cell growth rate and multigroup formulism to approximate the mass distribution within the population. Experimental results in a Tetrahymena pyriformis-Aerobacter aerogenes system have been used to evaluate the group parameters and test the validity of the theoretical predictions.
40605691|It is suspected that phagotrophic marine protozoa might possess feeding receptors that enable them to discern the nutritional quality of individual prey items (during preyhandling) on the basis of their cell-surface biochemistry. This article reviews advances in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms that mediate the biorecognition and selection of nonself (microalgal) prey items by the microplanktonic marine phagotroph Oxyrrhis marina. The potential importance of lectin-glycan interactions is first considered in view of findings which demonstrate that O. marina possesses lectin-like feeding receptors specific for prey-surface (mannose) glycoconjugates. Secondly, some conceptual bases for indirect or 'opsonic' modes of prey biorecognition mediated by soluble prey-labelling proteins are presented. Finally, the possibility that some accounts of selective feeding in O. marina might result from the noxious effects of prey-associated chemicals rather than active 'distaste' by phagotrophic cells is discussed. Recent evidence for toxic Superoxide (O) production by marine microalgae is afforded particular attention given that release of O anions can be exacerbated by the binding of mannose-specific lectins to the microalgal cell wall; a novel model for grazing-activated chemical defence is proposed.
40605728|Characterization of Bdellovibrio- and like organisms (BALOs) from environmental samples involves growing them in the presence of Gram-negative prey bacteria and isolation of BALO plaques. This laborintensive enrichment and isolation procedure may impede the detection and phylogenetic characterization of uncultivable BALOs. In this article, we describe a simple slide biofilm assay to improve detection and characterization of BALO microbiota. Agar spiked with biostimulants such as yeast extract (YE), casamino acids (CA), or concentrated cells of Vibrio parahaemolyticus P5 (most widely used prey bacteria for isolation of halophilic BALOs) was plated onto buffed glass slides and exposed to water samples collected from Apalachicola Bay, Florida. After incubating for a week, diversity of the biofilm bacterial community was studied by culture-dependent and culture-independent molecular methods. The results revealed that most probable numbers (MPNs) of BALOs and total culturable bacteria recovered from YE agar slide were significantly higher than the numbers on CA-or P5-spiked agar slides. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism followed by 16S rDNA sequencing of clones from different biostimulants resulted in identification of a plethora of Gram-negative bacteria predominantly from the alpha, gamma, delta-proteobacteria, and the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides group. Corresponding to the higher biomass on the YE agar slide, the BALO clone library from YE was most diverse, consisting of Bacteriovorax spp. and a novel clade representing Peredibacter spp. Microbiota from all three biostimulated biofilms were exclusively Gram-negative, and each bacterial guild represented potential prey for BALOs. We propose the use of this simple yet novel slide biofilm assay to study oligotrophic aquatic bacterial diversity which could also potentially be utilized to isolate marine bacteria with novel traits.
4250733| A surface growth rate equation is derived which describes simultaneous growth and attachment during microbial surface colonization. The equation simplifies determination of attachment and growth rate, and does not require a computer program for solution. This rate equation gives the specific growth rate () as a function of the number of cells on the surface (N), the incubation period (t), and the number of colonies ( C
4251304| The response of natural populations of bacteria (prepared by passing Lake Kinneret water through 1 m filters) to additions of Fe
4287489| The contribution of the earthworm Lumbricus rubellus in spreading plasmids from a nonindigenous bacterial species to the soil microbial community was studied with Escherichia coli strains as donor organisms. The selected donor strains harbored marker-gene tagged plasmids with different transfer properties and host ranges. Prototrophic benzoate degrading indigenous bacteria were analyzed as potential recipients. In filter-mating experiments, donor strains were mixed with bacterial cell consortia extracted from earthworm casts (feces) and incubated on nutrient agar at 28C. Transfer was detected with the broad host range IncP plasmid pRP4luc; with the IncQ plasmid, pSUP104luc, but only when it was present in a mobilizing donor strain; and with the transposon delivery vector pUTlux. No transfer was detected with the nonmobilizable pUCluc and the mobilizable pSUP202luc, both of narrow host range. In microcosm studies with E. coli inoculated soil incubated at 12C, transconjugants were only detected in casts of L. rubellus but not in bulk soil, indicating that the gut passage was a precondition for plasmid transfer. Plasmid pRP4luc was transferred at higher frequencies than detected in filter mating. Results of the filter matings were confirmed except that transfer of pUTlux could not be detected. The majority of transconjugants isolated in this study lost their acquired plasmid upon further cultivation. Stable transconjugants, however, were obtained and identified at the 16S rRNA gene level as members of the - and -subgroups of Proteobacteria. Incubation of E. coli and selected transconjugants in soil microcosms with L. rubellus demonstrated that the gut passage resulted in a slight but significant reduction of ingested cells. In contrast to the donor strains, however, the population sizes of transconjugants in bulk soil and in casts did not decrease over time. This demonstrated that the transferred plasmids had established themselves in the soil microbial community. 
25153466|Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is an inducible systemic plant defense against a broad spectrum of plant pathogens, with the potential to secrete antimicrobial compounds into the soil. However, its impact on rhizosphere bacteria is not known. In this study, we examined fingerprints of bacterial communities in the rhizosphere of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana to determine the effect of SAR on bacterial community structure and diversity. We compared Arabidopsis mutants that are constitutive and non-inducible for SAR and verified SAR activation by measuring pathogenesis-related protein activity via a -glucoronidase (GUS) reporter construct driven by the -1-3 glucanase promoter. We used terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of MspI- and HaeIII-digested 16S rDNA to estimate bacterial rhizosphere community diversity, with Lactobacillus sp. added as internal controls. T-RFLP analysis showed a clear rhizosphere effect on community structure, and diversity analysis of both rhizosphere and bulk soil operational taxonomic units (as defined by terminal restriction fragments) using richness, Shannon-Weiner, and Simpson's diversity indices and evenness confirmed that the presence of Arabidopsis roots significantly altered bacterial communities. This effect of altered soil microbial community structure by plants was also seen upon multivariate cluster analysis of the terminal restriction fragments. We also found visible differences in the rhizosphere community fingerprints of different Arabidopsis SAR mutants; however, there was no clear decrease of rhizosphere diversity because of constitutive SAR expression. Our study suggests that SAR can alter rhizosphere bacterial communities, opening the door to further understanding and application of inducible plant defense as a driving force in structuring soil bacterial assemblages.
25153371|The coastal ecosystems of California are highly utilized by humans and animals, but the ecology of fecal bacteria at the land-sea interface is not well understood. This study evaluated the distribution of potentially pathogenic bacteria in invertebrates from linked marine, estuarine, and freshwater ecosystems in central California. A variety of filter-feeding clams, mussels, worms, and crab tissues were selectively cultured for Salmonella spp., Campylobacter spp., Escherichia coli-O157, Clostridium perfringens, Plesiomonas shigelloides, and Vibrio spp. A longitudinal study assessed environmental risk factors for detecting these bacterial species in sentinel mussel batches. Putative risk factors included mussel collection near higher risk areas for livestock or human sewage exposure, adjacent human population density, season, recent precipitation, water temperature, water type, bivalve type, and freshwater outflow exposure. Bacteria detected in invertebrates included Salmonella spp., C. perfringens, P. shigelloides, Vibrio cholerae, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, and Vibrio alginolyticus. Overall, 80% of mussel batches were culture positive for at least one of the bacterial species, although the pathogens Campylobacter, E. coli-O157, and Salmonella were not detected. Many of the same bacterial species were also cultured from upstream estuarine and riverine invertebrates. Exposure to human sewage sources, recent precipitation, and water temperature were significant risk factors for bacterial detection in sentinel mussel batches. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that filter-feeding invertebrates along the coast concentrate fecal bacteria flowing from land to sea and show that the relationships between anthropogenic effects on coastal ecosystems and the environmental niches of fecal bacteria are complex and dynamic.
40343354|We conducted a field survey of periphyton cultivated on benthic mesh installations in freshwater aquatic systems, including two constructed wetlands and a pond, and also studied periphyton grown on a benthic mesh in laboratory mesocosms. The objectives of this study were to (1) determine if periphyton cultivated on benthic mesh denitrifies at higher rates than the underlying sediments and (2) determine if denitrification rates within periphyton vary with characteristics such as algal and bacterial community structure and biomass. We measured denitrification potential rates of field and laboratory periphyton by the acetylene inhibition method. We characterized algal community composition by algal identification and bacterial community composition by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms. Periphyton collected on benthic mesh from our field sites denitrified at significantly higher rates than the underlying sediments, regardless of sampling site or season. Results from both our field survey and laboratory studies indicated a significant, positive correlation between diatom presence and denitrification rate. In our laboratory studies, we found that periphyton with the highest diatom abundance showed the highest denitrification rates as well as a distinct bacterial community composition. These results suggest a synergistic relationship between diatoms and denitrifying bacteria that warrants further study.
25256150|The feeding efficiency of microbial predators depends on both the availability of various prey species and abiotic variables. Myxococcus xanthus is a bacterial predator that searches for microbial prey by gliding motility, and then kills and lyses its prey with secreted compounds. We manipulated three ecological variables to examine their effects on the predatory performance of M. xanthus to better understand its behavior and how it affects prey populations. Experiments were designed to determine how surface solidity (hard vs soft agar), density of prey patches (1 vs 2 cm grids), and type of prey (Gram-positive Micrococcus luteus vs Gram-negative Escherichia coli) affect predatory swarming and prey killing by M. xanthus. The prey were dispersed in patches on a buffered agar surface. M. xanthus swarms attacked a greater proportion of prey patches when patches were densely arranged on a hard-agar surface, compared with either soft-agar surfaces or low-patch-density arrangements. These ecological variables did not significantly influence the rate of killing of individual prey within a patch, although a few surviving prey were more likely to be recovered on soft agar than on hard agar. These results indicate that M. xanthus quickly kills most nearby E. coli or M. luteus regardless of the surface. However, the ability of M. xanthus to search out patches of these prey is affected by surface hardness, the density of prey patches, and the prey species.
4251331|A bacterial parasite (designated as BEV) of the leafhopper Euscelidius variegatus, which is passed transovarially to offspring, was transmitted from insect to insect via feeding of the insects in plants. The rate of bacterial infection of leafhoppers fed upon plants that had previously been exposed to BEV-infected leafhoppers declined with an increase in the time that infected leafhoppers had been off rye grass. Transmission of BEV also occurred on sugar beet and barley but not celery. The bacterium was also transmitted to and acquired from membrane-encased artificial diets. There was no evidence that the bacterium was transmitted via plant surfaces, but transmission and direct culture assays from plants indicated that the bacterium did not multiply or move within plants. This parasite-host relationship may represent a primitive stage in either the evolution of intracellular symbiosis with its insect host or to alternative parasitization of plant and insect hosts via insect transmission, as is the case for insect-vectored plant pathogens.
25256183|Sunlight reacts with dissolved organic matter (DOM) modifying its availability as bacterial substrate. We assessed the impact of DOM photoproducts and mineral nutrient supply on bacterial growth in seven inland waters from the South of Spain, where DOM is characterized by low chromophoric content and long residence time. Factorial experiments were performed with presence vs absence of DOM photoproducts and mineral nutrient supply. In six of the seven experiments, we found a significant and negative effect of DOM photoproducts on bacterial growth and a significant and positive effect of mineral nutrient supply. The interaction of these two factors leaded to a compensation of negative effects of photoproducts by availability of mineral nutrients. Dissolved organic matter diagenetic status and the ionic environment where organic carbon is dissolved can be influencing bacterial DOM processing.
4287554|Axenic growth of a mixotrophic alga, Ochromonas sp., was compared in several inorganic and organic media, and in the presence of live bacteria under nutrient-replete and low-nutrient conditions. Axenic growth in the light was negligible in inorganic media with or without the addition of glucose. Addition of vitamins increased growth rate, but average cell size declined, resulting in no net increase in biomass. Supplementing axenic cultures with a more complex organic substrate resulted in moderate growth and higher maximal abundance (and biomass) than in the inorganic media with added vitamins. The absence of light did not greatly affect population growth rate in the presence of complex dissolved organic compounds, although cell size was significantly greater in the light than in the dark. The highest growth rates for the alga (up to 2.6 d
40926490|The degradation of detrital organic matter and assimilation of carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P) by heterotrophic microbial communities is mediated by enzymes released into the environment (ecoenzymes). For the attached microbial communities of soils and freshwater sediments, the activities of -glucosidase, -N-acetylglucosaminidase, leucine aminopeptidase, and phosphatase show consistent stoichiometric patterns. To determine whether similar constraints apply to planktonic communities, we assembled data from nine studies that include measurements of these enzyme activities along with microbial productivity. By normalizing enzyme activity to productivity, we directly compared the ecoenzymatic stoichiometry of aquatic biofilm and bacterioplankton communities. The relationships between -glucosidase and -glucosidase and -glucosidase and -N-acetylglucosaminidase were statistically indistinguishable for the two community types, while the relationships between -glucosidase and phosphatase and -glucosidase and leucine aminopeptidase significantly differed. For -glucosidase vs. phosphatase, the differences in slope (biofilm 0.65, plankton 1.05) corresponded with differences in the mean elemental C:P ratio of microbial biomass (60 and 106, respectively). For -glucosidase vs. leucine aminopeptidase, differences in slope (0.80 and 1.02) did not correspond to differences in the mean elemental C:N of biomass (8.6 and 6.6). -N-Acetylglucosaminidase activity in biofilms was significantly greater than that of plankton, suggesting that aminosaccharides were a relatively more important N source for biofilms, perhaps because fungi are more abundant. The slopes of -glucosidase vs. (-N acetylglucosaminidase + leucine aminopeptidase) regressions (biofilm 1.07, plankton 0.94) corresponded more closely to the estimated difference in mean biomass C:N. Despite major differences in physical structure and trophic organization, biofilm and plankton communities have similar ecoenzymatic stoichiometry in relation to productivity and biomass composition. These relationships can be integrated into the stoichiometric and metabolic theories of ecology and used to analyze community metabolism in relation to resource constraints.
23469144|Thiamine (vitamin B 1 ) is produced by many plants, algae and bacteria, but by higher trophic levels, it must be acquired through the diet. We experimentally investigated how the thiamine content of six phytoplankton species belonging to five different phyla is affected by abiotic stress caused by changes in temperature, salinity and photon flux density. Correlations between growth rate and thiamine content per cell were negative for the five eukaryotic species, but not for the cyanobacterium Nodularia spumigena. We demonstrate a high variability in thiamine content among phytoplankton species, with the highest content in N. spumigena. Salinity was the factor with the strongest effect, followed by temperature and photon flux density, although the responses varied between the investigated phytoplankton species. Our results suggest that regime shifts in phytoplankton community composition through large-scale environmental changes has the potential to alter the thiamine availability for higher trophic levels. A decreased access to this essential vitamin may have serious consequences for aquatic food webs.
4250927|The rates of dark
4287732|Based on work in marine sediments it can be hypothesized that (i) overall OM mineralization depends on the enzymatic capacity and is largely independent from the energy yield, (ii) similar oxic and anoxic rates are expected for fresh OM, while oxic rates should be faster for old OM that is partially degraded or adsorbed to particles, and (iii) that the thermodynamic energy yield does not regulate mineralization, but primarily determines the energy fraction allocated to bacterial production (BP). We addressed these hypotheses by simultaneous measurements of mineralization rates (MR) and BP in sediments from a eutrophic lake, along with MR measurements in sediments of a dystrophic lake. Anoxic MR were 44 and 78% of oxic MR in the eutrophic and dystrophic lake, respectively, which was always higher than expected given the theoretical energy yields. The BP:MR ratio was 0.94 and 0.24 in the oxic and anoxic treatments, respectively, in accordance with the expected energy yields. Thus, the results support all three hypotheses above. We also critically discuss BP measurements in sediments and suggest that bacterial growth efficiency values from simultaneous MR and BP measurements can be used to evaluate the reliability of BP estimates.
4251347|The cloning, sequencing, and analysis of a Pseudomonas stutzeri Zobell 23S rRNA gene is described. Three variable regions were identified, and oligonucleotides homologous to portions of these regions were synthesized. The oligonucleotides were used as probes to screen DNA from various cultured bacteria to identify a species-specific probe. All probes were found to hybridize strongly with P. stutzeri Zobell DNA under stringent conditions and did not hybridize with other Pseudomonas species. One probe showed slight cross-reactivity with DNA from four other bacteria under the hybridization conditions used. Finally, PCR conditions were optimized for detection of P. stutzeri Zobell in mixed culture with a detection limit of 400 cells. The assay detected P. stutzeri Zobell rDNA in coastal seawater samples sampled over a 20-month period. In the future, these probes could be used to quantify the 23S rRNA and rDNA from P. stutzeri Zobell in mixed culture and in environmental samples.
4251695|Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) fingerprinting was used to determine the genetic similarity of whole-community DNA extracts from unattached microorganisms in several groundwater wells. The study site was a shallow coastal plain aquifer on the Eastern Shore of Virginia that contains distinct regions of anaerobic and aerobic groundwater. Several wells in each region were sampled, and principal component and cluster analyses showed a clear separation of the microbial communities from the two chemical zones of the aquifer. Within these zones, there was no relationship between the genetic relatedness of a pair of communities and their spatial separation. Two additional sets of samples were taken at later times, and the same clear separation between communities in the different zones of the aquifer was observed. The specific relationships between wells within each zone changed over time, however, and the magnitude and direction of these changes corresponded to concurrent changes in the groundwater chemistry at each well. Together, these results suggest that local variation in groundwater chemistry can support genetically distinct microbial communities, and that the composition of the microbial communities can follow seasonal fluctuations in groundwater chemistry.
4251440|A lithotrophic ammonia-oxidizing bacterium of the Nitrosomonas type was isolated from the lower River Elbe. Enrichment was attained from suspended particulate matter (SPM) of a water sample. At its natural environment, this species almost exclusively occurred attached to flocs, as demonstrated with the immunofluorescence technique. On the species level, the isolate was not related to any of the described Nitrosomonas species. The strain was characterized by strong production of exopolymeric substances (EPS) and was observed to occur self-flocculating in pure cultures. Low ammonia concentrations stimulated EPS production. The EPS revealed an extensive capacity for binding particulate and dissolved materials, as well as cells of other bacterial species. This capacity was affected by changing pH values or salt concentrations of the medium. The EPS appeared to function as a buffer against toxic compounds and against changing environmental conditions. Another Nitrosomonas strain isolated from the Elbe estuary, but lacking recognizable EPS production, was used for comparison.
25153228|A screening for plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) was carried out in the mycorrhizosphere of wild populations of Pinus pinea and P. pinaster, and in the mycosphere of associated Lactarius deliciosus. A total of 720 bacteria were isolated, purified, and grouped by morphological criteria. Fifty percent of the isolates were selected and tested for aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) degradation, auxin and siderophore production, and phosphate solubilization. Thirty eight percent of the isolates showed at least one of the evaluated activities. Nutrient-related traits were associated with P. pinaster, whereas hormone production traits predominated in P. pinea. These activities were found mostly in Gram positive isolates. After PCR-RAPDs (random amplified polymorphic DNA) analysis, 10 groups appeared with 85% similiarity when considering all isolates, indicating the low diversity in the system. One strain of each group was identified by 16S rDNA sequencing. Our results suggest that P. pinaster selects for mycorrhizosphere bacteria that mobilize nutrients, whereas P. pinea selects for bacteria that have the capacity to increase root growth via production of plant growth regulators.
4251060|Dissolved chemical inducers of settlement behavior of veliger larvae of the oyster Crassostrea gigas are found in supernatants of both pigmented species of bacteria (Alteromonas colwelliana, Vibrio cholerae strain HTX) as well as nonpigmented bacteria (Excherichia coli, Vibrio cholerae strain 596-B). Usually less than 10% of veligers exhibited settlement behavior in response to supernatants from the early bacterial growth phases, whereas 30-90% of larvae responded when exposed to supernatant from late-log and stationary phase cultures. Percentages of larvae exhibiting settlement behavior were inversely correlated with oxygen levels in the culture. Furthermore, the behavioral response decreased with pigment formation, suggesting that quantities of noxious compounds such as quinones may build up in the supernatants of cultures of pigmented bacteria. Tyrosinase, an enzyme that converts L-tyrosine to L-DOPA in the first step of melanogenesis, was detected both in the bacterial pellet and the supernatant during growth of the pigmented species. The enzyme is not required for the production of settlement inducer as the nonpigmented species E. coli and V. cholerae (596-B) also released inducer into the supernatant and had no detectable tyrosinase. The data suggest either that there is more than one inducer of settlement behavior found in bacterial supernatants or that the inducer is not L-DOPA or an L-DOPA-mimetic associated with the melanin biochemical pathway.
40343392|Weaning of the pig is generally regarded as a stressful event which could lead to clinical implications because of the changes in the intestinal ecosystem. The functional properties of microbiota inhabiting the pig's small intestine (SI), including lactobacilli which are assumed to exert health-promoting properties, are yet poorly described. Thus, we determined the ecophysiology of bacterial groups and within genus Lactobacillus in the SI of weaning piglets and the impact of dietary changes. The SI contents of 20 piglets, 4 killed at weaning (only sow milk and no creep feed) and 4 killed at 1, 2, 5, and 11 days post weaning (pw; cereal-based diet) were examined for bacterial cell count and bacterial metabolites by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Lactobacilli were the predominant group in the SI except at 1 day pw because of a marked reduction in their number. On day 11 pw, bifidobacteria and E. coli were not detected, and Enterobacteriaceae and members of the Clostridium coccoidesl Eubacterium rectale cluster were only found occasionally. L. sobrius/L. amylovorus became dominant species whereas the abundance of L. salivarius and L. gasseri/johnsonii declined. Concentration of lactic acid increased pw whereas pH, volatile fatty acids, and ammonia decreased. Carbohydrate utilization of 76 Lactobacillus spp. isolates was studied revealing a shift from lactose and galactose to starch, cellobiose, and xylose, suggesting that the bacteria colonizing the SI of piglets adapt to the newly introduced nutrients during the early weaning period. Identification of isolates based on partial 16S rRNA gene sequence data and comparison with fermentation data furthermore suggested adaptation processes below the species level. The results of our study will help to understand intestinal bacterial ecophysiology and to develop nutritional regimes to prevent or counteract complications during the weaning transition.
4251282| Accumulation of cobalt and cesium by the microalga Scenedesmus obliquus and the cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803 has been characterized at metal concentrations ranging from 1-100 M in the presence of three clay minerals, montmorillonite, illite, and kaolinite. The majority of metal uptake over a 4 h period consisted of rapid binding to the clay mineral-cell aggregates, and was unaffected by incubation in the dark or by the presence of the metabolic inhibitor carbonyl cyanide-3-chlorophenyl hydrazone (CCCP). This was followed by a slower, energy-dependent uptake of metal by the cell components of the mixtures, which was inhibited by incubation in the dark or in the presence of CCCP. The initial phase of uptake by the clay mineral-cell mixtures and mixture components alone conformed to a Freundlich adsorption isotherm, the order of uptake for both cobalt and cesium being montmorillonite-cells > illite-cells > kaolinite-cells. S. obliquus-clay mineral mixtures accumulated more cobalt and cesium than Synechocystis PCC 6803-clay mineral mixtures. On a dry weight basis, clay minerals alone accumulated greater amounts of metals than clay mineral-cell mixtures, which accumulated more than the cells alone. However, when the same data was expressed as amount of metal adsorbed per unit surface area, S. obliquus, in most cases, adsorbed greater amounts of cobalt and cesium than the clay minerals or Synechocystis PCC 6803. As the proportion of clay in a cell-clay mineral mixture was increased, the amount of metal accumulated also increased. Reduced accumulation of cobalt and cesium by cell-clay mineral mixtures, exhibited by equal amounts of the individual components added together, indicated that the formation of clay-cell aggregates had masked some of the binding sites normally available to metal ions. Accumulation of cobalt and cesium by all clay mineral-cell mixtures was dependent on the external pH and NaCl concentration, and decreased with decreasing pH and increasing external NaCl concentration. 
40343368|Aquatic hyphomycetes play an essential role in the decomposition of allochthonous organic matter which is a fundamental process driving the functioning of forested headwater streams. We studied the effect of anthropogenic acidification on aquatic hyphomycetes associated with decaying leaves of Fagus sylvatica in six forested headwater streams (pH range, 4.3-7.1). Non-metric multidimensional scaling revealed marked differences in aquatic hyphomycete assemblages between acidified and reference streams. We found strong relationships between aquatic hyphomycete richness and mean Al concentration (r=-0.998, p< 0.0001) and mean pH (r= 0.962, p< 0.002), meaning that fungal diversity was severely depleted in acidified streams. By contrast, mean fungal biomass was not related to acidity. Leaf breakdown rate was drastically reduced under acidic conditions raising the issue of whether the functioning of headwater ecosystems could be impaired by a loss of aquatic hyphomycete species.
4287559|The bacterioplankton density in Ria de Aveiro, a shallow estuarine ecosystem, varied in the broad range of
25256181|A temporal temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TTGE) method was developed to determine the diversity of methanogen populations in the rumen. Tests with amplicons from genomic DNA from 12 cultured methanogens showed single bands for all strains, with only two showing apparently comigrating bands. Fingerprints of methanogen populations were analyzed from DNA extracted from rumen contents from two cattle and four sheep grazing pasture. For one sheep, dilution cultures selective for methanogens were grown and the culturable methanogens in each successive dilution examined by TTGE. A total of 66 methanogen sequences were retrieved from bands in fingerprints and analyzed to reveal the presence of methanogens belonging to the Methanobacteriales, the Methanosarcinales, and to an uncultured archaeal lineage. Twenty-four sequences were most similar to Methanobrevibacter ruminantium, five to Methanobrevibacter smithii, four to Methanosphaera stadtmanae, and for three, the nearest match was Methanimicrococcus blatticola. The remaining 30 sequences did not cluster with sequences from cultured archaea, but when combined with published novel sequences from clone libraries formed a monophyletic lineage within the Euryarchaeota, which contained two previously unrecognized clusters. The TTGE bands from this lineage showed that the uncultured methanogens had significant population densities in each of the six rumen samples examined. In cultures of dilutions from one rumen sample, TTGE examination revealed these methanogens at a level of at least 10 g. Band intensities from low-dilution cultures indicated that these methanogens were present at similar densities to Methanobrevibacter ruminantium-like methanogens, the sole culturable methanogens in high dilutions (10-10 g). It is suggested that the uncultured methanogens together with Methanobrevibacter spp. may be the predominant methanogens in the rumen. The TTGE method presented in this article provides a new opportunity for characterizing methanogen populations in the rumen microbial ecosystem.
4250782| A mathematical model for the interaction of Bdellovibrio and its prey predicted that a relatively high prey density (7  10
4251541|The aim of this study was to assess the structure and function of the microbial loop in a peatland of the French Massif central, and the impact of fertilization on the different microbial communities. In terms of biomass, testate Amoeba (48% of the total microbial biomass), heterotrophic bacteria (15%), cyanobacteria (14%) and Bacillariophyceae (13%) were the dominant groups of microorganisms. Other microalgae (7%), ciliates (2%) and heterotrophic flagellates (1%) accounted for only a low proportion of total microbial biomass. The relative importance of heterotrophic microorganisms was higher than in marine or lacustrine environments. In addition, ciliates and heterotrophic flagellates only constituted a small proportion of the total protozoan biomass, which was heavily dominated by testate amoeba. Thus, the structure of the protist community in the subaquatic peatland was completely different from that reported for lakes or marine environments. In other aspects, the supply of nutrients (PKCa and NPKCa) resulted in increases of the relative biomasses of heterotrophic bacteria, Bacillariophyceae, and ciliates and by a decrease in the relative proportion of testate amoeba and of other microalgae.
41489201|The MHV-68 (designed as Murid herpesvirus 4 (MuHV 4) strain 68) isolated from two rodents, Myodes glareolus and Apodemus flavicollis, is considered as a natural pathogen of free-living murid rodents. Recently, the detection of MHV antibodies in the blood of animals living in the same biotope as MHV-infected mice has suggested that ticks may have a role in the transmission of this pathogen. Ixodes ricinus is one the most abundant tick species in Europe known to transmit multiple pathogens causing human and animal diseases. In this study, nymphs and larvae feeding on 116 individuals of a temperate lizard speciesthe green lizard Lacerta viridis captured in the Slovak Karst National Park, were examined for MHV-68. The specific sequence of virion glycoprotein 150 was amplified in DNA individually isolated from I. ricinus ticks using single-copy sensitive nested polymerase chain reaction. MHV-68 was detected in ten of 649 nymphs and in five of 150 larvae, respectively. We found that 9.6% of green lizards fed at least one MHV-68-infected immature tick. Occurrence of MHV-68 within all ticks tested was 1.8%. This study is first to show that immature I. ricinus ticks feeding on free-living lizards in a Central European region could be infected with gammaherpesvirus (MHV-68), naturally infecting free-living murid rodents. Our results provide evidence supporting the hypothesis that ticks may play a mediating role in circulation of MHV-68 in nature.
27770606|Two separate experiments were conducted with hybrid striped bass to evaluate four potential prebiotics: GroBiotic-A (partially autolyzed brewer's yeast, dairy ingredient components, and fermentation products), mannanoligosaccharide (MOS), galactooligosaccharide (GOS), and inulin. In the in vitro experiment, intestinal contents were incubated with the individual prebiotics (0.5% by weight) at 25C for 24 and 48 h. Analysis of volatile fatty acids in the supernatant showed that GroBiotic-A, MOS, and GOS tended to produce lower acetate levels but higher butyrate levels at 48 h compared to diet alone. However, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis failed to detect any differences in the composition of the microbial community among treatments. DNA sequencing of a common band for all inoculated samples revealed close similarity to the anaerobic Fusobacteria bacterium. An 8-week feeding trial also was conducted to evaluate the four prebiotics looking at growth performance; weight gain, feed efficiency ratio, protein efficiency ratio, whole-body ash, moisture, and lipid did not vary among fish fed the various diets. However, DGGE analysis revealed that all prebiotics produced a different type of microbial community in the intestinal tract of hybrid striped bass compared to fish fed the basal diet. Thus, GroBiotic-A, FOS, GOS, and MOS exhibited prebiotic effects in hybrid striped bass.
4251148|Fresh and dichlorophenol (DCP)-adapted sediments from two ponds near Athens, Georgia exhibited distinctly different dechlorinating activities. These differences centered on the relative rates of reductive dechlorination in both fresh and adapted sediments and on the substrate specificity of the adapted sediments. Fresh Cherokee Trailer Park Pond sediment dechlorinated 2,3-, 2,4-, and 2,6-DCP to monochlorophenols at a faster rate and after a shorter lag period than fresh Bolton's Pond sediment. Lag periods were not observed in either Cherokee or Bolton's sediments that had been adapted to dechlorinate either 2,3-, 2,4- or 2,6-DCP. Adapted Cherokee sediments exhibited faster dechlorinating rates and a broader substrate specificity than the adapted Bolton's sediments. The broad substrate specificity of each of the adapted Cherokee sediments contrasted sharply with the narrow specificity of the 2,6-DCP-adapted Bolton's sediment. The preference for reductive dechlorination was ortho > meta or para in sediments from both ponds.
4251035| Sixty-two aerobic bacterial strains isolated from the unproductive dystrophic Lake Skrshultsjn (South Sweden) were screened for plasmids. The lake is considered to be an extreme environment because of its high concentration of persistent but nontoxic humic compounds. One-third of the isolates harbored multiple plasmids usually of similar high molecular weights (>25 Mdal). The plasmid-bearing strains were members of the common aquatic taxa Pseudomonas spp., Acinetobacter sp., Alcaligenes sp., Aeromonas/Vibrio group, and Enterobacteriaceae (taxonomy is tentative). The majority of isolates displayed multiple resistance to antibiotics and heavy metals. Some of them were capable of degrading aromatic compounds. Three isolates were chosen for curing experiments. Only strain S-68, an Alcaligenes sp., could be cured of one of its two plasmids. It harbored the two cryptic plasmids pQQ32 and pQQ70 of 32 and ca. 70 Mdal, and the latter was segregated during ethidium bromide treatment. Parental strain S-68 was capable of degrading some of nonchlorinated phenolic compounds and displayed resistance to a broad spectrum of antibiotics and the heavy metals Co
4251702| The phylogenetic diversity of the bacterial community associated with leaves of the marine plant Halophila stipulacea in the northern Gulf of Elat was examined by 16S rRNA gene (rDNA) sequence analyses of a clone library. For 59 clones corresponding to 51 ARDRA (amplified rDNA restriction analysis) groups, the sequence of 1 kb was determined, and the fraction of the corresponding ARDRA groups of the leaf library was calculated. The class Proteobacteria was represented by 62.6% of the clone sequences. Most sequences originated from members of the -subclass (27.3%), affiliated with members of the genera (Pseudomonas, Vibrio, Marinomonas, Oceanospirillum, and other marine groups. Affiliation to the -subclass was determined for 24.2% of the sequences. They were related to the genera Hyphomonas, Roseobacter, Ruegeria, and Rhizobiaceae. Several -proteobacterial sequences were distantly related to known sequences. Only 4% of the clone sequences were related to -Proteobacteria. Additionally, 7.1% of the sequences possibly belonged to the class Proteobacteria, but branched deeply from known subclasses. Several sequences were affiliated to members of the orders Verrucomicrobiales and Planctomycetales, the Holophaga/Acidobacterium phylum, and chloroplasts of marine diatoms. 
23469146|Diurnal patterns of spore release have been observed in a number of fungal pathogens that undergo wind-assisted dispersal. The mechanisms that drive these patterns, while not well understood, are thought to relate to the ability of dispersing spores to survive their journey and infect new hosts. In this paper, we characterise the diurnal pattern of ascospore release by a Western Australian population of Leptosphaeria maculans. Although L. maculans has been previously shown to exhibit diurnal patterns of ascospore release, these patterns appear to vary from region to region. In order to characterise the pattern of release in the Mediterranean climate of Western Australia, we analysed historical data describing the bi-hourly count of airborne ascospores at Mt Barker, Western Australia. Results of this analysis showed diurnal patterns that differ from those previously observed in other countries, with ascospore release in our study most likely to occur in the afternoon. Furthermore, we found that the time of peak release can shift from month to month within any one season, and from year to year. In explaining the hourly pattern of spore release over an entire season, time since rainfall, time since last release, temperature, hour and month were all shown to be significant variables.
41489154|Although phototrophic microbial communities are important components of soils in arid and semi-arid ecosystems around the world, the knowledge of their taxonomic composition and dependency on soil chemistry and vegetation is still fragmentary. We studied the abundance and the diversity of cyanobacteria and eukaryotic microalgae along altitudinal gradients (3,700-5,970 m) at four sites in the dry mountains of Ladakh (Little Tibet, Zanskar Mountains, and Eastern Karakoram), using epifluorescence. The effects of environmental factors (altitude, mountain range, and vegetation type) on soil physicochemical parameters (pH; texture; organic matter, nitrogen, ammonia, and phosphorus contents; and concentration of chlorophylls and carotenoids) and on the composition and biovolume of phototrophs were tested by multivariate redundancy analysis and variance partitioning. Phototrophs were identified in all collected samples, and phototroph biovolume ranged from 0.08 to 0.32 mm g dry weight. The dominant component was cyanobacteria, which represented 70.9% to 98.6% of the biovolume. Cyanobacterial species richness was low in that only 28 morphotypes were detected. The biovolume of Oscillatoriales consisted mainly of Phormidium spp. and Microcoleus vaginatus. The environmental factors accounted for 43.8% of the total variability in microbial and soil data, 20.6% of which was explained solely by mountain range, 7.0% by altitude, and 8.4% by vegetation type. Oscillatoriales prevailed in alpine meadows (which had relatively high organic matter and fine soil texture), while Nostocales dominated in the subnival zone and screes. Eukaryotic microalgae together with cyanobacteria in the order Chroococcales were mostly present in the subnival zone. We conclude that the high elevation, semiarid, and arid soils in Ladakh are suitable habitats for microbial phototrophic communities and that the differences in these communities are associated with site, altitude, and vegetation type.
4250448|Examination of the surface of freshly collected ferromanganese nodules by scanning electron microscopy revealed the presence of microcolonies of rod- and coccus-shaped bacteria which appeared to be anchored to the nodule surface by slime. The attachment of microcolonies by slime to the surface of freshly collected nodules argues against their being contaminants introduced during nodule collection or processing. These results corroborate cultural and biochemical detection of bacteria on ferromanganese nodules.
25256171|In view of antibiotics being detected in surface waters, experiments were conducted to determine the impacts of tetracycline on planktonic bacteria in wetland and river waters. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) method is often used to measure for resistance or susceptibility of microbes to antibiotics with typical concentrations of antibiotics being mg L. Moreover, there is the belief that antibiotics in the lower g L range are unlikely to affect bacteria. We examined this assumption by measuring the effects of a broad range of tetracycline concentrations on bacterial protein production by the incorporation of L-[4,5-H]leucine method. Tetracycline significantly (P&lt;0.05) inhibited production in river water bacteria at a "free" concentration of 5 g L, but the inhibition was significant only at 1000 g L in wetland water. The data indicate that planktonic bacteria can be very sensitive to tetracycline at extremely low concentrations and that microbial production is seriously affected.
4251546|Carbon substrate utilization patterns have found increasing use in environmental and ecological microbiology over the past five years. Ninety six-well microtiter plates containing various carbon substrates permit these patterns to be determined quickly, economically, and effectively. The use of these patterns to characterize and differentiate strains isolated from the environment has been very effective in providing information on the culturable fraction of the microbial community. Another approach involves the direct inoculation of natural samples into these microtiter plates; this approach has several fundamental problems. The inoculation of low cell densities into the wells means that the technique is a culture-based method in which the biases of enrichment culture may render the results unrepresentative of the native microbiota. The physiological state of the inoculated microbes may affect the kinetics and pattern of substrate utilization. As a measure of the functional diversity of microbial communities, this approach suffers because the tested substrates do not accurately represent the types of substrates present in ecosystems, and the metabolic redundancy of species implies that changes in the response may only crudely represent the actual microbial population dynamics. Therefore, although this approach can be used to determine whether environmental samples differ in their response patterns, it is unclear how it can be used to provide fundamental information on questions of microbial diversity.
25153419|Microbial communities occurring in three types of supraglacial habitats-cryoconite holes, medial moraines, and supraglacial kames-at several glaciers in the Arctic archipelago of Svalbard were investigated. Abundance, biovolume, and community structure were evaluated by using epifluorescence microscopy and culturing methods. Particular emphasis was laid on distinctions in the chemical and physical properties of the supraglacial habitats and their relation to the microbial communities, and quantitative multivariate analyses were used to assess potential relationships. Varying pH (4.8 in cryoconite; 8.5 in a moraine) and texture (the proportion of coarse fraction 2% of dry weight in cryoconite; 99% dw in a kame) were found, and rather low concentrations of organic matter (0.3% of dry weight in a kame; 22% dw in cryoconite) and nutrients (nitrogen up to 0.4% dw, phosphorus up to 0.8% dw) were determined in the samples. In cryoconite sediment, the highest numbers of bacteria, cyanobacteria, and algae were found, whereas relatively low microbial abundances were recorded in moraines and kames. Cyanobacterial cells were significantly more abundant than microalgal ones in cryoconite and supraglacial kames. Different species of the cyanobacterial genus Leptolyngbya were by far the most represented in all samples, and cyanobacteria of the genera Phormidium and Nostoc prevailed in cultures isolated from cryoconite samples. These species are considered opportunistic organisms with wide ecological valency and strong colonizing potential rather than glacial specialists. Statistical analyses suggest that fine sediment with higher water content is the most suitable condition for bacteria, cyanobacteria, and algae. Also, a positive impact of lower pH on microbial growth was found. The fate of a microbial cell deposited on the glacier surface seems therefore predetermined by the physical and chemical factors such as texture of sediment and water content rather than spatial factors or the origin of sediment.
4250640|Bacteria were isolated from marine sponges from the Mediterranean and the Great Barrier Reef and characterized using numerical taxonomy techniques. A similar sponge-specific bacterial symbiont was found in 9 of 10 sponges examined from both geographic regions. This symbiont occurred in sponges of two classes and seven orders, and it probably has been associated with sponges over a long geological time scale. Another symbiont apparently specific to the sponge Verongia aerophoba was found. This sponge is yellow-orange, similar in color to the bacterial symbiont. These symbionts are two of a large mixed bacterial population present in many sponges.
27770603|Dispersal of symbiotic partners by joint propagules is considered as an efficient strategy to maintain successful associations and to circumvent low symbiont availability. Joint dispersal is widespread in diverse symbioses and a particularly common reproductive mode in lichens. We were interested in the implications of joint symbiont dispersal on population genetic structure and investigated patterns of symbiont association in populations of two closely related lichen species in the genus Physconia, with similar range of compatible algal partners. One of the lichen species is characterized by joint dispersal of both symbionts, whereas the other species propagates by meiotic fungal spores alone. The latter species must reestablish the symbiotic stage with appropriate algae sampled from the environment. Both fungal species have specialized on photobionts representing a monophyletic lineage of the algal genus Trebouxia. The results indicate no correlated association of symbiont genotypes in the species with joint symbiont dispersal. We rather show that algal gene diversity in populations of lichenized fungi with different propagation strategies is not necessarily different. The association with algae that differ from the co-dispersed genotypes during the vegetative development of the thalli is the most likely explanation for the observed pattern. Maintenance of symbiotic associations is an option but not a strict consequence of joint symbiont dispersal in lichens.
25153024|The dinoflagellate Pfiesteria piscicida coexists with bacteria in aquatic environments and as such, may interact with them at the physiological level. This study was designed to investigate the influence of bacteria, present in a clonal culture of Pfiesteria piscicida, on the predator/prey relationship of this dinoflagellate with the alga Rhodomonas. A series of replenishment experiments with bacteria isolated from P. piscicida clonal culture and the bacteria-free P. piscicida derived from the same culture were carried out. In the presence of bacteria, the number of P. piscicida increased significantly when incubated with alga Rhodomonas. This enhanced growth was almost entirely due to the increased consumption rate of Rhodomonas by P. piscicida since in bacteria-free (axenic) cultures Rhodomonas were consumed at significantly reduced rates relative to cultures with bacteria. Subsequent replenishment experiments with individual bacterial isolates showed that a single isolate was responsible for the increased predation rate of P. piscicida. The presence or absence of this specific bacterium determined the outcome of the interaction between P. piscicida and Rhodomonas. Partial sequence analysis of the 16S rDNA of this isolate indicated that it was a novel marine alpha proteobacterium with sequence similarities to a Roseobacter sp. and a bacterium recently isolated from a toxic dinoflagellate Alexandrium sp.
41489758|The deposition of mine tailings generated from 125 years of sulfidic ore mining resulted in the enrichment of Coeur d'Alene River (CdAR) sediments with significant amounts of toxic heavy metals. A review of literature suggests that microbial populations play a pivotal role in the biogeochemical cycling of elements in such miningimpacted sedimentary environments. To assess the indigenous microbial communities associated with metal-enriched sediments of the CdAR, high-density 16S microarray (PhyloChip) and clone libraries specific to bacteria (16S rRNA), ammonia oxidizers (amoA), and methanogens (mcrA) were analyzed. PhyloChip analysis provided a comprehensive assessment of bacterial populations and detected the largest number of phylotypes in Proteobacteria followed by Firmicutes and Actinobacteria. Furthermore, PhyloChip and clone libraries displayed considerable metabolic diversity in indigenous microbial populations by capturing several chemolithotrophic groups such as ammonia oxidizers, iron-reducers and -oxidizers, methanogens, and sulfate-reducers in the CdAR sediments. Twentytwo phylotypes detected on PhyloChip could not be classified even at phylum level thus suggesting the presence of novel microbial populations in the CdAR sediments. Clone libraries demonstrated very limited diversity of ammonia oxidizers and methanogens in the CdAR sediments as evidenced by the fact that only Nitrosospira-and Methanosarcina-related phylotypes were retrieved in amoA and mcrA clone libraries, respectively.
4250777|Mathematical studies for ecosystems involving 2 predators competing for a growing prey population have shown that the 2 competitors can coexist in a state of sustained oscillations for a range of values of the system parameters. For the case of 1 suspension-feeding protozoan population, recent experimental observations suggest that the predator-prey interaction is complicated by the ability of the bacteria to grow on products produced by the lysis of protozoan cells. This situation is studied here for the case where 2 suspension-feeding protozoan populations compete for a growing bacterial population in a chemostat. Computer simulations show that the 2 protozoan populations can coexist over a range of the operating parameters. Some necessary conditions for coexistence are presented as are some speculations regarding the possible physical explanations of results.
4250600|Variation in density of epiphytic yeasts, filamentous fungi, and bacteria on apple leaves collected from eight trees at nine dates for two seasons was determined with respect to three positional factors: height, compass direction from the center of the tree, and lateral proximity to the canopy periphery. Univariate analyses of variance were performed on each of the microbial classes for each date according to a model that excluded tree effect but accounted for the positional factors with interactions. The assumption of no tree effect was explored by residual analysis and examination of the seasonal pattern of microbial densities for each tree. No persuasive evidence was obtained to invalidate this assumption. For filamentous fungi and yeasts, height and lateral position were the most significant factors with p < 0.05 for yeasts at several periods. The two factors appeared to be of equal importance. Trends were less clear for bacteria, but all three positional factors and some two-way interactions seemed of some importance. For filamentous fungi and bacteria, frequently no factors were significant at a level of 0.10, but at almost all sampling dates certain positional factors and interactions were significant at a level of 0.25. Inspection of partial correlation coefficients indicated no apparent linear association between densities of most pairs of microbial classes. Implications of these results for experimental design and for the microbial ecology of the phylloplane community are discussed.
25256091|Flagellate feeding efficiency appears to depend on morphological characteristics of prey such as cell size and motility, as well as on other characteristics such as digestibility and cell surface characteristics. Bacteria of varying morphological characteristics (cell size) and mineral nutrient characteristics or food quality (as determined by the C:N:P ratio) were obtained by growing Pseudomonas fluorescens in chemostats at four dilution rates (0.03, 0.06, 0.10, and 0.13 h) and three temperatures (14C, 20C, and 28C). Cells of a given food quality were heat-killed and used to grow the flagellate Ochromonas danica. Ingestion and digestion rates were determined by using fluorescently labeled bacteria of the same food quality as the bacteria supporting growth. Ingestion rates were affected by both food quality and cell size. Cells of high food quality (low carbon:element ratio) were ingested at higher rates than cells of low food quality. Multiple regression analysis indicated that cell size also influenced ingestion rate but to a much lesser extent than did food quality. Digestion rates were not correlated with either food quality or cell size. Results suggest that flagellates may adjust feeding efficiency based on the quality of food items available.
41489232|The Lambert W function was used to explicitly relate substrate concentration S, to time t, and the kinetic parameters V m , K m , and R in the modified Michaelis-Menten equation that accounts for endogenous substrate production. The applicability of this explicit formulation for kinetic parameter estimation by progress curve analysis was demonstrated using a combination of synthetic and experimental substrate depletion data. Synthetic substrate depletion data were generated using S values of 1, 2, and 3 M and V m , K m , and R values of 1.0 M h, 1.0 M, and 0.1 M h, respectively, and contained 5% normally distributed error. Experimental data were obtained from two previously published studies on hydrogen depletion in four experimental systems. In all instances, experimental data were well described by the explicit solution presented in this study. Differential equation solution and iterative S estimation are eliminated with the explicit solution approach, thereby simplifying progress curve analysis in systems characterized by endogenous substrate production.
40802273|This study is aimed to assess the formation of photo synthetic biofilms on and within different natural stone materials, and to analyse their biogeophysical and biogeochemical deterioration potential. This was performed by means of artificial colonisation under laboratory conditions during 3 months. Monitoring of microbial development was performed by image analysis and biofilm biomass estimation by chlorophyll extraction technique. Microscopy investigations were carried out to study relationships between microorganisms and the mineral substrata. The model applied in this work corroborated a successful survival strategy inside endolithic microhabitat, using natural phototrophic biofilm cultivation, composed by cyanobacteria and algae, which increased intrinsic porosity by active mineral dissolution. We observed the presence of mineral-like iron derivatives (e.g. maghemite) around the cells and intracellularly and the precipitation of hausmannite, suggesting manganese transformations related to the biomineralisation.
4287593| The heterotrophic microbial enrichment community established during degradation of brown algae Fucus evanescens was characterized. A two-species bacterial community of marine culturable gamma-proteobacteria consisted of Pseudoalteromonas and Halomonas. The first member of the community, Pseudoalteromonas sp., was highly metabolically active, had bacteriolytic and hemolytic activities, produced proteinases (gelatinase and caseinase), lipases, DNases, and fucoidanhydrolases, laminaranases, alginases, pustulanases, -glucosidases, -galactosidases, -N-acetylglucosaminidases, and -xylosidases. The second member of the community, Halomonas marina, produced only caseinase and DNase, and it did not hydrolyze algal polysaccharides. Both members of the studied bacterial community utilized a range of easily assimilable monosaccharides and other low molecular weight organic substances. The results provide an evidence of the complex metabolic interrelations between two members of this culturable community. One of them Pseudoalteromonas sp., most likely plays the major role in the initial stages of algal degradation; the other one, H. marina, resistant to the bacteriolytic activity of the former, is able to utilize the products of degradation of polysaccharides. 
4287619|The growth and intracellular microcystin concentration of two hepatotoxic and two nontoxic axenic Microcystis strains were measured in batch cultures with variable nitrogen (0.84-84 mg L
4250634| Ammonium-oxidizing bacteria were examined in two wetland environments, a freshwater marsh and an estuarine bay, during a 2-year period. Two predominant types were consistently isolated, one from each environment. Both isolates were identified as species of Nitrosomonas. Using a closed culture, high cell density assay, the effects of temperature, pH, salinity, Na
25153312| In an anthropogenically disturbed soil (88% sand, 8% silt, 4% clay), 150-mg samples were studied to examine the fine-scale relationship of bacterial activity and community structure to heavy metal contaminants. The soils had been contaminated for over 40 years with aromatic solvents, Pb, and Cr. Samples from distances of &lt;1, 5, 15, and 50 cm over a depth range of 40-90 cm underwent a sequential analysis to determine metabolic potential (from C glucose mineralization), bacterial community structure [using polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE)], and total extractable Pb and Cr levels. Metabolic potential varied by as much as 10,000-fold in samples &lt;1 cm apart; log-log plots of metal concentration and microbial metabolic potential showed no correlation with each other. Overall, metal concentrations ranged from 9 to 29,000 mg kg for Pb and from 3 to 8500 mg kg for Cr with small zones of high contamination present. All regions exhibited variable metal concentrations, with some soil samples having 30-fold differences in metal concentration in sites &lt;1 cm apart. Geostatistical analysis revealed a strong spatial dependence for all three parameters tested (metabolic activity, Pb, and Cr levels) with a range up to 30 cm. Kriging maps showed that in zones of high metal, the corresponding metabolic activity was low suggesting that metals negatively impacted the microbial community. PCR-DGGE analysis revealed that diverse communities were present in the soils with a random distribution of phylotypes throughout the sampling zones. These results suggest the presence of spatially isolated microbial communities within the soil profile. 
23468259|The human gut microbiota is a complex system that is essential to the health of the host. Increasing evidence suggests that the gut microbiota may play an important role in the pathogenesis of colorectal cancer (CRC). In this study, we used pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene V3 region to characterize the fecal microbiota of 19 patients with CRC and 20 healthy control subjects. The results revealed striking differences in fecal microbial population patterns between these two groups. Partial least-squares discriminant analysis showed that 17 phylotypes closely related to Bacteroides were enriched in the gut microbiota of CRC patients, whereas nine operational taxonomic units, represented by the butyrate-producing genera Faecalibacterium and Roseburia, were significantly less abundant. A positive correlation was observed between the abundance of Bacteroides species and CRC disease status (R=0.462, P=0.046<0.5). In addition, 16 genera were significantly more abundant in CRC samples than in controls, including potentially pathogenic Fusobacterium and Campylobacter species at genus level. The dysbiosis of fecal microbiota, characterized by the enrichment of potential pathogens and the decrease in butyrate-producing members, may therefore represent a specific microbial signature of CRC. A greater understanding of the dynamics of the fecal microbiota may assist in the development of novel fecal microbiome-related diagnostic tools for CRC.
25153417|Salt marshes are important ecosystems whose plant and microbial communities can alter terrestrially derived pollutants prior to coastal water discharge. However, knowledge regarding relationships between anthropogenic pollutant levels and salt marsh microbial communities is limited, and salt marshes on the West Coast of the United States are rarely examined. In this study, we investigated the relationships between microbial community composition and 24 pollutants (20 metals and 4 organics) in two California salt marshes. Multivariate ordination techniques were used to assess how bacterial community composition, as determined by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and phospholipid fatty acid analyses, was related to pollution. Sea urchin embryo toxicity measurements and plant tissue metabolite profiles were considered two other biometrics of pollution. Spatial effects were strongly manifested across marshes and across channel elevations within marshes. Utilizing partial canonical correspondence analysis, an ordination technique new to microbial ecology, we found that several metals were strongly associated with microbial community composition after accounting for spatial effects. The major patterns in plant metabolite profiles were consistent with patterns across microbial community profiles, but sea urchin embryo assays, which are commonly used to evaluate ecological toxicity, had no identifiable relationships with pollution. Whereas salt marshes are generally dynamic and complex habitats, microbial communities in these marshes appear to be relatively sensitive indicators of toxic pollutants.
4250565|Thiobacillus ferrooxidans is believed to be responsible for the oxidation of ferrous ion at low pH, the rate-limiting step in the oxidation of pyrite ores and subsequent formation of acid mine drainage (AMD). It has been suggested that efforts to control this environmental problem include procedures that would inhibit this bacterium. At present, a most probable number (MPN) procedure requiring a minimum of 10 days is used to enumerate this microorganism in natural waters. If control of AMD through inhibition of T. ferrooxidans is to be feasible, it will be necessary to develop a more rapid method to determine population levels to facilitate application of control measures. An indirect fluorescent antibody (FA) staining technique was developed for this purpose which provided reliable estimates within a few hours. Artificial samples containing approximated numbers of T. ferrooxidans were analyzed using the FA and MPN procedures, and the FA technique more closely approximated expected numbers of cells. The MPN method was excessively conservative, detecting only 3% to 21% of the cells enumerated by the FA procedure.
4250424|The purpose of this study was to find a possible explanation for the coexistence of large and small purple sulfur bacteria in natural habitats. Experiments were carried out with Chromatium vinosum SMG 185 and Chromatium weissei SMG 171, grown in both batch and continuous cultures. The data may be summarized as follows: (a) In continuous light, with sulfide as growth rate-limiting substrate, the specific growth rate of Chr. vinosum exceeds that of Chr. weissei regardless of the sulfide concentration employed. Consequently, Chr. weissei is unable to compete successfully and is washed out in continuous cultures. (b) With intermittant light-dark illumination, the organisms showed balanced coexistence when grown in continuous cultures. The "steady-state" abundance of Chr. vinosum was found to be positively related to the length of the light period, and that of Chr. weissei to the length of the dark period. (c) Sulfide added during darkness is rapidly oxidized on subsequent illumination, resulting in the intracellular storage of reserve substances, which are later utilized for growth. The rate of sulfide oxidation/mg cell N/hr was found to be over twice as high in Chr. weissei as in Chr. vinosum. The observed coexistence may be explained as follows. In the light, with both strains growing, most of the sulfide will be oxidized by Chr. vinosum [see (a)]. In the dark, sulfide accumulates. On illumination, the greater part of the accumulated sulfide will be oxidized by Chr. weissei [see (c)]. A changed light-dark regimen should then have the effect as observed [see (b)]. These observations suggest that intermittant illumination may, at least in part, explain the observed coexistence of both types of purple sulfur bacteria in nature.
4250775|Estimates of in situ nitrifying activity have been made in the hypolimnetic water column and surface 1.0 cm of profundal sediments at 2 sites in Grasmere, a mesotrophic lake in the English Lake District. Increases of nitrate concentrations were used to estimate nitrification in the water column whereas a mini-core technique, involving the use of a nitrification inhibitor (allylthiourea), was used to estimate the rate in surface sediments. The pattern of oxygen depletion in the water column was used to estimate the maximum depth to which sediments affect the overlying water. Nitrification in the sediment and in the water column made approximately equal contributions to the total areal oxygen deficit and, as a whole, nitrification accounted for 15-20% of the total oxygen depletion. There was no significant difference in oxygen depletion due to nitrification between the 2 sites. Attempts were made, using the nitrification potential technique, to determine the depth distribution of nitrifying activity in the surface 1.0 cm of sediment.
23469145|In response to a major influx of freshwater to the Mississippi Sound following the opening of the Bonnet Carre Spillway, water samples were collected from three sites along the Mississippi shoreline to assess the impact of altered salinity on three pathogenic Vibrio species. Salinity readings across the affected area during the 2011 sample period ranged from 1.4 to 12.9 ppt (mean=7.0) and for the 2012 sample period from 14.1 to 23.6 ppt (mean=19.8). Analyses of the data collected in 2011 showed a reduction in densities of Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Vibrio vulnificus with a concurrent increase of Vibrio cholerae numbers, with V. cholerae becoming the only Vibrio detected once salinity readings dropped to 6 ppt. Follow-up samples taken in 2012 after recovery of the salinity in the sound showed that the relative densities of the three pathogenic vibrios had reverted back to normal levels. This study shows that although the spillway was open but a few weeks and the effects were therefore time limited, the Mississippi River water had a profound, if temporary, effect on Vibrio ecology in the Mississippi Sound.
40802172|Septate endophytes proliferating in the roots of grasslands' plants shed doubts on the importance of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbioses in dry soils. The functionality and diversity of the AM symbioses formed in four replicates of three adjacent plant communities (agricultural, native, and restored) in Grasslands National Park, Canada were assessed in periods of moisture sufficiency and deficiency typical of early and late summer in the region. The community structure of AM fungi, as determined by polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, varied with sampling time and plant community. Soil properties other than soil moisture did not change significantly with sampling time. The DNA sequences dominating AM extraradical networks in dry soil apparently belonged to rare taxa unreported in GenBank. DNA sequences of "Glomus viscosum, Glomus mosseae", and "Glomus hoi" were dominant under conditions of moisture sufficiency. In total, nine different AM fungal sequences were found suggesting a role for the AM symbioses in semiarid areas. Significant positive linear relationships between plant P and N concentrations and active extraradical AM fungal biomass, estimated by the abundance of the phospholipid fatty acid marker 16:15, existed under conditions of moisture sufficiency, but not under dry conditions. Active extraradical AM fungal biomass had significantly positive linear relationship with the abundance of two early season grasses, "Agropyron cristatum" (L.) Gaertn. and Koeleria gracilis Pers., but no relationship was found under dry conditions. The AM symbioses formed under conditions of moisture sufficiency typical of early summer at this location appear to be important for the nutrition of grassland plant communities, but no evidence of mutualism was found under the dry conditions of late summer.
41489088|A comparison of variable regions within the 16S rRNA gene is widely used to characterize relationships between bacteria and to identify phylogenetic affiliation of unknown bacteria. In environmental studies, polymerase chain reaction amplification of 16S rRNA followed by cloning and sequencing of numerous individual clones is an extensively used molecular method for elucidating microbial diversity. The sequencing process typically utilizes a forward and reverse primer pair to produce two partial reads (~700 to 800 base pairs each) that overlap and in total cover a large region of the full 16S rRNA sequence (~1.5 generates very large numbers of 16S rRNA datasets that can overwhelm manual processing efforts leading to both delays and errors. In particular, the approach presents two computational challenges: (1) the assembly of a composite sequence from the two partial reads and (2) the subsequent appropriate identification of the organism represented by the newly sequenced clones. Herein, we describe a software package, search, trim, identify, track, and capture the uniqueness of 16S rRNAs using public and in-house database (STITCH), which offers automated sequence pair splicing and genetic identification, thus simplifying the computationally intensive analysis of large sequencing libraries. The STITCH software is freely accessible over the Internet at: http://prion.bchs.uh.edu/stitch/.
25153152|Tropical agroecosystems are subject to degradation processes such as losses in soil carbon, nutrient depletion, and reduced water holding capacity that occur rapidly resulting in a reduction in soil fertility that can be difficult to reverse. In this research, a polyphasic methodology has been used to investigate changes in microbial community structure and function in a series of tropical soils in western Kenya. These soils have different land usage with both wooded and agricultural soils at Kakamega and Ochinga, whereas at Ochinga, Leuro, Teso, and Ugunja a replicated field experiment compared traditional continuous maize cropping against an improved N-fixing fallow system. For all sites, principal component analysis of 16S rRNA gene denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) profiles revealed that soil type was the key determinant of total bacterial community structure, with secondary variation found between wooded and agricultural soils. Similarly, phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis also separated wooded from agricultural soils, primarily on the basis of higher abundance of monounsaturated fatty acids, anteiso- and iso-branched fatty acids, and methyl-branched fatty acids in the wooded soils. At Kakamega and Ochinga wooded soils had between five 5 and 10-fold higher levels of soil carbon and microbial biomass carbon than agricultural soils from the same location, whereas total enzyme activities were also lower in the agricultural sites. Soils with woody vegetation had a lower percentage of phosphatase activity and higher cellulase and chitinase activities than the agricultural soils. BIOLOG analysis showed woodland soils to have the greatest substrate diversity. Throughout the study the two functional indicators (enzyme activity and BIOLOG), however, showed lower specificity with respect to soil type and land usage than did the compositional indicators (DGGE and PLFA). In the field experiment comparing two types of maize cropping, both the maize yields and total microbial biomass were found to increase with the fallow system. Moreover, 16S rRNA gene and PLFA analyses revealed shifts in the total microbial community in response to the different management regimes, indicating that deliberate management of soils can have considerable impact on microbial community structure and function in tropical soils.
4287589| Ecologically significant properties of wild-type and genetically engineered bacteria capable of degrading 3-chlorobenzoate (3-CB) were compared in the laboratory, and isolates were introduced into streambed sediments in microcosms to observe their population dynamics. 3-CB metabolism, growth on algal extract, temperature optima, and ingestion by protozoa were ecological properties considered relevant to the persistence of these bacteria if introduced into nature. Cell-specific V
4251176|Microcosms containing intact soil-cores are a potential tool for assessing the risks of the release of genetically engineered microorganisms (GEMs) to the environment. Before microcosms become a standard assessment tool, however, they must first be calibrated to ensure that they adequately simulate key parameters in the field. Four systems were compared: intact soil-core microcosms located in the laboratory at ambient temperature and in a growth chamber with temperature fluctuations that simulated average conditions in the field, field lysimeters, and field plots. These four systems were inoculated with rifampicin-resistant Pseudomonas sp. and planted to winter wheat. Populations of the Pseudomonas sp. in soil decreased more rapidly at ambient temperature, but population size at the three-leaf stage of wheat growth was the same in all four systems. Populations of the Pseudomonas sp. on the rhizoplane of wheat were the same at the three-leaf stage in all four systems, and colonization with depth at the final boot stage-sampling was also similar. In general, microcosms incubated at ambient temperature in the laboratory or in the growth chamber were similar to those in the field with respect to survival of and colonization of the rhizoplane by the introduced Pseudomonas sp.
25256113|We investigated the influence of three factors-diesel oil concentration [2500, 5000, 10,000, 20,000 mg total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH) kg soil], biostimulation (unfertilized, inorganic fertilization with NPK nutrients, or oleophilic fertilization with Inipol EAP22), and incubation time-on hydrocarbon removal, enzyme activity (lipase), and microbial community structure [phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA)] in a laboratory soil bioremediation treatment. Fertilization enhanced TPH removal and lipase activity significantly (P  0.001). The higher the initial contamination, the more marked was the effect of fertilization. Differences between the two fertilizers were not significant (P &gt; 0.05). Microbial communities, as assessed by PLFA patterns, were primarily influenced by the TPH content, followed by fertilization, and the interaction of these two factors, whereas incubation time was of minor importance. This was demonstrated by three-factorial analysis of variance and multidimensional scaling analysis. Low TPH content had no significant effect on soil microbial community, independent of the treatment. High TPH content generally resulted in increased PLFA concentrations, whereby a significant increase in microbial biomass with time was only observed with inorganic fertilization, whereas oleophilic fertilization (Inipol EAP22) tended to inhibit microbial activity and to reduce PLFA contents with time. Among bacteria, PLFA indicative of the Gram-negative population were significantly (P  0.05) increased in soil samples containing high amounts of diesel oil and fertilized with NPK after 21-38 days of incubation at 20C. The Gram-positive population was not significantly influenced by TPH content or biostimulation treatment.
4251262| Rates of bacterial production were measured in the water column, on the surface of plant detritus, and in the surface sediments of a freshwater marsh in the Okefenokee Swamp, Georgia, USA. Bacterioplankton production rates were not correlated with several measures of quantity and quality of dissolved organic matter, including an index of the relative importance of vascular plant derivatives. Bacterioplankton productivity was high (mean: 63 g C
4251233|Microcosms may potentially be used as tools for evaluating the fate and effects of genetically engineered microorganisms released into the environment. Extrapolation of data to the field, however, requires that the correspondence between microcosm and field is known. Microbial trophic interactions within the microbial loop were compared quantitatively and qualitatively between field and microcosms containing estuarine water with and without intact sediment cores. The comparison showed that whereas proportions between trophic levels in microcosms were qualitatively similar to those in the field, rates of microbial processes were from 25 to 40% lower in microcosms. Nitrogen cycling was disrupted in microcosms incubated in the dark to eliminate primary production. Examination of the microbial parameters further suggests that sediment in microcosms may be an important factor regulating the bacterial trophic level. These results demonstrate that analysis of microbial trophic interactions is a sensitive method for the field comparison of aquatic microcosms and a potentially useful tool in the risk assessment of genetically engineered microorganisms.
4250783|Growth kinetics of 2 Nitrobacter strains (N.w. and L) coexisting in the same soil are studied in batch and continuous culture. Monod's parameters are estimated numerically from experimental data in the case of the batch experiment, and from steady-state equations in the case of the chemostat. In both cases, the 2 strains show different values for their growth parameters. N.w. may be characterized by its high
4251307|Using strains with or without the PhoE porin or different components of the phosphate regulon, we determined that maintenance of the culturability of Escherichia coli in seawater depended significantly on the presence of structures allowing access of phosphate ions to the periplasm, then to the cytoplasm of cells. Cells totally deprived of the two main phosphate transport systems (Pit, Pst) exhibited the highest loss of culturability. Most of this effect resulted from the loss of the high-affinity Pst system, and more specifically that of the periplasmic phosphate-binding protein PhoS. Survival was enhanced in seawater supplemented with phosphate (0.5 mM), whether or not these structures were present. From an ecological point of view, it is assumed that the presence of phosphate ions, even at low concentrations, can influence the behavior of E. coli cells in seawater.
4251502|The objectives of this study were to analyze the environmental controls on N
25256193|Based on 16S rDNA analyses, the primary symbionts of sucking lice were found to form a polyphyletic assemblage of several distant lineages that have arisen several times within Enterobacteriaceae and at least once within Legionellaceae. Another independent line-age of endosymbiotic enterobacteria inhabits a sister group of the sucking lice, Rhynchophthirina. The inspection of 16S rDNA supports the symbiotic nature of the investigated bacteria; they display a typical trait of degenerative processes, an increased AT content (Adenine-Thymine content) in comparison with free-living bacteria. The calculation of divergence time between the closest anopluran and rhynchophthirine symbionts further support their independent origin. The results shown here, together with evidence from other groups, indicate that the significance of primary symbionts for blood-feeding insects should be reconsidered.
4287517|Bacteria, filamentous fungi, and yeasts were enumerated on the mango phylloplane by indirect leaf impression and washing- and dilution plating. The phylloplane microbial community was qualitatively and quantitatively related to leaf age, position in the tree canopy, seasonality, and chemical spraying. Filamentous fungi and yeasts were more abundant during winter and spring, whereas bacterial population densities increased during autumn. Community density and diversity increased progressively with leaf age. The western tree aspect sustained the least diverse bacterial, filamentous fungal, and yeast communities. Chemical sprays reduced bacterial, filamentous fungal, and yeast community diversities. Gram-positive bacteria (Bacillus spp. and coryneform spp.) exceeded gram-negative bacteria. The most common fungal genera isolated were Cladosporium and Alternaria. Yeasts prevalent in the mango phylloplane were of the genera Aureobasidium, Cryptococcus, and Sporobolomyces.
4250822|A total of 450 yeast isolates were obtained from up to 34 sites on 59 human subjects. The yeasts were characterized using morphological features and assimilation tests. Ten species were identified but, of these, Candida albicans and Candida parapsilosis were the most common and accounted for 84% of the isolates. An examination of the biotypes of the various species indicated a much greater diversity in the yeast microflora than that detected by species identifications alone. Fifty-five biotypes were differentiated and it is suggested that these could be regarded as distinct taxonomic or ecological entities.
27770571|Methanogenesis in paddy fields is significantly influenced by environmental and field management factors such as rice cultivar and nitrogenous fertilizer. However, it has been unclear whether such effects are reflected in the structure of methanogenic archaeal populations. In the present study, molecular analyses including cloning and sequencing and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprinting of archaeal 16S rRNA genes were used to characterize the methanogenic archaeal assemblages and to identify the effect of environmental variables including rice cultivar and N fertilizer on archaeal community compositions in a Chinese paddy field soil. The correlation between methanogenic archaeal composition and environmental variables was explored by correspondence analysis. The results showed that the spatial or niche factor (rice roots versus rhizosphere, surface, and the deeper layer soils) had the greatest influence on the archaeal community composition. There was an obvious enrichment or selection of hydrogenotrophic as opposed to acetoclastic methanogens by rice roots. The archaeal community also changed, though slightly, between the rhizosphere and bulk soils and between the surface soil and the deeper layer soil. However, rice cultivar and N fertilizer appear to have an effect only on methanogens tightly associated with rice roots.
4287601|The behavior of the soil bacterium Acinetobacter sp. BD413 was monitored in Ralstonia solanacearum-infected and non-infected tomato plants after direct injection into the stem or natural infection by roots. In healthy plants, Acinetobacter sp. BD413 failed to colonize plant tissue. In plants infected simultaneously by the pathogen R. solanacearum, the Acinetobacter population increased linearly to about 3.1 10
40605880|A study on the bacterioplankton of Conceio Lagoon (2734' S-4827' W), Southern Brazil, was carried out in July 2005 (austral winter) and January 2006 (austral summer) to characterize the bacterial spatiotemporal distribution and to determine the heterotrophic and photoautotrophic bacterial dominance in hypoxic/oxic stratified waters. Bacterial abundance increased significantly (p<0.05) in summer with averages of coccus cyanobacteria (CCY) ranging from 1.02  10 (winter) to 3.21  10 cells mL (summer), heterotrophic coccus/rod-shaped (HCR) cells from 7.00  10 to 3.60  10 cells mL, and heterotrophic filamentous (HF) bacteria from 2.90  10 to 2.74  10 cells mL. Bacterial biovolumes also increased in summer with mean biovolumes of CCY ranging from 0.38 to 1.37 m, HCR cells from 0.31 to 1.12 m and HF from 3.32 to 11.34 m. Principal component analysis showed that salinity, temperature, and light were the abiotic factors that better explained the temporal variability of bacterial assemblages. Bacterial heterotrophy dominated in the lagoon, excepted by the southern and part of central sector in January 2006, when autotrophic-dominated microbial community occurred. Spatially, bacterial assemblages were influenced by nutrient gradient, oxygen, and salinity with a positive relationship between biovolumes and nutrients and a negative relationship between abundance of coccus cyanobacteria and nutrients. area revealed a singular temporal pattern with hypoxic bottom waters in winter and oxygen-rich waters appearing in summer related with the availability of light and predominant microbes. Thus, oxygen consumption/production is likely to be regulated by the amount of light reaching the bottom, stimulating the production of oxygen by oxygenic phototrophs.
4251610|Forest soil ecology was studied in Fennoscandinavian dry Scots pine forests grazed by reindeer to varying extents (ungrazed, lichen-dominated-sites; grazed sites; and bryophyte-dominated sites). We hypothesized that the productivity parameters of the site (i.e., tree growth and soil nutrient concentrations), the vegetation composition, and the microbial activities are directly correlated. Since the productivity of the lichen-dominated ecosystem is low, microbial activities are assumed to be naturally low. Grazing was expected to decrease both the amount of Scots pine fine roots and the soil microbial activities. Several variables on the characteristics of the soil microbial community, Scots pine fine roots, soil nutrients, and tree growth were studied in relation to vegetation composition by using non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS). Basal respiration (Bas), metabolic quotient of the microbial community (
41692859|The bioactive compounds of medicinal plants are products of the plant itself or of endophytes living inside the plant. Endophytes isolated from eight different anticancer plants collected in Yunnan, China, were characterized by diverse 16S and 18S rRNA gene phylogenies. A functional gene-based molecular screening strategy was used to target nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) and type I polyketide synthase (PKS) genes in endophytes. Bioinformatic analysis of these biosynthetic pathways facilitated inference of the potential bioactivity of endophyte natural products, suggesting that the isolated endophytes are capable of producing a plethora of secondary metabolites. All of the endophyte culture broth extracts demonstrated antiproliferative effects in at least one test assay, either cytotoxic, antibacterial or antifungal. From the perspective of natural product discovery, this study confirms the potential for endophytes from medicinal plants to produce anticancer, antibacterial and antifungal compounds. In addition, PKS and NRPS gene screening is a valuable method for screening isolates of biosynthetic potential.
41692848|Meromictic Lake Kivu is renowned for its enormous quantity of methane dissolved in the hypolimnion. The methane is primarily of biological origin, and its concentration has been increasing in the past half-century. Insight into the origin of methane production in Lake Kivu has become relevant with the recent commercial extraction of methane from the hypolimnion. This study provides the first culture-independent approach to identifying the archaeal communities present in Lake Kivu sediments at the sediment-water interface. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis suggests considerable heterogeneity in the archaeal community composition at varying sample locations. This diversity reflects changes in the geochemical conditions in the sediment and the overlying water, which are an effect of local groundwater inflows. A more in-depth look at the archaeal community composition by clone library analysis revealed diverse phytogenies of Euryarchaeota and Crenarachaeota. Many of the sequences in the clone libraries belonged to globally distributed archaeal clades such as the rice cluster V and Lake Dagow sediment environmental clusters. Several of the determined clades were previously thought to be rare among freshwater sediment Archaea (e.g., sequences related to the SAGMEG-1 clade). Surprisingly, there was no observed relation of clones to known hydrogentrophic methanogens and less than 2 % of clones were related to acetoclastic methanogens. The local variability, diversity, and novelty of the archaeal community structure in Lake Kivu should be considered when making assumptions on the biogeochemical functioning of its sediments.
25153085| Fatty acid profiles were used to characterize nutritional pathways in Chlamydomonas sp. isolated from an acidic mining lake (pH 2.7). Surprisingly, profiles of Chlamydomonas sp. grown in the lab under photoautotrophic, mixotrophic, and heterotrophic conditions at in situ deep strata lake water temperatures (8C) were very similar, polyunsaturated fatty acids including -linolenic acid (18:33) and 16:43 along with palmitic acid (16:0) being most abundant. Therefore, heterotrophic growth of Chlamydomonas sp. at low temperatures can result in high concentrations of polyunsaturated fatty acids, as previously only described for some psychrophilic bacteria. By contrast, the cultivation of isolated Chlamydomonas sp. at 20C, reflecting surface water temperatures, provided fatty acid patterns characteristic of the nutrition strategy applied: the concentration of polyunsaturated fatty acids decreased when the growth pathway changed from photoautotrophic via mixotrophic to heterotrophic. Total fatty acid concentration also diminished in this order. Principal component analysis confirmed the significance of FA profiling to mirror nutritional pathways. Lake-water analysis revealed low concentrations of dissolved organic carbon, mainly consisting of polymeric fulvic acids that are unable to support heterotrophic growth of Chlamydomonas sp. Polymeric fulvic acids present in the deeper strata of the lake turned out to be formed in situ on the basis of organic monomers including reduced sulfur-containing ones, as revealed by thermochemolysis and pyrolysis. Growth of Chlamydomonas sp. in the deep chlorophyll maximum is therefore assumed to mainly result from photosynthesis, despite very low photon densities. Phytol-including metabolites proved to be significant biomarkers to indicate the nutritional pathway of Chlamydomonas sp. , -Dicarboxylic acids-light-induced degradation products of unsaturated fatty acids-appeared to be good indicators of photooxidative alterations to the algal species under study. 
4251490| Ferulic and syringic acids are methoxylated aromatic compounds that often serve as models of the subunits of lignin. Although these compounds have important implications for global carbon cycles, there is limited information on their fate in anoxic environments. Enrichment cultures were established on these two model compounds under methanogenic, sulfidogenic, and denitrifying conditions, using a Raritan River (New Jersey) marsh sediment as the inoculum. All cultures completely degraded 1.5 mM of both substrates. Methane production in the methanogenic cultures corresponded to the stoichiometric values expected for complete mineralization to CO
4251042|The abundance and biomass of ciliates are both strongly related to lake trophic status as measured by chlorophyll a concentrations. Taxonomic replacements occur with increasing eutrophication such that large-bodied forms (predominantly oligotrichs) are progressively replaced by smaller-bodied ciliates (mainly scuticociliates). Highly acidic lakes display a more pronounced dominance of large-bodied forms when contrasted with less acidic lakes of comparable trophy. Community structure of ciliate populations is determined largely by lake trophy with acidic oligotrophic systems being characterized by reduced diversity and species richness compared with hypereutrophic systems. The temporal and spatial distribution of small (< 100 m) ciliate populations is ascribed to lake thermal regimes which provide localized concentrations of food resources. Likewise, in extremely productive lakes, very large (> 100 m) meroplanktonic ciliates enter the water column during midsummer after the development of thermal stratification and associated profundal deoxygenation. Laboratory studies indicate that large zooplankton (crustaceans) are capable of utilizing ciliates as a food source, but there is little direct evidence from field studies documenting this trophic link. Ciliates can be voracious grazers of both bacterioplankton and phytoplankton, and each species has a distinct range of preferred particle size which is a function of both mouth size and morphology. Myxotrophic ciliates may be important components in some plankton communities, particularly during periods of nutrient limitation or after their displacement from the benthos of eutrophic lakes. Evidence regarding the importance of planktonic ciliated protozoa in nutrient regeneration and as intermediaries in energy flow is discussed.
4251768| Databases containing information regarding presence and activity of microbial communities will be very useful for determination of the potential for intrinsic bioremediation in landfill leachate polluted aquifers. Simple analyses such as community-level physiological profiling (CLPP) and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of 16S rDNA fragments yield large sets of data for inclusion into such databases. In this study we describe the development of a method for anaerobic CLPP, using commercially available Biolog plates. Incubation at the in situ temperature of the aquifer (10C) for 28 days was optimal for obtaining a specific, reproducible physiological profile. Anaerobic incubation was essential for profiling anaerobic communities. The anaerobic cultivation-dependent CLPP method and cultivation-independent DGGE were applied to groundwater and sediment samples from the aquifer near the Couppolder landfill in The Netherlands. A combination of computer-assisted CLPP and DGGE analysis of both groundwater and sediment samples yielded the best separating power for characterizing microbial communities in the aquifer. Communities in groundwater were significantly different from those in the corresponding sediment. Microbial communities present in subsamples from sediment cores usually were similar for the various sampling locations. Variation was observed for the heterogeneous sediment beneath the landfill. Both anaerobic CLPP and DGGE analysis clearly separated microbial communities from the polluted aquifer underneath the landfill from those in the less or not polluted aquifer downstream and upstream of the landfill. 
4251167| Dispersal of bacteria in saturated, porous soils can be characterized by the partitioning of cells between the aqueous and solid phases, as a result of the physical and chemical nature of the soil and water and cell surface modifications. The purpose of this work is to understand variations in partitioning as a consequence of the nutrient conditions and to use this information in mathematical models to predict the dispersal rate of bacteria in aquifer material. Two different models were used to describe dispersal: an advective-dispersive-sorptive model with a first order kinetic sink term to account for irreversible cell reactions, such as death and sorption; and a two-site reaction model, in which the retardation was assumed to be determined by two types of sites, one characterized by instantaneous equilibrium sorption reactions and the other by kinetic nonequilibrium reactions. Water-saturated sand columns were used as continuous-flow groundwater microcosms to test the models under different nutrient regimes. Two strains of indigenous groundwater bacteria were isolated from aquifer material and labelled with
4250590| Laboratory tests were conducted to determine the effects of five pyrethroid insecticides-permethrin (FMC 33297) [3-phenoxybenzyl ()-3-(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate]; FMC 45498 [(S)--cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl-(R)-cis-2-(2,2-dibromovinyl)-3,3-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate]; Shell WL 41706 [()--cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl 2,2,3,3-tetramethylcyclopropane-carboxylate]; Shell WL 43467 [()--cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl ()-cis,trans-2-(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-3,3-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate]; and Shell WL 43775 [()--cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl ()-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-methylbutyrate]-at 0.5 and 5 g/g on microbial populations and activities in a sandy loam. The insecticides had antimicrobial activity in early stages of incubation. The populations recovered after 2 to 4 weeks and stimulatory effects on populations were also observed in later stages. No inhibition of acetylene ( C
4251563|The importance of lysogeny in marine microbial populations is just beginning to be understood. To determine the abundance of lysogens in bacterial populations, we studied the occurrence of lysogenic bacteria among bacterial isolates from a variety of marine environments. More than 116 bacteria isolated on artificial seawater nutrient agar plates were tested for the presence of inducible prophage by mitomycin C and UV radiation. Induction was determined as a decrease in culture absorbance at 600 nm, after treatment with inducing agents. Samples in which optical density decreased or remained the same after induction were further examined by transmission electron microscopy, for the presence of virus-like particles. More than 40% of the bacterial isolates contained inducible prophage, as determined by mitomycin C induction. A higher percentage of lysogenic bacteria was found in isolates from oligotrophic environments, compared to coastal or estuarine environments. These studies suggest that lysogenic bacteria are important components in marine microbial populations. However, a mathematical model based on viral and bacterial abundance and production rates suggests that, under normal conditions, lysogenic viral production contributes less than 0.02% of total viral production. Therefore, lysogens in the marine environment may serve as a source of viruses and only contribute significantly to viral production during natural induction events.
4251505| Free-living and attached bacterial population sizes were determined fortnightly from December 1991 to December 1992 in natural and disturbed areas of an Amazonian clear water lake (Batata Lake, Par, Brazil) impacted by bauxite tailings. The bacterioplankton showed distinct patterns during different phases of the hydrological cycle. Total bacterial population size and rates of thymidine incorporation (measured during high and low water phases) were high during low water, with values ranging from 3.3  10
40926434|Endolichenic fungi live in close association with algal photobionts inside asymptomatic lichen thalli and resemble fungal endophytes of plants in terms of taxonomy, diversity, transmission mode, and evolutionary history. This similarity has led to uncertainty regarding the distinctiveness of endolichenic fungi compared with endophytes. Here, we evaluate whether these fungi represent distinct ecological guilds or a single guild of flexible symbiotrophs capable of colonizing plants or lichens indiscriminately. Cultivable fungi were sampled exhaustively from replicate sets of phylogenetically diverse plants and lichens in three microsites in a montane forest in southeastern Arizona (USA). Intensive sampling combined with a small spatial scale permitted us to decouple spatial heterogeneity from host association and to sample communities from living leaves, dead leaves, and lichen thalli to statistical completion. Characterization using data from the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer and partial large subunit (ITS-LSU rDNA) provided a first estimation of host and substrate use for 960 isolates representing five classes and approximately 16 orders, 32 families, and 65 genera of Pezizomycotina. We found that fungal communities differ at a broad taxonomic level as a function of the phylogenetic placement of their plant or lichen hosts. Endolichenic fungal assemblages differed as a function of lichen taxonomy, rather than substrate, growth form, or photobiont. In plants, fungal communities were structured more by plant lineage than by the living vs. senescent status of the leaf. We found no evidence that endolichenic fungi are saprotrophic fungi that have been "entrapped" by lichen thalli. Instead, our study reveals the distinctiveness of endolichenic communities relative to those in living and dead plant tissues, with one notable exception: we identify, for the first time, an ecologically flexible group of symbionts that occurs both as endolichenic fungi and as endophytes of mosses.
25153073|Mycoheterotrophic species (i.e., achlorophyllous plants obtaining carbon from their mycorrhizal fungi) arose many times in evolution of the Neottieae, an orchid tribe growing in forests. Moreover, chlorophyllous Neottieae species show naturally occurring achlorophyllous individuals. We investigated the fungal associates of such a member of the Neottieae, Epipactis microphylla, to understand whether their mycorrhizal fungi predispose the Neottieae to mycoheterotrophy. Root symbionts were identified by sequencing the fungal ITS of 18 individuals from three orchid populations, including achlorophyllous and young, subterranean individuals. No rhizoctonias (the usual orchid symbionts) were recovered, but 78% of investigated root pieces were colonized by Tuber spp. Other Pezizales and some Basidiomycetes were also found. Using electron microscopy, we demonstrated for the first time that ascomycetes, especially truffles, form typical orchid mycorrhizae. All identified fungi (but one) belonged to taxa forming ectomycorrhizae on tree roots, and four of them were even shown to colonize surrounding trees. This is reminiscent of mycoheterotrophic orchid species that also associate with ectomycorrhizal fungi, although with higher specificity. Subterranean and achlorophyllous E. microphylla individuals thus likely rely on tree photosynthates, and a partial mycoheterotrophy in individuals plants can be predicted. We hypothesize that replacement of rhizoctonias by ectomycorrhizal symbionts in Neottieae entails a predisposition to achlorophylly.
27770625|Phyllosphere bacteria on ornamental plants were characterized based on their diversity and activity towards the removal of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), the major air pollutants in urban area. The amounts of PAH-degrading bacteria were about 110% of the total heterotrophic phyllosphere populations and consisted of diverse bacterial species such as Acinetobacter, Pseudomonas, Pseudoxanthomonas, Mycobacterium, and uncultured bacteria. Bacterial community structures analyzed by polymerase chain reactiondenaturing gradient gel electrophoresis from each plant species showed distinct band patterns. The uniqueness of these phyllosphere bacterial communities was partly due to the variation in leaf morphology and chemical properties of ornamental plants. The PAH degradation activity of these bacteria was monitored in gas-tight systems containing sterilized or unsterilized leaves. The results indicated that phyllosphere bacteria on unsterilized leaves were able to enhance the activity of leaves for phenanthrene removal. When compared between plant species, phenanthrene removal efficiency corresponded to the size of phenanthrene-degrading bacteria. In addition, phyllosphere bacteria on Wrightia religiosa were able to reduce other PAHs such as acenaphthylene, acenaphthene, and fluorine in 60-ml glass vials and in a 14-1 glass chamber. Thus, phyllosphere bacteria on ornamental plants may play an important role in natural attenuation of airborne PAHs in urban areas.
25256182|Ozone is considered as the main factor in air pollution related to a decline of forest in North America and Europe. In the present study, the effect of changed litter quality, due to ozone stress to trees, on the microbial communities colonizing the subsequent litter was investigated. Litter bag technique using beech and spruce litter from ozone-stressed and control trees, was combined with 16S and 18S rRNA-based fingerprinting methods and cloning to characterize phylogenetic diversity. Litter bags were incubated for 2 and 8 weeks in a beech-spruce mixed forest. Differences between the structure of microbial communities colonizing control and ozone-exposed litter were evident by fingerprints of 16S and 18S rRNA RT-PCR products. RT-PCR products, from litter degraded for 8 weeks, were cloned to identify the bacterial and fungal groups. Clones similar to members of Actinobacteria dominated the bacterial libraries, whereas effects of changed litter quality were mainly observed for the Proteobacteria. Fungal libraries were dominated by clones similar to Ascomycota members. Reduced proportion of clones similar to Basidiomycota and Zygomycota in library from ozone-stressed spruce trees and Chytridiomycota from ozone-stressed beech trees were observed when compared to their control counterparts. As hypothesized, changed litter quality due to elevated O did influence the structure of litter-colonizing microbial communities. However, these differences were not as pronounced as those between the two plant species.
25153335| In this study, we used a 16S rDNA-based approach to determine bacterial populations associated with coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) in its early life stages, highlighting dominant bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract during growth in freshwater. The present article is the first molecular analysis of bacterial communities of coho salmon. Cultivability of the salmon gastrointestinal microbiota was estimated by comparison of direct microscopic counts (using acridine orange) with colony counts (in tryptone soy agar). In general, a low fraction (about 1%) of the microbiota could be recovered as cultivable bacteria. Using DNA extracted directly from individuals belonging to the same lot, bacterial communities present in eggs and gastrointestinal tract of first-feeding fries and juveniles were monitored by polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). The DGGE profiles revealed simple communities in all stages and exposed changes in bacterial community during growth. Sequencing and phylogenetic analysis of excised DGGE bands revealed the nature of the main bacteria found in each stage. In eggs, the dominant bacteria belonged to -Proteobacteria (Janthinobacterium and Rhodoferax). During the first feeding stage, the most abundant bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract clustered with Proteobacteria (Shewanella and Aeromonas). In juveniles ranging from 2 to 15 g, prevailing bacteria were Pseudomonas and Aeromonas. To determine the putative origin of dominant Pseudomonas and Aeromonas found in juvenile gastrointestinal tracts, primers for these groups were designed based on sequences retrieved from DGGE gel. Subsequently, samples of the water influent, pelletized feed, and eggs were analyzed by PCR amplification. Only those amplicons obtained from samples of eggs and the water influent presented identical sequences to the dominant bands of DGGE. Overall, our results suggest that a stable microbiota is established after the first feeding stages and its major components could be derived from water and egg epibiota. 
25153352|Various measurements of microbial productivity in streambed pebble biofilms were analyzed almost monthly for 1 year to quantify the importance of primary production as an autochthonous source of organic matter utilized to support heterotrophic bacterial production in the dynamic food web within this natural microbial habitat. Bacterial density varied from 0.3  10 to 1.4  10 cells cm, and chlorophyll a concentration ranged from 0.7 to 25.9 g cm, with no coupled oscillation between seasonal changes in these two parameters. In bottle incubation experiments, the instantaneous bacterial growth rate of bacteria was significantly correlated with their production rate [measured by frequency of dividing cells (FDC)] as follows: ln  = 0.138FDC - 3.003 (n = 15, r = 0.445, p &lt; 0.001). FDC values in the pebble biofilms increased with fluctuations during the study period, ranging from 3.6% to 9.2%. Bacterial production rates largely fluctuated between 0.15 to 0.92 g C cm h, and its seasonal pattern was similar to that of bacterial density. Net primary production measured between May 2002 to November 2002 attained minimum level (0.5 g C cm h) in June and maximum level (1.9 g C cm h) in August. Percentages of bacterial production to net primary production ranged between 21% and 120%. Because this ratio extends both below and above 100% for these parameters, it is likely that both autochthonous and allochthonous supplies of organic matter are important for production of bacteria in the pebble biofilms that develop in rapidly flowing fresh water streams.
25153119| The effect of zinc on leaf decomposition by aquatic fungi was studied in microcosms. Alder leaf disks were precolonized for 15 days at the source of the Este River and exposed to different zinc concentrations during 25 days. Leaf mass loss, fungal biomass (based on ergosterol concentration), fungal production (rates of [1-C]acetate incorporation into ergosterol), sporulation rates, and species richness of aquatic hyphomycetes were determined. At the source of the Este River decomposition of alder leaves was fast and 50% of the initial mass was lost in 25 days. A total of 18 aquatic hyphomycete species were recorded during 42 days of leaf immersion. Articulospora tetracladia was the dominant species, followed by Lunulospora curvula and two unidentified species with sigmoid conidia. Cluster analysis suggested that zinc concentration and exposure time affected the structure of aquatic hyphomycete assemblages, even though richness had not been severely affected. Both zinc concentration and exposure time significantly affected leaf mass loss, fungal production and sporulation, but not fungal biomass. Zinc exposure reduced leaf mass loss, inhibited fungal production and affected fungal reproduction by either stimulating or inhibiting sporulation rates. The results of this work suggested zinc pollution might depress leaf decomposition in streams due to changes in the structure and activity of aquatic fungi. 
4251101| Depth distributions of O
41489027|Aquatic shredders (leaf-eating invertebrates) preferentially ingest and digest leaves colonized by aquatic hyphomycetes (fungi). This activity destroys leaf-associated fungal biomass and detritial resources in streams. Fungal counter-adaptations may include the ability to survive passage through the invertebrate's digestive tract. When fecal pellets of Gammarus tigrinus and Hyalella azteca were incubated with sterile leaves, spores of nine (G. tigrinus) and seven (H. azteca) aquatic hyphomycete species were subsequently released from the leaves, indicating the presence of viable fungal structures in the feces. Extraction, amplification, and sequencing of DNA from feces revealed numerous fungal phylotypes, two of which could be assigned unequivocally to an aquatic hyphomycete. The estimated contributions of major fungal groups varied depending on whether 18S or ITS sequences were amplified and cloned. We conclude that a variable proportion of fungal DNA in the feces of detritivores may originate from aquatic hyphomycetes. Amplified DNA may be associated with metabolically active, dormant, or dead fungal cells.
4250826|Thirty-four marine bacteria were isolated from the eluate of seawater passed through a column of glass beads coated with stearic acid. Irreversible attachment of these isolates to stearic acid-coated glass surfaces ranged from 7.6-100% of the total attached population, with 7 isolates exhibiting less than 10% irreversible adhesion. All 14 isolates tested were able to utilize surface bound
4251401| River-water extracellular-enzyme activity in the lowland Rivers Ouse and Derwent, northeast England, had much in common. In both rivers, the mean enzyme activities over 15 months differed in the following order: leucine aminopeptidase > phosphatase > -D-glucosidase > -D-galactosidase and -D-xylosidase. None of the five enzymes assayed had significant between-river difference in activity, and there was significant between-river correlation of -D-glucosidase, phosphatase, and leucine-aminopeptidase activity. The common enzyme regimes were probably more due to between-river similarity of planktonic microbiota than to similar physico-chemical conditions. The potential for glucose uptake by bacterioplankton closely followed -D-glucosidase activity in magnitude and periodicity. The potential for leucine uptake, however, was much less than leucine-aminopeptidase activity; hence rate of leucine release probably did not limit leucine uptake. There was an appreciable and highly variable proportion of free (<0.2 m) enzyme activity in river water; ranges were -D-glucosidase 10-30%, phosphatase 53% to apparently 104%, and leucine aminopeptidase 22-98%. These free enzymes did not necessarily originate from planktonic microbiota and may explain the fairly loose coupling between whole-water enzyme activity and microbial variables. Marked downstream increase in enzyme activity, along about 104 km of the River Derwent, was found on only one of three sampling days; hence the single site used for regular sampling was reasonably representative of most of the river. 
4287543|Effects of the biocontrol strain, Pseudomonas fluorescens DR54, on growth and disease development by Rhizoctonia solani causing damping-off in sugar beet were studied in soil microcosms and in pot experiments with natural, clay-type soil. In pot experiments with P. fluorescens DR54-treated seeds, significantly fewer Rhizoctonia-challenged seedlings showed damping-off symptoms than when not inoculated with the biocontrol agent. In the rhizosphere of P. fluorescens DR54 inoculated seeds, the bacterial inoculant was present in high numbers as shown by dilution plating and immunoblotting. By the ELISA antibody technique and direct microscopy of the fungal pathogen grown in soil microcosms, it was shown that the presence of P. fluorescens DR54 on the inoculated seeds had a strong inhibitory effect on development of both mycelium biomass and sclerotia formation by R. solani. In the field experiment, plant emergence was increased by treatment with P. fluorescens DR54 and the inoculant was found to be the dominating rhizosphere colonizing pseudomonad immediately after seedling emergence.
41489179|The bacterial communities associated with the cockle (Cerastoderma edule) were investigated at the individual level through a 10-month monitoring programme. Temporal changes and those changes associated with a common parasite of the cockle, Bucephalus minimus, were investigated by monthly sampling of individuals, selected based on their shell length (cohort monitoring). Cockle bacterial community abundance (CBCA) and diversity (CBCD) were estimated by epifluorescence microscopy counts and automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis, respectively. CBCA showed a temporal pattern peaking at 3010 cells per gram of cockle flesh and intervalval liquid in October and a significant 1.8-fold increase linked with B. minimus occurrence. CBCD was characterized by 11226 intergenic transcribed spacer (ITS) per individual and showed a relative homology between individuals (52  6%, Jaccard similarity) in spite of more than 30% of rare ITS. Consistent with an undisturbed evolution of the condition index of the studied cohort individuals as an estimate of their physiological state, neither temporal nor parasite-induced change in CBCA has been related to marked changes in CBCD.
4287512|In a study on the dynamics and trophic role of the heterotrophic nanoflagellate (HNAN) assemblage in the microbial food web of a eutrophic oxbow lake abundances, biomass, and production rates of HNAN and their potential prey organisms, namely heterotrophic bacteria and autotrophic picoplankton, were monitored for a period of 2 years. No coupling between HNAN abundance and biomass and the abundance and biomass of their picoplanktonic prey was observed for the investigation period. The ratio of heterotrophic bacterial to HNAN abundance ranged from 2.2 10
25153264|The yeast community associated with deep-sea hydrothermal systems of the Mid-Atlantic Rift was surveyed for the first time. This study relied on a culture-based approach using two different growth media: a conventional culture medium for yeasts supplemented with sea salts (MYPss) and the same medium additionally supplemented with sulfur (MYPssS). For the evaluation of species diversity, a molecular approach involving minisatellite-primed polymerase chain reaction (MSP-PCR) strain typing and sequence analysis of the D1/D2 domains of the 26S rDNA was followed. In the seven water samples that were studied, the number of colony-forming units per liter (cfu/L) ranged from 0 to 5940. The nonpigmented yeasts were much more abundant than the pink-pigmented ones. This disproportion was not observed in studies of other marine systems and may be due to the unique conditions of hydrothermal vents, characterized by a rich animal and microbial diversity and therefore by the availability of organic compounds utilizable by yeasts. Higher counts of nonpigmented yeast were obtained using MYPss, whereas for pink yeasts, higher counts were obtained using MYPssS. Moreover, among pink yeasts, some of the MSP-PCR classes obtained were composed of isolates obtained only on MYPssS, which might be an indication that these isolates are adapted to the ecosystems of the hydrothermal vents. Twelve phylotypes belonged to the Ascomycota and seven phylotypes belonged to the Basidiomycota. The nonpigmented yeasts were identified as Candida atlantica, C. atmosphaerica, C. lodderae, C. parapsilosis, Exophiala dermatitidis, Pichia guilliermondii, and Trichosporon dermatis, whereas the pigmented yeasts were identified as Rhodosporidium diobovatum, R. sphaerocarpum, R. toruloides, and Rhodotorula mucilaginosa. Some of the yeasts that were found belong to phylogenetic groups that include species reported from other marine environments, and eight phylotypes represent undescribed species. The new phylotypes found at Mid-Atlantic Ridge hydrothermal fields represent 33% of the total number of yeast taxa that were found.
4250861|The behavior of microorganisms in foods is governed by the constraints applied to the microflora by a variety of environmental and ecological factors. These include water activity, pH, E
41693863|As ocean temperatures rise, investigations into what the physiological effects will be on the symbiotic microalga Symbiodinium, and how these may play into the cnidarian bleaching response, have highlighted the contribution of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Previous studies have laid this groundwork using a limited number of Symbiodinium phylotypes, and so this study aims to expand this understanding by exploring the effects of sub-lethal elevated temperatures on the physiological response of seven genetically distinct types of Symbiodinium, including Al, Bl, B2, Cl, D, El, and F2. The production of ROS (at 26 C, 29 C, 30 C, and 31 C) and activity of the antioxidants catalase (CAT) and Superoxide dismutase (SOD) (at 26 C and 31 C) were measured as indicators of sensitivity or tolerance to heat stress. Symbiodinium types B1 and C1 were the most thermally sensitive, with C1 producing the highest amount of ROS at elevated temperatures. Types A1 and F2 were tolerant, having no increase in ROS production, and were the only types to increase both CAT and SOD activity with temperature stress. Type B2 had decreased ROS production and elevation of CAT activity, while type E1 had decreased levels of ROS production at elevated temperatures. Type D was the only Symbiodinium type to remain unaffected by elevated temperatures. These results are consistent with previous findings of relative sensitivity or tolerance to elevated temperatures, specifically with regards to types A1, B1, and F2. The inclusion of types B2, C1, D, and E1 provides further new evidence of how types differ in their thermal responses, suggesting differing mechanisms exist in the Symbiodnium response to higher temperature and highlighting the importance of establishing symbiont identity when exploring the response of intact associations to this type of stress.
25153082|Although soil structure largely determines energy flows and the distribution and composition of soil microhabitats, little is known about how microbial community composition is influenced by soil structural characteristics and organic matter compartmentalization dynamics. A UV irradiation-based procedure was developed to specifically isolate inner-microaggregate microbial communities, thus providing the means to analyze these communities in relation to their environment. Whole- and inner-microaggregate fractions of undisturbed soil and soils reclaimed after disturbance by surface coal mining were analyzed using 16S rDNA terminal restriction fragment polymorphism (T-RFLP) and sequence analyses to determine salient bacterial community structural characteristics. We hypothesized that inner-microaggregate environments select for definable microbial communities and that, due to their sequestered environment, inner-microaggregate communities would not be significantly impacted by disturbance. However, T-RFLP analysis indicated distinct differences between bacterial populations of inner-microaggregates of undisturbed and reclaimed soils. While both undisturbed and reclaimed inner-microaggregate bacterial communities were found dominated by Actinobacteria, undisturbed soils contained only Actinobacteridae, while in inner-microaggregates of reclaimed soils Rubrobacteridae predominate. Spatial stratification of division-level lineages within microaggregates was also evidenced, with Proteobacteria clones being prevalent in libraries derived from whole microaggregates. The fractionation methods employed in this study therefore represent a valuable tool for defining relationships between biodiversity and soil structure.
41489155|Symbiont redundancy in obligate insect-fungal systems is thought to buffer the insect host against symbiont loss and to extend the environmental conditions under which the insect can persist. The mountain pine beetle is associated with at least three well-known and putatively obligate ophiostomatoid fungal symbionts that vary in their environmental tolerances. To better understand the spatial variation in beetle-fungal symbiotic associations, we examined the community composition of ophiostomatoid fungi associated with the mountain pine beetle as a function of latitude and elevation. The region investigated represents the leading edge of a recent outbreak of mountain pine beetle in western Canada. Using regression and principal components analysis, we identified significant spatial patterns in fungal species abundances that indicate symmetrical replacement between two of the three fungi along a latitudinal gradient and little variation in response to elevation. We also identified significant variation in the prevalence of pair-wise species combinations that occur within beetle galleries. Frequencies of pair-wise combinations were significantly different from what was expected given overall species abundances. These results suggest that complex processes of competitive exclusion and coexistence help determine fungal community composition and that the consequences of these processes vary spatially. The presence of three fungal symbionts in different proportions and combinations across a wide range of environmental conditions may help explain the success of mountain pine beetle attacks across a broad geographic range.
27770563|The effects of synthetic pesticides on the soil microbial community have been thoroughly investigated in the past mostly by culture-dependent methods and only few recent studies have used culture-independent approaches for this purpose. However, it should be noted that most of these studies have been conducted in microcosms where the soil microbial community is exposed to unrealistic concentrations of the pesticides, providing an unrealistic exposure scheme for soil microorganism. On the other hand, little is known regarding the potential impact of botanical pesticides on the soil microbial community. Therefore, a laboratory study and a field study were conducted to investigate the effects of synthetic (metham sodium [MS], sodium tetrathiocarbonate [SoTe], and fosthiazate) and botanical pesticides (azadirachtin, quillaja, and pulverized Melia azedarach fruits [PMF]) on the soil microbial community using phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA) analysis. Principal component analysis (PCA) on the results of the laboratory study indicated that the application of PMF resulted in significant changes in the soil microbial community. This was obvious by the proportional increase in the abundance of fatty acids 18:19cis, 18:19trans, which are common in gram-negative bacteria and saprotrophic fungi, and 18:26,9, which is a fungal indicator. This response was attributed to the release of copious amounts of organic carbon and nutrients in the soil by the PMF. On the other hand, MS inhibited fungi and gram-negative bacteria, while fosthiazate and the botanical pesticides quillaja and azadirachtin did not impose significant changes in the soil microbial community. Similar results were obtained by the field study where application of the fumigants MS and SoTe significantly altered the structure of the soil microbial community with the former having a more prominent effect. Fosthiazate imposed mild changes in the soil microbial community, whereas quillaja and azadirachtin again did not show a significant effect. Overall, botanical pesticides, at their recommended dose, did not alter the structure of the soil microbial community compared to synthetic nonfumigant and fumigant pesticides which induced significant changes.
25153020| Mono Lake is a large (180 km), alkaline (pH  10), moderately hypersaline (70-85 g kg) lake lying at the western edge of the Great Basin. An episode of persistent chemical stratification (meromixis) was initiated in 1995 and has resulted in depletion of oxygen and accumulation of ammonia and sulfide beneath the chemocline. Although previous studies have documented high bacterial abundances and marked seasonal changes in phytoplankton abundance and community composition, there have been no previous reports on the occurrence of viruses in this unique lake. Based on the high concentrations and diversity of microbial life in this lake, we hypothesized that planktonic viruses are also abundant and diverse. To examine the abundance and distribution of viruses and bacteria, water samples were collected from four stations along 5 to 15 vertical depths at each station. Viral abundance ranged from 1  10 to 1  10 mL, among the highest observed in any natural aquatic system examined so far. Increases (p &lt; 0.1) in viral densities were observed in the anoxic bottom water at multiple stations. However, regression analysis indicated that viral abundance could not be predicted by any single environmental parameter. Pulsed field gel electrophoresis revealed a diverse viral community in Mono Lake with genome sizes ranging from  14 to &gt;400 kb with most of the DNA in the 30 to 60 kb size range. Cluster analysis grouped the anoxic bottom-water viral community into a unique cluster differentiating it from surface and mid-water viral communities. A hybridization study using an indigenous viral isolate as a probe revealed an episodic pattern of temporal phage distribution with strong niche stratification between oxic and anoxic waters. 
4250962|Species dynamics of fungi (filamentous fungi and yeasts) on apple leaves were studied within the framework of the theory of island biogeography by following "immigration" and "extinction" patterns on individual apple leaf "islands" over time. Total fungi were censused on unmanipulated leaves collected throughout two seasons; filamentous fungi only were monitored additionally for several weeks in one season on newly created, axenic, model (seedling) islands introduced to the orchard, and on surface-sterilized, preexisting leaves. Analyses based on both the natural and the surface-sterilized systems showed that an equilibrium in species number was reached and turnover in species composition occurred in both. Immigration and extinction events were strongly related to number of species present on each island. The balance between immigration and extinction implies that species number on leaves and "real" (oceanic) islands is determined by a common mechanism, and emphasizes the need to regard leaf microbial communities as dynamic.
41489079|The Atacama Desert is one of the driest places on Earth, with an arid core highly adverse to the development of hypolithic cyanobacteria. Previous work has shown that when rain levels fall below ~ 1 mm per year, colonization of suitable quartz stones falls to virtually zero. Here, we report that along the coast in these arid regions, complex associations of cyanobacteria, archaea, and heterotrophic bacteria inhabit the undersides of translucent quartz stones. Colonization rates in these areas, which receive virtually no rain but mainly fog, are significantly higher than those reported inland in the hyperarid zone at the same latitude. Here, hypolithic colonization rates can be up to 80%, with all quartz rocks over 20 g being colonized. This finding strongly suggests that hypolithic microbial communities thriving in the seaward face of the Coastal Range can survive with fog as the main regular source of moisture. A model is advanced where the development of the hypolithic communities under quartz stones relies on a positive feedback between fog availability and the higher thermal conductivity of the quartz rocks, which results in lower daytime temperatures at the quartz-soil interface microenvironment.
4251334| Survival of stressed Escherichia coli with or without the rpoS gene was assessed after 2 and 6 days in sterile seawater. Cells were submitted to thermal (48C), acidic (pH 5.1), oxidative ( H
25256232|Assimilatory nitrate reductase gene fragments were isolated from epiphytes and plankton associated with seagrass blades collected from Tampa Bay, Florida, USA. Nitrate reductase genes from diatoms (NR) and heterotrophic bacteria (nasA) were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using two sets of degenerate primers. A total of 129 NR and 75 nasA clones from four clone libraries, two from each of epiphytic and planktonic components, were sequenced and aligned. In addition, genomic DNA sequences for the NR fragment were obtained from Skeletonema costatum and Thalassiosira weissflogii diatom cultures. Rarefaction analysis with an operational taxonomic unit cut-off of 6% indicated that diversity of the NR and nasA clone libraries were similar, and that sequencing of the clone libraries was not yet saturated. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that 121 of the 129 NR clones sequenced were similar to diatom sequences. Of the eight non-diatom sequences, four were most closely related to the sequence of Chlorella vulgaris. Introns were found in 8% of the Tampa Bay NR sequences; introns were also observed in S. costatum, but not T. weissflogii. Introns from within the same clone library exhibited close similarity in nucleotide sequence, position and length; the corresponding exon sequences were unique. Introns from within the same component were similar in position and length, but not in nucleotide sequence. These findings raise questions about the function of introns, and mechanisms or time evolution of intron formation. A large cluster of 14 of the 75 nasA sequences was similar to sequences from Vibrio species; other sequences were closely related to sequences from Alteromonas, alpha-proteobacteria and Marinomonas-like species. Biogeographically consistent patterns were observed for the nasA Tampa Bay sequences compared with sequences from other locations: for example, Tampa Bay sequences were similar to those from the South Atlantic Bight, but not the Barents Sea. The Tampa Bay NR clone libraries contained sequences that exhibited phylogenetic similarity with sequences from coastal New Jersey and Monterey Bay, USA. For both NR and nasA, the sequences formed phylogenetic clusters containing nitrate reductase gene fragments that were common to both plankton and epiphyte components, and sequences that were unique to just one component. The implication that some organisms may be differentially represented in epiphytic versus planktonic components of the community suggests that local environmental conditions may have ramifications for regulation of nitrate assimilation processes, community composition, and ecosystem function.
4251045|The properties of three amidohydrolases, i.e., urease (I) EC 3.5.1.5, L-asparaginase (II) EC 3.5.1.1, and L-glutaminase (III) EC 3.5.1.2, were studied in sediment samples taken from a shallow eutrophic freshwater lake. Sediment samples were air dried (ADS) and stored for at least 3 months before being enzymically characterized. The pH optimum of I, II, and III were pH 7.0, 8.4, and 6.5-7.0, respectively, while III in soluble extracts from ADS was most active between pH 8.0 and 9.0. The temperature response of the three enzymes in ADS gave E<sub> a</sub> values of 38.9, 41.6, and 35.9 <tex-math>${\rm kJmol}^{-1}$</tex-math> for I, II, and III, respectively. K<sub> m</sub> and V<sub> max</sub> values for ADS I, II, and III were 1.2 mM and 1.9 mol <tex-math>${\rm NH}_{3}\ {\rm g}^{-1}{\rm h}^{-1}$</tex-math>; 0.8 mM and 4.1 mol <tex-math>${\rm NH}_{3}\ {\rm g}^{-1}{\rm h}^{-1}$</tex-math>; and 1.25 mM and 17.4 mol <tex-math>${\rm NH}_{3}\ {\rm g}^{-1}{\rm h}^{-1}$</tex-math>. K<sub> m</sub> values for all three enzymes in ADS extracts were at least an order of magnitude greater than those of the ADS. The susceptability of each enzyme to proteolysis was followed in ADS and fresh wet sediment and compared with that of III in an ADS extract. All sediment enzymes were found to be more resistant than the commercial preparation of bacterial L-glutaminase subjected to the same treatment. These results suggested that I, II, and III all exist to some extent as colloid-immobilized enzyme fractions in freshwater sediments and are analogous to the stable enzyme fractions in soils.
4251511| The tfdA gene encodes an -ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase that catalyzes the initial step in the degradation of the widely used herbicide, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Since its description in Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP134, tfdA has been found on plasmids or on the chromosomes of phylogenetically diverse 2,4-D-degrading microorganisms. To assess its distribution in more diverse microbial populations, including bacteria that do not degrade 2,4-D, a collection of 76 soil bacteria that had been isolated on nonselective medium was screened for the presence of this gene by PCR amplification of an internal fragment of tfdA. PCR amplification products of the expected size were generated from the genomic DNA of 37% of these isolates. The products were shown to be highly similar to previously described tfdA sequences, either by hybridization of tfdA gene probes or by DNA sequence analyses. None of the isolates were able to degrade 2,4-D in liquid mediu, or incorporate radiolabeled carbon from ring- or chain-labeled
4250988|A method is described for determining biodegradation kinetics of both naturally occurring and xenobiotic compounds in surface and subsurface soil samples. The method measures both respiration and uptake into cellular biomass of
25256089|The diversity and the community structure of sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) in an anaerobic continuous bioreactor used for treatment of a sulfate-containing wastewater were investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridization. Hybridization to the 16S rRNA probe EUB338 for the domain Bacteria was performed, followed by a nonsense probe NON338 as a control for nonspecific staining. Sulfate-reducing consortia were identified by using five nominally genus-specific probes (SRB129 for Desulfobacter, SRB221 for Desulfobacterium, SRB228 for Desulfotomaculum, SRB660 for Desulfobulbus, and SRB657 for Desulfonema) and four group-specific probes (SRB385 as a general SRB probe, SRB687 for Desulfovibrioaceae, SRB814 for Desulfococcus group, and SRB804 for Desulfobacteriaceae). The total prokaryotic population was determined by 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining. Hybridization analysis using these 16S rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide probes showed that, of those microbial groupings investigated, Desulfonema, Desulfobulbus, spp., and Desulfobacteriaceae group were the main sulfate-reducing bacteria in the bioreactor when operated at steady state at 35C, pH 7.8, and a 2.5-day residence time with feed stream containing 2.5 kg m sulfate as terminal electron acceptor and 2.3 kg m acetate as carbon source and electron donor.
4251457|Measurements of microbial community size, including total cell counts and specific degrader enumerations, were conducted on subsurface soil samples from both petroleum-contaminated and pristine aquifers. Samples were collected from both uncontaminated and contaminated areas of the petroleum-contaminated sites. In pristine and uncontaminated samples, total cell counts (acridine orange direct counts) were related to depth. The deeper samples contained smaller total microbial populations. However, indices of microbial activity varied considerably from sample to sample and probably reflect soil and site heterogeneity. Exposure to petroleum contamination apparently altered the microbial community structure. In samples exposed to low levels of contaminants as vapors and/or dissolved phases (ppb concentrations), and not free product, the toluene-specific degrader populations were larger at greater depths, and the numbers of amino acid-specific degraders were highly correlated to the numbers of decane-specific degraders, indicating that petroleum-adapted microbial communities were present in the contaminated samples. In highly contaminated samples, total microbial population densities decreased with increasing depth; however, microbial activity tended to increase with depth. These results indicate that petroleum contaminants exert toxic effects on the active microbial community at high exposures and enrich specific degraders at ppb levels of dissolved contaminants.
23469590|There is concern that ships' ballasting operations may disseminate Vibrio cholerae to ports throughout the world. Given evidence that the bacterium is indeed transported by ships, we isolated pandemic serotypes O1 and O139 from ballast tanks and characterized them with respect to antibiotic resistance and virulence genes ctxA and tcpA. We carried out concurrent studies with V. cholerae isolated from coastal waters. Of 284 isolates, 30 were serotype O1 and 59 were serotype O139. These serotypes were overrepresented in ballast tanks relative to the coastal waters sampled. All locations, whether coastal waters or ballast tanks, yielded samples from which serotype O1, O139, or both were isolated. There were three groups among the 62 isolates for which antibiotic characterization was conclusive: those exhibiting -lactamase activity and resistance to at least one of the 12 antibiotics tested; those negative for -lactamase but having antibiotic resistance; those negative for -lactamase and registering no antibiotic resistance. When present, antibiotic resistance in nearly all cases was to ampicillin; resistance to multiple antibiotics was uncommon. PCR assays revealed that none of the isolates contained the ctxA gene and only two isolates, one O139 and one O1, contained the tcpA gene; both isolates originated from ballast water. These results support the bacteriological regulations proposed by the International Maritime Association for discharged ballast water.
40343400|This study investigates how thermally treated (i.e., torrefied) grass, a new prospective ingredient of potting soils, is colonized by microorganisms. Torrefied grass fibers (TGF) represent a specific colonizable niche, which is potentially useful to establish a beneficial microbial community that improves plant growth. TGF and torrefied grass extracts (TGE) were inoculated with a suspension of microorganisms obtained from soil. Sequential microbial enrichment steps were then performed in both substrates. The microbial communities developing in the substrates were assessed using cultivation-based and cultivation-independent approaches. Thus, bacterial isolates were obtained, and polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analyses for bacterial communities were performed. Partial sequencing of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene from isolates and bands from DGGE gels showed diverse communities after enrichment in TGE and TGF. Bacterial isolates affiliated with representatives of the a-proteobacteria {Methylobacterium radiotolerans, Rhizobium radiobacter), -proteobacteria (Serratia plymuthica, Pseudomonas putida), Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides (CFB) group (Flavobacterium denitrificans), -proteobacteria (Ralstonia campinensis), actinobacteria (Cellulomonas parahominis, Leifsonia poae, L. xyli subsp. xyli, and Mycobacterium anthracenicum), and the firmicutes (Bacillus megaterium) were found. In TGE, -proteobacteria were dominant (61.5% of the cultivable community), and 20% belonged to the CFB group, whereas actinobacteria (67.4%) and -proteobacteria (21.7%) were prevalent in TGF. A germination assay with lettuce seeds showed that the phytotoxicity of TGF and TGE decreased due to the microbial enrichment.
25153197| 16S rRNA gene-based molecular analyses revealed the presence of several large and so far uncultivated clades within class -Proteobacteria, designated -proteobacterial marine sediment (GMS) clades 1 to 4, in marine sediment. The GMS clades appear only indigenous to marine sediment and so far have an unknown functionality. SYBR Green-based real-time PCR analyses using GMS clade-specific primers indicated GMS clades were a significant part of the bacterial community (0.3-8.7% of total 16S rRNA genes) in both polar and temperate marine sediment samples. Univariate statistical analyses indicated that GMS clade communities were indistinguishable in two temperate coastal sediment samples even though these possessed very different mean grain sizes, organic contents, and organic loading rates. GMS clade communities were slightly different (p &lt; 0.05) between polar and temperate sites, suggesting that psychrophilic adaptation among GMS clade taxa corresponds only to subtle phylogenetic differences. Similar levels of difference were also observed through a sediment core reflecting that through the sediment core history, which spanned 3000 years, GMS clonal diversity shifted only marginally. 
4251763|The effects of diesel fuel and "Arabian light" crude oil addition on Antarctic bacterial assemblages were studied in four contaminated soils during 1 year in the Terre Adelie land area. Monthly sampling allowed a regular survey of the bacterial changes occurring in the contaminated soils. All samples were analyzed for total bacteria, heterotrophic culturable microbiota, and hydrocarbon-utilizing microbiota. Crude oil contamination induced an initial increase of all bacterial parameters in all contaminated soils. Diesel oil contamination had a more complex effect. Hydrocarbon degrading bacterial abundance increases occurred after diesel oil addition. In contrast, general heterotrophic bacterial abundance could significantly decrease in the same conditions. In all cases the stimulatory effects of oil addition disappeared after several months of contamination.
4250598| The densities of Aeromonas hydrophila in various natural waters were found to be strongly correlated with a relative index proposed for use in trophic state assessments of freshwaters. No such correlation was found with the recoverable heterotrophic population of which A. hydrophila is a part. A. hydrophila was found to be seasonally distributed with maximal densities occurring during summer through early fall. It was also found to be spatially distributed within a pond with the most consistent densities occurring from 1 m depth down to that depth in the water column where the temperature reaches 16C. The densities of the organism correlated most strongly with total phosphorus, chlorophyll a, and Secchi depth. Moderate correlations were found with dissolved phosphorus, Kjeldahl nitrogen, and dissolved organic carbon. Little or no correlation was obtained with ammonia, orthophosphate, pH, alkalinity, or dissolved oxygen. The discriminating ability that the A. hydrophila density measurements provide in the oligotrophic through mesotrophic range appears to exceed those of presently available methods. The facility and sensitivity of the enumeration method for A. hydrophila should make it a useful tool for trophic state assessments. 
25256111|Soil fungal communities underneath willow canopies that had established on the forefront of a receding glacier were analyzed by cloning the polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified partial small subunit (18S) of the ribosomal (rRNA) genes. Congruence between two sets of fungus-specific primers targeting the same gene region was analyzed by comparisons of inferred neighbor-joining topologies. The importance of chimeric sequences was evaluated by Chimera Check (Ribosomal Database Project) and by data reanalyses after omission of potentially chimeric regions at the 5'- and 3'-ends of the cloned amplicons. Diverse communities of fungi representing Ascomycota, Basidiomycota, Chytridiomycota, and Zygomycota were detected. Ectomycorrhizal fungi comprised a major component in the early plant communities in primary successional ecosystems, as both primer sets frequently detected basidiomycetes (Russulaceae and Thelephoraceae) forming mycorrhizal symbioses. Various ascomycetes (Ophiostomatales, Pezizales, and Sordariales) of uncertain function dominated the clone libraries amplified from the willow canopy soil with one set of primers, whereas the clone libraries of the amplicons generated with the second primer set were dominated by basidiomycetes. Accordingly, primer bias is an important factor in fungal community analyses using DNA extracted from environmental samples. A large proportion (&gt;30%) of the cloned sequences were concluded to be chimeric based on their changing positions in inferred phylogenies after omission of possibly chimeric data. Many chimeric sequences were positioned basal to existing classes of fungi, suggesting that PCR artifacts may cause frequent discovery of new, higher level taxa (order, class) in direct PCR analyses. Longer extension times during the PCR amplification and a smaller number of PCR cycles are necessary precautions to allow collection of reliable environmental sequence data.
4250785|An ultrastructural study has been made of a symbiotic association between a sulfur bacterium and the roots of the rice plant (Oryza sativa L.). This association is proposed to have useful economic consequences in ameliorating hydrogen sulfide toxicity and associated Akiochi or Straighthead disease in lowland rice cultivation. The presence of catalase (E.C. 1.11.1.6) in rice roots and in some rhizosphere bacteria has been demonstrated in ultrathin sections of field-grown rice using a catalase-specific medium. Catalase was detected in capsules surrounding the catalase-negative S-bacteria. These capsules were of a novel fibrillar structure. Two sizes of inclusion bodies were present in these large bacteria. The disappearance of the smaller inclusions during carbon disulfide treatment suggests that they are the sulfur granules. The name "thiosome" is proposed for these membrane-bound structures.
4250455|Roots of wheat grown in unsterilized sand inoculated with Gaeumannomyces graminis (Sacc.) von Arx and Olivier were examined by scanning electron microscopy. Healthy roots had a mucilaginous covering and were sparsely colonized by bacteria, but as G. graminis colonized the roots the mucilage disappeared and the numbers of bacteria on the surface increased. Lysis of the hyphae occurred, apparently caused by bacteria that colonized the hyphae. Inoculation of wheat in axenic culture with a strain of Pseudomonas fluorescens that was antagonistic to G. graminis in agar gave some protection against the pathogen; lysis of hyphae was observed where protection occurred.
41489767|Isolations were made to determine the fungal symbionts colonizing Platypus quercivorus beetle galleries of dead or dying Quercus laurifolia, Castanopsis cuspidata, Quercus serrata, Quercus crispula, and Quercus robur. For these studies, logs from oak wilt-killed trees were collected from Kyoto Prefecture, Japan. Fungi were isolated from the: (1) entrances of beetle galleries, (2) vertical galleries, (3) lateral galleries, and (4) the larval cradle of P. quercivorus in each host tree. Among the fungus colonies which appeared on YM agar plates, 1,219 were isolated as the representative isolates for fungus species inhabiting in the galleries based on their cultural characteristics. The validity of the visual classification of the fungus colonies was checked and if necessary properly corrected using microsatellite-primed PCR fingerprints. The nucleotide sequence of the D1/D2 region of the large subunit nuclear rRNA gene detected 38 fungus species (104 strains) of which three species, i.e., Candida sp. 3, Candida kashinagacola (both yeasts), and the filamentous fungus Raffaelea quercivora were isolated from all the tree species. The two yeasts were most prevalent in the interior of galleries, regardless of host tree species, suggesting their close association with the beetle. A culture-independent method, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) analysis was also used to characterize the fungus flora of beetle galleries. T-RFLP patterns showed that yeast species belonging to the genus Ambrosiozyma frequently occurred on the gallery walls along with the two Candida species. Ours is the first report showing the specific fungi inhabiting the galleries of a platypodid ambrosia beetle.
23597805|Los Baos de Vilo (S Spain) is a natural spa characterized by extreme sulphureous waters; however, populations of chlorophyceans inhabit in the spa. The adaptation mechanisms allowing resistance by photosynthetic microorganisms to the extreme sulphureous waters were studied by using a modified LuriaDelbrck fluctuation analysis. For this purpose, the adaptation of the chlorophycean Dictyosphaerium chlorelloides and the cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa (both isolated from non-sulphureous water) were analysed in order to distinguish between physiological adaptation (acclimation) and genetic adaptation by the selection of rare spontaneous mutations. Acclimation to the extreme water was achieved by D. chlorelloides; however, M. aeruginosa cells proliferated as a consequence of selection of favoured mutants (i.e. genetic adaptation). The resistant cells of M. aeruginosa appeared with a frequency of 7.1  10 7 per cell per generation, and the frequency of the resistant allele, under non-selective conditions, was estimated to be 1.1  10 6 per cells as a consequence of the balance mutationselection. It could be hypothesized that the populations of eukaryotic algae living in the Los Baos de Vilo could be the descendants of chlorophyceans that arrived fortuitously at the spa in the past. On the other hand, cyanobacteria could quickly adapt by the selection of favoured mutants. The single mutation that allows resistance to sulphureous water from Baos de Vilo in M. aeruginosa represents a phenotypic burden impairing growth rate and photosynthetic performance. The resistant-variant cells of M. aeruginosa showed a lower acclimated growth rate and a decreased maximum quantum yield and photosynthetic efficiency, in comparison to the wild-type cells.
25153342| The variability of the percentage of extracellular dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) release (PER), along with the relationship between DON release and bacterioplankton activity, was examined during five oceanographic cruises, carried out in the upwelling region of the NW Iberian Peninsula, the SW Bay of Biscay, and a latitudinal transect in the Atlantic Ocean (50N-35S). Rates of nitrogen uptake, DON release, and bacterial production were measured at 66 stations and sampled between August 1998 and October 2000. The percentage of DON release relative to the gross uptake of ammonium
40802279|Geobacillus, a bacterial genus, is represented by over 25 species of Gram-positive isolates from various man-made and natural thermophilic areas around the world. An isolate of this genus (M-7) has been acquired from a thermal area near Yellowstone National Park, MT and partially characterized. The cells of this organism are globose (ca. 0.5  diameter), and they are covered in a matrix capsule which gives rise to elongate multicelled bacilliform structures (ranging from 3 to 12 m) as seen by light and atomic force microscopy, respectively. The organism produces unique petal-shaped colonies (undulating margins) on nutrient agar, and it has an optimum pH of 7.0 and an optimum temperature range of 55-65C. The partial 16S rRNA sequence of this organism has 97% similarity with Geobacillus stearothermophilus, one of its closest relatives genetically. However, uniquely among all members of this genus, Geobacillus sp. (M-7) produces volatile organic substances (VOCs) that possess potent antibiotic activities. Some of the more notable components of the VOCs are benzaldehyde, acetic acid, butanal, 3-methyl-butanoic acid, 2-methyl-butanoic acid, propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, and benzeneacetaldehyde. An exposure of test organisms such as Aspergillus fumigatus, Botrytis cinrea, Verticillium dahliae, and Geotrichum candidum produced total inhibition of growth on a 48-h exposure to Geobacillus sp.(M-7) cells (ca.10) and killing at a 72-h exposure at higher bacterial cell concentrations. A synthetic mixture of those available volatile compounds, at the ratios occurring in Geobacillus sp. (M-7), mimicked the bioactivity of this organism.
4250430|The applicability of two methods (pyrolysis gas chromatography and acidification-wet oxidation) for determining
23469191|In extreme desert environments, photosynthetic microorganisms often live on the buried undersides of translucent rocks. Computing the light level reaching these locations requires 3D modeling of a finite rock. We report on Monte Carlo calculations of skylight and sunlight transmission through a partially buried flat cylindrical rock using one billion photons per simulation. Transmitted light level drops inversely with increasing rock opacity, as expected for purely scattering media. For a half-buried rock with an extinction coefficient of 0.1 cm 1 (opacity of 0.2), transmission at the bottom is 64 % for sunlight at a solar zenith angle of 60 and 82 % for skylight. Transmitted light level increases slowly with increasing scattering asymmetry factor of the rock independent of illumination or depth buried. Transmitted sunlight at zenith through a thick half-buried rock (opacity of 0.6) is six times brighter at the bottom than the subsurface sides. Skylight transmits equally to the subsurface sides and bottom. When the sun is not straight overhead, the sunward side of the rock is brighter than the underside of the rock. Compared to the sunlight transmitted to the bottom, transmitted sunlight inclined at 60 is 24 times brighter at the subsurface side towards the sun and 14 times brighter at the subsurface side 70 away from the sun. Transmitted sunlight emitted from zenith and skylight is uniformly bright at the bottom regardless of how deeply the rock is buried. Sunlight not at zenith transmits preferentially to the sunward bottom edge depending on the depth the rock is buried.
25153278|In aquatic environments, Legionella pneumophila survives, in association with other bacteria, within biofilms by multiplying in free-living amoebae. The precise mechanisms underlying several aspects of the uptake and intracellular replication of L. pneumophila in amoebae, especially in the presence of other bacteria, remain unknown. In the present study, we examined the competitive effect of selected non-Legionella bacteria (Escherichia coli, Aeromonas hydrophila, Flavobacterium breve, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa) on the uptake of L. pneumophila serogroup 1 by the amoebae Acanthamoeba castellanii and Naegleria lovaniensis. We also investigated their possible influence on the intracellular replication of L. pneumophila in both amoeba species. Our results showed that the non-Legionella bacteria did not compete with L. pneumophila for uptake, suggesting that the amoeba hosts took in L. pneumophila through a specific and presumably highly efficient uptake mechanism. Living and heat-inactivated P. aeruginosa best supported the replication of L. pneumophila in N. lovaniensis and A. castellanii, respectively, whereas for both amoeba species, E. coli yielded the lowest number of replicated L. pneumophila. Furthermore, microscopic examination showed that 100% of the A. castellanii and only 2% of the N. lovaniensis population were infected with L. pneumophila at the end of the experiment. This study clearly shows the influence of some non-Legionella bacteria on the intracellular replication of L. pneumophila in A. castellanii and N. lovaniensis. It also demonstrates the different abilities of the two tested amoeba species to serve as a proper host for the replication and distribution of the human pathogen in man-made aquatic environments such as cooling towers, shower heads, and air conditioning systems with potential serious consequences for human health.
25153356|Wetlands are major sources of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases released during microbial degradation. Despite the fact that decomposition is mainly driven by bacteria and fungi, little is known about the taxonomic diversity of bacterial communities in wetlands, particularly Sphagnum bogs. To explore bacterial community composition, 24 bogs in Vermont and Massachusetts were censused for bacterial diversity at the surface (oxic) and 1 m (anoxic) regions. Bacterial diversity was characterized by a terminal restriction fragment length (T-RFLP) fingerprinting technique and a cloning strategy that targeted the 16S rRNA gene. T-RFLP analysis revealed a high level of diversity, and a canonical correspondence analysis demonstrated marked similarity among bogs, but consistent differences between surface and subsurface assemblages. 16S rDNA sequences derived from one of the sites showed high numbers of clones belonging to the Deltaproteobacteria group. Several other phyla were represented, as well as two Candidate Division-level taxonomic groups. These data suggest that bog microbial communities are complex, possibly stratified, and similar among multiple sites.
4251771|Colonization by and succession of bacteria and bacterivorous protists on laboratory-made aggregates were determined over a period of 14 days during winter and spring in 1997. Aggregates were generated from natural water from the limnetic zone of the Elbe Estuary using a tilting tube roller system. Within 1 h after the beginning of the experiments, macroaggregates started to form. Aggregates reached a maximum size of 1 mm with a tendency toward large sizes at the end of the experiment after the 10th day. On the first day, high bacterial densities of more than 10
25153260|A sensitive hemi-nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used for detection of Melissococcus plutonius, the causative agent of European foulbrood (EFB). Sampling was made in Switzerland, where EFB is a widespread disease and incidences have increased in recent years. Larvae from brood samples with and without clinical signs of disease (n = 92) and honey (n = 92) from the same colonies were investigated. Individual larvae (n = 60) and pupae (n = 30) from diseased brood in single colonies were also investigated to study the distribution of the bacterium within the brood between larvae. M. plutonius was detected in larvae in all apiaries where symptoms of EFB could be seen, but not in all colonies judged as cases of EFB in the field, when healthy-looking larvae from such colonies were tested. The occurrence of the bacterium within the brood was not limited to larvae with symptoms only, but was mainly found in diseased larvae. The bacterium was also found in pupae. Healthy-looking larvae-even from heavily diseased combs-failed, in a number of cases, to amplify product in the PCR. M. plutonius could only be detected in 35% of the brood nest honey from clinically diseased colonies.
41489785|Coral holobionts are densely populated with microorganisms that are essential for their well-being. Here we compared the diversity of the archaeal ammonia monooxygenase alpha subunit (amoA) gene from three coral genera, Acanthastrea sp., Favia sp., and Fungia granulosa, from the Gulf of Eilat, Red Sea. At 99% similarity, archaeal amo A from the three coral genera shared 71% of their cloned sequences, while the Favia and Acanthastrea presented a few genus-specific clones. In addition, the sequences retrieved in our samples displayed lower similarity to amoA sequences previously found in association with other coral species from different geographic regions. This finding suggests that the populations of ammoniaoxidizing archaea are less host-specific and more geographically dependent.
25256214|Svalbard reindeer (Rangifer tarandus platyrhynchus) live under austere nutritional conditions on the high-arctic archipelago of Svalbard, while semi-domesticated Norwegian reindeer (R. tarandus tarandus) migrate between lush coastal summer pastures and inland winter pastures with lichens on mainland Norway. Svalbard reindeer are known to have high rumen concentrations of cellulolytic bacteria, ranging from 15% of the viable population in summer to 35% in winter, compared to only 2.5% in Norwegian reindeer. Their rumen bacterial diversity was investigated through comparative analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequences (1.5 kb in length) generated from clone libraries (n=121) and bacterial isolates (n=51). LIB-SHUFF comparisons of the composition of the two 16S rRNA libraries from Norwegian reindeer showed a significant effect of artificial feeding compared to natural pasture, but failed to yield significant differences between libraries from Norwegian reindeer and Svalbard reindeer. The combined sequences from reindeer were not significantly different from those reported in wild Thompson's gazelle in Kenya but did differ from those reported in domestic cattle in Japan. A total of 90 distinct operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were identified by employing a criterion of 97% similarity, while the Chao1 index estimated the reindeer bacterial rumen population richness at 698 OTUs. The majority of the clone library sequences (92.5%) represented novel strains with &lt;97% identity to any known sequence in the public database, most of them affiliated with the bacterial phylum Firmicutes (low G+C Gram-positives) related to the order Clostridiales (76.7%), while Gram-negative bacteria in the Bacteriodales (Prevotella-Bacteroides group) contributed to 22.5%. Also, six of the isolates were putatively novel strains, possibly representing new species in the Clostridium subphylum (cluster XIVa), Actinomyces and Butyrivibrio.
25256238|Although microorganisms are largely responsible for organic matter decomposition, earthworms may also affect the rates of decomposition directly by feeding on and digesting organic matter and microorganisms, or indirectly affect them through their interactions with the microorganisms, basically involving stimulation or depression of the microbial populations. We tested the general hypothesis that microbial populations, and especially fungi, are enhanced by earthworm activity, and also whether earthworms are able to modify the biodiversity of microbial populations, and its relation to the function of the system. In addition, we examined the metabolic quotient and the effect of labile organic C to assess the relationships between earthworm and microbes. We found that decomposition of pig manure has two stages characterized by the presence or absence of earthworms. Thus, the presence of earthworms was related with increases in overall microbial biomass and activity, which decreased when earthworms left the substrate; the same pattern was observed for fungi. Furthermore, earthworms modified the physiological profiles of microbial communities of pig manure, increasing the diversity of substrates utilized. In addition, earthworms promoted a more efficient use of energy of microbial communities, as the metabolic quotient showed. The rate of carbon loss was almost twice where earthworms were present, revealing faster decomposition. Our data match with the recent findings that to maintain essential processes the functional properties of present species are at least as important as the number of species per se. This is in accordance with the "insurance hypothesis," which states that a large number of species is probably essential for maintaining stable processes in changing environments, as the presence of earthworms would have promoted in pig manure.
4287591|Lytic viral production and lysogeny were investigated in cyanobacteria and heterotrophic bacteria during a bloom of Synechococcus spp. in a pristine fjord in British Columbia, Canada. Triplicate seawater samples were incubated with and without mitomycin C and the abundances of heterotrophic bacteria, cyanobacteria, total viruses and infectious cyanophage were followed over 24 h. Addition of mitomycin C led to increases in total viral abundance as well as the abundance of cyanophages infecting Synechococcus strain DC2. Given typical estimates of burst size, these increases were consistent with 80% of the heterotrophic bacteria and 0.6% of Synechococcus cells being inducible by the addition of mitomycin C. This is the highest percentage of lysogens reported for a natural microbial community and demonstrates induction in a marine Synechococcus population. It is likely that the cyanophage production following the addition of mitomycin C was much higher than that titered against a single strain of Synechococcus; hence this estimate is a minimum. In untreated seawater samples, lytic viral production was estimated to remove ca. 27% of the gross heterotrophic bacterial production, and a minimum of 1.0% of the gross cyanobacterial production. Our results demonstrate very high levels of lysogeny in the heterotrophic bacterial community, outside of an oligotrophic environment, and the presence of inducible lysogens in Synechococcus spp. during a naturally occurring bloom. These data emphasize the need for further examination of the factors influencing lytic and lysogenic viral infection in natural microbial communities.
25153329|We characterized 34 endophytic bacterial isolates associated to root nodules collected from spontaneous legumes in the arid zone of Tunisia by 16S rDNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-restriction fragment length polymorphism, whole cell protein sodium dodecyl sulfate-poly-acrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), 16S rDNA and 16S-23S rDNA internal transcribed spacer sequencing. Phylogenetically, these isolates belong to the branches containing the genera Inquilinus, Bosea, Rhodopseudomonas, Paracraurococcus, Phyllobacterium, Ochrobactrum, Starkeya, Sphingomonas, Pseudomonas, Agromyces, Microbacterium, Ornithinicoccus, Bacillus, and Paenibacillus. These strains did not induce any nodule formation when inoculated on the wide host spectrum legume species M. atropurpureum (Siratro) and no nodA gene could be amplified by PCR. However, nifH sequences, most similar to those of Sinorhizobium meliloti, were detected within strains related to the genera Microbacterium, Agromyces, Starkeya and Phyllobacterium.
4250501|A new membrane filter technique for field use was developed for the enumeration of either aerobic or anaerobic, autotrophic, sulfur-oxidizing bacteria in waters and soils. Immediately after collection, samples were filtered through sulfur-coated filters and incubated in selective media. Acidification or gas evolution was used as a growth indicator of aerobic and anaerobic thiobacilli, respectively, and related to the initial number of cells deposited on the filter.
4287610|Ramat Hovav is a major chemical industrial park manufacturing pharmaceuticals, pesticides, and various aliphatic and aromatic halogens. All wastewater streams are collected in large evaporation ponds. Salinity in the evaporation ponds fluctuates between 3% (w/v) and saturation and pH values range between 2.0 and 10.0. We looked for microorganisms surviving in these extreme environmental conditions and found that 2 yeast strains dominate this biotope. 18S rDNA sequence analysis identified the isolates as Pichia guilliermondii and Rhodotorula mucilaginosa. Both isolates grew in NaCl concentrations ranging up to 3.5 M and 2.5 M, respectively, and at a pH range of 2-10. There was a distinct difference between the Rhodotorula and Pichia strains and S. cerevisiae RS16 that served as a control strain with respect to accumulation of osmoregulators and internal ion concentrations when exposed to osmotic stress. The Pichia and Rhodotorula strains maintained high glycerol concentration also in media low in NaCl. Utilization of various carbon sources was examined. Using a tetrazolium-based assay we show that the Rhodotorula and Pichia strains are capable of utilizing a wide range of different carbon sources including anthracene, phenanthrene, and other cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
40343448|The phylogenetic diversity and composition of the bacterial community in anaerobic sediments from Sapelo Island, GA, USA were examined using 16S rRNA gene libraries. The diversity of this community was comparable to that of soil, and 1,186 clones formed 817 OTUs at 99% sequence similarity. Chaol estimators for the total richness were also high, at 3,290 OTUs at 99% sequence similarity. The program RDPquery was developed to assign clones to taxonomic groups based upon comparisons to the RDP database. While most clones could be assigned to describe phyla, fewer than 30% of the clones could be assigned to a described order. Similarly, nearly 25% of the clones were only distantly related (<90% sequence similarity) to other environmental clones, illustrating the unique composition of this community. One quarter of the clones were related to one or more undescribed orders within the -Proteobacteria. Other abundant groups included the S-Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Cyanobacteria. While these phyla were abundant in other estuarine sediments, the specific members at Sapelo Island appeared to be different from those previously described in other locations, suggesting that great diversity exists between as well as within estuarine intertidal sediments. In spite of the large differences in pore water chemistry with season and depth, differences in the bacterial community were modest over the temporal and spatial scales examined and generally restricted to only certain taxa.
4251339|To study the fate of Pseudomonas putida DSM 3931 in an aquatic environment, cultures of the strain were released into lake water mesocosms. P. putida, bearing the TOL-plasmid, was released as a representative xenobiotic-degrading microorganism. The release was carried out in mesocosms with unamended lake water and in lake water with added culture medium to compare the survival of the strain due to the influence of different organic load. As a comparison, the survival of P. putida was followed in microcosms with sterile lake water. Survival and fate of the strain were determined by means of immunofluorescence with highly specific monoclonal antibodies and growth on selective agar medium for up to ten weeks after release. Addition of medium had a pronounced influence on survival in mesocosms. In mesocosms without added medium, the number of P. putida cells decreased within ten days by over 2 orders of magnitude. In mesocosms with medium, cell numbers increased in the first two days by an order of magnitude and were, after ten days, in the same range as at the time of introduction. Over time, cell numbers decreased but remained detectable in both types of mesocosms for up to ten weeks after release. In mesocosms with unamended lake water, the major fraction of the cells was attached to particles after two days. In mesocosms with medium, large aggregates of P. putida cells formed which included algae. The observed decrease in cell numbers in mesocosms was attributed mainly to grazing. Sedimentation was an additional factor contributing to loss of cells out of the water column, which especially affected aggregate-forming cells in mesocosms with medium in the long run (beyond two weeks). These studies demonstrate that experimental tools on a mesoscale are crucial in order to understand the complex processes microorganisms are subjected to after release into a natural environment, and that single cell detection, such as immunofluorescence, is essential to understand mechanisms of survival and elimination.
4251419| Bacterial abundance results from predatory losses of individuals and replacement of losses through growth. Growth depends on sustained input of organic substrates and mineral nutrients. In this work we tested the hypothesis that bacterial growth in two oligotrophic Canadian shield lakes was limited by nitrogen (N) or phosphorus (P). We also determined whether consumer-regenerated resources contributed substantially to net bacterial growth. Two types of dilution assays were conducted to determine the response of bacteria to nutrient enrichment: diluted whole water (DWW, 1:9 whole/filtered with 0.2 m of filtered lake water) and diluted fractionated water (DFW, 1.0 m prefiltered then diluted as above). Replicate bottles in each dilution assay received either N (50 M), P 10 M), or both N and P enrichments. Controls received no nutrients. Resource-saturated growth rates and grazing rates were estimated from a standard dilution-growth approach. Bacterial growth was stimulated by addition of P alone and in combination with N. Consumers regenerated sufficient resources to support up to half the bacterial growth rate, but the benefit derived from consumers was minor when compared to mortality. 
41412398|The diel change in abundance and community diversity of the bacterioplankton assemblages within the Pacific Ocean at a fixed location in Monterey Bay, California (USA) were examined with several cultureindependent (i. e., nucleic acid staining, fluorescence in situ hybridization {FISH}, and 16S ribosomal RNA gene libraries) approaches over a tidal cycle. FISH analyses revealed the quantitative predominance of bacterial members belonging to the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium cluster as well as two Proteobacteria (a-and -) subclasses within the bacterioplankton assemblages, especially during high tide (HT) and outgoing tide than the other tidal events.While the clone libraries showed that majority of the sequences were similar to the 16S rRNA gene sequences of unknown bacteria (32% to 73%), however, the operational taxonomic units from members of the oc-Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Cyanobacteria were also well represented during the four tidal events examined.Comparatively, sequence diversity was highest in incoming tide. The results indicate that the dynamics of bacterial occurrence and diversity appeared to be more pronounced during HT and further indicative of the ecological importance of several environmental variables including temperature, light intensity, and nutrient availability that are also concurrently fluctuating during these tidal events in marine systems.
4251501| The investigation of the bacterial community in the Khwrter Wasser, a macrophyte-dominated arm of the River Danube backwater system near Vienna, revealed that variation in microbial densities and biomass could be related to a characteristic sequence in morphotype composition over the seasons. Maximal bacterial cell numbers and biomass occured in early summer, with values of up to 9  10
4251369|Our conceptual models of microbial food webs in aquatic ecosystems provide a unifying hypothesis for the design and conduct of field studies. Our ability to provide a rigorous test of these hypotheses, however, relies to a large extent on the availability of precise and accurate methods. Although considerable progress has been made over the past two decades, unambiguous resolution of in situ microbial rates and processes will probably require improved or novel methodologies.
40802171|Soil microorganisms are sensitive to environmental perturbations such that changes in microbial community structure and function can provide early signs of anthropogenic disturbances and even predict restoration success. We evaluated the bacterial functional diversity of un-mined and three chronosequence sites at various stages of rehabilitation (0, 10, and 20 years old) located in the Mocho Mountains of Jamaica. Samples were collected during the dry and wet seasons and analyzed for metal concentrations, microbial biomass carbon, bacterial numbers, and functional responses of soil microbiota using community-level physiological profile (CLPP) assays. Regardless of the season, un-mined soils consisted of higher microbial biomass and numbers than any of the rehabilitated sites. Additionally, the number and rate of substrates utilized and substrate evenness (the distribution of color development between the substrates) were significantly greater in the un-mined soils with carbohydrates being preferentially utilized than amino acids, polymers, carboxylic acids, and esters. To some extent, functional responses varied with the seasons but the least physiological activity was shown by the site rehabilitated in 1987 indicating long-term perturbation to this ecosystem. Small subunit ribosomal DNA (SSUrDNA)-denaturing gradientgel electrophoresis analyses on the microbiota collected from the most preferred CLPP substrates followed by taxonomic analyses showed Proteobacteria, specifically the gamma-proteobacteria, as the most functionally active phyla, indicating a propensity of this phyla to out-compete other groups under the prevailing conditions. Additionally, multivariate statistical analyses, Shannon's diversity, and evenness indices, principal component analysis, biplot and un-weighted-pair-group method with arithmetic averages dendrograms further confirmed that un-mined sites were distinctly different from the rehabilitated soils.
25153186|The fate of immigrant bacterial cells on leaves under stressful conditions was determined as a function of the anatomical features and the local spatial density of resident cells at their landing site. Pantoea agglomerans 299R was established on bean leaves and the survival of immigrant cells of Pseudomonas fluorescens A506 and Pseudomonas syringae B728a, as well as P. agglomerans itself, was determined by epifluorescence microscopy following subsequent exposure of plants to desiccation stress. Resident and immigrant bacterial strains constitutively expressed the cyan and the green fluorescent protein, respectively, and the viability of individual cells was assessed directly on leaf surfaces following propidium iodide staining. Although only a small fraction of the immigrant cells landed on established bacterial aggregates, their fate was usually strongly influenced by the presence of indigenous bacteria at the site at which they landed. Immigrants of P. agglomerans 299R or P. fluorescens A506 that arrived as solitary cells had about double the probability of survival when landing on aggregates formed by P. agglomerans 299R than when landing on uncolonized areas of the leaf surface. In contrast, the survival of P. syringae B728a was similar irrespective of whether it landed on colonized or uncolonized parts of a leaf. The nature of plant anatomical features at which immigrant bacteria landed also strongly influenced the fate of immigrant bacteria. The fraction of immigrant cells of each species tested that landed on veins, glandular trichomes, or epidermal cells altered by P. agglomerans that died was always less than when they landed on normal epidermal cells or at the base of hooked trichomes. Depending on the process by which immigrants arrive at a leaf, only a small fraction of cells may be deposited on existing bacterial aggregates. Although uncolonized sites differed greatly in their ability to influence the survival of immigrant cells, the fate of an immigrant bacterium will depend on the nature of the leaf structure on which it is deposited, and apparently indirectly on the amount of nutrients and water available at that site to support the development of bacterial aggregates.
40343510|Bacteria associated with tissues of metalhyperaccumulating plants are of great interest due to the multiple roles they may play with respect to plant growth and resistance to heavy metals. The variability of bacterial communities associated with plant tissues of three populations of Alyssum bertolonii, a Ni hyperaccumulator endemic of serpentine outcrops of Central Italy, was investigated. Terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of bacterial 16S rRNA genes was applied to DNA extracted from leaf tissues of 30 individual plants from three geographically separated serpentine outcrops. Moreover, T-RFLP fingerprinting was also performed on DNA extracted from the same soils from which the plants were collected. Fifty-nine unique terminal-restriction fragments (TRFs) were identified, with more than half of the taxonomically interpreted TRFs assigned to Alpha-and Gamma-Pmteobacteria and Clostridia. Data were then used to define the extent of variation of bacterial communities due to single plants or to plant populations. Results indicated a very high plantby-plant variation of leaf-associated community (more than 93% of total variance observed). However, a core (numerically small) of plant-specific TRFs was found. This work demonstrates that plant-associated bacterial communities represent a large reservoir of biodiversity and that the high variability existing between plants, even from the same population, should be taken into account in future studies on association between bacterria and metalhypereccumulating plants.
4251493|Nickel-resistant bacteria were isolated from effluent discharged from a sewage treatment outfall over an 18-month period. One of these strains, Enterobacter cloacae FBA30, was found to harbor a narrow host range conjugative plasmid, designated pFBA30, which confers nickel resistance on its host. A 10.2-kb SstI restriction fragment was cloned from pFBA30 and was shown to specify inducible nickel resistance, both in its original host and in laboratory strains of Escherichia coli. This DNA fragment, and a 1.75-kb SmaI fragment derived from it, were used as probes to examine other bacterial strains isolated during the study. Homologous nickel resistance genes were detected in enteric bacteria emerging directly from the treatment plant, but not in strains isolated from sediments downstream of the outfall, or in strains harboring well-characterized determinants such as ncc/nre, cnr, or Klebsiella oxytoca type. Thus, this element constitutes a new nickel resistance determinant and was named nrf. Nickel-resistant strains were sorted into two groups, based on the sampling date and the size of restriction fragments homologous to probes developed from pFBA30. Group A isolates all carried a homologous 6.5-kb PvuII restriction fragment and expressed nickel resistance constitutively. Group B strains, isolated independently from the same outfall, were different from group A in that the nickel resistance was associated with a 4.7-kb PvuII fragment, and group B strains displayed a slower growth rate on nickel salts media. Each group contained a range of enteric bacterial species, including K. oxytoca, Citrobacter freundii, and Enterobacter spp. Localized genetic exchange probably occurs within wastewater treatment effluents, and, once effluents are discharged into the environment, enteric bacteria carrying pFBA30-like determinants do not persist downstream.
4250635|Nitrogen fixation ( C
25153410|In the present study, a 14-3-3 protein-encoding gene from Glomus intraradices has been identified after differential hybridization of a cDNA library constructed from the fungus growing in vitro and subjected to drought stress by addition of 25% PEG 6000. Subsequently, we have studied its expression pattern under drought stress in vitro and also when forming natural symbioses with different host plants. The results obtained suggest that Gi14-3-3 gene may be involved in the protection that the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis confers to the host plant against drought stress. Our findings provide new evidences that the contribution of AM fungi to the enhanced drought tolerance of the host plant can be mediated by a group of proteins (the 14-3-3) that regulate both signaling pathways and also effector proteins involved in the final plant responses.
40343391|Leaf disks of Tilia cordata were exposed for up to 5 weeks in a first-order stream in Nova Scotia, Canada. The exponential decay rate k was 0.008 day. Ergosterol levels increased linearly to a maximum of 134 g dry leaf mass. Release of conidia peaked at 700 day mg on leaves that had been exposed for 3 weeks; after 5 weeks, it declined to 15 mg. In total, 23 taxa of aquatic hyphomycetes were distinguished. Anguillospora filiformis contributed over 76% of the conidia during weeks 1, 2, and 3, and 16.5% in week 5. Three sets of primers specific for Bacteria, Archaea, and Fungi were applied in quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (Q-RT-PCR) to estimate relative DNA amounts. Archaeal DNA was consistently present at low levels. Bacterial and fungal DNA peaked between weeks 2 and 3, and declined in week 5. With the exception of week 1, fungal DNA exceeded bacterial DNA by between 12 and 110%.
41489111|The sedimentary layer deposited at the surface of stormwater infiltration basins is highly organic and multicontaminated. It undergoes considerable moisture content fluctuations due to the drying and inundation cycles (called hydric dynamics) of these basins. Little is known about the microflora of the sediments and its dynamics; hence, the purpose of this study is to describe the physicochemical and biological characteristics of the sediments at different hydric statuses of the infiltration basin. Sediments were sampled at five time points following rain events and dry periods. They were characterized by physical (aggregation), chemical (nutrients and heavy metals), and biological (total, bacterial and fungal biomasses, and genotypic fingerprints of total bacterial and fungal communities) parameters. Data were processed using statistical analyses which indicated that heavy metal (1,841 g/g dry weight (DW)) and organic matter (11%) remained stable through time. By contrast, aggregation, nutrient content (NH, 53-717 g/g DW), pH (6.9-7.4), and biological parameters were shown to vary with sediment water content and sediment biomass, and were higher consecutive to stormwater flows into the basin (up to 7 mg C/g DW) than during dry periods (0.6 mg C/g DW). Coinertia analysis revealed that the structure of the bacterial communities is driven by the hydric dynamics of the infiltration basin, although no such trend was found for fungal communities. Hydric dynamics more than rain events appear to be more relevant for explaining variations of aggregation, microbial biomass, and shift in the microbial community composition. We concluded that the hydric dynamics of stormwater infiltration basins greatly affects the structural stability of the sedimentary layer, the biomass of the microbial community living in it and its dynamics. The decrease in aggregation consecutive to rewetting probably enhances access to organic matter (OM), explaining the consecutive release of NH, the bloom of the microbial biomass, and the change in structure of the bacterial community. These results open new perspectives for basin management since the risk of OM and pollutant transfer to the aquifer is greatly affected by alternating dry and flood periods.
40605874|The selective inhibition (SI) technique has been widely used to resolve fungal and bacterial biomass. By studying bacterial growth (leucine/thymidine incorporation) and respiration simultaneously, this study demonstrates that the inhibitors the SI technique is based on do not efficiently or specifically resolve fungal and bacterial contributions to respiration. At concentrations that completely inhibited bacterial growth, the bactricide streptomycin had no influence on the SI technique's respiration measurement, and complete inhibition of bacterial growth using oxytetracycline resulted in marginal respiration reductions. The fungicides captan and benomyl severely inhibited nontarget bacterial growth. Cycloheximide did not reduce bacterial growth at moderate concentrations, but the cycloheximide respiration reduction was no higher in a soil with more fungal biomass, casting doubt on its ability to discriminate fungal respiration contribution. Conclusions regarding bacteria and fungi based on the SI technique using these inhibitors are thus compromised. The inhibition of glucose-activated respiration by the bactericide bronopol appeared to correlate with bacterial growth inhibition, however. Bronopol, combined with growth-based techniques, could aid development of a new framework to resolve decomposer ecology in soil.
4251265|The abundance and distribution of microorganisms and their potential for mineralizing polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were measured in subsurface sediment samples at two geographically separate buried coal-tar sites. At a relatively undisturbed forested site in the northeastern United States, metabolic adaptation to the PAHs was evident: Radiolabeled naphthalene and phenanthrene were converted to
25153481| The Great Salt Plains (GSP) in north-central Oklahoma, USA is an expansive salt flat (65 km) that is part of the federally protected Salt Plains National Wildlife Refuge. The GSP serves as an ideal environment to study the microbial diversity of a terrestrial, hypersaline system that experiences wide fluctuations in freshwater influx and diel temperature. Our study assessed cyanobacterial diversity at the GSP by focusing on the taxonomic and physiological diversity of GSP isolates, and the 16S rRNA phylogenetic diversity of isolates and environmental clones from three sites (north, central, and south). Taxonomic diversity of isolates was limited to a few genera (mostly Phormidium and Geitlerinema), but physiological diversity based on halotolerance ranges was strikingly more diverse, even between strains of the same phylotype. The phylogenetic tree revealed diversity that spanned a number of cyanobacterial lineages, although diversity at each site was dominated by only a few phylotypes. Unlike other hypersaline systems, a number of environmental clones from the GSP were members of the heterocystous lineage. Although a number of cyanobacterial isolates were close matches with prevalent environmental clones, it is not certain if these clones reflect the same halotolerance ranges of their matching isolates. This caveat is based on the notable disparities we found between strains of the same phylotype and their inherent halotolerance. Our findings support the hypothesis that variable or poikilotrophic environments promote diversification, and in particular, select for variation in ecotype more than phylotype. 
4250656| Algal mat communities growing in thermal effluents of production nuclear reactors at the Savannah River Plant, near Aiken, SC, are exposed to large temperature fluctuations resulting from reactor operations. Rates of primary production and species composition were monitored at 4 sites along a thermal gradient in a trough microcosm to determine how these large temperature fluctuations affected productivity and algal community structure. Blue-green algae (cyanobacteria) were the only phototrophic primary producers growing in water above 45C. These thermophiles were able to survive and apparently adapt to ambient temperatures when the reactor was shut down. The algal mat communities exposed to < 45C were composed of blue-green and eukaryotic algae that adapted rapidly to ambient temperatures. An increase in the percentage extracellular release (PER) of
40605737|Bacterial population changes were investigated in the monomictic Lake Estanya by combining microscopic analysis and two molecular methods involving the amplification of 16S rDNA genes using primers for the domain Bacteria and subsequent restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). Both approaches revealed the vertical distribution of predominant microbial morphotypes and phylotypes in both holomictic and stratified periods, respectively, and showed that variations in structure and composition of bacterial populations are occurring in this lake as a function of depth and time. Through principal component analysis (PCA), these shifts could be related to different physicochemical parameters with temperature, oxygen concentration, and the incident light being of paramount importance as structuring variables. Comparison of RFLP and DGGE profiles by scoring similarities using the Jaccard coefficient and then building a multidimensional scaling map (MDS) showed equivalent results. Both techniques revealed that bacterial populations, present in the whole water column in the holomictic period, showed a high similarity with those located in the deeper part of the lake in the stratified period, evidencing that other factors, both biotic and abiotic, should also be considered as a force driving change in the composition of the bacterial community. Furthermore, DGGE analysis showed that sequences from prominent bands were affiliated to members of four major phyla of the domain Bacteria: Cyanobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria, and Actinobacteria, most of which corresponded to heterotrophic bacterial populations involved in carbon, sulfide, and nitrogen biogeochemical cycles, which were indistinguishable under the light microscope.
40926474|Escherichia coli is an important component of the biosphere and is an ideal model for studies of processes involved in bacterial genome evolution. Sixty-one publically available E. coli and Shigella spp. sequenced genomes are compared, using basic methods to produce phylogenetic and proteomics trees, and to identify the pan- and core genomes of this set of sequenced strains. A hierarchical clustering of variable genes allowed clear separation of the strains into clusters, including known pathotypes; clinically relevant serotypes can also be resolved in this way. In contrast, when in silico MLST was performed, many of the various strains appear jumbled and less well resolved. The predicted pan-genome comprises 15,741 gene families, and only 993 (6%) of the families are represented in every genome, comprising the core genome. The variable or 'accessory' genes thus make up more than 90% of the pan-genome and about 80% of a typical genome; some of these variable genes tend to be co-localized on genomic islands. The diversity within the species E. coli, and the overlap in gene content between this and related species, suggests a continuum rather than sharp species borders in this group of Enterobacteriaceae.
4251602| Research of the microbial ecology of McMurdo Dry Valley lakes has concentrated primarily on phototrophs; relatively little is known about the heterotrophic bacterioplankton. Bacteria represent a substantial proportion of water column biomass in these lakes, comprising 30 to 60% of total microplankton biomass. Bacterial production and cell numbers were measured 3 to 5 times, within four Antarctic seasons (October to January), in Lakes Fryxell, Hoare, and Bonney. The winter-spring transition (September to October) was included during one year. Lake Fryxell was the most productive, but variable, lake, followed by Lakes Bonney and Hoare. Bacterial production ranged from 0 to 0.009 g C
25153364|A new method based on quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was developed and applied to quantify the red tide dinoflagellate Lingulodinium polyedrum in natural seawater samples and in laboratory cultures. The method uses a Molecular Beacon approach to target a species-specific region of the small subunit ribosomal RNA gene. The accuracy of the method was verified by microscopical counts using cultures of the dinoflagellate isolated from coastal waters near Los Angeles, CA, and with natural water samples spiked with cultured L. polyedrum. The method was applied to document the pattern and timing of vertical migration by the dinoflagellate in a 2-m water column on an 11:13 h light/dark photoperiod established in the laboratory. Positive phototaxis of L. polyedrum resulted in dense aggregations of the dinoflagellate within the top few centimeters of the water column during the light period. This pattern of distribution was readily established by both methods, although abundances of L. polyedrum determined using qPCR were higher than abundances determined by microscopy in the morning and lower in the afternoon and evening. These differences may have been a consequence of variability in the DNA content per cell because of synchrony of cell division. Counts using both methods to analyze natural samples collected from coastal waters in the Long Beach-Los Angeles area and adjacent San Pedro Channel were in close agreement. However, the qPCR method exhibited greater sensitivity than the microscopical method when L. polyedrum was present at low abundances, and qPCR had a much higher rate of sample throughput than microscopy. The development of this new approach for enumerating L. polyedrum provides a useful tool for studying the ecology of this important red tide species.
40605859|Vibrio harveyi is the major causal organism of vibriosis, causing potential devastation to diverse ranges of marine invertebrates over a wide geographical area. These microorganisms, however, are phenotypically diverse, and many of the isolates are also resistant to multiple antibiotics. In a previous study, we described a previously unknown association between Vibrio sp. AO1, a luminous bacterium related to the species V. harveyi, and the benthic hydrozoan Aglaophenia octodonta. In this study, we analyzed the susceptibility to antibiotics (ampicillin, streptomycin, tetracycline, or co-trimoxazole = mix of sulfamethoxazole and trimetoprim) of Vibrio sp. AO1 growing in pure culture or in association with its hydroid host by using microcosm experiments. The results of minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) experiments demonstrated that Vibrio sp. AO1 was highly resistant to ampicillin and streptomycin in pure culture. Nevertheless, these antibiotics, when used at sub-MIC values, significantly reduced the hydroid fluorescence. Co-trimoxazole showed the highest inhibitory effect on fluorescence of A. octodonta. However, in all treatments, the fluorescence was reduced after 48 h, but never disappeared completely around the folds along the hydrocaulus and at the base of the hydrothecae of A. octodonta when the antibiotic was used at concentration completely inhibiting growth in vitro. The apparent discrepancy between the MIC data and the fluorescence patterns may be due to either heterogeneity of the bacterial population in terms of antibiotic susceptibility or specific chemical-physical conditions of the hydroid microenvironment that may decrease the antibiotic susceptibility of the whole population. The latter hypothesis is supported by scanning electron microscope evidence for development of bacterial biofilm on the hydroid surface. On the basis of the results obtained, we infer that A. octodonta might behave as a reservoir of antibiotic multiresistant bacteria, increasing the risk of their transfer into aquaculture farms.
41693855|The mountain pine beetle (MPB) is a native bark beetle of western North America that attacks pine tree species, particularly lodgepole pine. It is closely associated with the ophiostomatoid ascomycetes Grosmannia clavigera, Leptographium longiclavatum, Ophiostoma montium, and Ceratocystiopsis sp.1, with which it is symbiotically associated. To develop a better understanding of interactions between beetles, fungi, and host trees, we used targetspecific DNA primers with qPCR to assess the changes in fungal associate abundance over the stages of the MPB life cycle that occur in galleries under the bark of pine trees. Multivariate analysis of covariance identified statistically significant changes in the relative abundance of the fungi over the life cycle of the MPB. Univariate analysis of covariance identified a statistically significant increase in the abundance of Ceratocystiopsis sp.1 through the beetle life cycle, and pair-wise analysis showed that this increase occurs after the larval stage. In contrast, the abundance of O. montium and Leptographium species (G. clavigera, L. longiclavatum) did not change significantly through the MPB life cycle. From these results, the only fungus showing a significant increase in relative abundance has not been formally described and has been largely ignored by other MPB studies. Although our results were from only one site, in previous studies we have shown that the fungi described were all present in at least ten sites in British Columbia. We suggest that the role of Ceratocystiopsis sp.1 in the MPB system should be explored, particularly its potential as a source of nutrients for teneral adults.
25256135|Nitrogen fixation is an important process in biogeochemical cycles exclusively carried out by prokaryotes, mostly by an evolutionarily conserved nitrogenase protein complex, of which one of the structural genes (nifH) is highly valuable for phylogenetic and diversity analyses. We developed a nifH-based short oligonucleotide microarray (nifH diagnostic microarray) as a rapid tool to effectively monitor nitrogen-fixing diazotrophic populations in a wide range of environments. Taking account of the overwhelming predominance of environmental nifH fragments from uncultivated microorganisms in public databases, our nifH microarray is mainly based on nifH sequences from as yet unidentified prokaryotes. Standard conditions for microarray performance were determined, and criteria for the design of specific oligonucleotides were defined. A primary set of 56 oligonucleotides was validated with fluorescence-labeled single-stranded nifH targets from five reference strains, 26 environmental clones, and artificial mixtures of reference strains. The nifH microarray was applied to analyze the diversity (based on DNA) and activity (based on mRNA) of diazotrophs in roots of wild rice samples from Namibia. Results demonstrated that only a small subset of diazotrophs being present in the sample were actually fixing nitrogen actively. Our data suggest that the developed nifH microarray is a highly reproducible and semiquantitative method for mapping the variability of diazotrophic diversity, allowing rapid comparisons of the relative abundance and activity of diazotrophic prokaryotes in the environment. A further refined nifH microarray comprising of 194 oligonucleotide probes now covers more than 90% of sequences in our nifH database.
27770626|The diversity and composition of soil bacterial communities in three topographic sites (summit, foot slope, and lakeshore) from subtropical montane forest ecosystem in Taiwan were examined by using 16S rRNA gene clone library analysis. This locality is temperate, perhumid, and has low soil acidity (pH&lt;4), which is an uncommon ecosystem in a monsoonal part of Southeast Asia. A total of 481 clones were sequenced and placed into ten phylogenetic groups according to their similarities to type strains of described organisms. Toposequence of the transect was investigated from summit to foot slope and at the lakeshore. More than 86% of the clones were affiliated with members of the Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, and Actinobacteria. Within the Proteobacteria, the -Proteobacteria was the most abundant, then -Proteobacteria and -Proteobacteria. Based on the Shannon diversity index (H) analysis, the bacterial community in the foot slope was the most diverse (H=0.86) and that in summit was the least diverse (H=0.68). The composition and diversity of soil bacterial communities in the three sites suggested no trend with topographic change. Less than 20% of the sequences were Acidobacteria-affiliated clones. The low proportion of Acidobacteria observed may be related to the high soil moisture and anaerobic microhabitats. Moreover, Shannon diversity indices revealed these bacterial communities to have lower diversity than that of other temperate (H=0.90) and tropical forest (H=0.82) ecosystems. The extreme acidity of soil pH and high soil moisture of this forest may explain composition and reduced the diversity of these soil bacterial communities.
4251038| Paired surface microlayer and bulk water samples from five sites in the Great Bay Estuary, New Hampshire, were examined with regard to numbers of bacteria,
25256249|Despite the significance of Helicobacter pylori infection for man, its transmission is not clearly known. The human stomach is considered the reservoir of this pathogen, and one of the accepted routes is fecal-oral, in which water acts as a vector. However, although H. pylori epidemiology associates its transmission with water, only molecular and not cultural analysis detects the bacteria in water. This study was carried out to understand these data through studying the survival of H. pylori in a laboratory water model using cultural, morphological, and molecular methods. A mineral water system spiked with H. pylori and stored at 7  1C in the dark was analyzed by different methods over a period of 3 weeks. The total number of cells observed by DAPI staining and their DNA content remained constant over this study period. In contrast, cells could no longer be cultured after 5 days. Cell viability, which was determined via the LIVE/DEAD BacLight kit, decreased up to day 14, and at day 21 all cell membranes were damaged. In addition, a gradual conversion from spiral to coccal morphology occured from day 3 onward. However, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique detected H. pylori DNA at day 21 and 3 months later. A study of the cell morphology of a young colony demonstrated the coexistence of bacilli and cocci. The results of this study show that H. pylori survives in water but loses its culturability and bacillar morphology rapidly, although it remains viable for longer periods and its DNA is still detectable much later. Thus, interpreting H. pylori's behavior in water differs according to the type of analysis. Consequently, we suggest that the presence of H. pylori infective cells is overestimated by PCR, whereas, in contrast, culture techniques underestimate it. Nevertheless, H. pylori should be considered a waterborne pathogen during its viable period, independently of its shape and culturability, as its presence in water may be risky for human health.
40802181|Bacterial community composition (BCC) has been extensively related to specific environmental conditions. Tropical coastal lagoons present great temporal and spatial variation in their limnological conditions, which, in turn, should influence the BCC. Here, we sought for the limnological factors that influence, in space and time, the BCC in tropical coastal lagoons (Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil). The Visgueiro lagoon was sampled monthly for 1 year and eight lagoons were sampled once for temporal and spatial analysis, respectively. BCC was evaluated by bacteria-specific PCR-DGGE methods. Great variations were observed in limnological conditions and BCC on both temporal and spatial scales. Changes in the BCC of Visgueiro lagoon throughout the year were best related to salinity and concentrations of NO, dissolved phosphorus and chlorophyll-a, while changes in BCC between lagoons were best related to salinity and dissolved phosphorus concentration. Salinity has a direct impact on the integrity of the bacterial cell, and it was previously observed that phosphorus is the main limiting nutrient to bacterial growth in these lagoons. Therefore, we conclude that great variations in limnological conditions of coastal lagoons throughout time and space resulted in different BCCs and salinity and nutrient concentration, particularly dissolved phosphorus, are the main limnological factors influencing BCC in these tropical coastal lagoons.
25256106|Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen responsible for morbidity and mortality in humans, animals, and plants. This bacterium has been regarded to be widely present in terrestrial and freshwater environments, but not in open ocean environments. Our purpose was to clarify its presence in open ocean, and their genotypic and physiological characteristics were compared with those of isolates from clinical, animal, and freshwater sources. Water samples were collected from freshwater, bays, and offshore environments in Japan. Sixty-two isolates, including 26 from the open ocean, were identified as P. aeruginosa by phenotypic characteristics and the BD Phoenix System. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) was performed on all strains, together with 21 clinical and 8 animal strains. The results showed that open ocean strains are composed of a few genotypes, which are separated from other strains. Although some clinical isolates made a cluster, other strains tended to mix together. Different antibiotypes were observed among marine isolates that had similar PFGE and serotyping patterns. Some were multidrug-resistant. Laboratory-based microcosm study were carried out to see the responses of P. aeruginosa toward increased NaCl concentrations in deionized water (DW). Marine strains showed better survival with the increase, whereas river and clinical strains were suppressed by the increase. These findings illustrate the potential significance of open ocean as a possible reservoir of P. aeruginosa, and there may be clones unique to this environment. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the presence and characterization of P. aeruginosa in the open ocean.
4250886| The quantitative role of bacteria in the carbon cycle of ponds used for culture of penaeid prawns has been studied. Bacterial biomass was measured using epifluorescence microscopy and muramic acid determinations. Bacterial growth rates were estimated from the rate of tritiated thymidine incorporation into DNA. In the water column, bacterial numbers ranged from 8.3 
4250827|A multi-pond saltern that creates a gradient of salt concentrations has been studied with respect to some characteristics of the resulting environments and their microbial populations. The increase in salt concentration was correlated with increase in diurnal temperature and biomass present and with decrease in oxygen concentrations. Many types of organisms below 15% (w/v) total salts, were found, many of them normal inhabitants of seawater and even freshwater. Most organisms over 15% salts were halophilic. The salt concentrations comprised two ranges, each characterized by different microbial populations. First, between 15 and 30% salts, the populations of Dunaliella increased, reaching large numbers; moderately halophilic eubacteria and some fast-growing halobacteria predominated as heterotrophic microorganisms and, among the first, the Pseudomonas-Alteromonas-Alcaligenes group and Vibrio were the more abundant taxonomic groups; and gram-positive cocci appeared mainly over 25% salts. Phototrophic bacteria, both oxygenic and anoxygenic, were also found in this range, and among the anoxygenic type, Chromatium species and Rodospirillum salexigens were probably predominant. Second, over 30% salts the diversity decreased greatly, all organisms found at the lower salt concentrations disappeared, and instead large populations of halobacteria developed. Over 50% salts, only three species of halobacteria were found.
23361686|Observed levels of population genetic diversity are often associated with differences in species dispersal and reproductive strategies. In symbiotic organisms, the genetic diversity level of each biont should also be highly influenced by biont transmission. In this study, we evaluated the influence of the reproductive strategies of cyanolichen species on the current levels of population genetic diversity of bionts. To eliminate any phylogenetic noise, we selected two closely related species within the genus Degelia, which only differ in their reproductive systems. We sampled all known populations of both species in central Spain and genotyped the fungal and cyanobacterial components of lichen samples using DNA sequences as molecular markers. We applied population genetics approaches to evaluate the genetic diversity and population genetic structure of the symbiotic components of both lichen species. Our results indicate that fungal and cyanobiont genetic diversity is highly influenced by the reproductive systems of lichen fungus. We detected higher bionts genetic diversity values in the sexual species Degelia plumbea. By contrast, the levels of fungal and cyanobiont genetic diversity in the asexual species Degelia atlantica were extremely low (almost clonal), and the species shows a high specificity towards its cyanobiont. Our results indicate that reproduction by vegetative propagules, in species of the genus Degelia, favors vertical transmission and clonality, which affects the species' capacity for resources and competition, thereby limiting the species to restricted niches.
4251367|Numerous investigations have been directed at verifying and calibrating methods for measuring bacterioplankton production, particularly methods based on the incorporation of thymidine (TdR) into DNA. Careful examination of these data can provide insights into other aspects of the ecology of aerobic heterotrophic microbial communities. Once method-specific biases are eliminated, these measurements indicate that there are broad-scale patterns in the metabolic fate of TdR, differences that seem to reflect broad differences in community metabolic capabilities. Based on work conducted primarily in San Francisco and Tomales Bays, California, I suggest that the metabolic fate of TdR in a given environment may reflect the relative importance to bacterioplankton nutrition of detritus versus fresh phytoplankton carbon. This is probably due to differences in community composition that result from growth on qualitatively different carbon sources. If true, the metabolic fate of TdR may provide a broadly applicable, but simple, index that can be used to assess the relative importance of these general sources of organic matter. Such an index could be very useful in characterizing lacustrine, estuarine, and nearshore environments.
23597824|To elucidate whether the transgenic crop alters the rhizospheric bacterial community structure, a 2-year study was performed with Cry1Ac gene-inserted brinjal crop (Bt) and their near isogenic non-transformed trait (non-Bt). The event of Bt crop (VRBT-8) was screened using an insect bioassay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Soil moisture, NH 4 + -N, NO 3  -N, and PO 4  -P level had non-significant variation. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction revealed that abundance of bacterial 16S rRNA gene copies were lower in soils associated with Bt brinjal. Microbial biomass carbon (MBC) showed slight reduction in Bt brinjal soils. Higher MBC values in the non-Bt crop soil may be attributed to increased root activity and availability of readily metabolizable carbon compounds. The restriction fragment length polymorphism of PCR-amplified rRNA gene fragments detected 13 different bacterial groups with the exclusive presence of -Proteobacteria, Chloroflexus, Planctomycetes, and Fusobacteria in non-Bt, and Cyanobacteria and Bacteroidetes in Bt soils, respectively, reflecting minor changes in the community structure. Despite the detection of Cry1Ac protein in the rhizospheric soil, the overall impact of Cry1Ac expressing Bt brinjal was less compared to that due to seasonal changes.
4250788|Percent respiration was measured in over 1,100 arctic and subarctic marine water and sediment samples using
4287656| Microbial granules were grown in a column-type sequential aerobic sludge blanket reactor inoculated with activated sludge flocs taken from a wastewater treatment plant and containing a medium with glucose as the main carbon source. The reactor selected for granules that could settle rapidly by employing a short settling time of 2 min. Matured granules with diameters between 2 and 3 mm were examined for anaerobic bacteria as their presence can signal the onset of diffusion limitation problems that can potentially diminish granule stability due to the bacterial production of fermentation gases and organic acids under anaerobic conditions. To detect the anaerobes in the granules, clones were constructed from 16S rRNA PCR amplicons. Two sequence types associated with a strict anaerobe Bacteroides spp. were identified from these clones. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) followed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) demonstrated that cells of Bacteroides spp. were concentrated at a depth of approximately 800 m below the surface of the granule. Cell enumeration using flow cytometry showed that the percentage of labeled cells of Bacteroides spp. compared to total bacterial cells in the granules was 0.56%. This is the first study to use a suite of culture-independent techniques to report the presence of a defined species of anaerobic bacteria in aerobically grown microbial granules. 
41693749|In recent years, several episodes of mass mortality of sessile epibenthic invertebrates, including sponges, have been recorded worldwide. In the present study, we report a disease event on Ircinia variabilis recorded in September 2009 along the southern Adriatic and Ionian seas (Apulian coast), with the aim to quantify the mortality incidence on the sponge population, to investigate the effect of the disease on the sponge tissues and to assess whether the disease is associated with vibrios proliferation. The injured sponges showed wide necrotic areas on the surface or disruption of the body in several portions. Necrotic areas were whitish and often were covered with a thin mucous coat formed by bacteria. In the most affected specimens, sponge organisation resulted partial or complete loss, with the final exposure of the dense skeletal network of spongine fibres to the environment. The results of microbiological cultural analysis using in parallel Marine Agar 2216 and thiosulphate/citrate/bile salts/sucrose agar demonstrated that, in affected specimens, vibrios represented 15.8 % of the total I. variabilis surface culturable bacteria. Moreover, all the isolated vibrios, grown from the wide whitish areas that characterize the surface of the diseased sponges, were identified, and their assignment to the Vibrio rotiferianus was consistent with phylogenetic analysis and data of morphological, cultural and biochemical tests. Studies on V. rotiferianus have shown that its pathogenicity, with respect to various aquatic organisms, is higher than that of Vibrio harveyi. The factors triggering the disease outbreak in Ircinia variabilis populations remain unclear. At present, we can hypothesize the involvement in the disease of a synergetic mechanism that, under stressful physiological conditions (high temperature, elevated nutrients and reduced water flow), induces sponge pathogens, in our case V. rotiferanius, to become virulent, making sponges unable to control their proliferation. Additional studies are needed to understand the etiological processes as well as the factors involved in sponges recovering from this epidemic event allowing them to face mass mortality. A drastic reduction of sponge-specific representatives could have marked a negative impact on the environmental health on account of their role in the sea remediation processes as filter-feeding organisms.
40605882|A gene-clone-library-based molecular approach was used to study the nirS-encoding bacteria-environment relationship in the sediments of the eutrophic Jiaozhou Bay. Diverse nirS sequences were recovered and most of them were related to the marine cluster I group, ubiquitous in estuarine, coastal, and marine environments. Some NirS sequences were unique to the Jiaozhou Bay, such as the marine subcluster VIIg sequences. Most of the Jiaozhou Bay NirS sequences had their closest matches originally detected in estuarine and marine sediments, especially from the Chesapeake Bay, indicating similarity of the denitrifying bacterial communities in similar coastal environments in spite of geographical distance. Multivariate statistical analyses indicated that the spatial distribution of the nirS-encoding bacterial assemblages is highly correlated with environmental factors, such as sediment silt content, NH concentration, and OrgC/OrgN. The nirS-encoding bacterial assemblages in the most hypernutrified stations could be easily distinguished from that of the least eutrophic station. For the first time, the sedimentological condition was found to influence the structure and distribution of the sediment denitrifying bacterial community.
41489220|Pollutant effects on biofilm physiology are difficult to assess due to differential susceptibility of species and difficulty separating individual species for analysis. Also, measuring whole assemblage responses such as metabolism can mask species-specific responses, as some species may decrease and others increase metabolic activity. Physiological responses can add information to compositional data, and may be a more sensitive indicator of effect. It is difficult, however, to separate individual species for biochemical analyses. Agricultural runoff often contains multiple pollutants that may alter algal assemblages in receiving waters. It is unclear how mixtures containing potential algal growth stimulators and inhibitors (e. g., nutrients and herbicides) alter algal assemblage structure and function. In research presented here, algal biofilms were exposed to nutrients, atrazine, and their mixtures, and assemblage-level structural and functional changes were measured. Synchrotron infrared microspectroscopy (IMS) was used to isolate the biochemical changes within individual cells from a dominant species of a green alga (Mougeotia sp.), a diatom {Navcula sp.), and a cyanobacterium (Hapalosiphon sp.). At the assemblage level, mixtures generally increased algal biovolume, decreased chlorophyll  and had no effect on metabolism or ammonium uptake. Navicula had a strong negative response to atrazine initially, but later was more affected by nutrients. Hapalosiphon responded positively to both atrazine and nutrients, and Mougeotia did not exhibit any biochemical trends. Generally, biochemical changes in each species were similar to cells experiencing low stress conditions, with increased relative protein and decreased relative lipid. IMS provided direct evidence that individual species in a natural biofilm can have unique responses to atrazine, nutrients, and mixtures. Results suggest that the initial benthic community composition should have a strong influence on the overall impact of agricultural pollutants.
4287734| The bacterioplankton community structure in Moss Lake, a maritime Antarctic oligotrophic lake, was determined with vertical depth in the water column, during the ice-free period on Signy Island in the South Orkney Islands. Bacterioplankton community structure was determined using a combination of direct counting of 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) stained cells, PCR amplification of 16S rRNA gene fragments, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and in situ hybridization with group-specific, fluorescently labeled oligonucleotide probes. Using PCR amplification of 16S rRNA gene fragments and DGGE, the bacterioplankton community composition was shown to be constant with vertical depth in the water column. Specific bacterioplankton species identified through cloning and sequencing the DGGE products obtained were Flavobacterium xinjiangensis (a Flavobacterium), Leptothrix discophora (a beta-Proteobacterium), and a number of uncultured groups: two beta-Proteobacteria, an unclassified Proteobacterium, three sequences from Actinobacteria, and a Cyanobacterium. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), however, demonstrated that there were minor but significant fluctuations in different groups of bacteria with vertical depth in the water column. It showed that the beta-Proteobacteria accounted for between 26.4 and 71.5%, the alpha-Proteobacteria 2.3-10.6%, the gamma-Proteobacteria 0-29.6%, and the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium group 1.8-23.5% of cells hybridizing to a universal probe. This study reports the first description of the community structure of an oligotrophic Antarctic freshwater lake as determined by PCR-dependent and PCR-independent molecular techniques. It also suggests that the bacterioplankton community of Moss Lake contains classes of bacteria known to be important in freshwater systems elsewhere in the world. 
40343369|Jute is one of the most versatile bast fibers obtained through the process of retting, which is a result of decomposition of stalks by the indigenous microflora. However, bacterial communities associated with the retting of jute are not well characterized. To investigate the presence of microorganisms during the process of jute retting, full-cycle rRNA approach was followed, and two 16S rRNA gene libraries, from jute-retting locations of Krishnanagar and Barrackpore, were constructed. Phylotypes affiliating to seven bacterial divisions were identified in both libraries. The bulk of clones came from Proteobacteria (~ 37, 41%) and a comparatively smaller proportion of clones from the divisions Firmicutes (~ 11, 12%), Cytophaga-Flexibacter-Bacteroidetes group (CFB; ~ 9, 7%), Verrucomicrobia (~ 6, 5%), Acidobacteria (~ 4, 5%), Chlorobiales (~ 5, 5%), and Actinobacteria (~ 4, 2%) were identified. Percent coverage value and diversity estimations of phylotype richness, Shannon-Weiner index, and evenness confirmed the diverse nature of both the libraries. Evaluation of the retting waters by whole cell rRNA-targeted flourescent in situ hybridization, as detected by domain-and group-specific probes, we observed a considerable dominance of the bet-Proteobacteria (25.9%) along with the CFB group (24.4%). In addition, 32 bacterial species were isolated on culture media from the two retting environments and identified by 16S rDNA analysis, confirming the presence of phyla, Proteobacteria (~ 47%), Firmicutes (-22%), CFB group (-19%), ma Actinobacteria (~13%) in the retting niche. Thus, our study presents the first quantification of the dominant and diverse bacterial phylotypes in the retting ponds, which will further help in improving the retting efficiency, and hence the fiber quality.
4250687| In oligotrophic waters, not only community structure but also physiological properties of heterotrophic bacteria are influenced by the concentration of organic matter. The relationship between growth rate of two facultatively oligotrophic strains of Aeromonas sp. No. 6 and Flavobacterium sp. M1 was studied in comparison with that of two eutrophic strains of Escherichia coli 7020 and Flavobacterium sp. M2. These strains had two or three different substrate constants (Ks values) depending on substrate concentrations: Ks values for the two former were remarkably lower than those for the two latter. For instance, Ks value for Aeromonas sp. No. 6 was about 8.9 M when substrate concentration was greater than 53 M and about 1.1 M when substrate concentration was less than 53 M. In E. coli the Ks value was about 260 M at greater than 5600 M and about 47 M at less than 5600 M substrate concentration. Uptake kinetics of Aeromonas sp. grown in a medium containing 2.7 mM glutamate (H-cell) and 0.11 M glutamate (L-cell) have been determined for the intact cells. H-cell had two distinct values of Km for glutamate assimilation and respiration, and L-cell had three distinct values of Km for glutamate assimilation and respiration: In H-cell Km of assimilation was 2.8  10
25256202|The natural coastal habitat of Fraser Island located in the State of Queensland, Australia, has been distrubed in the past for mining of the mineral sand ilmenite. Currently, there is no information available on whether these past mining disturbances have affected the distribution, diversity, and survival of beneficial soil microorganisms in the sand dunes of the island. This in turn could deleteriously affect the success of the natural regeneration, plant growth, and establishment on the sand dunes. To support ongoing restoration efforts at sites like these mesophilic actinomycetes were isolated using conventional techniques, with particular emphasis on the taxa previously reported to produce plant-growth-promoting substances and providing support to mycorrhizal fungi, were studied at disturbed sites and compared with natural sites. In the natural sites, foredunes contained higher densities of micromonosporae replaced by increasing numbers of streptomycete species in the successional dune and finally leading to complex actinomycete communities in the mature hind dunes. Whereas in the disturbed zones affected by previous mining activities, which are currently being rehabilitated, no culturable actinomycete communities were detected. These findings suggest that the paucity of beneficial microflora in the rehabilitated sand dunes may be limiting the successful colonization by pioneer plant species. Failure to establish a cover of plant species would result in the mature hind dune plants being exposed to harsh salt and climatic conditions. This could exacerbate the incidence of wind erosion, resulting in the destabilization of well-defined and vegetated successional dunal zones.
4250699| Physical effects on the microbial colonization and decomposition of plant litter in an oligotrophic lake were studied in Toolik Lake, Alaska. Colonization, measured by adenosine triphosphate (ATP) analysis, and decomposition, measured by weight loss, were correlated with depth of incubation, light, and temperature. The effects of turbulence, light, and temperature were studied in microcosm experiments. A 10C increase (above ambient) in temperature caused a doubling in the amount of microbial colonization and a 50% increase in decomposition. Light intensity had no quantitative effect on either colonization or decomposition. Turbulence experiments conducted in Toolik Lake showed significant differences in decomposition between natural turbulence and no turbulence. Elevated temperature (20C, which was 10C above ambient), high turbulence, and total darkness changed the composition of the litter microbiota, causing a shift from a bacterially dominated microbiota to one dominated by large filamentous forms, as revealed by scanning electron microscopy. This study shows the importance of these physical factors in determining the rate at which plant litter is colonized and degraded in aquatic environments. 
4251737| Wild-type and recombinant nucleopolyhedroviruses (NPVs) were compared in their capability to be transported over limited distances by the predator Podisus maculiventris (Say) and scavengers Sarcophaga bullata (Parker) and Acheta domesticus (Linnaeus) in Trichoplusia ni (Hbner) larvae infesting collards in a greenhouse microcosm. Viruses tested were variants of Autographa californica (Speyer) NPV (AcNPV): wild-type virus (AcNPV.WT), AcNPV expressing a scorpion toxin (AcNPV.AaIT), and AcNPV expressing juvenile hormone esterase (AcJHE.SG). Podisus maculiventris transported AcNPV.WT and S. bullata transported AcNPV.WT and AcNPV.AaIT. Prevalence and transport of AcNPV.WT were greater than those of AcNPV.AaIT and AcJHE.SG, regardless of whether the nontarget organism carriers were present or absent. Podisus maculiventris and S. bullata transported recombinant and wild-type NPVs at a rate of up to 62.5 cm/day, and A. domesticus transported wild-type NPV at 125 cm/day. The infected host insects, T. ni, undoubtedly contributed to viral transport in the current research. In every experiment, both the wild-type and recombinant virus spread to some degree in the plots without predators or scavengers. The relative amounts of NPVs that accumulated in soil, as indicated by bioassay mortality percentages, generally exhibited spatial patterns similar to those of T. ni mortality due to NPV on the collards plants. Thus, the predator and scavengers in the current research demonstrated some capacity to transport wild-type as well as recombinant viruses at significant rates in a greenhouse microcosm. 
4251608|In this study, two different agricultural soils were investigated: one organic soil and one sandy soil, from Stend (south of Bergen), Norway. The sandy soil was a field frequently tilled and subjected to crop rotations. The organic soil was permanent grazing land, infrequently tilled. Our objective was to compare the diversity of the cultivable bacteria with the diversity of the total bacterial population in soil. About 200 bacteria, randomly isolated by standard procedures, were investigated. The diversity of the cultivable bacteria was described at phenotypic, phylogenetic, and genetic levels by applying phenotypical testing (Biolog) and molecular methods, such as amplified rDNA restriction analysis (ARDRA); hybridization to oligonucleotide probes; and REP-PCR. The total bacterial diversity was determined by reassociation analysis of DNA isolated from the bacterial fraction of environmental samples, combined with ARDRA and DGGE analysis. The relationship between the diversity of cultivated bacteria and the total bacteria was elucidated. Organic soil exhibited a higher diversity for all analyses performed than the sandy soil. Analysis of cultivable bacteria resulted in different resolution levels and revealed a high biodiversity within the population of cultured isolates. The difference between the two agricultural soils was significantly higher when the total bacterial population was analyzed than when the cultivable population was. Thus, analysis of microbial diversity must ultimately embrace the entire microbial community DNA, rather than DNA from cultivable bacteria.
4251124|Autoradiography was used to examine critical questions for trophic studies concerning the uptake of radioactive tracers by a natural assemblage of sedimentary microorganisms. Labeled organic substrates ([
4251278| Competition experiments were performed in a continuous-flow reactor using Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b, a type II methanotroph, and Methylomonas albus BG8, a type I methanotroph. The experiments were designed to establish conditions under which type II methanotrophs, which have significant cometabolic potential, prevail over type I strains. The primary determinants of species selection were dissolved methane, copper, and nitrate concentrations. Dissolved oxygen and methanol concentrations played secondary roles. M. trichosporium OB3b proved dominant under copper and nitrate-limited conditions. The ratio of M. trichosporium to M. albus in the reactor increased ten-fold in less than 100 hours following the removal of copper from the reactor feed. Numbers of M. albus declined to levels that were below detection limits ($<10^{6}/{\rm ml}$) under nitrogen-limited conditions. In the latter experiment, the competitive success of M. trichosporium depended on the maintenance of an ambient dissolved oxygen level below about 7.5  10
4287712|In terrestrial ecosystems, changes in environmental conditions that affect plant performance cause a cascade of effects through many trophic levels. In a 2-year field study, seasonal abundance measurements were conducted for fast-growing bacterial heterotrophs, humate-degrading actinomycetes, fungal heterotrophs, and fluorescent pseudomonads that represent the decomposers in soil. Links between plant health and soil microbiota abundance in pinyon rhizospheres were documented across two soil types: a dry, nutrient-poor volcanic cinder field and a sandy-loam soil. On the stressful cinder fields, we identified relationships between soil decomposer abundance, pinyon age, and stress due to insect herbivory. Across seasonal variation, consistent differences in microbial decomposer abundance were identified between the cinders and sandy-loam soil. Abundance of bacterial heterotrophs and humate-degrading actinomycetes was affected by both soil nutritional status and the pinyon rhizosphere. In contrast, abundance of the fungal heterotrophs and fluorescent pseudomonads was affected primarily by the pinyon rhizosphere. On the cinder field, the three bacterial groups were more abundant on 150-year-old trees than on 60-year-old trees, whereas fungal heterotrophs were unaffected by tree age. Fungal heterotrophs and actinomycetes were more abundant on insect-resistant trees than on susceptible trees, but the opposite was true for the fluorescent pseudomonads. Although all four groups were present in all the environments, the four microbial groups were affected differently by the pinyon rhizosphere, by tree age, and by tree stress caused by the cinder soil and insect herbivory.
23361610|Diverse and abundant bacterial populations play important functional roles in the multi-partite association of the coral holobiont. The specificity of coral-associated assemblages remains unclear, and little is known about the inheritance of specific bacteria from the parent colony to their offspring. This study investigated if broadcast spawning and brooding corals release specific and potentially beneficial bacteria with their offspring to secure maintenance across generations. Two coral species, Acropora tenuis and Pocillopora damicornis, were maintained in 0.2 m filtered seawater during the release of their gametes and planulae, respectively. Water samples excluding gametes and planulae, were subsequently collected, and bacterial diversity was assessed through a pyrosequencing approach amplifying a 470-bp region of the 16S rRNA gene including the variable regions 13. Compared to the high bacterial diversity harboured by corals, only a few taxa of bacteria were released by adult corals. Both A. tenuis and P. damicornis released similar bacteria, and the genera Alteromonas and Roseobacter were abundant in large proportions in the seawater of both species after reproduction. This study suggests that adult corals may release bacteria with their offspring to benefit the fitness in early coral life stages.
25152954|We examined the potential limitation of bacterial growth by temperature and nutrients in a eutrophic lake. Dilution cultures from winter and summer were incubated at both high (&gt;20C) and low (4C) temperatures and enriched with various combinations of organic carbon (C), inorganic nitrogen (N), and inorganic phosphorus (P). Bacterial abundance, H-thymidine incorporation, and H-leucine incorporation were measured over the growth cycle. For both winter and summer assemblages, low temperature limited growth even when resources (C, N, and P) were added. When temperature was adequate, bacterial growth in dilution cultures was co-limited by C, N, and P. Additions of either C, P, or N and P alone provide little or only modest stimulatin of growth, suggesting that under in situ conditions both nutrients and organic carbon limit bacterial growth. Our results provide little evidence of seasonal adaptation to low temperatures for bacterial communities in temperate lakes. Instead, bacterial growth appears to be temperature limited during winter and resource limited during summer. We propose that, in general, bacterial growth rates are temperature dependent up to a threshold, but that the patterns of change across temperature gradients are resource dependent, such that temperature has little effect on growth in resource-rich environments but a strong effect in resource-poor environments.
25153133|Current hypotheses on the distribution of freshwater microchlorophytes lead to predictions of low diversity and wide environmental tolerances. Thus, the same few species should be found worldwide in many different habitats. However, these hypotheses are based on a morphospecies concept, which precludes the possibility of numerous cryptic species among these organisms. In this study, we examined the diversity of coccoid green microalgae and chlamydomonads (Chlorophyta) isolated from sites in Minnesota and North Dakota (USA) using techniques of 18S rDNA sequence analysis. Of 93 distinct 18S rDNA sequences identified from among 273 isolates examined by molecular techniques, all but four are new to science. The spatial distribution of organisms represented by these 18S rDNA sequences was not uniform, because some lakes and ponds yielded distinct 18S rDNA types not found at other sites. In addition, organisms generally considered to be cosmopolitan, such as Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Chlorella vulgaris, were not found. These results challenge predictions of low species number and wide environmental tolerances among these eukaryotic microorganisms.
4250712|The accumulation and possible metabolic transformation of tri-n-butyltin cation by tin-resistant estuarine bacteria was studied. The bacterial isolates accumulated tributyltin to 3.7-7.7 mg tin per g dry weight of cells by a nonenergy requiring process, probably by adsorption to the cell envelope. Chemical speciation of cell extracts and culture media by combined liquid chromatography-atomic absorption spectrophotometry and tin-selective purge and trap flame photometric gas chromatography for possible tributyltin degradation products revealed no significant bio-transformations of tributyltin cation by the tributyltin-resistant isolates. Apparently the isolates accumulate, but do not metabolize tributyltin.
4251448|To assess the influence of pregnancy and lactation on the oral microbial ecology of BALB/c mice, we followed the distribution of the predominant oral bacteria of four groups of these mice during these two periods. Compared with nonpregnant control female mice of the same age maintained under the same conditions, the distribution of the resident oral bacterial species differed significantly only during the lactation period (8-16 days after parturition). This difference could possibly be attributed to hormonal influences and/or grooming habits.
41489034|The phyllosphere contains a diverse bacterial community that can be intimately associated with the host plant; however, few studies have examined how the phyllosphere community changes over time. We sampled replicate leaves from a single magnolia {Magnolia grandiflora) tree in the winter of three consecutive years (2007-2009) as well as during four seasons of 1 year (2008) and used molecular techniques to examine seasonal and year-to-year variation in bacterial community structure. Multivariate analysis of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles of 16S rRNA gene fragments revealed minimal leaf to leaf variation and much greater temporal changes, with the summer (August 2008) leaf community being most distinct from the other seasons. This was confirmed by sequencing and analysis of 16S rRNA gene clone libraries generated for each sample date. All phyllosphere communities were dominated by Alphaproteobacteria, with a reduction in the representation of certain Beijerinckiaceae during the summer and a concurrent increase in the Methylobacteriaceae being the most significant seasonal change. Other important components of the magnolia phyllosphere included members of the Bacteroidetes, Acidobacteria, and Actinobacteria, with the latter two lineages also showing differences in their representation in samples collected at different times. While the leaf-associated bacterial community sampled at the same time of year in three separate years showed some similarities, generally these communities were distinct, suggesting that while there are seasonal patterns, these may not be predictable from year to year. These results suggest that seasonal differences do occur in phyllosphere communities and that broad-leafed evergreen trees such as M. grandiflora may present interesting systems to study these changes in the context of changing environmental conditions.
23469580|The oceans and coastal seas provide mankind with many benefits including food for around a third of the global population, the air that we breathe and our climate system which enables habitation of much of the planet. However, the converse is that generation of natural events (such as hurricanes, severe storms and tsunamis) can have devastating impacts on coastal populations, while pollution of the seas by pathogens and toxic waste can cause illness and death in humans and animals. Harmful effects from biogenic toxins produced by algal blooms (HABs) and from the pathogens associated with microbial pollution are also a health hazard in seafood and from direct contact with water. The overall global burden of human disease caused by sewage pollution of coastal waters has been estimated at 4 million lost person-years annually. Finally, the impacts of all of these issues will be exacerbated by climate change. A holistic systems approach is needed. It must consider whole ecosystems, and their sustainability, such as integrated coastal zone management, is necessary to address the highly interconnected scientific challenges of increased human population pressure, pollution and over-exploitation of food (and other) resources as drivers of adverse ecological, social and economic impacts. There is also an urgent and critical requirement for effective and integrated public health solutions to be developed through the formulation of politically and environmentally meaningful policies. The research community required to address "Oceans & Human Health" in Europe is currently very fragmented, and recognition by policy makers of some of the problems, outlined in the list of challenges above, is limited. Nevertheless, relevant key policy issues for governments worldwide include the reduction of the burden of disease (including the early detection of emerging pathogens and other threats) and improving the quality of the global environment. Failure to effectively address these issues will impact adversely on efforts to alleviate poverty, sustain the availability of environmental goods and services and improve health and social and economic stability; and thus, will impinge on many policy decisions, both nationally and internationally. Knowledge exchange (KE) will be a key element of any ensuing research. KE will facilitate the integration of biological, medical, epidemiological, social and economic disciplines, as well as the emergence of synergies between seemingly unconnected areas of science and socio-economic issues, and will help to leverage knowledge transfer across the European Union (EU) and beyond. An integrated interdisciplinary systems approach is an effective way to bring together the appropriate groups of scientists, social scientists, economists, industry and other stakeholders with the policy formulators in order to address the complexities of interfacial problems in the area of environment and human health. The Marine Board of the European Science Foundation Working Group on "Oceans and Human Health" has been charged with developing a position paper on this topic with a view to identifying the scientific, social and economic challenges and making recommendations to the EU on policy-relevant research and development activities in this arena. This paper includes the background to health-related issues linked to the coastal environment and highlights the main arguments for an ecosystem-based whole systems approach.
41489794|The water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) is a prominent livestock species for the production of milk and meat in many countries. We investigated the diversity of rumen methanogens in Mediterranean water buffaloes maintained in Brazil under different diets: corn silage, grazing pasture, or sugar cane. A total of 467 clones were isolated from three methanogen 16S rRNA gene clone libraries that each represented a distinct feed type. The 467 clones were assigned to 19 species-level operational taxonomic units (OTUs). Four OTUs were represented in all three libraries, eight OTUs were library-specific, six OTUs were found in only the corn silage and pasture grazing libraries, and one OTU was shared only between pasture grazing and sugar cane libraries. We found that Methanobrevibacter-related sequences were the most abundant in the water buffaloes sampled for our analysis, in contrast to previously reported studies showing that Methanomicrobium mobile-like methanogens were the most abundant methanogens in water buffaloes of Murrah and Surti breeds sampled in India. Considering the worldwide distribution of water buffaloes and the likely wide variety of diets provided, our results combined with studies from other groups support that larger scope analyses of microbiomes for this livestock species would provide great insight into the contribution of geographical location, breed, and diet in determining the population structure of rumen microorganisms.
41489105|Social insects harbor diverse assemblages of bacterial microbes, which may play a crucial role in the success or failure of biological invasions. The invasive fire ant Solenopsis invicta (Formicidae, Hymenoptera) is a model system for understanding the dynamics of invasive social insects and their biological control. However, little is known about microbes as biotic factors influencing the success or failure of ant invasions. This pilot study is the first attempt to characterize and compare microbial communities associated with the introduced S. invicta and the native Solenopsis geminata in the USA. Using 16S amplicon 454 pyrosequencing, bacterial communities of workers, brood, and soil from nest walls were compared between neighboring S. invicta and S. geminata colonies at Brackenridge Field Laboratory, Austin, Texas, with the aim of identifying potential pathogenic, commensal, or mutualistic microbial associates. Two samples of S. geminata workers showed high counts of Spiroplasma bacteria, a known pathogen or mutualist of other insects. A subsequent analysis using PCR and sequencing confirmed the presence of Spiroplasma in additional colonies of both Solenopsis species. Wolbachia was found in one alate sample of S. geminata, while one brood sample of S. invicta had a high count of Lactococcus. As expected, ant samples from both species showed much lower microbial diversity than the surrounding soil. Both ant species had similar overall bacterial diversities, although little overlap in specific microbes. To properly characterize a single bacterial community associated with a Solenopsis ant sample, rarefaction analyses indicate that it is necessary to obtain 5,000-10,000 sequences. Overall, 16S amplicon 454 pyrosequencing appears to be a cost-effective approach to screen whole microbial diversity associated with invasive ant species.
25152955| A nonreductive community-level study of P availability was conducted using various forms of absorbed P. Orthophosphate (Pi), inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), and glucose 6-phosphate (G6P) were adsorbed to a shortrange ordered A1 precipitate. These bound phosphates provided a P source sufficient to support the growth of microbial communities from acidic Brazilian soils (oxisols). Adsorbed IHP, the most abundant form of organic phosphate in most soils, had the lowest bioavailability among the three phosphates studied. Adsorbed G6P and Pi were almost equally available. The amount of adsorbed Pi (1 cmol P kg). required to support microbial growth was at least 30 times less than that of IHP (30 cmol P kg). With increased surface coverage, adsorbed IHP became more bioavailable. This availability was attributed to a change in the structure of surface complexes and presumably resulted from the decreased number of high-affinity surface sites remaining at high levels of coverage. It thus appears that the bioavailability of various forms of adsorbed phosphate was determined primarily by the stability of the phosphate-surface complexes that they formed, rather than by the total amount of phosphate adsorbed. IHP, having the potential to form stable multiple-ring complexes, had the highest surface affinity and the lowest bioavailability. Bioaggregates consisting of bacteria and A1 precipitate were observed and may be necessary for effective release of adsorbed P. Bacteria in the genera Enterobacter and Pseudomonas were the predominate organisms selected during these P-limited enrichments. 
23597852|Agri effluents such as winery or olive mill wastewaters are characterized by high phenolic concentrations. These compounds are highly toxic and generally refractory to biodegradation. Biological sand filters (BSFs) represent inexpensive, environmentally friendly, and sustainable wastewater treatment systems which rely vastly on microbial catabolic processes. Using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism, this study aimed to assess the impact of increasing concentrations of synthetic phenolic-rich wastewater, ranging from 96 mg L -1 gallic acid and 138 mg L -1 vanillin (i.e., a total chemical oxygen demand (COD) of 234 mg L -1 ) to 2,400 mg L -1 gallic acid and 3,442 mg L -1 vanillin (5,842 mg COD L -1 ), on bacterial communities and the specific functional diazotrophic community from BSF mesocosms. This amendment procedure instigated efficient BSF phenolic removal, significant modifications of the bacterial communities, and notably led to the selection of a phenolic-resistant and less diverse diazotrophic community. This suggests that bioavailable N is crucial in the functioning of biological treatment processes involving microbial communities, and thus that functional alterations in the bacterial communities in BSFs ensure provision of sufficient bioavailable nitrogen for the degradation of wastewater with a high C/N ratio.
4251445|Viable cells of Aeromonas salmonicida remained in experimental marine systems after plate counts indicated an absence of culturable cells. These so-called viable but nonculturable (VBNC) cells were coccoid and smaller than their normal culturable counterparts. There was no reduction in lipopolysaccharide of the VBNC cells. There was an alteration in protein composition, however, with a decline in some (15, 70, 30, 22, and 17 kDa), but an increase in another protein (49 kDa). A significant loss of DNA occurred. The VBNC cells responded to fluorescent antibodies prepared against A. salmonicida by developing enlarged and bizarre shapes in the presence of yeast extract and nalidixic acid (the direct viable count technique), and they demonstrated respiratory activity. It was concluded that A. salmonicida survived in seawater, but major morphological changes occurred with cells retaining some viability but losing pathogenicity to Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar).
4287701| The kinetics of acetate uptake and the depth distribution of
4251046|The population of a strain of Escherichia coli that was resistant to nalidixic acid and streptomycin declined rapidly in samples of sterile and nonsterile Cayuga Lake water and reached an undetectable level in nonsterile water at 24 and 72 hours when counted on eosin-methylene blue (EMB) agar and half-strength trypticase soy agar (TSA), respectively. In sterile lake water amended with 10 g amino acids per ml or 0.1 M phosphate, E. coli multiplied exponentially for more than 24 hours. The addition of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli to unamended sterile lake water prevented the decline of E. coli, and its addition to amended sterile lake water prevented E. coli multiplication. The cell density of this strain of E. coli declined in the first 8 hours after its introduction into an inorganic salts solution, but the bacterium then grew extensively. This increase in abundance was not observed in the presence of R. phaseoli, and E. coli counts on half-strength TSA remained unchanged between 8 hours and 6 days. When counted on EMB agar, the abundance of the antibiotic-resistant strain of E. coli and a strain not selected for resistance increased in solutions containing phosphate and amino acids but declined in the presence of high densities of R. phaseoli. Many of the cells of the antibiotic-resistant E. coli strain failed to grow on antibiotic-amended EMB agar after introduction of the organism into nonsterile or sterile lake water or into an inorganic salts solution containing R. phaseoli, although colonies appeared on TSA. The data suggest that E. coli cells grown on rich media suffer a shock when introduced into lake water because of low hypotonicity, the indigenous competing flora, or both. This shock is prevented by either phosphate buffer or by amino acids at low concentration. The shocked bacteria formed colonies on half-strength TSA. Depending on environmental conditions, the presence of a second organism either has no effect or results in an increase or decrease in E. coli numbers.
40926489|A key interest of microbial ecology is to understand the role of environmental heterogeneity in shaping bacterial diversity and fitness. However, quantifying relevant selection pressures and their effects is challenging due to the number of parameters that must be considered and the multiple scales over which they act. In the current study, a model system was employed to investigate the effects of a spatially heterogeneous mercuric ion (Hg) selection pressure on a population comprising Hg-sensitive and Hg-resistant pseudomonads. The Hgsensitive bacteria were Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25:: rfp and Hg-resistant bacteria were P. fluorescens SBW25 carrying a gfp-labelled, Hg resistance plasmid. In the absence of Hg, the plasmid confers a considerable fitness cost on the host, with  max for plasmid-carrying cells relative to plasmid-free cells of only 0.66. Two image analysis techniques were developed to investigate the structure that developed in biofilms about foci of Hg (cellulose fibres imbued with HgC1). Both techniques indicated selection for the resistant phenotype occurred only in small areas of approximately 178-353 m (manually defined contour region analysis) or 275-350 m (daime analysis) from foci. Hg also elicited toxic effects that reduced the growth of both Hg-sensitive and Hg-resistant bacteria up to 250 m from foci. Selection for the Hg resistance phenotype was therefore highly localised when Hg was spatially heterogenous. As such, for this model system, we define here the spatial scale over which selection operates. The ability to quantify changes in the strength of selection for particular phenotypes over millimetre scales is useful for understanding the scale over which environmental variables affect bacterial populations
41693731|Microbial biofilms in rivers contribute to the decomposition of the available organic matter which typically shows changes in composition and bioavailability due to their origin, seasonality, and watershed characteristics. In the context of global warming, enhanced biofilm organic matter decomposition would be expected but this effect could be specific when either a labile or a recalcitrant organic matter source would be available. A laboratory experiment was performed to mimic the effect of the predicted increase in river water temperature (+4 C above an ambient temperature) on the microbial biofilm under differential organic matter sources. The biofilm microbial community responded to higher water temperature by increasing bacterial cell number, respiratory activity (electron transport system) and microbial extracellular enzymes (extracellular enzyme activity). At higher temperature, the phenol oxidase enzyme explained a large fraction of respiratory activity variation suggesting an enhanced microbial use of degradation products from humic substances. The decomposition of hemicellulose (-xylosidase activity) seemed to be also favored by warmer conditions. However, at ambient temperature, the enzymes highly responsible for respiration activity variation were -glucosidase and leuaminopeptidase, suggesting an enhanced microbial use of polysaccharides and peptides degradation products. The addition of labile dissolved organic carbon (DOC; dipeptide plus cellobiose) caused a further augmentation of heterotrophic biomass and respiratory activity. The changes in the fluorescence index and the ratio Abs/total DOC indicated that higher temperature accelerated the rates of DOC degradation. The experiment showed that the more bioavailable organic matter was rapidly cycled irrespective of higher temperature while degradation of recalcitrant substances was enhanced by warming. Thus, pulses of carbon at higher water temperature might have consequences for DOC processing.
23468246|Industrial bagasse collection sites at sugar mills are an important resource for biomass-based industries and represent a unique ecological niche in lignocellulose degradation. In this study, microbial community structures at regions with varying microenvironmental conditions contained within a bagasse collection site were explored using tagged 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. Overall, remarkable differences in microbial community structures were found in aerobic surface and oxygen-limited interior regions of the pile. A variety of Alphaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria represented the majority of bacteria in the aerobic upper-pile regions with the predominance of acetic acid bacteria towards the outer surface. Diverse Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Acidobacteria represented the predominant phyla at the exterior soil-contact pile base with an increasing abundance of anaerobic Spirochaetes with the increasing depth, where it shared similar community structures to that in the open-field soil from decomposed bagasse. Using complementary shotgun pyrosequencing, a variety of genes encoding various glycosyl hydrolases targeting cellulose and hemicellulose degradation were identified in the oxygen-limited interior pile base. Most were relevant to orders Clostridiales, Bacteroidales, Sphingobacteriales, and Cytophagales, suggesting their role in lignocellulose degradation in this region, as evidenced by the decrease in cellulose and respective increase in lignin fractions of the biomass. Partial carbon flux in the anoxic region was metabolized through mixed methanogenesis pathways as suggested by the annotated functional genes in methane synthesis. This study gives insights into native microbial community structures and functions in this unique lignocellulose degrading environment and provides the basis for controlling microbial processes important for utilization of bagasse in bio-industries.
4251216| Samples of groundwater and the enclosing sediments were compared for densities of bacteria using direct (acridine orange direct staining) and viable (growth on 1% PTYG medium) count methodology. Sediments to a depth of 550 m were collected from boreholes at three sites on the Savannah River Site near Aiken, South Carolina, using techniques to insure a minimum of surface contamination. Clusters of wells screened at discreet intervals were established at each site. Bacterial densities in sediment were higher, by both direct and viable count, than in groundwater samples. Differences between direct and viable counts were much greater for groundwater samples than for sediment samples. Densities of bacteria in sediment ranged from less than 1.00  10
25152965|Several media and techniques were compared for their efficiency to enumerate viable heterotrophs from both a karst and sand aquifer spring. A medium designed to enumerate bacteria from nutrient-poor waters (HCFU) as well as R2A medium proved superior to tryptic soy agar; however, the difference was always less than one order of magnitude. Membrane filtration resulted in lower counts of microbes than the spread plate, multitube turbidity, or drop plate methods from samples of both sand and karst springs. The drop plate technique yielded higher viable counts from the sand spring and basin of the karst spring, with a precision of 21% (coefficient of variation) and a maximum plating efficiency of 3.4% (viable count/direct count  100). Subsequently, 63% of isolates from drop plates were recovered on HCFU. Microcolonies were visible by epifluorescence microscopy, acridine orange staining, and subsequent examination of excised agar sections containing drops.
41412417|Interactions between mushrooms, yeasts, and parasitic fungi are probably common in nature, but are rarely described. Bolete fruiting bodies are associated with a broad spectrum of microorganisms including yeasts, and they are commonly infected with filamentous mycoparasites of the genus Sepedonium (teleomorph Hypomyces). We report the isolation of 17 yeast strains from Paxillus and Xerocomus, 16 of which were obtained from the surface tissue, the primary site of Sepedonium infection. Phylogenetic analyses with the D1/D2 region of the 28S ribosomal gene and the internal transcribed spacers placed the yeasts as Rhodotorula, Rhodosporidium, and Mastigobasidium from the Pucciniomycotina, Cryptococcus, Cystofilobasidium, Holtermanniella, and Trichosporon from the Agaricomycotina, and Kluyveromyces from the Saccharomycotina including the first isolation of Rhodotorula graminis from Europe. To investigate the influence of the yeast strains on the mycoparasite and the host fungus, in vitro assays were conducted with Sepedonium chrysospermum and Paxillus involutus. Both S. chrysospermum growth inhibitory and stimulating yeast strains were detected among the isolates. The number of S. chrysospermum inhibitory yeast strains increased and the number of S. chrysospermum stimulatory yeast strains decreased in the presence of P. involutus in co-cultures. Low nutrient levels in the culture medium also led to an increased number of S. chrysospermum inhibitory yeast strains and ten yeasts inhibited the mycoparasite in spatial separation by a crosswall. Six yeast strains inhibited P. involutus in dual culture, and the inhibitory P. involutus yeast interactions increased to nine in the presence of S. chrysospermum. Our results suggest that the bolete-associated yeasts influence the growth of the mycoparasitic fungus, which may affect the health of the fruiting bodies.
25256148|The agents driving the divergence and speciation of free-living microbial populations are still largely unknown. We investigated the dinoflagellate morphospecies Scrippsiella hangoei and Peridinium aciculiferum, which abound in the Baltic Sea and in northern temperate lakes, respectively. Electron microscopy analyses showed significant interspecific differences in the external cellular morphology, but a similar plate pattern in the characteristic dinoflagellate armor. Experimentally, S. hangoei grew in a wide range of salinities (0-30), whereas P. aciculiferum only grew in low salinities (0-3). Despite these phenotypic differences and the habitat segregation, molecular analyses showed identical ribosomal DNA sequences (ITS1, ITS2, 5.8S, SSU, and partial LSU) for both morphospecies. Yet, a strong interspecific genetic isolation was indicated by amplified fragment length polymorphism
25256207|Quorum sensing (QS) signals have been considered to play important roles in biofilm development and in the attractiveness of biofilms to higher organisms in marine ecosystem. In this study, bacterial QS signalsacylated homoserine lactone derivatives (AHLs) were detected in 2-, 4-, and 6-day-old subtidal biofilms by using AHLs reporter strains. N-dodecanoyl-homoserine lactone (C12-HSL) was identified in 6-day-old biofilm at a concentration of 9.04 g cm (3.36 mmol 1). To investigate the possible role of AHLs in the consequent eventlarval settlement of the polychaete Hydroides elegans onto subtidal biofilmsseven biofilm-derived bacteria that effectively induced larval settlement of H. elegans, were screened for AHL production. One of them, the Vibrio sp. UST950701-007, produced N-hexanoyl-homoserine lactone (C6-HSL). Larval settlement bioassay showed that C6-HSL, C12-HSL, and 3-oxo-octanoyl-homoserine lactone (3-oxo-C8-HLS) at certain concentrations induced some initial larval settlement behaviors such as reducing swimming speed, crawling on the bottom. However, these AHLs did not effectively induce larval settlement in comparison to the effective settlement inducer 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine. The possible chemokinetic mechanism and indirect effects of AHLs on larval settlement are suggested.
41489150|The Grande Albergo Ausonia & Hungaria (Venice Lido, Italy) has an Art Nouveau polychrome ceramic coating on its faade, which was restored in 2007. Soon after the conservation treatment, many tiles of the faade decoration showed coloured alterations putatively attributed to the presence of microbial communities. To confirm the presence of the biological deposit and the stratigraphy of the Hungaria tiles, stereomicroscope, optical and environmental scanning electron microscope observations were made. The characterisation of the microbial community was performed using a PCR-DGGE approach. This study reported the first use of a culture-independent approach to identify the total community present in biodeteriorated artistic tiles. The case study examined here reveals that the coloured alterations on the tiles were mainly due to the presence of cryptoendolithic cyanobacteria. In addition, we proved that the microflora present on the tiles was generally greatly influenced by the environment of the Hungaria hotel. We found several microorganisms related to the alkaline environment, which is in the range of the tile pH, and related to the aquatic environment, the presence of the acrylic resin Paraloid B72  used during the 2007 treatment and the pollutants of the Venice lagoon.
4287621| The abundance and biomass of heterotrophic flagellates were estimated monthly in sediments of Botany Bay during March 1999-February 2000. The annual abundance and biomass were in the ranges of
4251195| Survival of Legionella pneumophila SG 1 in seawater and river water was assessed using plate counts on buffered charcoal yeast extract agar amended with -ketoglutarate (BCYE) and [
4251633| An alkaline humic extract (HE) of a black calcareous forest mull was exposed to 36 fungal and 9 eubacterial isolates in liquid standing culture. At 21 d in fungi, and 4 d in bacteria, the groups of wood-degrading basidiomycetes, terricolous basidiomycetes, ectomycorrhizal fungi, soil-borne microfungi, and eubacteria had reduced the absorbance (A
25256120|The vertical distribution of a microbial community on a temporal and spatial (vertical) scale under the Tamarix aphylla salt-resistant plant was studied. The uniqueness of this plant is in the creation of "islands of salinity" beneath the plant, due to salt excretion and leaf shedding at the plant base. Our working hypothesis was that the activity and biomass of the soil microbial population and the ratio between bacterial biomass and fungal biomass will decrease toward the driest season. Soil samples were collected beneath and between plants under the T. aphylla canopy down to the 0- to 50-cm depth at 10-cm intervals. The substrate-induced respiration method was used to estimate the total soil microbial biomass (MB), CO evolution, metabolic quotient (qCO) index, and MB of both the fungal and bacterial communities. A significant difference was observed (p &lt; 0.05) in MB and qCO index between the different soil layers in the control samples, whereas there was no significant difference in the soil samples in the vicinity of the plant (p &gt; 0.05) between the depths, due to the plant rhizosphere effect.
4287641|Bacillus thuringiensis is found naturally on the phylloplane. In this study 35 samples from 13 species of the genus Piper (Piperaceae) were collected from three altitudinal levels located between 1800 and 2900 m above sea level in the Colombian Andean forest of Central Cordillera. Two hundred and fifty-six isolates of B. thuringiensis were obtained from 74% of the samples studied. B. thuringiensis index (number of isolates of B. thuringiensis/number of isolates of sporulated bacilli) was 0.2. The isolates were characterized by crystal morphology, the presence of cry genes by PCR, and toxicity against insects. Fifty-five percent of the isolates found presented bipyramidal-crystal morphology, and 42% had round-crystal morphology. Seventy percent of the isolates amplified cry1 [cry one] genes (generally toxic to lepidopterans); 41.4% amplified cry4 and/or cry11 [cry eleven] genes (generally toxic to dipterans), and none of the isolates amplified cry3 genes (generally toxic to coleopterans). The most abundant genotype of cry genes (54.7% of the total) was cry1Aa, cry1Ab, cry1Ac, cry1Ad, and cry1B. From the total isolates found, 7.8% presented both cry1 and cry11 genes, and five isolates (2.0%) harbored cry1, cry4, and cry11 genes; all these isolates were toxic to Culex quinquefasciatus (Diptera) but not to Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera). To our knowledge, these genotypes have not been previously reported. Overall, almost 60% of the isolates were toxic to S. frugiperda, and a little more than 40% of the isolates were toxic to C. quinquefasciatus. The populations of viable vegetative cells and spores per unit area were estimated and studied statistically. No significant differences in the number of B. thuringiensis isolates per cm
23469578|Opportunistic marine pathogens, like opportunistic terrestrial pathogens, are ubiquitous in the environment (waters, sediments, and organisms) and only cause disease in immune-compromised or stressed hosts. In this review, we discuss four hostpathogen interactions within the marine environment that are typically considered opportunistic: sea fan coralfungus, eelgrassLabyrinthula zosterae, sea fanLabyrinthulomycetes, and hard clamQuahog Parasite Unknown with particular focus on disease ecology, parasite pathology, host response, and known associated environmental conditions. Disease is a natural part of all ecosystems; however, in some cases, a shift in the balance between the host, pathogen, and the environment may lead to epizootics in natural or cultured populations. In marine systems, hostmicrobe interactions are less understood than their terrestrial counterparts. The biological and physical changes to the world's oceans, coupled with other anthropogenic influences, will likely lead to more opportunistic diseases in the marine environment.
40926473|Sulfadiazine (SDZ) is an antibiotic frequently used in agricultural husbandry. Via manuring of excrements of medicated animals, the drug reaches the soil and might impair important biochemical transformation processes performed by microbes, e.g., the nitrogen turnover. We studied the effect of pig manure and SDZ-spiked pig manure on denitrifying bacteria by quantifying nirK and nirS nitrite reductase genes in two arable soils. Addition of manure entailed mainly an increase of nirK-harboring denitrifiers in both soils, whereas in the SDZ-amended treatments, primarily the nirS denitrifiers increased in abundance after the bioavailable SDZ had declined. However, the community composition of nirS nitrite reducers investigated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis did not change despite the observed alterations in abundance.
40605769|How bacterial feeding fauna affects colonization and survival of bacteria in soil is not well understood, which constrains the applicability of bacterial inoculants in agriculture. This study aimed to unravel how food quality of bacteria and bacterial feeders with different feeding habits (the selective feeding flagellate Cercomonas longicauda versus the non-selective feeding nematode Caenorhabditis elegans) influence the abundance of two bacteria that compete for resources in simple model communities. Microcosms consisted of either one gfp-tagged bacterial strain (Pseudomonas fluorescens DSM50090 or one of two biocontrol strains P. fluorescens CHAO Pseudomonas sp. DSS73) or combinations of two bacterial strains. DSM50090 is a suitable food bacterium, DSS73 is of intermediate food quality, and CHAO is inedible to the bacterial feeders. Bacterial and protozoan cell numbers were measured by flow cytometry. In the presence of flagellates, CHAO increased its abundance as compared to the other biocontrol strain DSS73 or to DSM50090, which were both eaten by the flagellates. In contrast, the number of CHAO declined as compared to DSS73 when the model community was subjected to nematode predation pressure. Hence, the results suggested that the outcome of competition among bacteria depended on their ability to cope with the prevailing bacterial predator.
4251444| At elevated osmolarity of the mineral medium M63, marine macroalgae constitute important osmoprotectants and nutrients sources for Escherichia coli. Growth of bacterial population (16 strains) was improved by supplementing M63 salts medium with either aqueous or ethanolic algal extracts obtained from Ascophyllum nodosum, Fucus serratus, Enteromorpha ramulosa, Ulva lactuca, and Palmaria palmata. In their presence, growth was still observed even at 1.02 M NaCl. Furthermore, the E. coli ZB400 growth in presence of whole macroalgae thalli in M63/0.85 M NaCl reached its maximum within 24 h (5  10
4251568| Bacterial abundance and leucine incorporation were measured in the Mississippi/Atchafalaya River plume area during May 1992 and July 1993. Both parameters were highest at intermediate salinities during both season. The peak of bacterial leucine incorporation (2.5 nM h
25153369| Environment heavy-metal contamination is now widespread. Soils may become contaminated from a variety of anthropogenic sources, such as smelters, mining, industry, and application of metal-containing pesticides and fertilizers. Soil microorganisms are very sensitive to moderate heavy-metal concentrations. Therefore, the present work was designed to screen possible mechanisms involved in Rhizobium's Cd resistance; with this purpose, we determined the tolerance levels of several isolates originated from sites with different heavy-metal contamination. Whole-cell-soluble proteins and plasmid profiles were analyzed. We also determined Cd cell concentrations and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) amounts. Results showed different tolerances among Rhizobium isolates; according to their maximum resistance level, isolates were divided in four groups: sensitive (0-125 M CdCl), moderately tolerant (125-210 M CdCl), tolerant (250-500 M CdCl), and extremely tolerant (750 M CdCl). Intracellular Cd concentrations were lower when compared to wall-bound Cd. Unexpectedly, extremely tolerant isolates accumulated higher levels of metal, suggesting the presence of intracellular agents that prevent metal interfering with important metabolic pathways. The electrophoretic patterns of whole-cell-soluble proteins evidenced cadmium as an inducer of protein metabolism alterations, which were more evident in some polypeptides. Plasmid profiles also showed differences; most tolerant isolates presented two plasmids with molecular weights of 485 and 415 kb, indicating that extrachromosomal DNA may be involved in cadmium resistance. LPS showed to be a common mechanism of resistance. However, the degree of tolerance conferred by LPS is not enough to support tolerance to the higher levels of stress imposed. Presence of other resistance mechanisms is currently being investigated. 
4250829| The mixed microbial flora of 3 lakes in Ohio with differing histories of hydrocarbon pollution was examined in relation to the ability to use hydrocarbons. Weathered kerosene was spiked with naphthalene, pristane, 1,13-tetradecadiene, and n-hexadecane and added to water-sediment mixtures from the 3 lakes, and utilization of the 4 marker hydrocarbons was measured. Each of the marker hydrocarbons was metabolized; naphthalene was the most readily used and pristane was the most resistant. Values for dissolved oxygen suggest that oxygen did not limit hydrocarbon degradation in the water column at any site examined. Nutrient addition studies indicated that nitrogen and phosphorus limited hydrocarbon degradation at all sites examined. Maximum numbers of heterotrophic bacteria were detected when the water temperature was 10C or higher. The data indicate that temperature limits hydrocarbon degradation in the winter, except at a site which had been impacted by an oil spill and which received chronic inputs of hydrocarbons and nutrients. In samples from that site, all 4 marker hydrocarbons were degraded at 0C. Results of temperature and nutrient-addition experiments suggest that different seasonal populations of hydrocarbon users are selected at that site, but not at other lake sites. 
4251273| Survival of the 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) degrading Alcaligenes eutrophus strain AEO106 harboring the catabolic plasmid pRO101 was studied in lake water from the eutrophic lake Frederiksborg Slotss. Survival experiments were performed for periods of 7 days in laboratory microcosms containing filtered (0.2-m pore size) or natural lake water amended with increasing concentrations of 2,4-D. A. eutrophus AEO106 was detected by combining the fluorescent antibody method with selective and nonselective plating followed by colony blotting and colony hybridization. Comparison of colony blotting and colony hybridization demonstrated that the A. eutrophus AEO106 host organism and the catabolic plasmid pRO101 had similar fates in the model system employed. In all experiments culturable counts of A. eutrophus AEO106 were lower than fluorescent antibody counts and frequently a decline in culturable counts occurred at times when the fluorescent antibody method showed an increasing population size. Amendment with 2,4-D increased survival of A. eutrophus AEO106 both in filtered and in natural lake water. Survival was always poorer in model systems with natural water than in 0.2 m-filtered water. 
4287669|To explore the bacterial microbiota in Chilean oyster (Tiostrea chilensis), a molecular approach that permits detection of different bacteria, independently of their capacity to grow in culture media, was used. Bacterial diversity was assessed by analysis of both the 16S rDNA and the 16S-23S intergenic region, obtained by PCR amplifications of DNA extracted from depurated oysters. RFLP of the PCR amplified 16S rDNA showed a prevailing pattern in most of the individuals analyzed, indicating that a few bacterial species were relatively abundant and common in oysters. Cloning and sequencing of the 16S rDNA with the prevailing RFLP pattern indicated that this rRNA was most closely related to Arcobacter spp. However, analysis by the size of the amplified 16S-23S rRNA intergenic regions revealed not Arcobacter spp. but Staphylococcus spp. related bacteria as a major and common component in oyster. These different results may be caused by the absence of target for one of the primers employed for amplification of the intergenic region. Neither of the two bacteria species found in large abundance was recovered after culturing under aerobic, anaerobic, or microaerophilic conditions. This result, however, is expected because the number of bacteria recovered after cultivation was less than 0.01% of the total. All together, these observations suggest that Arcobacter-related strains are probably abundant and common in the Chilean oyster bacterial microbiota.
25153059|"Psychromonas ingrahamii," named for John L. Ingraham, was isolated from sea ice from off Point Barrow, Alaska. This large rod-shaped bacterium belongs to the gamma-Proteobacteria. "P. ingrahamii" is a psychrophilic, heterotrophic bacterium that is gas vacuolate and nonmotile. "P. ingrahamii" is notable in that it grows at a temperature of -12C with a generation time of 240 h. This is the lowest growth temperature of any organism authenticated by a growth curve.
4251681|Microscale fluctuations in water level (1-20 mm) are common on a diurnal basis in shallow (<5-10 cm) wetlands, coupled to evapotranspiration losses during the daytime in excess of groundwater resupply. These depth variations alter the intensity of UV irradiance reaching attached periphytic algal and bacterial microbial communities. Effects of alterations of UV irradiance by micro-changes in water level on periphytic microbiota were examined experimentally. Attached microbial communities, grown on glass fiber filters in situ in a natural wetland, were exposed experimentally to near-natural levels of UV irradiance of differing spectral quality. UV intensity was altered by varying the distance of the communities from the light source, changes in UV-attenuating natural dissolved organic matter (DOM), and small changes in water level (2 or 4 mm). Algal productivity and photosynthetic oxygen production were significantly reduced by small enhancements of UV-B radiation, by decreased water levels of only 2 mm, and by reductions in concentrations of DOM. UV-B had only small short-term effects on chlorophyll a, although small increases in water depth and DOM concentration reduced pigment damage. Experimental removal of UV-B during in situ growth indicated that algae could adapt to UV radiation during growth in natural environments. Microbial oxygen consumption and bacterial productivity and biomass were also lowered significantly by UV-B exposure, and damage decreased with small (2 mm) increases in water depth or in DOM concentration. Selective inhibitors of algal photosynthesis and production of released extracellular organic substrates caused a concomitant reduction in bacterial productivity and a significant increase in magnitude of UV-B damage to bacterial biomass. These effects suggested that metabolic interactions between the periphytic autotrophs and heterotrophs altered community responses to UV-B radiation. Microscale water level reductions, common on a diurnal basis in shallow wetlands, and associated increased UV intensity can result in rapid alterations in periphytic metabolism.
41693865|It is known that the microbial community of the rhizosphere is not only influenced by factors such as root exudates, phenology, and nutrient uptake but also by the plant species. However, studies of bacterial communities associated with tropical rainforest tree root surfaces, or rhizoplane, are lacking. Here, we analyzed the bacterial community of root surfaces of four species of native trees, Agathis borneensis, Dipterocarpus kerrii, Dyera costulata, and Gnetum gnemon, and nearby bulk soils, in a rainforest arboretum in Malaysia, using 454 pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. The rhizoplane bacterial communities for each of the four tree species sampled clustered separately from one another on an ordination, suggesting that these assemblages are linked to chemical and biological characteristics of the host or possibly to the mycorrhizal fungi present. Bacterial communities of the rhizoplane had various similarities to surrounding bulk soils. Acidobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, and Betaproteobacteria were dominant in rhizoplane communities and in bulk soils from the same depth (0-10 cm). In contrast, the relative abundance of certain bacterial lineages on the rhizoplane was different from that in bulk soils: Bacteroidetes and Betaproteobacteria, which are known as copiotrophs, were much more abundant in the rhizoplane in comparison to bulk soil. At the genus level, Burkholderia, Acidobacterium, Dyella, and Edaphobacter were more abundant in the rhizoplane. Burkholderia, which are known as both pathogens and mutualists of plants, were especially abundant on the rhizoplane of all tree species sampled. The Burkholderia species present included known mutualists of tropical crops and also known N fixers. The host-specific character of tropical tree rhizoplane bacterial communities may have implications for understanding nutrient cycling, recruitment, and structuring of tree species diversity in tropical forests. Such understanding may prove to be useful in both tropical forestry and conservation.
4287722| Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of DNA fragments generated by PCR with primers specific for lactic acid bacteria (LAB) was applied to investigate various media and incubation conditions to recover LAB from human feces. Samples were plated on selective and nonselective media and incubated under standard condition (37C, anaerobiosis) for fecal LAB as well as alternative condition (30C, 2% O
4250620|Estimating microbial standing crops and microbial production in natural habitats has been difficult for microbial ecologists. The present paper describes a simple spectrophotometric assay based on the hydrolysis of fluorescein diacetate which estimates well the standing crops of microbial cells on coniferous needles and twigs. A technique is also presented for correlating optical density readings with actual dry weights of microbial cells epiphytic on needles, and thus for standardizing the assay. The assay shows promise of broad applicability to other microbial habitats.
41412436|Arkashin Schurf (Arkashin) and Zavarzin Spring (Zavarzin), two active thermal pools in the Uzon Caldera, Kamchatka, Russia, were studied for geochemical and microbiological characterization. Arkashin, the smaller of the two pools, had broader temperature and pH ranges, and the sediments had higher concentrations of total As (4,250 mg/kg) relative to Zavarzin (48.9 mg/kg). Glycerol dialkyl glycerol tetraether profiles represented distinct archaeal communities in each pool and agreed well with previous studies of these pools. Although no archaeal 16S rRNA sequences were recovered from Arkashin, sequences recovered from Zavarzin were mostly representatives of the Crenarchaeota and "Korarchaeota" and 13% of the sequences were unclassifiable. The bacterial community in Arkashin was dominated by uncultured "Bacteroidetes" Hydrogenobaculum of the Aquificales and Variovorax of the Betaproteobacteria, and 19% of the sequences remained unclassified. These results were consistent with other studies of As-rich features. The most abundant members of the Zavarzin bacterial community included the Chloroflexi, as well as members of the classes Deltaproteobacteria and Clostridia. In addition, 24% of the sequences were unclassified and at least 5% of those represent new groups among the established Bacterial phyla. Ecological structure in each pool was inferred from taxonomie classifications and bulk stable isotope  values of C, N, and S. Hydrogenobaculum was responsible for primary production in Arkashin. However, in Zavarzin, the carbon source appeared to be allochthonous to the identified bacterial community members. Additionally, sequences related to organisms expected to participate in N and S cycles were identified from both pools.
40802271|The historic expedition huts located in the Ross Sea Region of the Antarctic and the thousands of artifacts left behind by the early explorers represent important cultural heritage from the "Heroic Era" of Polar exploration. The hut at Cape Royds built by Ernest Shackleton and members of the 1907-1908 British Antarctic Expedition has survived the extreme Antarctic environment for over 100 years, but recent studies have shown many forms of deterioration are causing serious problems, and microbial degradation is evident in the historic wood. Conservation work to reduce moisture at the hut required removal of fodder, wood, and many different types of organic materials from the stables area on the north side of the structure allowing large numbers of samples to be obtained for these investigations. In addition, wood from historic food storage boxes exposed in a ravine adjacent to the hut were also sampled. Fungi were cultured on several different media, and pure cultures were obtained and identified by sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer region of rDNA. From the 69 cultures of filamentous fungi obtained, the most predominant genera were Cadophora (44%) followed by Thielavia (17%) and Geomyces (15%). Other fungi found included Cladosporium, Chaetomium, and isolates identified as being in Pezizomycotina, Onygenales, Nectriaceae, and others. No filamentous basidiomycetes were found. Phylogenetic analyses of the Cadophora species showed great species diversity present revealing Cadophora malorum, Cadophora luteo-olivacea, Cadophora fastigiata, as well as Cadophora sp. 4E71-1, a C. malorumAike species, and Cadophora sp. 7R16-1, fastigiata-like species. Scanning electron microscopy showed extensive decay was present in the wood samples with type 1 and type 2 forms of soft rot evident in pine and birch wood, respectively. Fungi causing decay in the historic wooden structures and artifacts are of great concern, and this investigation provides insight into the identity and species diversity of fungi found at the site. The historic woods and other organic materials at this site represent a large input of carbon into the Antarctic environment. This as well as nutrient additions from the nearby Adlie penguin (Pygoscelis adelia) colony and favorable conditions for fungal growth at Cape Royds appear responsible for the significant fungal diversity, and where extensive decay is taking place in wood in contact with the ground.
4251815|Persistence of recombinant and wild-type nucleopolyhedroviruses (NPV) was compared in field and laboratory microcosm experiments. Horizontal and vertical distribution of the viruses also was monitored in the field agricultural soil. Mixed populations of the bollworm, Helicoverpa zea, and tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens, in cotton were sprayed five times during a growing season with wild-type H. zea NPV (HzSNPV.WT) or with a genetically modified H. zea NPV expressing an insect-specific neurotoxin (HzSNPV.LqhIT2). HzNPV.WT accumulated 2.3 times as many occlusion bodies (OB) as HzSNPV.LqhIT2 in soil by the end of the growing season in October 1997. Both NPVs were detected at all soil depths down to 26-35 cm. Both NPVs were randomly distributed among 0-2 cm soil samples throughout the plots according to analysis with Taylor's power law. By 4 August 1998, soil concentration of HzSNPV.WT was only 11-13 OB/g at depths from 0 to 14 cm, and the wild-type virus was not detected below 14 cm. HzSNPV.LqhIT2 was detected only in trace amounts at 0-2 cm at this time. Neither NPV was detected in bioassays of cotton leaves nor in insects sampled from the plots in 1998. Viral persistence also was monitored in laboratory soil microcosms. Three viruses-wild-type Autographa californica NPV (AcNPV.WT), A. californica NPV expressing a scorpion toxin (AcNPV.AaIT), and A. californica NPV expressing juvenile hormone esterase (AcNPV.JHE-S201G)-were introduced into soil microcosms by each of two methods, in water suspension or in host cadavers, for a total of six treatments plus controls. After 17 months, the number of viable OB remaining did not differ among the treatments. The results indicate that the only differences in soil populations of wild-type versus recombinant NPVs are due to the greater amounts of the wild-type viruses that accumulate, probably because they have a greater capacity to replicate in the host insect population.
25153475|Lakes in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica are characterized by a permanent ice cover and little or no anthropogenic influence. Although bacterial cultures have been obtained from these habitats, recent culture-independent studies indicate that the most abundant microbes in these systems are not yet cultivated. By using dilution-to-extinction cultivation methods with sterilized and nutrient-amended lake water as media, we isolated 148 chemotrophic psychrotolerant bacterial cultures from fresh surface water of Lake Fryxell and the east lobe of Lake Bonney and the hypersaline, suboxic bottom water from the west lobes of Lake Bonney. Screening of the 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) genes of the cultures by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) yielded 57 putatively pure psychrotolerant, slow growing cultures grouped into 18 clusters. The sequencing of 16S rRNA genes of randomly selected representatives of each RFLP cluster revealed that the corresponding isolates belong to the Alphaproteobacteria (six RFLP patterns), Betaproteobacteria (six RFLP patterns), Bacteroidetes (four RFLP patterns), and Actinobacteria (two RFLP patterns). Phylogenetic analysis of the sequences showed that the vast majority of the isolates were not closely related to previously described species. Thirteen of 18 RFLP patterns shared a 16S ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid sequence similarity of 97% or less with the closest described species, and four isolates had a sequence similarity of 93% or less with the nearest described species. Phylogenetic analysis showed that these sequences were representatives of deeply branching organisms in the respective phylum. A comparison of the isolates with 16S rRNA clone libraries prepared from the same environments showed substantial overlap, indicating that dilution-to-extinction culturing in natural lake water media can help isolate some of the most abundant organisms in these perennially ice-covered lakes.
4251605|Bacteria are key organisms in the processing of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in aquatic ecosystems. Their growth depends on both organic substrates and inorganic nutrients. The importance of allochthonous DOC, usually highly colored, as bacterial substrate can be modified by photobleaching. In this study, we examined how colored DOC (CDOC) photobleaching, and phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) availability, affect bacterial growth. Five experiments were conducted, manipulating nutrients (P and N) and sunlight exposure. In almost every case, nutrient additions had a significant, positive effect on bacterial abundance, production, and growth efficiency. Sunlight exposure (CDOC photobleaching) had a significant, positive effect on bacterial abundance and growth efficiency. We also found a significant, positive interaction between these two factors. Thus, bacterial use of CDOC was accelerated under sunlight exposure and enhanced P and N concentrations. In addition, the accumulation of cells in sunlight treatments was dependent on nutrient availability. More photobleached substrate was converted into bacterial cells in P- and N-enriched treatments. These results suggest nutrient availability may affect the biologically-mediated fate (new biomass vs respiration) of CDOC.
4250795|Although the bacterioplankton of lakes are usually considered primarily in terms of mineralization processes, recent studies suggest that they may also strongly compete for phosphorus with the phytoplankton. In the present study, we have tested in chemostat culture, and found support for the hypotheses that (1) a freshwater bacterium (Pseudomonas paucimobilis), whose carbon source is excretion from a phosphorus-limited alga (Synedra ulna var. danica), can outcompete that alga for phosphorus (P) under widely varied P supply rates; (2) exogenously-supplied organic carbon positively influences bacterial biomass and negatively influences algal biomass; (3) the ratio of bacterial to algal phosphorus uptake in short-term
40343504|Microbial films play a central role in mediating energy flux in groundwater ecosystems. The activity of these microbes is likely to be influenced by the availability of resources, especially dissolved organic matter (DOM), and also by consumers, such as invertebrates that feed on microbial films. We used microcosm experiments to examine how bacterial production and extracellular enzyme activity on rocks and fine sediments from cave streams responded to amendments of DOM of varying form and to cave amphipods (Gammarus minus) that feed on microbial films. Glucose and mixtures of DOM extracted from soils and leaves stimulated bacterial production on rocks by 89-166% relative to unamended controls. In contrast, tannic acid amendment did not influence production. Microbial films on fine sediment were not consistently responsive to DOM amendment. Glucose amendment led to increased activity of enzymes associated with C acquisition, but other forms of DOM generally did not alter enzyme activity. DOM amendment led to removal of nitrate and this was correlated with bacterial production, suggesting microbes can link carbon and nitrogen cycling in groundwater as is the case in surface systems. Amphipods reduced bacterial production on rocks, but not fine sediments. The reduction caused by amphipods offset the stimulatory effect of glucose amendment, but there was no interactive effect of DOM and grazing on bacterial production or enzyme activity. Both resources and consumers play important roles in regulating microbial activity in groundwater with important implications for higher trophic levels that use microbes for food.
4251301|Cryptoendolithic (hidden in rock) lichen-dominated microbial communities from the Ross Desert of Antarctica were shown to produce oxalate (oxalic acid). Oxalate increased mineral dissolution, which provides nutrients, creates characteristic weathering patterns, and may ultimately influence the biological residence time of the community. Oxalate was the only organic acid detectable by HPLC, and its presence was verified by GC/MS. Community photosynthetic metabolism was involved in oxalate production since rates of
4251729|To evaluate the role of Methanosaeta spp. in a variety of anaerobic environments, small-subunit rRNA targeted oligonucleotide hybridization probes were developed and experimentally characterized. The probes were designed to be genus specific for Methanosaeta and species specific for Methanosaeta concilii and Methanosaeta thermophila. The temperature of dissociation was determined for each probe. Probe specificities were determined using a diverse collection of Archaea and through an evaluation of probe nesting using samples from a variety of anaerobic bioreactors. Cell fixation and hybridization conditions for fluorescence in situ hybridizations were also evaluated. Although permeability of methanogens was variable, M. concilii cells could be permeabilized using a range of paraformaldehyde and ethanol based fixation conditions. Using the newly designed probes together with previously designed probes for methanogens, it was determined that Methanosaeta spp. were the dominant aceticlastic methanogens in a variety of anaerobic bioreactors when acetate concentrations were low. Their levels were higher in bioreactors with granular sludge than in those with flocculent sludge. In lab-scale upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactors, the levels of M. concilii rRNA were as high as 30% of the total rRNA.
40343437|Vibrio fischeri is a bioluminescent bacterial symbiont of sepiolid squids (Cephalopoda: Sepiolidae) and monocentrid fishes (Actinopterygii: Monocentridae). V fischeri exhibit competitive dominance within the allopatrically distributed squid genus Euprymna, which have led to the evolution of V. fischeri host specialists. In contrast, the host genus Sepiola contains sympatric species that is thought to have given rise to V fischeri that have evolved as host generalists. Given that these ecological lifestyles may have a direct effect upon the growth spectrum and survival limits in contrasting environments, optimal growth ranges were obtained for numerous V fischeri isolates from both free-living and host environments. Upper and lower limits of growth were observed in sodium chloride concentrations ranging from 0.0% to 9.0%. Sepiola symbiotic isolates possessed the least variation in growth throughout the entire salinity gradient, whereas isolates from Euprymna were the least uniform at <2.0% NaCl. V. fischeri fish symbionts (CG101 and MJ101) and all free-living strains were the most dissimilar at >5.0% NaCl. Growth kinetics of symbiotic V. fischeri strains were also measured under a range of salinity and temperature combinations. Symbiotic V fischeri ESI 14 and ET101 exhibited a synergistic effect for salinity and temperature, where significant differences in growth rates due to salinity existed only at low temperatures. Thus, abiotic factors such as temperature and salinity have differential effects between free-living and symbiotic strains of V. fischeri, which may alter colonization efficiency prior to infection.
4250508|The surface microflora on Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco.) foliage from old-growth trees in western Oregon has been examined by epifluorescence and scanning electron microscopy. Colonies of microorganisms on both upper and lower surfaces of 1-, 3-, 5-, and 8-year-old needles from three heights in the canopy of a single tree have been counted in belt transects, and the relative abundance of various categories of microorganisms has been computed. Aggregations of microbial cells are prevalent in the midrib depression along the upper surface and in stomatal cavities and gutters between rows of epidermal cells on the lower surface. Darkly pigmented hyphae and clumps of cells occur, in general, more frequently on the upper needle surface, a habitat more subject to desiccation and UV exposure. Protococcus colonies become abundant on both upper and lower surfaces of older needles. Microbial cover was found to be significantly higher on the bottom of the needle than on the top. The factors involved in this effect are considered and discussed.
4250563|Aerobic respiration with oxygen and anaerobic respiration with nitrate (denitrification) and sulfate (sulfate reduction) were measured during winter and summer in two coastal marine sediments (Denmark). Both aerobic respiration and denitrification took place in the oxidized surface layer, whereas sulfate reduction was most significant in the deeper, reduced sediment. The low availability of nitrate apparently limited the activity of denitrification during summer to less than 0.2 mmoles
4250510|In recent years, reuse of municipal waste water as the coolant in drift-producing cooling towers at electrical generating plants has become increasingly common. A hueristic model is presented that can be used to estimate the concentrations of viable airborne microbes in the drift from a wet cooling tower given the concentration of microbes in the cooling tower. The purpose of this presentation is to allow the nonmeteorologist to understand the factors affecting airborne concentration and to make crude estimates of ground-level concentrations of airborne microorganisms. Concentrations are calculated using a standard meterological method, the Gaussian dispersion model, in which terms have been included for droplet settling and microbial death rate.
41412437|The generic term "quorum sensing" has been adopted to describe the bacterial cell-to-cell communication mechanism which coordinates gene expression when the population has reached a high cell density. Quorum sensing depends on the synthesis of small molecules that diffuse in and out of bacterial cells. There are few reports about this mechanism in Archaea. We report the isolation and chemical characterization of small molecules belonging to class of diketopiperazines (DKPs) in Haloterrigena hispanica, an extremely halophilic archaeon. One of the DKPs isolated, the compound cyclo-L-prolyl-L-valine) activated n-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) bioreporters, indicating that Archaea may have the ability to interact with AHLproducing bacteria within mixed communities.
25152971| The growth kinetics of two species of the genus Uronema, the marine U. marinum and the freshwater U. nigricans, have been studied under equivalent culture conditions. Ciliates were fed on three bacterial strains at three different concentrations (10, 10, and 10 bacteria ml). Growth rates in U. marinum were between 10 and 70% higher than those observed for the freshwater clone of U. nigricans, while net stationary phase populations were 1-60 times higher in U. marinum than in U. nigricans. The half-saturation constants
41489195|The knowledge of the impact of elevated groundlevel O below ground the agro-ecosystem is limited. A field experiment in China Ozone Free-Air Concentration Enrichment (FACE-O) facility on a rice-wheat rotation system was carried out to investigate responses of anoxygenic phototrophic purple bacteria (AnPPB) to elevated groundlevel O. AnPPB community structures and sizes in paddy soil were monitored by molecular approaches including PCR-DGGE and real-time quantitative PCR based upon the puflA gene on three typical rice growth stages. Repetitive sequence-based PCR (rep-PCR) in combination with culturereliant method was conducted to reveal changes in genotypic diversity. Elevated ground-level O statistically reduce AnPPB abundance and percentage in total bacterial community in flooded rice soil via decreasing their genotypic diversity and metabolic versatility. Concomitantly, their community composition changed after rice anthesis stage under elevated ground-level O. Our results from AnPPB potential responses imply that continuously elevated ground-level Oin the future would eventually harm the health of paddy ecosystem through negative effect on soil microorganisms.
27770594|Levels of inorganic nitrogen species (ammonia, nitrite, and nitrate), ammonia oxidation potential (AOP), and diversity of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) were studied in the sediments of a 50-km-long segment of an ephemeral stream in the Negev desert, receiving untreated wastewater. Water analysis in downstream sampling points showed reductions of 91.7% in biological oxygen demand, 87.7% in chemical oxygen demand, 73.9% in total nitrogen, and 72.8% in total ammonia nitrogen. Significant AOP levels in the sediment were detected mainly in the fall and spring seasons. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of AOB 16S rRNA gene fragments showed that in most sampling points, the streambed was dominated by Nitrosospira cluster 3 strains similar to those dominating the stream bank's soils and sediments in nearby springs. Nitrosomonas strains introduced by discharged wastewater and others dominated some sections of the stream characterized by high organic carbon levels. The results suggest that climatic conditions in the Negev desert select for AOB belonging to Nitrosospira cluster 3, and these conditions dominate the aquatic environment effect along most of the stream sections. In addition, the nitrificationdenitrification processes were not sufficient to reduce nitrogen levels in the sediment and prevent the eutrophication of some sections of the stream ecosystem. Thus, the discharge of high nitrogen wastewater into desert streams should be done carefully as it may endanger the already fragile ecosystem.
41692864|Due to potential sequencing errors in pyrosequencing data, species richness and diversity indices of microbial systems can be miscalculated. The "traditional" sequence refinement method is not sufficient to account for overestimations (e.g., length, primer errors, ambiguous nucleotides). Recent in silico and single-organism studies have revealed the importance of sequence quality scores in the estimation of ecological indices; however, this is the first study to compare quality-score stringencies across four regions of the SSU rRNA gene sequence (V1V2, V3, V4, and V6) with actual environmental samples compared directly to corresponding clone libraries produced from the same primer sets. The nucleic acid sequences determined via pyrosequencing were subjected to varying quality-score cutoffs that ranged from 25 to 32, and at each quality-score cutoff, either 10 or 15 % of the nucleotides were allowed to be below the cutoff. When species richness estimates were compared for the tested samples, the cutoff values of Q27 15% , Q30 10% , and Q32 15% for VIV2, V4, and V6, respectively, estimated similar values as obtained with clone libraries and Snger sequencing. The most stringent Q tested (Q32 10% ) was not enough to account for species richness inflation of the V3 region pyrosequence data. Results indicated that quality-score assessment greatly improved estimates of ecological indices for environmental samples (species richness and -diversity) and that the effect of qualityscore filtering was region-dependent.
25256085|The effect of viruses on the microbial loop, with particular emphasis on bacteria, was investigated over an annual cycle in 2003-2004 in Lake Druzhby and Crooked Lake, two large ultraoligotrophic freshwater lakes in the Vestfold Hills, Eastern Antarctica. Viral abundance ranged from 0.16 to 1.56  10 particles L and bacterial abundances ranged from 0.10 to 0.24  10 cells L, with the lowest bacterial abundances noted in the winter months. Virus-to-bacteria ratios (VBR) were consistently low in both lakes throughout the season, ranging from 1.2 to 8.4. lysogenic bacteria, determined by induction with mitomycin C, were detected on three sampling occasions out of 10 in both lakes. In Lake Druzhby and Crooked Lake, lysogenic bacteria made up between 18% and 73% of the total bacteria population during the lysogenic events. Bacterial production ranged from 8.2 to 304.9  10 cells L day and lytic viral production ranged from 47.5 to 718.4  10 viruslike particles L day. When only considering primary production, heterotrophic nanoflagellate (HNF) grazing and viral lysis as the major contributors to the DOC pool (i.e., autochthonous sources), we estimated a high contribution from viruses during the winter months when &gt;60% of the carbon supplied to the DOC pool originated from viral lysis. In contrast, during the summer &lt;20% originated from viral lysis. Our study shows that viral process in ultraoligotrophic Antarctic lakes may be of quantitative significance with respect to carbon flow especially during the dark winter period.
4250735|Two species of aquatic hyphomycetes, Tetracladium marchalianum and Tricladium splendens, were isolated from decaying leaves in a stream. T. marchalianum was abundant on alder leaves but absent on beech leaves, which were dominated by T. splendens. It was hypothesized that differences in some chemical key factors in the leaves would account for differences in the distribution of the 2 species. In the experiment designed to test the hypothesis, combinations of sterilized leaves and isolated fungi were used. Differences in growth of FDA active mycelium were related to differences in leaf weight loss; T. splendens decomposed beech leaves and T. marchalianum decomposed alder leaves. Extracellular protease activity corresponded with these trends but there was no detectable protein loss in the leaves. Both fungi showed a nitrogen demand, and hydrolysis of leaf proteins was complemented with absorption of free amino acids and ammonium. High concentrations of free amino acids modified the pattern for habitat selection so that T. splendens grew substantially on alder leaves and T. marchalianum colonized beech leaves. No protease activity was, however, found from T. marchalianum on beech leaves, and it is concluded that a more general metabolic inhibition prevents extensive growth of this species on beech leaves. The low natural abundance of T. splendens on alder leaves, where it may grow well, may be a consequence of a specific protease inhibition and competition from other species.
25256228|Phototrophic biofilms are matrix-enclosed microbial communities, mainly driven by light energy. In this study, the successional changes in community composition of freshwater phototrophic biofilms growing on polycarbonate slides under different light intensities were investigated. The sequential changes in community composition during different developmental stages were examined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified 16S rRNA gene fragments in conjugation with sequencing and phylogenetic analysis. Biofilm development was monitored with subsurface light sensors. The development of these biofilms was clearly light dependent. It was shown that under high light conditions the initial colonizers of the substratum predominantly consisted of green algae, whereas at low light intensities, heterotrophic bacteria were the initial colonizers. Cluster analysis of DGGE banding patterns revealed a clear correlation in the community structure with the developmental phases of the biofilms. At all light intensities, filamentous cyanobacteria affiliated to Microcoleus vaginatus became dominant as the biofilms matured. It was shown that the initial colonization phase of the phototrophic biofilms is shorter on polycarbonate surfaces precolonized by heterotrophic bacteria.
25152991|The ability of intraperiplasmic and attack phase bdellovibrios to survive and/or grow under anoxic and microaerobic conditions was examined. Both halotolerant and nonhalotolerant bdellovibrio strains were examined. In all instances, the bdellovibrio strains were unable to grow under anoxic conditions, but were able to survive for periods of time in both the extracellular and intraperiplasmic forms. However, the intraperiplasmic organisms were observed to survive longer. Increased temperature hastened the loss of viability of both forms of the predatory bacteria in oxic and anoxic environments. Under microaerobic conditions, halotolerant bdellovibrios were observed to grow, although at a slightly reduced rate than in atmospheric oxygen, while two nonhalotolerant isolates survived but did not grow. The ability of attack phase bdellovibrios to survive in an anoxic environment for up to nine days and their growth or survival under microaerobic conditions greatly expands the possible ecological niches in which the predators may be active members of the microbial community.
4251477| Heterotrophic bacterial production rates in soils on inland nunataks (rocky outcrops in the glacial ice sheet) in western Dronning Maud Land, Antarctica, were investigated by field and laboratory experiments using
25153170| The occurrence of heterotrophic CO fixation by soil microorganisms was tested in several mineral soils differing in pH and two artificial soils (a mixture of silica sand, alfalfa powder, and nutrient medium inoculated with a soil suspension). Soils were incubated at ambient (0.05 vol%) and elevated (5 vol%) CO concentrations under aerobic conditions for up to 21 days. CO fixation was detected using either a technique for determining the natural abundance of C or by measuring the distribution of labeled C-CO in soil and bacteria. The effects of elevated CO on microbial biomass (direct counts, chloroform fumigation extraction method), composition of microbial community (phospholipid fatty acids), microbial activity (respiration, dehydrogenase activity), and turnover rate were also measured. Heterotrophic CO fixation was proven in all soils under study, being higher in neutral soils. The main portion of the fixed CO (98-99%) was found in extracellular metabolites while only 1% CO was incorporated into microbial cells. High CO concentration always induced an increase in microbial activity, changes in the composition of the microbial community, and a decrease in microbial turnover. The results suggest that heterotrophic CO fixation could be a widespread process in soils. 
4287690|Ciliate protozoa are important members of microbial communities in which they play specific ecological roles. The determination of single species distribution is fundamental for food web analysis, but species recognition, which is mainly based on morphological characters, is often difficult between closely related species. The use of species-specific, purposely designed, fluorescently labeled probes for in situ hybridization is here presented as an easy and fast identification method for three closely related species belonging to the widespread genus Euplotes, namely E. crassus, E. vannus, and E. minuta, that in spite of their remarkable morphological similarity have significant metabolic and ecological differences. These three species can be detected simultaneously, provided the probes employed are bound to different fluorescent dyes: in this way their relative abundance and their population dynamics in the natural environment can be evaluated. As more ciliate sequences become available in databases, species-specific probes can be designed for other ciliates, thus rendering the application of the method of more general importance. The probes used in this study may also provide a tool to prevent erroneous species identification in future studies.
41692854|We report the diversity and distribution of Francisella species in Norwegian coastal and fresh waters following a nationwide survey in which water and sediment samples were collected from locations spanning almost the entire Norwegian coastline. In total, samples were obtained from 149 and 64 seawater and freshwater sites, respectively. DNA extracts from these environmental samples were initially screened by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using Francisella genus-specific 16S rDNA primers. Positive samples were then amplified with genus-specific primers targeting Francisella succinate dehydrogenase A gene and Francisella philomiragia group-specific sequences for the SAICAR synthetase/phosphoribosylamine-glycine ligase gene. Francisella-related bacteria were identified in approximately 30% of seawater sampled sites, mainly in southern Norway, although a single positive sample was identified in the far north of the country. No PCR positives were identified from the freshwater sources. Sequences related to recognised species, both pathogenic and environmental, were identified, with the majority closely associated with F. philomiragia. However, a number of identified sequences probably represent previously undescribed species. Our data provide evidence of a significant background of Francisella spp. in geographical areas associated with outbreaks of fish francisellosis in Norway.
4250552|We grouped 20 isolates of lactobacilli from the stomach of conventional rats, 21 isolates from pig stomachs, and 19 isolates from the crop of fowls according to their ability to ferment N-acetylglucosamine, dextrin, cellobiose, gum arabic, and xylan. Most of the isolates did not resemble previously described Lactobacillus species. Representative group A isolates were associated with germ-free mice. Only a rat isolate was able to colonize the keratinized squamous epithelium of the stomach of gnotobiotic mice.
25153345|Biological nitrogen fixation is the primary source of new N in terrestrial arctic ecosystems and is fundamental to the long-term productivity of arctic plant communities. Still, relatively little is known about the nitrogen-fixing microbes that inhabit the soils of many dominant vegetation types. Our objective was to determine which diazotrophs are associated with three common, woody, perennial plants in an arctic glacial lowland. Dryas integrifolia, Salix arctica, and Cassiope tetragona plants in soil were collected at Alexandra Fiord, Ellesmere Island, Canada. DNA was extracted from soil and root samples and a 383-bp fragment of the nifH gene amplified by the polymerase chain reaction. Cloned genotypes were screened for similarity by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. Nine primary RFLP phylotypes were identified and 42 representative genotypes selected for sequencing. Majority of sequences (33) were type I nitrogenases, whereas the remaining sequences belonged to the divergent, homologous, type IV group. Within the type I nitrogenases, nifH genes from posited members of the Firmicutes were most abundant, and occurred in root and soil samples from all three plant species. nifH genes from posited Pseudomonads were found to be more closely associated with C. tetragona, whereas nifH genes from putative alpha-Proteobacteria were more commonly associated with D. integrifolia and S. arctica. In addition, 12 clones likely representing a unique clade within the type I nitrogenases were identified. To our knowledge, this study is the first to report on the nifH diversity of arctic plant-associated soil microbes.
25152994| Studies on the occurrence of aquatic hyphomycetes were carried out in Panekal sulfur spring in the Western Ghats, India by incubation of leaf litter and analysis of natural foam and of induced foam. Sampling was done once every three months over a period of two years from September 1989 to June 1991. The temperature, pH, dissolved oxygen, and sulfide content of water were also measured. No fungi were observed within the spring, whereas 16 species belonging to 13 genera were isolated from two outflow sites of the stream. The percent frequency of Triscelophorus monosporus was high (24.0%). The temperature of water in the spring ranged between 30.0 and 38.5C and the sulfide content between 3.2 and 4.3 mg 1. Studies showed that sulfide water (4.0 mg 1) from the spring inhibited the growth of the colonies of Dactylella aquatica, Phalangispora constricta, Tetracladium setigerum, Vermispora cauveriana, and Wiesneriomyces laurinus. When the leaves colonized by aquatic hyphomycetes were incubated at different temperatures in sulfur-spring water and stream water separately, sporulation was not observed in any of the fungi at and above 35C except Phalangispora constricta, which could sporulate at 35C. At lower temperatures (15-30C) relatively fewer species were found to sporulate in sulfur-spring water than in stream water. 
27770576|The red turpentine beetle, Dendroctonus valens LeConte (Coleoptera: Curculionidae: Scolytinae), colonizes all pines species within its native range throughout North and Central America. Recently, this species was accidentally introduced to China, where it has caused severe damage in pine forests. It belongs to a group of beetles that spend most of their lives between the tree bark and sapwood, where it feeds on phloem: a poor substrate with very low nutritional value of nitrogen and toxic properties due to its high content of secondary defensive compounds. The aim of this study was to characterize the bacterial community of the D. valens gut by culture-dependent and - independent methods. Polymerase chain reaction denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and ribosomal gene library analyses revealed that species diversity in the D. valens gut was relatively low, containing between six and 17 bacterial species. The bacterial community associated with larvae and adults was dominated by members of the following genera: Lactococcus, Acinetobacter, Pantoea, Rahnella, Stenothrophomonas, Erwinia, Enterobacter, Serratia, Janibacter, Leifsonia, Cellulomonas, and Cellulosimicrobium. The members of the last four genera showed cellulolytic activity in vitro and could be involved in cellulose breakdown in the insect gut. Finally, nitrogen fixation was demonstrated in live larvae and adults; however, capacity of nitrogen fixing in vitro was not found among enterobacterial species isolated in nitrogen-free media; neither were nifD nor nifH genes detected. In contrast, nifD gen was detected in metagenomic DNA from insect guts. The identification of bacterial species and their potential physiological capacities will allow exploring the role of gut symbiotic bacteria in the adaptation and survival of D. valens in a harsh chemical habitat poor in nitrogen sources.
25153079| A conjugal donor system, ST2, was constructed to study the conjugal dissemination of a Ti plasmid to wild-type recipient bacteria in vitro and in situ. The system consisted of a polyauxotrophic derivative of C58 harboring a hyperconjugative and highly selectable Ti plasmid, pSTiEGK, which was constructed by inserting a multiple antibiotic resistance cassette in the traM-mcpA region of pTiC58accR. ST2 transfers pSTiEGK constitutively at frequencies up to 10 to plasmidless Agrobacterium recipients. The host range of pSTiEGK includes all the known genomic species of Agrobacterium, indigenous soil agrobacteria and some Rhizobium and Phyllobacterium spp. All transconjugants became pathogenic upon acquisition of the Ti plasmid and were also able to transfer pSTiEGK by conjugation. This host range was indistinguishable from that of its wild-type parent pTiC58, and therefore pSTiEGK constitute a valid proxy to study the dissemination of Ti plasmids directly in the environment. Transconjugants can be selected on a combination of four antibiotics, which efficiently prevents the growth of the indigenous microbiota present in complex environments. The transfer of pSTiEGK to members of the genus Agrobacterium was affected primarily by the plasmid content of the recipient strain (10- to 10-fold reduction), e.g., the presence of incompatible plasmids. As a consequence, a species should be considered permissive to Ti transfer whenever one permissive isolate is found. 
40605729|Microbial ecology is the key to understanding the function of soil biota for organic matter cycling after a single amendment of organic waste in semiarid soils. Therefore, in this paper, the long-term effect (17 years) of adding different doses of a solid municipal waste to an arid soil on humusenzyme complexes, a very stable and longlasting fraction of soil enzymes, as well as on microbial and plant abundance, was studied. Humic substances were extracted by 0.1 M pH 7 sodium pyrophosphate from soil samples collected in experimental plots amended with different doses of a solid municipal waste (0, 65, 130, 195, and 260 t/ha) 17 years before. The activity of different hydrolases related with the C (-glucosidase), N (urease), and P (alkaline phosphatase) cycles and with the formation of humic substances (o-diphenol oxidase) were determined in this extract. The density and diversity of plant cover in the plots, as well as the fungal and bacterial biomass (by analyzing phopholipid fatty acids) were also determined. In general, the amended plots showed greater humic substance-related enzymatic activity than the unamended plots. This activity increased with the dose but only up to a certain level, above which it leveled off or even diminished. Plant diversity and cover density followed the same trend. Fungal and bacterial biomass also benefited in a dosedependent manner. Different signature molecules representing gram+ and gram bacteria, and those corresponding to monounsaturated and saturated fatty acids showed a similar behavior. The results demonstrate that organic amendment had a noticeable long-term effect on the vegetal development, humic substances-related enzyme activity and on the development of bacteria and fungi in semiarid conditions.
4251145|The anaerobic degradation of p-cresol was studied with one sediment source under three reducing conditions-denitrifying, sulfidogenic, and methanogenic. Loss of p-cresol (1 mM) in all the anaerobic systems took initially 3 to 4 weeks. In acclimated cultures p-cresol was degraded in less than a week. p-Cresol was completely metabolized under denitrifying, sulfidogenic, and methanogenic conditions, with formation of nitrogen gas, loss of sulfate, and formation of methane and carbon dioxide, respectively. p-Cresol metabolism proceeded through p-hydroxybenzaldehyde and p-hydroxybenzoate under denitrifying and methanogenic conditions. These compounds were rapidly degraded in cultures acclimated to p-cresol under all three reducing conditions. These results suggest that the initial pathway of p-cresol degradation is the same under denitrifying, sulfidogenic, and methanogenic conditions and proceeds via oxidation of the methyl substituent to p-hydroxybenzaldehyde and p-hydroxybenzoate. The initial rate of p-hydroxybenzaldehyde degradation was high in both the unacclimated cultures and in the cultures acclimated to p-cresol, suggesting that this step is nonspecific. Benzoate was additionally detected as a metabolite following p-hydroxybenzoate in the methanogenic cultures, but not in the denitrifying or sulfidogenic cultures. The degradation pathway therefore may diverge after p-hydroxybenzoate formation depending on which electron acceptor is available.
4250786|A statistical technique has been employed to study the effects of various environmental factors in altering the actinomycete populations of soils located in the western part of Australia. Over 12,000 actinomycetes obtained at 28 different locations were included in the evaluation. Among factors that had a significant influence were the geographic area at which the sample was taken, the nature of plant rhizosphere, and a rainstorm. Seasonal changes in population did occur, but there was considerable stability of population with time. Although marked differences occurred in types of actinomycetes present among different geographic locations, multiple samples taken within a location at distances of 30 cm or greater showed marked similarity in populations. There were varied degrees of diversity among the populations studied. The population that developed after a rainstorm was low in diversity, whereas the populations of root rhizospheres were as diverse as those of plant-free soil-litter areas. In assessing the ecology of soil actinomycetes, it is important to consider the degree of change in population induced by an environmental factor and also its effect on diversity, since the effects may be complementary or may be opposite in nature.
40343346|Exotic plant invasions into Hawaiian montane forests have altered many important nutrient cycling processes and pools. Across different ecosystems, researchers are uncovering the mechanisms involved in how invasive plants impact the soil microbial communitythe primary mediator of soil nutrient cycling. We examined whether the invasive plant, Hedychium gardnerianum, altered microbial community composition in forests dominated by a native tree, Metrosideros polymorpha, under varying soil nutrient limitations and soil fertility properties within forest plots of the Hawaii long-term substrate age gradient (LSAG). Microbial community lipid analysis revealed that when nutrient limitation (as determined by aboveground net primary production [ANPP]) and soil fertility were taken into account, plant species differentially altered soil microbial community composition. Microbial community characteristics differed under invasive and native plants primarily when N or P was added to the older, highly weathered, P-limited soils. Long-term fertilization with N or P at the P-limited site led to a significant increase in the relative abundance of the saprophytic fungal indicator (18:26c, 9c) under the invasive plant. In the younger, N-limited soils, plant species played a minor role in influencing soil microbial community composition. We found that the general rhizosphere microbial community structure was determined more by soil fertility than by plant species. This study indicates that although the aggressive invasion of a nutrient-demanding, rapidly decomposable, and invasive plant into Hawaiian forests had large impacts on soil microbial decomposers, relatively little impact occurred on the overall soil microbial community structure. Instead, soil nutrient conditions were more important determinants of the overall microbial community structure within Hawaii's montane forests.
40605702|Iron- and sulfate-reducing microorganisms play an important role for alkalinity-generating processes in mining lakes with low pH. In the acidic mining lake 111 in Lusatia, Germany, a passive in situ remediation method was tested in a large scale experiment, in which microbial iron and sulfate reduction are stimulated by addition of Carbokalk (a mixture of the nonsugar compounds of sugar beets and lime) and straw. The treated surface sediment consisted of three layers of different pH and geochemical composition. The top layer was acidic and rich in Fe(III), the second and third layer both showed moderately acidic to circum-neutral pH values, but only the second was rich in organics, strongly reduced and sulfidic. Aim of the study was to elucidate the relative importance of neutrophilic heterotrophic, acidophilic heterotrophic, and acidophilic autotrophic iron-reducing microorganisms in each of the three layers. In order to distinguish between them, the effect of their respective characteristic electron donors acetate, glucose, and elemental sulfur on potential iron reduction rates was investigated. Limitation of iron reduction by the availability of Fe(III) was revealed by the addition of Fe(OH). The three groups of iron-reducing microorganisms were quantified by most probable number (MPN) technique and their community composition was analyzed by cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA genes. In the acidic surface layer, none of the three electron donors stimulated iron reduction; acetate even had an inhibiting effect. In agreement with this, no decrease of the added electron donors was observed. Iron reduction rates were low in comparison to the other layers. Iron reduction in layers 2 and 3 was enhanced by glucose and acetate, accompanied by a decrease of these electron donors. Addition of elemental sulfur did not enhance iron reduction in either layer. Layer 2 exhibited the highest iron reduction rate (4.08 mmol dmd) and the highest cell numbers in MPN media. In MPN enrichments from all layers, Acidithiobacillus-like sequences were frequent. In addition to these, sequences related to Fulvimonas and Clostridium dominated in layer 1. MPN enrichments of layer 2 were diverse, containing Rhodocyclaceae-relaied sequences and surprisingly low numbers of Geobacteraceae. In layer 3, Sulfobacillus and Trichococcus spp. were also important. It was concluded that in the surface layer mainly acidophilic, probably autotrophic and heterotrophic, iron reducers were active, whereas in layers 2 and 3 mainly neutrophilic heterotrophs were important for iron reduction. These differ from well-studied Fe(III) reducers in other environments, so they deserve further study. The potential for acid-producing sulfur-driven Fe(III) reduction seemed not to be critical for in situ remediation.
41692847|The community of aquatic hyphomycetes associated with decomposing alder leaf litter was studied during autumn-winter in nine headwater reference streams of the Basque Country (northern Spain). In order to study the spatial variability in composition and community structure, three streams from each of three different river basins were compared. The colonization dynamics and community changes throughout the decomposition process were also followed in three of the rivers (one per basin). The taxonomic richness and community structure of these fungivaried among rivers, including similar streams of a given watershed. However, neither species diversity nor total abundance was statistically related to environmental variables. Only the conidial production of two of the species, Flagellospora curvula and Lunulospora curvula appeared to be enhanced by nitrate availability in the water. The taxonomic richness and the reproductive activity (sporulation rate) were positively related to the leaf litter decomposition rate. The changes in conidial production along the process were similar for all the streams and helped explain leaf litter quality dynamics.
40343443|Common occurrence of testate amoebae (TA) in the rhizosphere of mycorrhizal plants indicates existence of yet undocumented ecological interactions, involving three distinct groups of organisms: soil protists, mycorrhizal fungi, and their host plants. This tripartite relationship was to date investigated only to a limited extent, despite its probable importance for processes taking place in the mycorrhizosphere. In this study, we (1) explored spectra of different TA genera naturally associated with the rhizoplane of three autochthonous European Rhododendron species, (2) screened natural fungal colonization of the TA shells occupying the rhizoplane of selected rhododendrons, and (3) carried out two in vitro experiments addressing the question whether TA shells may serve as a nutrient source for ericoid mycorrhizal fungi(ErMF) and dark septate endophytes (DSE). Our field observations indicated that TA regularly associated with the rhizoplane of all screened rhododendrons and that ErMF and/or DSE associated with their roots possibly exploited the TA shells as a nutrient source. We were unable to detect any major differences among the TA spectra from the rhizoplanes with respect to the three Rhododendron species. The spectra were dominated by Diplochlamys, Centropyxis, Cyclopyxis, Euglypha, Trinema, and Assulina. Positive, neutral, and negative associations were found for various TA genera  Rhododendron species combinations. The highest fungal colonization was observed in Centropyxidae and Trigonopyxidae, reaching up to 45% of the shells in the case of Trigonopyxis. In the in vitro experiments, both ErMF Rhizoscyphus ericae and DSE Phialocephala fortinii regularly colonized TA shells, utilizing them as a source of nutrients. We hypothesize a complex relationship between ErMF-DSE and TA. If corroborated, it would represent an interesting nutrient loop in the mycorrhizosphere of ericaceous plants.
40343433|Bacteria were identified from a large, seasonally flooded river (Paran River, Brazil) and two floodplain habitats that were part of the same river system yet very different in nature: clearwater Garas Lagoon and the highly humic waters of Patos Lagoon. Bacterioplankton were collected during mid-summer (Jan. 2002) from water samples (2 1) filtered first through a 1.2- filter then a 0.2- membrane filter representing the particle-attached and free-living sub-communities, respectively. DNA was extracted from filters and purified and a 16S rRNA clone library established for each habitat. Over 300 clones were sequenced and checked for similarity to existing 16S sequences in GenBank using the BLAST algorithm with default parameters. Further classification of clones was done using a species "backbone" attachment followed by parsimony analysis. The majority (85%) of sequences, referred to here as operational taxonomic units (OTUs), were most similar to uncultured bacterium 16S sequences. OTUs from each Proteobacteria sub-phylum (, , , , ) were present in the Upper Paran River system, as well as members of the Bacteroidetes. The microbial assemblage from Patos Lagoon was least like other samples in that it had no Firmicutes present and was dominated by Actinobacteria. Verrucomicrobia OTUs were only found in the free-living assemblage. This study documents the presence of globally distributed phyla in Upper Paran River and taxa unique to habitat and particle attachment.
25153009| Photosynthetic carbon fixation by phytoplankton is a key component of the global carbon cycle. Our understanding of the types of picoplankton and ultraphytoplankton involved in this process is evolving. However, mechanisms of regulation of photosynthetic carbon fixation in the oceans are poorly understood. All phytoplankton fix CO by reductive carboxylation employing the enzyme ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase (RuBPCase). The sequence of the gene encoding the large subunit of the enzyme (rbcL) has been relatively conserved, with two major evolutionary groups among oxygenic photoautrotrophs: the cyanobacteria/green algae/higher plants and the chromophytic algae. Gene probes made from representative members of these groups have been used to study the transcriptional regulation of RuBPCase in natural phytoplankton populations. Levels of rbcL mRNA correlated with rates of photosynthetic carbon fixation. A diel pattern in both carbon fixation and levels of rbcL mRNA was observed, with greatest values for both during daylight hours. This data supports transcriptional regulation as a major mechanism for regulation of carbon fixation in the oceans. This approach can be used to measure expression of conserved genes encoding other important geochemical functions. 
40343415|The endosymbiotic bacterium Budinera provides its aphid host with essential amino acids. Budinera is typical of intracellular symbiotic and parasitic microorganisms in having a small effective population size, which is believed to accelerate genetic drift and reduce the stability of gene products. It is hypothesized that Budinera mitigates protein instability with an increased production of the chaperonins GroESL. In this paper, we report the expression and functional analysis of trpE, a plasmid-borne fast-evolving gene encoding the tryptophan biosynthesis enzyme anthranilate synthase. We overcame the problem of low enzyme stability by using an anthranilate synthase-deficient mutant of E. coli as the expression host and the method of genetic complementation for detection of the enzyme activity. We showed that the Budinera anthranilate synthase was only weakly active at the temperature of 26C but became inactive at the higher temperatures of 32C and 37C and that the coexpression with chaperonin genes groESL of E. coli enhanced the function of the Budinera enzyme. These findings are consistent with the proposed role of groESL in the Buchnera-aphid symbiosis.
4251614|The development and physiology of cord-forming saprotrophic basidiomycetes, which form extensive and persistent mycelial networks in woodland ecosystems, can be conveniently studied on non-sterile soil in laboratory microcosms mimicking field conditions. Morphological responses of Phanerochaete velutina mycelial systems to resource encounters, and decay partitioning following encounters, varied according to whether simulated woody litter was unsterile or autoclaved and on whether encounter took place at the mycelial foraging front or behind the margin (simulating litter fall onto established systems in the field). Results show that encounter of discrete resources by P. velutina is rapidly communicated to the entire mycelial system; that resource capture takes high priority at the expense of continued system extension and decay-derived carbon reallocation; and that polarized growth toward newly encountered resources, previously considered to occur infrequently with this species, may be readily detected using image analysis techniques. Potential advantages of polarized development of P. velutina are discussed.
40343344|We have studied the temporal variation in viral abundances and community assemblage in the eutrophic Lake Loosdrecht through epifluorescence microscopy and pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). The virioplankton community was a dynamic component of the aquatic community, with abundances ranging between 5.5 x10 and 1.3x10 virus-like particles ml and viral genome sizes ranging between 30 and 200 kb. Both viral abundances and community composition followed a distinct seasonal cycle, with high viral abundances observed during spring and summer. Due to the selective and parasitic nature of viral infection, it was expected that viral and host community dynamics would covary both in abundances and community composition. The temporal dynamics of the bacterial and cyanobacterial communities, as potential viral hosts, were studied in addition to a range of environmental parameters to relate these to viral community dynamics. Cyanobacterial and bacterial communities were studied applying epifluorescence microscopy, flow cytometry, and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Both bacterial and cyanobacterial communities followed a clear seasonal cycle. Contrary to expectations, viral abundances were neither correlated to abundances of the most dominant plankton groups in Lake Loosdrecht, the bacteria and the filamentous cyanobacteria, nor could we detect a correlation between the assemblage of viral and bacterial or cyanobacterial communities during the overall period. Only during short periods of strong fluctuations in microbial communities could we detect viral community assemblages to covary with cyanobacterial and bacterial communities. Methods with a higher specificity and resolution are probably needed to detect the more subtle virushost interactions. Viral abundances did however relate to cyanobacterial community assemblage and showed a significant positive correlation to Chl- as well as prochlorophytes, suggesting that a significant proportion of the viruses in Lake Loosdrecht may be phytoplankton and more specific cyanobacterial viruses. Temporal changes in bacterial abundances were significantly related to viral community assemblage, and vice versa, suggesting an interaction between viral and bacterial communities in Lake Loosdrecht.
4251565|Members of the genus Bdellovibrio exist as obligate predators of other gram-negative bacilli. They are believed to require large numbers of prey bacteria ($>10^{4}\ {\rm ml}^{-1}$) to survive. Although prey bacteria are essential to the survival of bdellovibrio populations, and to studies of the predator's role in nature, the number of bdellovibrio-susceptible bacteria in environmental samples has not been investigated. This study quantified bacteria that were susceptible to predation by the bdellovibrios. Bacteria recovered from water, sediment, and oyster-shell surface epibiota at various sites in the Chesapeake Bay system were tested for their susceptibility to bdellovibrios collected from homologous sites. The mean number ( log
4250863|Over the last 40 years, there has been a steady supply of novel, useful antibiotics produced by microbes isolated from soil and other natural environments. The increased efficiency of screening procedures in the last decade has played a major part in maintaining this supply. However, the selection and sampling of natural environments are still essentially random processes. The main reasons for this are an almost total lack of knowledge of the significance of antibiotics in nature, deficiencies in the taxonomy of antibiotic-producing microbes and its application, and lack of information about the distribution and ecology of known or potential antibiotic producers. The origins of these problems are discussed and some possible solutions are suggested.
23361598|We analyzed the within-site spatial heterogeneity of microbial community diversity, polyaromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) catabolic genotypes, and physiochemical soil properties at a creosote contaminated site. Genetic diversity and community structure were evaluated from an analysis of denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified sequences of 16S rRNA gene. The potential PAH degradation capability was determined from PCR amplification of a suit of aromatic dioxygenase genes. Microbial diversity, evenness, and PAH genotypes were patchily distributed, and hot and cold spots of their distribution coincided with hot and cold spots of the PAH distribution. The analyses revealed a positive covariation between microbial diversity, biomass, evenness, and PAH concentration, implying that the creosote contamination at this site promotes diversity and abundance. Three patchily distributed PAH-degrading genotypes, NAH, phnA, and pdo1, were identified, and their abundances were positively correlated with the PAH concentration and the fraction of soil organic carbon. The covariation of the PAH concentration with the number and spatial distribution of catabolic genotypes suggests that a field site capacity to degrade PAHs may vary with the extent of contamination.
4287640| Many species of bacterial endosymbionts are acquired by animal hosts before birth, through direct transmission from mothers to eggs or embryos. This vertical transmission imposes a reduction in numbers or "bottleneck," and the size of this bottleneck affects the population structure and evolution of symbiotic lineages. We have estimated the size of the transmission bottleneck in Buchnera, the bacterial symbiont of aphids, using basic light and electron microscopy techniques. By serial-sectioning whole aphid abdomens, their eggs, and embryos, we determined the following parameters: (i) The average size of a Buchnera cell is 2.9 m in diameter. (ii) The total number of Buchnera in an Acyrthosiphon pisum embryo was around 36,700, whereas a first instar nymph contained more than 119,000. (iii) The number of symbionts per bacteriocyte was around 800 in an embryo and 3200 in a first instar nymph. (iv) The total number of Buchnera transmitted to each sexual egg ranged from 850 in Nasonovia to 1800 in A. pisum to more than 8000 in Uroleucon ambrosiae. (v) The total number of secondary endosymbionts in A. pisum was 12,170 for an embryo and 18,360 for a first instar nymph. Secondary symbionts were arranged both extracellularly and in clusters of 2000-8000 bacteria inside bacteriocytes. These numbers are consistent with the few previous estimates of symbiont population sizes based on counts of gene copies. 
40802275|Among the stone monumental assets, artistic fountains are particularly affected by microbial colonization due to constant contact with water, giving rise to biodgradation processes related with physical-chemical and aesthetical alterations. In this paper, we make an overview of reported biodiversity of the phototrophic patina developed in various fountains of Italy and Spain. The microbial composition of four fountains (two from Florence, Italy and two from Granada, Spain) was investigated using traditional and/or molecular techniques. The results indicated many common similarities with regard the phototrophic biodiversity for all the investigated fountains. Automated ribosomal RNA intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA), a molecular fingerprint tool, was used to examine the eubacterial and cyanobacterial community for two of the investigated fountains. The principal component analysis of ARISA profiles strengthens the results obtained by traditional methods and revealed separate clusters, as a consequence of the differences of microenvironmental conditions for each fountain.
4250722|A polyphasic approach, using bacteriological, immunological, and molecular biological techniques was used to elucidate the distribution of pathogenic Vibrio species in the Louisiana coastal environment. A variety of Vibrio species pathogenic for man, including V. cholerae, V. parahaemolyticus, V. fluvialis, and V. vulnificus, were found to be ubiquitous in Louisiana. Vibrio species monitored were shown to fluctuate in response to environmental factors of temperature, salinity, and nutrient level, and to vary independently of fecal coliform counts. A comprehensive serological screening system, based on species specific H antigens, was developed to identify pathogenic Vibrio sp. 1 step after primary isolation. Vibrio sp. were correctly identified with accuracies ranging from 93-100%, depending on the specific H antiserum. Over 2,500 V. cholerae isolates were rapidly screened for production of cholera toxin by DNA hybridization of specific toxin gene probes to colonies inoculated on nitrocellulose filter paper. The toxin gene probes, together with O antigen analysis, revealed that enterotoxigenic V. cholerae 01 serovars were recovered only from sewage stations or human disease, whereas enterotoxigenic V. cholerae non 01 serovars were recovered from environmental samples in addition to clinical and sewage samples. The results of this study indicate that techniques of immunology and molecular biology are very valuable supplements to conventional bacteriological techniques in studying the epidemiology and ecology of pathogenic Vibrio sp.
4250841|During May 1978, samples of water were collected from 24 sites on, or associated with, the River Wey between its source south of Haslemere and Send just downstream of Guildford (approx. 57.5 km). Counts of diatom frustules, and other algae surviving the sampling technique, were analyzed by numerical taxonomic techniques. On the basis of community structure, the river was clearly separated into two regions. The seven sites along the first 18 km formed a cluster, and those of the remaining stretch formed a second cluster, which was more similar to Broadwater, a large shallow pond that discharges into the river between Godalming and Guildford (approx. 34.2 km below the source). Two methods are compared for reducing the counts obtained for each sample to a single index.
25153306|During the past decade, algae blooms, which include the toxic cyanobacterium Microcystis, have reoccurred in the Laurentian Great Lakes, most commonly in the western basin of Lake Erie. Whereas the western basin is the most impacted by toxic Microcystis in Lake Erie, there has historically been little effort focused on identifying the spatial distribution of Microcystis throughout this lake. To address this lack of knowledge, we have employed a polymerase-chain-reaction-based detection of genes required for synthesis of the toxin microcystin (mcyD and mcyB), as well as 16S rDNA fragments specific to either all Microcystis or all cyanobacteria. Using a multiplex approach, we tested 21 samples from 13 field stations and found that toxigenic Microcystis were present in the western and eastern basins in the summers of 1999, 2000, and 2002 and the central basin in 1999 and 2002. This is the most extensive distribution of Microcystis reported in Lake Erie. Clone libraries (16S rDNA) of these cyanobacterial communities were generated from 7 of the 13 field stations (representing all three basins) to partially characterize this microbial community. These libraries were shown to be dominated by sequences assigned to the Synechococcus and Cyanobium phylogenetic cluster, indicating the importance of picoplankton in this large lake system.
4287717|Sixty-two bacteriophages were isolated on eight indigenous bacteria from a Pacific Ocean station spanning 887-m vertical depth, on two occasions between 1999 and 2000. On the basis of 16S rRNA sequences, six hosts were tentatively identified to be in the genus Vibrio and the other two were closely related to Altermonas macleodii (W9a) and Pseudoalteromonas spp. (W13a). Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of phage genomes using AccI and HapI showed that 16 phages infecting host C4a (Vibrio) displayed 14 unique RFLP patterns. However, identical phages infecting host C4b, C6a, and C6b (all Vibrio) were obtained from both the surface layer and the hypoxic zone at 850 m. Most phage isolates from the second year had a different RFLP pattern but shared genetic similarity to the phages infecting the same host from the previous year based on a hybridization study using phage genome probes. Cluster analysis of RFLP patterns and hybridization results also indicated that phages infecting the same or genetically related hosts, in general, shared higher degrees of homology in spite of the diverse RFLP patterns. Pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) analysis of native viral genomes indicated a range in genome size from less than 40 to 200 kb, and the dominant band shifted up by about 5-10 kb in the deep samples compared to the shallow ones. Hybridization of phage genome probes with total viral community DNA from various depths suggests these isolates, or at least some of their genes, represent a detectable portion of the natural viral community and were distributed throughout the water column. Thus, the results of this study demonstrated that the genetic diversity of bacteriophage in the ocean is far greater than that of their bacterial hosts. However, host range may have contributed to the evolution of the diverse phage population in the marine environment.
41489787|This study investigated the relationships of timedependent hydrological variability and selected microbial food web components. Samples were collected monthly from the Kopaki Rit floodplain in Croatia, over a period of 19 months, for analysis of bacterioplankton abundance, cell size and biomass; abundance of heterotrophic nanoflagellates and nanophytoplankton; and concentration of chlorophyll a. Similar hydrological variability at different times of the year enabled partition of seasonal effects from hydrological changes on microbial community properties. The results suggested that, unlike some other studies investigating sites with different connectivity, bacterioplankton abundance, and phytoplankton abundance and biomass increased during lentie conditions. At increasing water level, nanophytoplankton showed lower sensitivity to disturbance in comparison with total phytoplankton biomass: this could prolong autotrophic conditions within the floodplain. Bacterioplankton biomass, unlike phytoplankton, was not impacted by hydrology. The bacterial biomass less affected by hydrological changes can be an important additional food component for the floodplain food web. The results also suggested a mechanism controlling bacterial cell size independent of hydrology, as bacterial cell size was significantly decreased as nanoflagellate abundance increased. Hydrology, regardless of seasonal sucession, has the potential to structure microbial food webs, supporting microbial development during lentie conditions. Conversely, other components appear unaffected by hydrology or may be more strongly controlled by biotic interactions. This research, therefore, adds to understanding on microbial food web interactions in the context of flood and flow pulses in river-floodplain ecosystems.
23361684|Nanoparticle (NP) use in everyday applications creates the potential for NPs to enter the environment where, in aquatic systems, they are likely to settle on substrates and interact with microbial communities. Legionella pneumophila biofilms are found as part of microbial communities in both natural and man-made environments, especially in man-made cooling systems. The bacterium is the causative agent of Legionnaires' disease. Legionella requires a host cell for replication in the environment, and amoebae commonly serve as this host cell. Our previous work demonstrated significant changes in Legionella biofilm morphology after exposure to 0.7 g/L gold NPs (AuNPs). Here, we investigate how these morphology changes alter host-bacteria interactions using Acanthamoeba polyphaga as a model. HostbacteriaNP interactions are affected by NP characteristics. Biofilms exposed to 4- and 18-nm, citrate-capped, spherical AuNPs significantly altered the grazing ability of A. polyphaga, which was not observed in biofilms exposed to 24-nm polystyrene beads. Uptake and replication of NP-exposed planktonic L. pneumophila within A. polyphaga were not altered regardless of NP size or core chemistry. Nanomaterial effects on the interaction of benthic organisms and bacteria may be directly or, as shown here, indirectly dependent on bacterial morphology. NP contamination therefore may alter interactions in a normal ecosystem function.
40343450|Serum is an environment in which bacterial cells should not exist. The serum complement system provides innate defense against microbial infections. It consists of at least 35 proteins, mostly in pre-activated enzymatic forms. The activation of complement is achieved through three major pathways: the classical, alternative, and lectin. Lysozyme, widely present in body fluids, catalyzes the hydrolysis of  1,4 linkage between N-acetyloglucosamine and N-acetylmuramic acid in the bacterial cell wall and cooperates with the complement system in the bactericidal action of serum. In this study, ten strains of serotype 048 Salmonella, mainly associated with warm-blooded vertebrates and clinically important causing diarrhea in infants and children, were tested. The results demonstrated that the most efficient killing of Salmonella 048 occurred when all the components of normal bovine serum (NBS) and normal human serum (NHS) cooperated. To prove the role of lysozyme in the bactericidal activity of bovine and human serum, the method of serum adsorption onto bentonite (montmorillonite, MMT) was used. In order to investigate structural transitions accompanying the adsorption of serum components, we applied X-ray diffraction methods. The results of this investigation suggested that apart from lysozyme, other proteins (as, e.g., C3 protein or IgG immunoglobulin) were adsorbed on MMT particles. It was also shown that Ca cations can be adsorbed on bentonite. This may explain the different sensitivities of the serovars belonging to the same O48 Salmonella serotype to NBS and NHS devoid of lysozyme.
4251513|Crop roots provide dynamic nutrient environments within agroecosystems that can influence the relative abundance and activity of oligotrophic and copiotrophic microorganisms. Copiotrophic organisms grow in carbon (C)-rich environments and their distribution implies that C abundance favors their survival. Survival of oligotrophic organisms is dependent on their ability to multiply and maintain activity in habitats of low C flux. To determine if spatial variation in available C along the root coincides with different physiological groups of bacteria, we isolated bacteria from the rhizosphere at different locations along the tap root of lettuce and tomato plants grown under greenhouse and field conditions. In all five experiments, the overall numbers of both oligotrophs and copiotrophs were high at the upper portions of the root and lower at tip locations and in the bulk soil environment. Consistent patterns in the ratio of copiotrophic to oligotrophic (C:O) bacteria along the roots of lettuce and tomato were obtained and clearly showed that the C:O ratio was different for these two crop species. With lettuce, C:O ratios were high at the root tip (1.22 to 1.61) and upper mid-root locations (0.90 to 1.30), intermediate at the lower mid-root locations (0.73 to 0.95), and low at the root base (0.56 to 0.76). With tomato, C:O ratios were low at root tip locations (0.50 to 0.68) and high at mid and base locations along the root (1.20 to 1.28). These differences may reflect qualitative and quantitative differences in root exudates between these crop species. In our experiments, nitrogen (N) concentrations and lateral branch sites, providing C sources, were important factors influencing bacterial populations in the rhizosphere of lettuce and tomato. Competitive interactions between microorganisms and physiological constraints with respect to substrate affinity may be two important mechanisms influencing bacterial populations and structure of rhizosphere communities.
40343442|Despite overlap in niches, two fungal symbionts of the mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae), Grosmannia clavigera and Ophiostoma montium, appear to coexist with one another and their bark beetle host in the phloem of trees. We sampled the percent of phloem colonized by fungi four times over 1 year to investigate the nature of the interaction between these two fungi and to determine how changing conditions in the tree (e.g., moisture) affect the interaction. Both fungi colonized phloem at similar rates; however, G. clavigera colonized a disproportionately larger amount of phloem than O. montium considering their relative prevalence in the beetle population. High phloem moisture appeared to inhibit fungal growth shortly after beetle attack; however, by 1 year, low phloem moisture likely inhibited fungal growth and survival. There was no inverse relationship between the percent of phloem colonized by G. clavigera only and O. montium only, which would indicate competition between the species. However, the percent of phloem colonized by G. clavigera and O. montium together decreased after 1 year, while the percent of phloem from which no fungi were isolated increased. A reduction in living fungi in the phloem at this time may have significant impacts on both beetles and fungi. These results indicate that exploitation competition occurred after a year when the two fungicolonized the phloem together, but we found no evidence of strong interference competition. Each species also maintained an exclusive area, which may promote coexistence of species with similar resource use.
40926454|Sublacustrine hydrothermal vents, geysers, and fumaroles impart regions of Yellowstone Lake with distinctive chemical compositions that generate unique freshwater habitats and support diverse microbial life. Some microbial communities within Sedge Bay manifest themselves as accumulations of white-colored films on the surfaces of aquatic macrophytes located within the hydrothermal flow of vents. It was hypothesized that the white films were the product of microbial growth, particularly sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. An investigation of the relevant biological compounds in the vent waters was conducted. Microscopy, non-culture molecular techniques, and phylogenetic analysis were used to assay the bacterial diversity associated with the films. Microscopic analysis of the white films revealed the presence of long filaments (>200 m) that contained sulfur granules. Filaments with these characteristics were not detected on the normal macrophyte samples. Nucleic acids were extracted from the surface of macrophyte coated with the white film (SB1, SB2) and from the surface of an uncoated macrophyte (SC). 16S ribosomal (rRNA) genes were amplified with the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and cloned. Amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) was used to examine 100 clones from each library and identify unique phylotypes. S Chao 1 and the Shannon Index, mathematical measures of richness and heterogeneity, were employed to assess the ARDRA pattern diversity of each sample. The SC community contained 50 unique phylotypes, predominantly cyanobacteria and proteobacteria, and was the most heterogeneous. SB1 and SB2 communities were less heterogeneous and dominated by Thiothrix. Dilution to extinction PCR conducted with specific primers indicated that the relative abundance of Thiothrix 16S rRNA gene copies in all three samples were similar. However, reduced sulfur compounds from the vent resulted in a more narrow habitat that supported the sulfur-oxidizing Thiothrix in the white film to the exclusion of cyanobacteria and other proteobacteria found on the normal macrophyte. The majority of 16S rRNA gene sequences obtained in this study displayed similarities 98% to any known sequence in public data bases which suggests an abundance of new bacterial species in Sedge Bay.
4287727| Bacteria and algae release exopolymeric substances (EPS) that perform a wide range of important functions in aquatic and terrestrial systems. In this study we measured EPS in sediments at nine littoral sites around a shallow oligotrophic basin, and tested whether the concentration and composition of EPS was related to sediment characteristics. The concentrations of both loosely bound (colloidal) and tightly bound (capsular) EPS carbohydrates ranged up to 800 g glucose equiv. cm
40605761|A collection of 233 rhizobia strains from 30 different sites across Saskatchewan, Canada was assayed for l-aminocyclopropane-l-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase activity, with 27 of the strains displaying activity. When all 27 strains were characterized based on 16S rRNA gene sequences, it was noted that 26 strains are close to Rhizobium leguminosarum and one strain is close to Rhizobium gallicum. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to rapidly isolate ACC deaminase structural genes from the above-mentioned 27 strains; 17 of them have 99% identities with the previously characterized ACC deaminase structural gene (acdS) from R. leguminosarum bv. viciae 128C53K, whereas the other ten strains are 84% identical (864-866/1,020 bp) compared to the acdS from strain 128C53K. Southern hybridization showed that each strain has only one ACC deaminase gene. Using inverse PCR, the region upstream of the ACC deaminase structural genes was characterized for all 27 strains, and 17 of these strains were shown to encode a leucine-responsive regulatory protein. The results are discussed in the context of a previously proposed model for the regulation of bacterial ACC deaminase in R. leguminosarum 128C53K.
41489216|The capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris) is the world's largest living rodent. Native to South America, this hindgut fermenter is herbivorous and coprophagous and uses its enlarged cecum to digest dietary plant material. The microbiota of specialized hindgut fermenters has remained largely unexplored. The aim of this work was to describe the composition of the bacterial community in the fermenting cecum of wild capybaras. The analysis of bacterial communities in the capybara cecum is a first step towards the functional characterization of microbial fermentation in this model of hindgut fermentation. We sampled cecal contents from five wild adult capybaras (three males and two females) in the Venezuelan plains. DNA from cecal contents was extracted, the 16S rDNA was amplified, and the amplicons were hybridized onto a DNA microarray (G2 PhyloChip). We found 933 bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) from 182 families in 21 bacterial phyla in the capybara cecum. The core bacterial microbiota (present in at least four animals) was represented by 575 OTUs. About 86% of the cecal bacterial OTUs belong to only five phyla, namely, Firmicutes (322 OTUs), Proteobacteria (301 OTUs), Bacteroidetes (76 OTUs), Actinobacteria (69 OTUs), and Sphirochaetes (37 OTUs). The capybara harbors a diverse bacterial community that includes lineages involved in fiber degradation and nitrogen fixation in other herbivorous animals.
41489798|The prokaryotic community in Fe-As coprecipitation product from a groundwater storage tank in Bangladesh was investigated over a 5-year period to assess the diversity of the community and to infer biogeochemical mechanisms that may contribute to the formation and stabilisation of co-precipitation products and to Fe and As redox cycling. Partial 16S rRNA gene sequences from Bacteria and Archaea, functional markers (mcrA and dsrB) and ironoxidising Gallionella-related 16S rRNA gene sequences were determined using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Additionally, a bacterial 16S rRNA gene library was also constructed from one representative sample. Biogeochemical characterization demonstrated that co-precipitation products consist of a mixture of inorganic minerals, mainly hydrous ferric oxides, intimately associated with organic matter of microbial origin that contribute to the chemical and physical stabilisation of a poorly ordered structure. DGGE analysis and polymerase chain reaction-cloning revealed that the diverse bacterial community structure in the co-precipitation product progressively stabilised with time resulting in a prevalence of methylotrophic Betaproteobacteria, while the archaeal community was less diverse and was dominated by members of the Euryarchaeota. Results show that Fe-As co-precipitation products provide a habitat characterised by anoxic/oxic niches that supports a phylogenetically and metabolically diverse group of prokaryotes involved in metal, sulphur and carbon cycling, supported by the presence of Gallionella-like ironoxidizers, methanogens, methylotrophs, and sulphate reducers. However, no phylotypes known to be directly involved in As (V) respiration or As(III) oxidation were found.
4250633|A method has been developed for the measurement of nitrification rates in intact sediment cores without disturbing the concentration gradients of oxygen and ammonium. N-serve (2-chloro-6-trichloromethyl-pyridine), a specific inhibitor of the autotrophic ammonium oxidation, was injected into a 0-2 cm surface layer of the sediment (20 ppm) and added to the water column of sediment cores (5 ppm). N-serve in these concentrations was sufficient to inhibit nitrification, but did not change the rate of ammonium production or incorporation in sediment suspensions, which were incubated aerobically and anaerobically. The ammonium accumulation in cores injected with N-serve was thus equal to the amount of ammonium which was oxidized to nitrate in the control cores. Nitrification rates were in the range of 0-3 mmol N m
25152968|Bacteria were sequentially extracted from soil into a water suspension after shaking soil with water or mixing it in a blender followed by a lowspeed centrifugation. Bacteria, which were released only after several cycles of homogenization-centrifugation, had higher growth rates as judged from thymidine and leucine incorporation, whereas bacteria that were more readily released by a gentle shaking procedure had the lowest growth rate. This indicated that bacteria more tightly bound to soil particles were growing faster than those that were more easily released into the water suspension. The same pattern was found both in an agricultural and a forest soil, with contrasting pH and organic matter content, and irrespective of whether the bacteria were labeled before or after the centrifugation steps. The different growth rates of the bacteria could not be explained by different partitioning of label between different macromolecules, different cell size, different viability of the bacteria, or different dilution of the added radioactive substrate in the different homogenization-centrifugation fractions. The total amount of phospholipid fatty acids per bacterial cell was also similar in the different fractions. Different composition of the bacterial communities in the different homogenization-centrifugation fractions was indicated by a gradually altered phospholipid fatty acid pattern of the extracted bacteria, and an increased hydrophobicity of the bacteria released only after several homogenization-centrifugation treatments.
25256175|Testate amoebae (Protozoa) were studied in spring, summer, and fall from the same microhabitats in a small Sphagnum-dominated peatland in southern Ontario, Canada. A total of 32 sampling stations were established in two wetland plant communities, 19 in an open Ericaceae low-shrub community and 13 in a closed Picea mariana and Larix laricina swamp community. Sphagnum was collected in each station for analysis of testate amoebae and measurement of soil water content parameters and water table depth in May, August, and October 2001. pH and dissolved oxygen of the groundwater under the Sphagnum were measured also. A total of 52 taxa including the rotifer, Habrotrocha angusticollis, were identified. Soil water content and water table variables emerged as the primary factors separating testate amoebae between the open bog/fen community and swamp community. Testate amoebae in the open bog/fen community showed a clear separation between the May sampling period and the August and October sampling periods. Sampling stations in May had much higher water table and were wetter than those in August and October. Conversely, testate amoebae in the swamp community did not show a clear difference between sampling periods. Soil moisture and water tables appear to be more constant in the swamp communities. Biological factors or other microscale environmental factors may need to be considered to explain seasonal changes in testate amoebae. A greater understanding of relationships between testate amoebae and microenvironmental factors is necessary to track seasonality in testate amoebae distributions.
4250618| In simulated diurnal experiments with Chlorella pyrenoidosa and Pseudomonas fluorescens, bacterial growth was virtually confined to the daylight period and occurred at the expense of glycolate, the predominant extracellular product of the alga. Both glycolate levels and
25256247|A pot experiment was conducted to examine the effect of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, Glomus fasciculatum, and salinity on the growth of Acacia nilotica. Plants were grown in soil under different salinity levels (1.2, 4.0, 6.5, and 9.5 dS m). In saline soil, mycorrhizal colonization was higher at 1.2, 4.0, and 6.5 dS m salinity levels in AM-inoculated plants, which decreased as salinity levels further increased (9.5 dS m). Mycorrhizal plants maintained greater root and shoot biomass at all salinity levels compared to nonmycorrhizal plants. AM-inoculated plants had higher P, Zn, and Cu concentrations than uninoculated plants. In mycorrhizal plants, nutrient concentrations decreased with the increasing levels of salinity, but were higher than those of the nonmycorrhizal plants. Mycorrhizal plants had greater Na concentration at low salinity levels (1.2, 4.0 dS m), which lowered as salinity levels increased (6.5, 9.5 dS m), whereas Na concentration increased in control plants. Mycorrhizal plants accumulated a higher concentration of K at all salinity levels. Unlike Na, the uptake of K increased in shoot tissues of mycorrhizal plants with the increasing levels of salinity. Our results indicate that mycorrhizal fungus alleviates deleterious effects of saline soils on plant growth that could be primarily related to improved P nutrition. The improved K/Na ratios in root and shoot tissues of mycorrhizal plants may help in protecting disruption of K-mediated enzymatic processes under salt stress conditions.
25256216|The extent of microbial diversity in nature is still largely unknown, suggesting that there might be many more useful products yet to be identified from soil microorganisms. This insight provides the scientific foundation for a renewed interest in examining soil microorganisms for novel commercially important products. This has led us to access the metabolic potential of soil microorganisms via cultivation strategy. Keeping this in mind, we have performed a culture-dependent survey of important soil bacterial community diversity in East Calcutta Wetland area (Dhapa Landfill Area). We describe isolation of 38 strains, their phenotypic and biochemical characterization, and finally molecular identification by direct sequencing of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified 16S rRNA gene products. We have isolated and identified strains able to fix nitrogen, produce extracellular enzymes like protease, cellulase, xylanase, and amylase, and solubilize inorganic phosphates. Some isolates can synthesize extracellular insecticidal toxins. We find a good correlation between biochemical and phenotypic behavior and the molecular study using 16S rRNA gene of the isolates. Furthermore, our findings clearly indicate the composition of cultivable soil bacteria in East Calcutta Wetland Area.
40926449|Animal manure from modern animal agriculture constitutes the single largest source of antibiotic resistance (AR) owing to the use of large quantities of antibiotics. After animal manure enters the environment, the AR disseminates into the environment and can pose a potentially serious threat to the health and well-being of both humans and animals. In this study, we evaluated the efficiency of three different on-farm waste treatment systems in reducing AR. Three classes of erythromycin resistance genes (erm) genes (B, F, and X) conferring resistances to macrolide-lincosamides-streptogramin B (MLSb) and one class of tetracycline resistance genes (tet) gene (G) conferring resistance to tetracyclines were used as models. Real-time polymerase chain reaction assays were used to determine the reservoir sizes of these AR genes present in the entire microbiome. These classes of AR genes varied considerably in abundance, with erm(B) being more predominant than erm(F), erm(X), and tet(G). These AR genes also varied in persistence in different waste treatment systems. Aerobic biofiltration reduced erm(X) more effectively than other AR genes, while mesophilic anaerobic digestion and lagoon storage did not appreciably reduce any of these AR genes. Unlike chemical pollutants, some AR genes could increase after reduction in a preceding stage of the treatment processes. Season might also affect the persistence of AR. These results indicate that AR arising from swine-feeding operations can survive typical swine waste treatment processes and thus treatments that are more effective in destructing AR on farms are required.
4251044|The inhibition of nitrous oxide ( N<sub>2</sub> O) reduction by acetylene ( C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub>) in saltmarsh sediment was temporary; we investigated this phenomenon and possible causes. The reduction of N<sub>2</sub> O in the presence of C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub> was biological. N<sub>2</sub> O consumption in the presence of C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub> began when nitrate concentration became very low. The time course of N<sub>2</sub> O consumption after periods of N<sub>2</sub> O accumulation was unaffected by initial nitrate concentrations between 16 and 200 M, or C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub> concentrations between 10 and 100% of the gas phase. Sulfide had no effect on the kinetics of N<sub>2</sub> O reduction in the presence of C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub>. In more dilute slurries of saltmarsh sediments and in estuarine sediment, N<sub>2</sub> O persisted in the presence of C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub> unless sufficient organic carbon was added to deplete nitrate. In saltmarsh sediments, the rate of N<sub>2</sub> O consumption in the presence of C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub> was not changed by preincubation with C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub>. Initial positive rates of N<sub>2</sub> O production in the presence of C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub> occurred only when the block was apparently effective (i.e., at nitrate concentrations greater than about 5-10 M) and appeared to represent a valid estimate of denitrification. Conversely and in agreement with previous studies, concentrations of NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> below these levels resulted in reduced efficiency of C<sub>2</sub> H<sub>2</sub> blockage of N<sub>2</sub> O reductase.
4251658| Decomposition of standing litter of the emergent macrophyte Erianthus giganteus (plumegrass) was quantified in a small freshwater wetland in Alabama, USA. Living green shoots of E. giganteus were tagged and periodically retrieved for determination of leaf and culm mass loss, litter-associated fungal biomass (ergosterol), and nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations. Laboratory studies were also conducted to examine the effects of plant litter moisture content and temperature on rates of CO
25153444|The aim of this study was to analyze microbial communities in/on sugar beet with special focus on antagonists toward plant pathogens. For this purpose, the composition of microorganisms isolated from the rhizosphere, phyllosphere, endorhiza, and endosphere of field-grown sugar beet plants was analyzed by a multiphasic approach at three different plant development stages at six locations in Europe. The analysis of microbial communities by Single Strand Conformation Polymorphism (SSCP) of 16S/18S rRNA clearly revealed the existence of discrete microenvironment- and site-specific patterns. A total of 1952 bacterial and 1344 fungal isolates screened by dual testing for antagonism toward the pathogens Aphanomyces cochlioides, Phoma betae, Pythium ultimum, and Rhizoctonia solani resulted in 885 bacterial (=45%) and 437 fungal (=33%) antagonists. In general, the indigenous antagonistic potential was very high and influenced by (a) the location, (b) the plant developmental stage, and (3) the microenvironment. Furthermore, we showed for the first time that the antagonistic potential was highly specific for each target pathogen. The majority of antagonistic microorganisms suppressed only one pathogen (bacteria: 664 = 75%; fungi: 256 = 59%), whereas the minority showed a broad host range (bacteria: 4 = 0.5%; fungi: 7 = 1.6%). The bacterial communities harbored the highest antagonistic potential against P. ultimum, whereas the fungal communities contained more antagonists against A. cochlioides and R. solani. In contrast to their high proportion, only a low diversity of antagonists at genotypic and species level was found. Novel antagonistic species, e.g., Subtercola pratensis or Microbacterium testaceum were found in the internal part of the sugar beet body.
4250828|Three dominant types of sugar-fermenting bacteria were isolated from the anaerobic, intertidal sediments of the Eems-Dollard estuary by applying techniques involving anaerobic agar shake tubes. One of the isolated types was tentatively identified as a Streptococcus species, the other two as Bacteroides species. All types were versatile with respect to the utilization of sugars. The fermentation patterns of two types were dependent upon conditions of cultivation. In glucose-limited cultures of Streptococcus strain NS.G52, the production of lactate was suppressed in favor of formate, acetate, and ethanol. In glucose-limited syntrophic cultures with Methanospirillum hungatei, Bacteroides strain NS.G42 was forced to produce acetate and hydrogen at the expense of ethanol. The fermentation pattern of Bacteroides strain NS.S42, which consisted of acetate, propionate, and succinate, was not affected by conditions of cultivation.
4287655|The diversity of indigenous Azospirillum spp. associated with rice cultivated along the coastline of Tamil Nadu was analyzed. Twelve sites with varying soil characteristics such as salinity, texture, and the host variety were chosen. Of the 402 strains isolated using NFB media, 302 were confirmed to be Azospirillum spp. and subjected to DNA polymorphism analysis using PCR-RFLP of 16S rDNA. They were also screened for their salt tolerance and microaerobic
41489097|An unusual Phomopsis sp. was isolated as endophyte of Odontoglossum sp. (Orchidaceae), associated with a cloud forest in Northern Ecuador. This fungus produces a unique mixture of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) including sabinene (a monoterpene with a peppery odor) only previously known from higher plants. In addition, some of the other more abundant VOCs recorded by GC/MS in this organism were 1-butanol, 3-methyl; benzeneethanol; 1-propanol, 2-methyl and 2-propanone. The gases of Phomopsis sp. possess antifungal properties and an artificial mixture of the VOCs mimicked the antibiotic effects of this organism with the greatest bioactivity against a wide range of plant pathogenic test fungi including: Pythium, Phytophthora, Sclerotinia, Rhizoctonia, Fusarium, Botrytis, Verticillium, and Colletotrichum. The IC values for the artificial gas mixture of Phomopsis sp. varied between 8 and 25.65 l/mL. Proton transfer reaction-mass spectrometry monitored the concentration of VOCs emitted by Phomopsis sp. and yielded a total VOC concentration of ca. 18 ppmv in the head space at the seventh day of incubation at 23C on PDA. As with many VOC-producing endophytes, this Phomopsis sp. did survive and grow in the presence of the inhibitory gases of Muscodor albus. A discussion is presented on the possible involvement of VOC production by the fungus and its role in the biology/ecology of the fungus/plant/environmental relationship.
4251670| The structure, biomass, and activity of the microbial community in the humus layer of boreal coniferous forest stands of different fertility were studied. The Scots pine dominated CT (Calluna vulgaris type) represented the lowest fertility, while VT (Vaccinium vitis-idaa type), MT (Vaccinium myrtillus type), and OMT (Oxalis acetocella-Vaccinium myrtillus type) following this order, were more fertile types. The microbial community was studied more closely by sampling a succession gradient (from a treeless area to a 180-years-old Norway spruce stand) at the MT type site. The phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis revealed a gradual shift in the structure of the microbial community along the fertility gradient even though the total microbial biomass and respiration rate remained unchanged. The relative abundance of fungi decreased and that of bacteria increased with increasing fertility. The structure of the bacterial community also changed along the fertility gradient. Irrespective of a decrease in fungal biomass and change in bacterial community structure after clear-cutting, the PLFA analysis did not show strong differences in the microbial communities in the stands of different age growing on the MT type site. The spatial variation in the structure of the microbial community was studied at a MT type site. Semivariograms indicated that the bacterial biomass, the ratio between the fungal and bacterial biomasses, and the relative amount of PLFA 16:15 were spatially autocorrelated within distances around 3 to 4 m. The total microbial and fungal biomasses were autocorrelated only up to 1 m. The spatial distribution of the humus microbial community was correlated mainly with the location of the trees, and consequently, with the forest floor vegetation. 
25153243|The diversity of the culturable microbial communities was examined in two sponge species-Pseudoceratina clavata and Rhabdastrella globostellata. Isolates were characterized by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and phylogenetic analysis. The bacterial community structures represented in both sponges were found to be similar at the phylum level by the same four phyla in this study and also at a finer scale at the species level in both Firmicutes and Alphaproteobacteria. The majority of the Alphaproteobacteria isolates were most closely related to isolates from other sponge species including alpha proteobacterium NW001 sp. and alpha proteobacterium MBIC3368. Members of the low %G + C gram-positive (phylum Firmicutes), high %G + C gram-positive (phylum Actinobacteria), and Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides (phylum Bacteroidetes) phyla of domain Bacteria were also represented in both sponges. In terms of culturable organisms, taxonomic diversity of the microbial community in the two sponge species displays similar structure at phylum level. Within phyla, isolates often belonged to the same genus-level monophyletic group. Community structure and taxonomic composition in the two sponge species P. clavata and Rha. globostellata share significant features with those of other sponge species including those from widely separated geographical and climatic regions of the sea.
4250596|Five transects of contiguous samples from the surface of a small pond and one transect from its bottom were collected in order to quantify microspatial heterogeneity in the distribution of ciliated protozoa. Examination of the frequency-abundance relations for these transects suggests that they can be approximated by negative binomial distributions with a common k of 1.87. Contagiousness or crowding increases with population density. Mean patch size and mean interpatch distance were measured for 4 transects as 1.5 to 2 cm and 3 to 4 cm, respectively. This heterogeneity is suggested to arise from behavioral aggregation about discrete food sources and be very ephemeral. Blocking of adjacent contiguous samples was used to investigate the effect of sample size on the apparent correlation between the numbers of pairs of taxa. In all cases examined, taxa were relatively independent in their distribution at small sample sizes and became more negatively or positively associated as samples were combined. This may reflect that the small scale patches are essentially monospecific.
27770624|The antagonistic potentials of endophytic bacteria isolated from the roots of six cotton cultivars at different developmental stages were determined in vitro toward three pathogens: Verticillium dahliae Kleb V107 and V396 and Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. vasinfectum (F108). The populations of antagonistic endophytic bacteria (AEB) toward V107, V396, and F108 at the flowering and maturation stages were significantly higher than those at the seedling stage were. More AEB were found to be antagonistic toward pathogens V396 and F108 than V107. Results from the multivariate analysis of variance showed that the populations of AEB were significantly different for the main factors of cultivars, stages, and their interactions. Based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis, the 39 AEB isolates that antagonized V107, V396, and F108 (BAEB) consisted of seven genera, in which the genus of Enterobacter (17 out of 39) and Pantoea (14 out of 39) were predominant among the BAEB isolates. Characterized by BOX-PCR fingerprints, these 39 BAEB isolates represented 35 different cluster types. To explore the antagonistic mechanisms, the agar diffusion method was used to detect cell-wall-degrading enzyme activity and siderophore secretion. Nearly half of these BAEB isolates showed protease and chitinase activity, while all 39 BAEB isolates excreted siderophores. However, pectinase, cellulase, and xylanase activity were hardly detected. A germination experiment revealed that nine of the 39 BAEB isolates significantly improved the vigor index of the cotton seedlings.
4287676| We have used an Escherichia coli strain DH5 containing pGreenTIR to study the survival of this bacterium in river water. As green fluorescence was maintained throughout survival both in dark and illuminated conditions, gfp-tagged E. coli cells were clearly distinguished from the microbial community of the river Butrn. gfp-tagged E. coli cells were monitored to estimate total density as well as the density of the culturable and viable (active electron transport system,
4251694|The establishment of microorganisms in the rumen is a critical step if rumen manipulation is to be accomplished by use of microbial inoculants. Microbial populations in the maturing rumen undergo successional changes and, while in a state of flux, provide a possible opportunity for the introduction of specific strains of bacteria. While the rumen of the young lamb was maturing, we measured changes in several microbial populations with 16S-rRNA specific oligonucleotides: Rumincoccus, Fibrobacter, eukaryotes, Gram-positive bacteria, the Bacteroides-Porphromonas-Prevotella group, and anaerobic rumen fungi. In this study we repeatedly dosed 15 lambs with approximately
4287573| Sphingomonas sp. strain Ant 17 was isolated from fuel-contaminated soil collected at Scott Base, Ross Island, Antarctica. We anticipated that Ant 17 would be a good model organism for studying cold climate bioremediation, and therefore determined its biodegradation capabilities and tolerance of potentially growth-limiting environmental conditions. Sphingomonas sp. Ant 17 degrades the aromatic fraction of several different crude oils, jet fuel, and diesel fuel at low temperatures and without nutrient amendment. It utilizes or transforms a broad range of pure aromatic substrates, including hydrocarbons, heterocycles, and aromatic acids and alcohols. Ant 17 grows at temperatures of 1C to 35C and mineralizes radiolabeled phenanthrene over a range of more than 24C. This psychrotolerant isolate appears to utilize hydrocarbons more efficiently at low temperatures than would be predicted by mesophilic enzyme kinetics. The optimum pH for growth was 6.4 at 22C, with extended lag phases observed in more alkaline media. However, there was less effect of pH on lag phase at lower temperatures. Ant 17 displayed greater tolerance to UV irradiation and freeze-thaw cycles than the hydrocarbon-degrading isolate Sphingomonas sp. WPO-1, which may reflect adaptation to its Antarctic soil environment. However, it was more sensitive than expected to desiccation and to low concentrations of NaCl and CaCl
4251013| Bacteria attached to rock and glass surfaces were studied in streams draining a whole-tree harvested watershed (WTH) and a nonharvested (CONTROL) watershed in the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, New Hampshire, U.S.A. Seasonal trends in numbers of cells/ cm
4287620| Microbial colonization of marine invertebrate guts is widespread, but in general the roles that these bacteria play in the nutrition of their hosts are unknown. To examine the diversity and potential nutritional roles of hindgut microbiota in a deposit feeder, PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes were cloned from the bacterial community attached to the hindguts of the thalassinid shrimp Neotrypaea californiensis exposed to different feeding treatments. Partial 16S rDNA sequences were analyzed for 30 clones for three shrimp per treatment for a total of 270 clones. No effects of host starvation or high-protein diets were apparent on hindgut bacterial community composition. Diversity analyses indicated high variability between bacterial communities in individual shrimp hindguts, but partial 16S rDNA sequences revealed remarkable species-level similarity (>98%) within clusters of sequences from the different shrimp hindguts, and many sequences from different shrimp hindguts were identical. Sequences belonged to three main groups of bacteria: Cytophaga-Flavobacteria-Bacteroides (CFB), proteobacteria, and gram-positives. Of the 270 sequences, 40% belonged to the -proteobacteria, 5% each to the - and - proteobacteria, and 20% each to the gram-positive and CFB groups. All except one sequence are novel with 95% sequence similarity to known genes. Despite weak similarity to known taxa, about 75% of the sequences were most closely related to known symbiotic and sedimentary bacteria. The bacteria in shrimp hindguts represent new species that have not yet been encountered in other environments, and gut environments may be a rich source of the difficult-to-culture and novel components of marine bacterial diversity. 
40605771|The amount of button mushroom (Agaricus bisporus) harvested from compost is largely affected by the microbial processes taking place during composting and the microbes inhabiting the mature compost. In this study, the microbial changes during the stages of this specific composting process were monitored, and the dominant bacteria of the mature compost were identified to reveal the microbiological background of the favorable properties of the heat-treated phase II mushroom compost. 16S ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid (rDNA)-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) molecular fingerprinting methods were used to track the succession of microbial communities in summer and winter composting cycles. DNA from individual DGGE bands were reamplified and subjected to sequence analysis. Principal component analysis of fingerprints of the composting processes showed intensive changes in bacterial community during the 22-day procedure. Peak temperature samples grouped together and were dominated by Thermus thermophilus. Mature compost patterns were almost identical by both methods (DGGE, T-RFLP). To get an in-depth analysis of the mature compost bacterial community, the sequence data from cultivation of the bacteria and cloning of environmental 16S rDNA were uniquely coupled with the output of the environmental T-RFLP fingerprints (sequence-aided T-RFLP). This method revealed the dominance of a supposedly cellulose-degrading consortium composed of phylorypes related to Pseudoxanthomonas, Thermobifida, and Thermomonospora.
40343349|The spatio-temporal distribution of sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) in the microbial mat of Camargue (Salins-de-Giraud, France) was investigated by molecular approaches at both microscale spatial resolution and different taxonomic organization levels. The vertical distribution of the SRB populations was correlated with oxygen and sulfide microgradient fluctuations. Comparisons of Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprints showed distinct locations of some operational taxonomic units at daytime and at night (4:00 or 15:00 hours) revealing important differences on the structures of the bacterial communities. When oxygen penetrates the mat, SRB migration was observed either downward to reach deeper anoxic zones to escape oxygen or upward to reach oxic surface zones. When no migration was observed, both metabolism switches and aggregate formations were suspected. These behaviors allowed the aerotolerant SRB to deal with oxygen. The analysis of the DesulfococcusDesulfonemaDesulfosarcina T-RFLP profiles revealed up-migrating populations related to both Desulfonema sp. and Desulfosarcina variabilis. T-RFLP profiles combined with 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid gene library analysis of the Desulfobacter group revealed two distinct populations: a population related to the recently described Desulfotignum genus migrating upward during the night and a population of a new species of the Desulfobacter uniformly located throughout the mat independent of the period. Thus, the identification of the new oxygen-tolerant SRB will provide the basis for understanding the physiological adaptations to oxygen.
25153022| We investigated the diversity of nitrogenase genes in the alkaline, moderately hypersaline Mono Lake, California to determine (1) whether nitrogen-fixing (diazotrophic) populations were similar to those in other aquatic environments and (2) if there was a pattern of distribution of phylotypes that reflected redox conditions, as well as (3) to identify populations that could be important in N dynamics in this nitrogen-limited lake. Mono Lake has been meromictic for almost a decade and has steep gradients in oxygen and reduced compounds that provide a wide range of aerobic and anaerobic habitats. We amplified a fragment of the nitrogenase gene (nifH) from planktonic DNA samples collected at three depths representing oxygenated surface waters, the oxycline, and anoxic, ammonium-rich deep waters. Forty-three percent of the 90 sequences grouped in nifH Cluster I. The majority of clones (57%) grouped in Cluster III, which contains many known anaerobic bacteria. Cluster I and Cluster III sequences were retrieved at every depth indicating little vertical zonation in sequence types related to the prominent gradients in oxygen and ammonia. One group in Cluster I was found most often at every depth and accounted for 29% of all the clones. These sequences formed a subcluster that contained other environmental clones, but no cultivated representatives. No significant nitrogen fixation was detected by the N method after 48 h of incubation of surface, oxycline, or deep waters, suggesting that pelagic diazotrophs were contributing little to nitrogen fluxes in the lake. The failure to measure any significant nitrogen fixation, despite the detection of diverse and novel nitrogenase genes throughout the water column, raises interesting questions about the ecological controls on diazotrophy in Mono Lake and the distribution of functional genes in the environment. 
40343352|The formation, structure, and biodiversity of a multispecies anaerobic biofilm inside an Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Bed (UASB) reactor fed with brewery wastewater was examined using complementary microbial ecology methods such us fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), and cloning. The biofilm development can be roughly divided into three stages: an initial attachment phase (0-36 h) characterized by random adhesion of the cells to the surface; a consolidation phase (from 36 h to 2 weeks) defined by the appearance of microcolonies; and maturation phase (from 2 weeks to 2 months). During the consolidation period, proteobacteria with broad metabolic capabilities, mainly represented by members of alpha-Proteobacteria class (Oleomonas, Azospirillum), predominated. Beta-, gamma-, delta-(both syntrophobacteria and sulfate-reducing bacteria) and epsilon-(Arcobacter sp.) Proteobacteria were also noticeable. Archaea first appeared during the consolidation period. A Methanospirillum-like methanogen was detected after 36 h, and this was followed by the detection of Methanosarcina, after 4 days of biofilm development. The mature biofilm displayed a hill and valley topography with cells embedded in a matrix of exopolymers where the spatial distribution of the microorganisms became well-established. Compared to the earlier phases, the biodiversity had greatly increased. Although alpha-Proteobacteria remained as predominant, members of the phyla Firmicutes, Bacteroidete, and Thermotogae were also detected. Within the domain Archaea, the acetoclastic methanogen Methanosaeta concilii become dominant. This study provides insights on the trophic web and the shifts in population during biofilm development in an UASB reactor.
4251660|Successful stimulation of N
4250561| The rate of glucose decomposition and the pH fell in a forest soil (initial pH 4.06) exposed to 1.0 ppm SO
4251612|A multidisciplinary field study investigating the fate and transport of petroleum hydrocarbons commonly associated with jet-fuel contamination is currently underway at Columbus Air Force Base (AFB), Mississippi. Sixty sediment cores from 12 boreholes were recovered from the study aquifer. The goal of this initial sampling was to characterize the potential microbial activity using
4251322| The OCT plasmid from Pseudomonas maltophilia N246-1 was transferred to Rhodopseudomonas sphaeroides M1 with very low frequency (1.4-1.9  10
25256201|The culturable microbial community within the pitcher fluid of 93 Sarracenia minor carnivorous plants was examined over a 2-year study. Many aspects of the plant/bacterial/insect interaction within the pitcher fluid are minimally understood because the bacterial taxa present in these pitchers have not been identified. Thirteen isolates were characterized by 16S rDNA sequencing and subsequent phylogenetic analysis. The Proteobacteria were the most abundant taxa and included representatives from Serratia, Achromobacter, and Pantoea. The Antinobacteria Micrococcus was also abundant while Bacillus, Lactococcus, Chryseobacterium, and Rhodococcus were infrequently encountered. Several isolates conformed to species identifiers (&gt;98% rDNA gene sequence similarity) including Serratia marcescens (isolates found in 27.5% of pitchers), Achromobacter xylosoxidans (37.6%), Micrococcus luteus (40.9%), Bacillus cereus (isolates found in 10.2%), Bacillus thuringiensis (5.4%), Lactococcus lactis (17.2%), and Rhodococcus equi (2.2%). Species-area curves suggest that sampling efforts were sufficient to recover a representative culturable bacterial community. The bacteria present represent a diverse community probably as a result of introduction by insect vectors, but the ecological significance remains under explored.
4251398| The marine bacterium Vibrio anguillarum causes disease in fish worldwide and is particularly devastating in aquaculture. Little is known about the ecology of V. anguillarum in the environment and how this may relate to the pathogenicity of this organism. Combining membrane filtration and a species-specific DNA probe, culturable V. anguillarum cells were detected in water from three habitats and in chinook salmon (Onchorynchus tshawytscha) tissue samples. Results show that different marine habitats have a marked effect on cell numbers and that water temperature may play a role in the culturability and distribution of V. anguillarum. Vibrio anguillarum was detected from the gills of salmon within 24 h of transfer of fingerlings from freshwater to seawater, with cell numbers reaching a concentration of 1.9  10
40926491|Inorganic nutrient availability and temperature are recognized as major regulators of organic carbon processing by aquatic bacteria, but little is known about how these two factors interact to control bacterial metabolic processes. We manipulated the temperature of boreal humic stream water samples within 0-25C and measured bacterial production (BP) and respiration (BR) with and without inorganic nitrogen+phosphorus addition. Both BP and BR increased exponentially with temperature in all experiments, with Q values varying between 1.2 and 2.4. The bacterial growth efficiency (BGE) showed strong negative relationships with temperature in nutrient-enriched samples and in natural stream water where community-level BP and BR were not limited by nutrients. However, there were no relationships between BGE and temperature in samples where BP and BR were significantly constrained by the inorganic nutrient availability. The results suggest that metabolic responses of aquatic bacterial communities to temperature variations can be strongly dependent on whether the bacterial metabolism is limited by inorganic nutrients or not. Such responses can have consequences for both the carbon flux through aquatic food webs and for the flux of CO from aquatic systems to the atmosphere.
40926480|Anaerobic ammonium-oxidizing (anammox) process plays an important role in the nitrogen cycle of the worldwide anoxic and mesophilic habitats. Recently, the existence and activity of anammox bacteria have been detected in some thermophilic environments, but their existence in the geothermal subterranean oil reservoirs is still not reported. This study investigated the abundance, distribution and functional diversity of anammox bacteria in nine out of 17 high-temperature oil reservoirs by molecular ecology analysis. High concentration (5.31-39.2 mg 1) of ammonium was detected in the production water from these oilfields with temperatures between 55C and 75C. Both 16S rRNA and hzo molecular biomarkers indicated the occurrence of anammox bacteria in nine out of 17 samples. Most of 16S rRNA gene phylotypes are closely related to the known anammox bacterial genera Candidatus Brocadia, Candidatus Kuenenia, Candidatus Scalindua, and Candidatus Jettenia, while hzo gene phylotypes are closely related to the genera Candidatus Anammoxoglobus, Candidatus Kuenenia, Candidatus Scalindua, and Candidatus Jettenia. The total bacterial and anammox bacterial densities were 6.40.510 to 2.00.1810 cells ml and 6.60.5110 to 4.90.3610 cell ml, respectively. The cluster I of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed distant identity (<92%) to the known Candidatus Scalindua species, inferring this cluster of anammox bacteria to be a new species, and a tentative name Candidatus "Scalindua sinooilfield" was proposed. The results extended the existence of anammox bacteria to the high-temperature oil reservoirs.
25152984| In anoxic Spartina alterniflora-dominated sediments along a naturally occuring salinity gradient (the Cooper River estuary, South Carolina, U.S.A.), dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) was metabolized to dimethyl sulfide (DMS) and acrylate by sediment microbes. The rate of DMSP degradation and acrylate mineralization by sediment microbes was similar at all sites along this 25-km transect. However, sediments amended with acrylate (or DMSP) showed significantly higher rates of N fixation (measured as acetylene reduction activity) (ARA) in the saline sediments downstream than brackish sediments. These results are consistent with the fact that acrylate stimulated the rates of both denitrification and CO production in the saline sediments at the mouth of the river more than tenfold over rates in brackish sediments. Enrichment experiments indicate that microbes capable of using DMSP or acrylate were not present in upstream sediments despite the fact that microbial biomass, percent organic matter, and both glucose-stimulated ARA and denitrification were highest upstream. It appears that acrylate utilizing, N fixing, and denitrifying populations are insignificant in the lower salinity sediments of the estuary. These results may reflect the availability of DMSP, which averaged 10.3 nmol g wet wt of saline sediments and levels less than our detection limit (1 M) in brackish sediments. 
25153489|Microbial communities associated with Arctic fjord ice polluted with petroleum oils were investigated in this study. A winter field experiment was conducted in the Van Mijen Fjord (Svalbard) from February to June 2004, in which the ice was contaminated with a North Sea paraffinic oil. Holes were drilled in the ice and oil samples frozen into the ice at the start of the experiment. Samples, including cores of both oil-contaminated and clean ice, were collected from the field site 33, 74, and 112 days after oil application. The sampled cores were separated into three sections and processed for microbiological and chemical analyses. In the oil-contaminated cores, enumerations of total prokaryotic cells by fluorescence microscopy and colony-forming units (CFU) counts of heterotrophic prokaryotes both showed stimulation of microbial growth, while concentrations of oil-degrading prokaryotes remained at similar levels in contaminated and clean ice. Analysis of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified bacterial 16S rRNA gene fragments by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) revealed that bacterial communities in oil-contaminated ice generated fewer bands than communities in clean ice, although banding patterns changed both in contaminated and clean ice during the experimental period. Microbial communities in unpolluted ice and in cores contaminated with the paraffinic oil were examined by cloning and sequence analysis. In the contaminated cores, the communities became predominated by Gammaproteobacteria related to the genera Colwellia, Marinomonas, and Glaciecola, while clean ice included more heterogeneous populations. Chemical analysis of the oil-contaminated ice cores with determinations of n-C17/Pristane and naphthalane/phenanthrene ratios indicated slow oil biodegradation in the ice, primarily in the deeper parts of the ice with low hydrocarbon concentrations.
41489198|The phylogenetic and functional structure of the microbial community residing in a Ca -rich anoxic sediment of a sub-saline shallow lake (Laguna de Carrizo, initially operated as a gypsum (CaS0 x2 HO) mine) was estimated by analyzing the diversity of 16S rRNA amplicons and a 3.1 Mb of consensus metagenome sequence. The lake has about half the salinity of seawater and possesses an unusual relative concentration of ions, with Ca and SO "being dominant. The 16S rRNA sequences revealed a diverse community with about 22% of the bacterial rRNAs being less than 94.5% similar to any rRNA currently deposited in GenBank. In addition to this, about 79% of the archaeal rRNA genes were mostly related to uncultured Euryarchaeota of the CCA47 group, which are often associated with marine and oxygen-depleted sites. Sequence analysis of assembled genes revealed that 23% of the open reading frames of the metagenome library had no hits in the database. Among annotated genes, functions related to (thio) sulfate and (thio) sulfonate-reduction and iron-oxidation, sulfur-oxidation, denitrification, synthrophism, and phototrophic sulfur metabolism were found as predominant. Phylogenetic and biochemical analyses indicate that the inherent physical-chemical characteristics of this habitat coupled with adaptation to anthropogenic activities have resulted in a highly efficient community for the assimilation of polysulfides, sulfoxides, and organosulfonates together with nitro-, nitrile-, and cyanide-substituted compounds. We discuss that the relevant microbial composition and metabolic capacities at Laguna de Carrizo, likely developed as an adaptation to thrive in the presence of moderate salinity conditions and potential toxic bio-molecules, in contrast with the properties of previously known anoxic sediments of shallow lakes.
4287570|Summers on the Colorado Plateau (USA) are typified by harsh conditions such as high temperatures, brief soil hydration periods, and high UV and visible radiation. We investigated whether community composition, physiological status, and pigmentation might vary in biological soil crusts as a result of such conditions. Representative surface cores were sampled at the ENE, WSW, and top microaspects of 20 individual soil crust pedicels at a single site in Canyonlands National Park, Utah, in spring and fall of 1999. Frequency of cyanobacterial taxa, pigment concentrations, and dark adapted quantum yield (F
25153194| The acidic mining lakes of Eastern Germany are characterized by their extremely low pH and high iron concentrations. Low concentrations of CO in the epilimnion due to the low pH and reduced light transmission due to dissolved ferric iron potentially limit phytoplankton primary production (PP), whereas dissolved organic carbon (DOC) may promote heterotrophic production of bacteria (HP). We, therefore, tested whether HP exceeds PP in three lakes differing in pH and iron concentration (mean pH 2.3-3.0, 23-500 mg Fe L). Bacterial biomass and HP achieved highest values in the most acidic, most iron-rich lake, whereas PP was highest in the least acidic lake. HP was often higher than PP (ratio HP/PP up to 11), indicating that planktonic PP was not the main carbon source for the bacteria. HP was not related to PP and DOC, but HP as well as bacterial biomass increased with decreasing pH. Light stimulated the formation of ferrous iron, changed the DOC composition, and increased the HP in laboratory experiments, suggesting that iron photoreduction caused DOC degradation. This may explain why we found the highest HP in the most acidic and most rich lake. Overall, the importance of bacteria in the cycling of matter and as a basis for the whole food web seemed to increase in more acidic lakes with higher iron concentrations. 
41412400|Analysis of genetic diversity among indigenous rhizobia and its symbiotic effectiveness with soybean cultivar is important for development of knowledge about rhizobial ecology. In India, little is known about the genetic resources and diversity of rhizobia nodulating soybean. Indigenous bradyrhizobia isolated from root nodules of soybean plants, collected from traditional cultivating regions of two states (Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh) of India, were screened for bacteriophage sensitivity to identify successful broad host range symbiotic effectivity. Of 172 rhizobial isolates, 91 showed sensitivities to eight lytic phages and form ten groups on the basis of sensitivity patterns. The genetic diversity of 23 isolates belonging to different phage groups was assessed along with that of strains USDA123 and USDA94 by the restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of 16S rDNA, intergenic spacer (IGS) (16S-23S rDNA), and DnaK regions. RFLP analysis of 16S rDNA formed 5 groups, whereas 19 and 9 groups were revealed by IGS and the DnaK genes, respectively. The IGS regions showed many amplified polymorphic bands. Nine isolates which revealed high RFLP polymorphism in the abovementioned regions (16S rRNA, IGS, DnaK) were used for 16S rRNA sequence analyses. The results indicate that taxonomically, all isolates were related to Rhizobium etli, Bradyrhizobium spp., and Bradyrhizobium yuanmingense. The doubling time of isolates varied from 9 h (MPSR155) to 16.2 h (MPSR068) in YM broth. Five isolates which did not show cross infectivity with isolated phage strains were studied for symbiotic efficiency. All isolates showed broad host range symbiotic effectiveness forming effective nodules on Vigna mungo, Vigna radiata, Vigna unguiculata, and Cajanus cajan. The present study provides information on genetic diversity and host range symbiosis of indigenous soybean rhizobia typed by different phages.
4250425|After fixation and treatment with uranyl acetate solutions, the refractive index (
4287595|Competitive Polymerase Chain Reaction primers were designed for Streptococcus, B. fibrisolvens, P. bryantii, Eubacterium sp., Prevotella, and a universal primer for the eubacteria. DNA was extracted from rumen contents collected from eight dairy cows fed four diets: adequate nitrogen, adequate nitrogen plus carbohydrate, low nitrogen, and low nitrogen plus carbohydrate. B. fibrisolvens was significantly higher on the adequate nitrogen plus carbohydrate and the low nitrogen plus carbohydrate diets compared with the other diets, while P. bryantii was significantly higher on the low nitrogen plus carbohydrate diet compared with the adequate nitrogen diet. The population of Eubacterium sp. was significantly lower on both the adequate nitrogen plus carbohydrate and low nitrogen plus carbohydrate diets. Streptococcus populations were significantly lower on the low nitrogen plus carbohydrate diet compared with all three other diets, whereas there were no significant differences in populations of Prevotella or total eubacteria on any of the diets.
25153025| The community structure of methanogenic Archaea on anoxically incubated rice roots was investigated by amplification, sequencing, and phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA and methyl-coenzyme M reductase (mcrA) genes. Both genes demonstrated the presence of Methanomicrobiaceae, Methanobacteriaceae, Methanosarcinaceae, Methanosaetaceae, and Rice cluster I, an uncultured methanogenic lineage. The pathway of CH formation was determined from the C-isotopic signatures of the produced CH, CO and acetate. Conditions and duration of incubation clearly affected the methanogenic community structure and the pathway of CH formation. Methane was initially produced from reduction of CO exclusively, resulting in accumulation of millimolar concentrations of acetate. Simultaneously, the relative abundance of the acetoclastic methanogens (Methanosarcinaceae, Methanosaetaceae), as determined by T-RFLP analysis of 16S rRNA genes, was low during the initial phase of CH production. Later on, however, acetate was converted to CH so that about 40% of the produced CH originated from acetate. Most striking was the observed relative increase of a population of Methanosarcina spp. (but not of Methanosaeta spp.) briefly before acetate concentrations started to decrease. Both acetoclastic methanogenesis and Methanosarcina populations were suppressed by high phosphate concentrations, as observed under application of different buffer systems. Our results demonstrate the parallel change of microbial community structure and function in a complex environment, i.e., the increase of acetoclastic Methanosarcina spp. when high acetate concentrations become available. 
25153207|The community adaptation hypothesis [7] predicts that lichens, simple communities of microorganisms, can adapt to a wide range of thermal regimes by regulating the ratio of primary producers (algae) and consumers (fungi):
41692867|Vertical transmission is the primary route of the endosymbiont Wolbachia for its own spread among invertebrate hosts, but horizontal transmission between different hosts is believed to have occurred multiple times. However, it is not well known how Wolbachia commonly spread among closely related hosts. We focused on the closely related species of the minute pirate bugs belonging to the genus Orius, which are important biological control agents in agricultural crops because they are the most useful natural enemy of various tiny pests, such as thrips. Here, we examined five Orius species (Orius sauteri, Orius nagaii, Orius minutus, Orius strigicollis, and Orius tantillus) from eight geographic localities in Japan for Wolbachia infection. Two distinct strains, wOus1 and wOus2, were detected based on Wolbachia surface protein (wsp) gene sequencing. Furthermore, multilocus sequence typing revealed that each of the strains comprised two variants that differed in a single nucleotide. The overall distribution patterns of the two Wolbachia strains were found to differ among host species: prevalent double infection with wOus1 and wOus2 in O. strigicollis; fixation of single infection with wOus2 in O. nagaii; occurrence of single infection with wOus1 in O. sauteri; prevalence of single infection with wOus1 in O. minutus with an exception in a single population; and lack of Wolbachia infection in O. tantillus. Such differences in the distribution patterns of Wolbachia may reflect the evolutionary history of Wolbachia infection among Orius species and/or ecological and physiological differences among the Orius species that determine the invasiveness and maintenance of the two Wolbachia strains.
25153026|The phenotypic and genetic characteristics of 14 strains of the purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris were studied to assess diversity within this species. While all strains had certain phenotypic characteristics in common, including the ability to metabolize benzoate and degrade 2- and 3-chlorobenzoate, there were also significant differences among the strains such as the rate of growth in media containing benzoate as a carbon source. Genetic characterization of the strains revealed there were three divergent lineages in the species. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequences, the 14 strains could be grouped into three distinct clusters (A, B, and C), and this clustering was congruent with that based on gene sequences of form II ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO). Although BOX-PCR genomic DNA fingerprints of all 14 strains exhibited differences, analysis of the fingerprint images and UPGMA/product-moment analysis of similarities showed there were three groupings that were entirely consistent with clusters based on other characteristics of the strains. Thus, regardless of the method of analysis used, strains in groups A and B consistently clustered together and were separate from those of group C. These results suggest that strains in groups A-B and C represent phylogenetically related clones that have diverged from one another. This indicates that at least three lineages of Rhodopseudomonas palustris exist among the strains included in this study, and that each may be particularly well adapted to a distinct ecological niche.
23361595|Members of the bacterial genus Salmonella are recognized worldwide as major zoonotic pathogens often found to persist in non-enteric environments including heterogeneous aquatic biofilms. In this study, Salmonella isolates that had been detected repeatedly over time in aquatic biofilms at different sites in Spring Lake, San Marcos, Texas, were identified as serovars Give, Thompson, Newport and -:z10:z39. Pathogenicity results from feeding studies with the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans as host confirmed that these strains were pathogenic, with Salmonella-fed C. elegans dying faster (mean survival time between 3 and 4 days) than controls, i.e., Escherichia coli-fed C. elegans (mean survival time of 9.5 days). Cells of these isolates inoculated into water at a density of up to 10 6 ml -1 water declined numerically by 3 orders of magnitude within 2 days, reaching the detection limit of our quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR)-based quantification technique (i.e., 10 3 cells ml -1 ). Similar patterns were obtained for cells in heterogeneous aquatic biofilms developed on tiles and originally free of Salmonella that were kept in the inoculated water. Cell numbers increased during the first days to more than 10 7 cells cm -2 , and then declined over time. Ten-old higher cell numbers of Salmonella inoculated into water or into biofilm resulted in similar patterns of population dynamics, though cells in biofilms remained detectable with numbers around 10 4 cells cm -2 after 4 weeks. Independent of detectability by qPCR, samples of all treatments harbored viable salmonellae that resembled the inoculated isolates after 4 weeks of incubation. These results demonstrate that pathogenic salmonellae were isolated from heterogeneous aquatic biofilms and that they could persist and stay viable in such biofilms in high numbers for some time.
4287562|In order to investigate which biotic and abiotic factors may have an impact on the community composition of bacterioplankton, five mesotrophic lakes were studied. The composition of the bacterioplankton communities was determined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of 16S rDNA. Multivariate statistical analyses of the gel patterns, in relation to each other and to the chemical, biological, and physical parameters of the lakes, were performed. The analyses showed that the import of allochthonous bacteria and the interaction with other plankton organisms (for example, grazing) in the lakes probably had an impact on the composition of the communities.
40605708|Trophic interactions involving predators, herbivores, and plants have been described in terrestrial systems. However, there is almost no information on the effect of trophic interactions on microbial phyllosphere community abundance, diversity, or structure. In this study, the interaction between a parasitoid, an insect herbivore, and the fungal phyllosphere community is examined. Parasitoid wasps have an indirect negative impact on fungal community diversity. On the citrus phyllosphere, the exotic wasp species, Amitus hesperidum and Encarsa opulenta, may parasitize the citrus blackfly (Aleurocanthus woglumi). If parasitism levels are low, the blackfly may produce significant amounts of honeydew secretions on the surface of the leaf. Honeydew deposition provides a carbon-rich substrate for the development of fungal growth persisting as sooty mold on the leaves. Leaves from sooty mold-infested grapefruit (Citrus paradisi) trees were collected from multiple orchards in south Texas. The effect of different levels of exotic parasite activity, citrus blackfly, and sooty mold infestation on phyllosphere mycobiota community structure and diversity was examined. Our results suggest the presence of the parasitoid may lead to a top-down trophic cascade affecting phyllosphere fungal community diversity and structure. Additionally, persistent sooty mold deposits that have classically been referred to as Capnodium citri (and related asexual morphological forms) actually comprise a myriad of fungal species including many saprophytes and potential fruit and foliar pathogens of citrus.
25153100| Serpentine soils are characterized by high levels of heavy metals (Ni, Co, Cr), and low levels of important plant nutrients (P, Ca, N). Because of these inhospitable edaphic conditions, serpentine soils are typically home to a very specialized flora including endemic species as the nickel hyperaccumulator Alyssum bertolonii. Although much is known about the serpentine flora, few researches have investigated the bacterial communities of serpentine areas. In the present study bacterial communities were sampled at various distances from A. bertolonii roots in three different serpentine areas and their genetic diversity was assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis. The obtained results indicated the occurrence of a high genetic diversity and heterogeneity of the bacterial communities present in the different serpentine areas. Moreover, TRFs (terminal restriction fragments) common to all the investigated A. bertolonii rhizosphere samples were found. A new cloning strategy was applied to 27 TRFs that were sequenced and taxonomically interpreted as mainly belonging to Gram-positive and -Proteobacteria representatives. In particular, cloned TRFs which discriminated between rhizosphere and soil samples were mainly interpreted as belonging to Proteobacteria representatives. 
41489153|Cultivable diversity of bacteria associated with citrus was investigated as part of a larger study to understand the roles of beneficial bacteria and utilize them to increase the productive capacity and sustainability of agro-ecosystems. Citrus roots from Huanglongbing (HLB) diseased symptomatic and asymptomatic citrus were used in this study. A total of 227 and 125 morphologically distinct colonies were isolated and characterized from HLB asymptomatic and symptomatic trees, respectively. We observed that the frequency of bacterial isolates possessing various plant beneficial properties was significantly higher in the asymptomatic samples. A total of 39 bacterial isolates showing a minimum of five beneficial traits related to mineral nutrition [phosphate (P) solubilization, siderophore production, nitrogen (N) fixation], development [indole acetic acid (IAA) synthesis], health [production of antibiotic and lytic enzymes (chitinase)], induction of systemic resistance [salicylic acid (SA) production], stress relief [production of l-amino-cyclopropane-l-carboxylate deaminase] and production of quorum sensing [N-acyl homoserine lactones] signals were characterized. A bioassay using ethidium monoazide (EMA)-qPCR was developed to select bacteria antagonistic to Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus. Using the modified EMA-qPCR assay, we found six bacterial isolates showing maximum similarity to Paenibacillus validus, Lysinibacillus fusiformis, Bacillus licheniformis, Pseudomonas putida, Microbacterium oleivorans, and Serratia plymutica could significantly reduce the population of viable Ca. L. asiaticus in HLB symptomatic leaf samples. In conclusion, we have isolated and characterized multiple beneficial bacterial strains from citrus roots which have the potential to enhance plant growth and suppress diseases.
41489235|This study aims to provide an overview of the diversity of intestinal Lactobacillus among Chinese patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related decompensated cirrhosis and who received liver transplant for hepatitis B cirrhosis. Fecal samples were collected from 38 healthy volunteers, 61 patients with HBV-related decompensated cirrhosis (group LC) and 74 patients who had liver transplant for hepatitis B cirrhosis (group LT). Quantitative polymerase chain reaction technology with species-specific primers was applied to investigate lactobacilli 16S rDNA in crude DNA, extracted from fecal samples. Software package Statistical Package for the Social Sciences and Palaeontological Statistics for Windows was used to analyze the data. Lactobacilli population of the two patient groups was different from the healthy control subjects, principal differences being marked decrease in the population of Lactobacillus rhamnosus (p< 0.001 for both patient groups) and reduction in the frequency of Lactobacillus fermentus (p< 0.001 for group LC and p< 0.01 for group LT). Our findings on the frequency of lactobacilli population suggested decreased diversity in groups LC and LT (compared with the healthy controls (p< 0.001 and p< 0.01, respectively)). Patients tended to have less complex fecal lactobacilli composition than the healthy controls, especially in the group LC.
41412421|Ultraviolet (UV) radiation has detrimental effects on marine ecosystems, in particular in the polar regions where stratospheric ozone reduction causes higher levels of solar radiation. We analyzed two polar species of Euplotes, Euplotes focardii and Euplotes nobilii, for the sensitivity to UV radiation in comparison with two akin species from mid-latitude and tropical waters. Results showed that they face UV radiation much more efficiently than the non-polar species by adopting alternative strategies that most likely reflect different times of colonization of the polar waters. While E. focardii, which is endemic to the Antarctic, survives for longer exposed to UV radiation, E. nobilii, which inhabits both the Antarctic and Arctic, recovers faster from UV-induced damage.
4287557| Vibrio cholerae is the causative agent of the severe diarrheal disease cholera and is indigenous to brackish waters. To advance our understanding of the ecology of this bacterium, we have developed a molecular probing method for detection of V. cholerae in coastal waters. Water samples from 7 locations in the Newport Bay watershed, California were sampled monthly for a whole year. V. cholerae concentrations were determined by membrane filtration-colony hybridization using an oligonucleotide probe targeting the 16S-23S intergenic spacer (ITS) region. In addition to V. cholerae concentrations, environmental parameters, including temperature, salinity, total bacterial direct counts, total viable counts, and chlorophyll a concentrations, were determined for each site. V. cholerae was detected year-round throughout the watershed. Regression analysis indicated that the concentration of V. cholerae inversely correlated with salinity (p < 0.001). The sampling sites located nearest to the Pacific Ocean had lower concentrations, whereas sites located along the brackish San Diego Creek (salinity 0-12) routinely had higher concentrations. V. cholerae concentrations also correlated with temperature (p < 0.01) in the watershed, with concentrations ranging from less than 1 CFU mL
4251065| Computer-enhanced microscopy (CEM) was used to monitor bacteria colonizing the inner surfaces of a 1  3 mm glass flow cell. Image analysis provided a rapid and reliable means of measuring microcolony count, microcolony area, and cell motility. The kinetics of motile and nonmotile Pseudomonas fluorescens surface colonization were compared at flow velocities above (120 m sec
25153428| Cellulose is the most abundant polymer in nature and constitutes a large pool of carbon for microorganisms, the main agents responsible for soil organic matter decomposition. Cellulolysis occurs as the result of the combined action of fungi and bacteria with different requirements. Earthworms influence decomposition indirectly by affecting microbial population structure and dynamics and also directly because the guts of some species possess cellulolytic activity. Here we assess whether the earthworm Eisenia fetida (Savigny 1826) digests cellulose directly (i.e., with its associated gut microbiota) and also whether the effects of E. fetida on microbial biomass and activity lead to a change in the equilibrium between fungi and bacteria. By enhancing fungal communities, E. fetida would presumably trigger more efficient cellulose decomposition. To evaluate the role of E. fetida in cellulose decomposition, we carried out an experiment in which pig slurry, a microbial-rich substrate, was treated in small-scale vermireactors with and without earthworms. The presence of earthworms in vermireactors significantly increased the rate of cellulose decomposition (0.43 and 0.26% cellulose loss day, with and without earthworms, respectively). However, the direct contribution of E. fetida to degradation of cellulose was not significant, although its presence increased microbial biomass
41489146|Cyanobacteria may be important components of wastewater treatment plants' (WWTP) biological treatment, reaching levels of 100% of the total phytoplankton density in some systems. The occurrence of cyanobacteria and their associated toxins in these systems present a risk to the aquatic environments and to public health, changing drastically the ecology of microbial communities and associated organisms. Many studies reveal that cyanotoxins, namely microcystins may not act as antibacterial compounds but they might have negative impacts on protozoans, inhibiting their growing and respiration rates and leading to changes in cellular morphology, decreasing consequently the treatment efficacy in WWTP. On the other side, flagellates and ciliates may ingest some cyanobacteria species while the formation of colonies by these prokaryotes may be seen as a defense mechanism against predation. Problems regarding the occurrence of cyanobacteria in WWTP are not limited to toxin production. Other cyanobacterial secondary metabolites may act as antibacterial compounds leading to the disruption of bacterial communities that biologically convert organic materials in WWTP being fundamental to the efficacy of the process. Studies reveal that the potential antibacterial capacity differs according to cyanobacteria specie and it seems to be more effective in Gram (+) bacteria. Thus, to understand the effects of cyanobacterial communities in the efficiency of the waste water treatment it will be necessary to unravel the complex interactions between cyanobacterial populations, bacteria, and protozoa in WWTP in situ studies.
40343506|The effect of freeze-thaw (FT) cycles on Arctic tundra soil bacterial community was studied in laboratory microcosms. FT-induced changes to the bacterial community were followed over a 60-day period by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) profiles of amplified 16S rRNA genes and reverse transcribed 16S rRNA. The main phylotypes of the active, RNA-derived bacterial community were identified using clone analysis. Non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination of the T-RFLP profiles indicated some shifts in the bacterial communities after three to five FT cycles at -2, -5, and -10C as analyzed both from the DNA and rRNA. The dominating T-RFLP peaks remained the same, however, and only slight variation was generally detected in the relative abundance of the main T-RF sizes of either DNA or rRNA. T-RFLP analysis coupled to clone analysis of reverse transcribed 16S rRNA indicated that the initial soil was dominated by members of Bacteroidetes, Acidobacteria, Alpha-, Beta-, and Gammaproteobacteria. The most notable change in the rRNA-derived bacterial community was a decrease in the relative abundance of a Betaproteobacteria-related phylotype after the FT cycles. This phylotype decreased, however, also in the control soil incubated at constant +5C suggesting that the decrease was not directly related to FT sensitivity. The results indicate that FT caused only minor changes in the bacterial community structure.
40605881|Mangrove sediment is well known for its susceptibility to anthropogenic pollution, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), but knowledge of the sediment microbial community structure with regards to exposure to PAHs is limited. The study aims to assess the effects of PAHs on the bacterial community of mangrove sediment using both 16s rDNA polymerase chain reactiondenaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) and traditional enrichment methods. Both the exposure time and the PAH concentration reduced the microbial diversity, as determined by the DGGE bands. Although PAHs could act as carbon sources for microorganisms, PAHs, at a concentration as low as 20 mg 11 , posed a toxic effect to the microbial community. Sequencing of DGGE bands showed that marine bacteria from the genera of Vibrio, Roseobacter, and Ferrimonas were most abundant after PAH exposure, which suggests that both marine and terrestrial bacteria coexisted in the mangrove sediment, but that the marine microbes were more difficult to isolate using the traditional culture method. DGGE determination further demonstrated that the consistency among triplicates of the enriched consortia was significantly less than that of the sediment slurries. The present study reveals that the mangrove sediment microbial structure is susceptible to PAH contamination, and complex microbial community interactions occur in mangrove sediment.
4251368|We know very little about species distributions in prokaryotic marine plankton. Such information is very interesting in its own right, and ignorance of it is also beginning to hamper process studies, such as those on viral infection. New DNA- and RNA-based approaches avoid many prior limitations. Here we discuss four such applications: (1) cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA genes to produce lists of what types of organisms are present; (2) quantification of these individual types in marine samples by nucleic acid hybridization, including single cell fluorescence; (3) quantitative comparison by DNA-DNA hybridization of entire microbial communities in terms of shared common types, without knowledge of community components; and (4) finding cultures that are representative of native communities. Several previously uncharacterized types of bacteria and archaea (probably including novel phyla) are present in marine plankton. Evidence from both the Atlantic and Pacific suggests that as-of-yet uncultivated archaea may dominate the deep sea, and thus may be the most abundant group of organisms on Earth. Such archaea are in surface waters as well, and can be visualized with fluorescent probes and enriched at room temperature with addition of organic nutrients. Community hybridization shows that variability of microbial community compositions in time and space is high. Although most native bacteria do not grow in culture, some proteobacterial cultures appear by genomic hybridization to be representative of certain communities. These and other results indicate the utility of DNA- and RNA-based methods.
25153088| The hitherto largely not described phylogenetic neighborhood of Bacillus niacini has been explored by a comprehensive cultivation experiment and genomic variety studies. Previous culture-independent studies demonstrated that 15% of all Bacillus 16S rDNA directly extracted from soils worldwide was affiliated to B. niacini. Seven different media were inoculated with soil suspensions in serial dilutions and incubated at different temperatures. Then, bacterial colonies were picked and analyzed by sequencing. A mineral medium with acetate as carbon source yielded a B. niacini rate of &gt;3% of all picked colonies. Other media were less efficient but also successful. Applying this culturing approach, we succeeded in obtaining 64 isolates from different Dutch soils. The isolates turned out to be diverse, although closely related to B. niacini as revealed by 16S rDNA sequencing. Close matches with environmental clones were also found, thus demonstrating much more diversity beyond previously known 16S rDNA sequences. The rep-PCR fingerprinting method revealed a high genomic variety, redundancy could not be observed among our isolates. Hence, the hitherto neglected B. niacini lineage, apparently among the most abundant soil Bacillus, was accessible to our cultivation approach. 
4251354|Adaptation of amoebae to four cooling tower biocides, which included a thiocarbamate compound, tributyltin neodecanoate mixed with quaternary ammonium compounds (TBT/QAC), another QAC alone, and an isothiazolin derivative, was studied. Previously we found that amoebae isolated from waters of cooling towers were more resistant to cooling tower biocides than amoebae from other habitats. Acanthamoeba hatchetti and Cochliopodium bilimbosum, obtained from American Type Culture Collection and used in the previous studies, were tested to determine whether they could adapt to cooling tower biocides. A. hatchetti was preexposed to subinhibitory concentrations of the four biocides for 72h, after which they were tested for their resistance to the same and other biocides. C. bilimbosum was exposed to only two biocides, as exposure to the other two was lethal after 72 h. Preexposure to the subinhibitory concentrations of the biocides increased the resistance of the amoebae, as indicated by a significant increase in the minimum inhibitory concentration (up to 30-fold). In addition, cross-resistance was also observed, i.e., exposure to one biocide caused resistance to other biocides. These results show that amoebae can adapt to biocides in a short time. The phenomenon of cross-resistance indicates that regularly alternating biocides, as is done to control microbial growth in cooling towers, may not be effective in keeping amoeba populations in check. On the contrary, exposure to one biocide may boost the amoebae's resistance to a second biocide before the second biocide is used in the cooling tower. Since amoebae may harbor Legionella, or alone cause human diseases, these results may be important in designing effective strategies for controlling pathogens in cooling towers.
4250658|The effects of brief exposure to, or growth in the presence of, lethal and sublethal concentrations of
25153343| The psychrotolerant strain Pseudoalteromonas antarctica NF, a Gram-negative bacterium isolated from muddy soil samples of Antarctica, secretes large amounts of a mucoid exopolymer with a high protein content. It has self-assembly properties and capacity to coat and protect liposomes against surfactants. We examined the ultrastructure of P. antarctica and the extracellular matter it secretes by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) after high-pressure freezing, freeze substitution (HPF-FS), and Epon embedding, and compared this with information obtained by conventional methods. The improvements brought about by HPF-FS to the ultrastructural preservation of the extracellular matter allowed us to establish for the first time, in P. antarctica NF, the presence of two components: a large amount of cell-derived outer membrane vesicles containing proteins and a capsular polymer around the cells. 
4250456|Flavobacterium lutescens has been observed to constitute a major segment of the aerobic, heterotrophic bacterial populations in nonpolluted aquatic systems. It is present in lesser numbers in the presence of municipal sewage and higher concentrations of organic wastes. In laboratory tests, in water from nonpolluted systems, this species became the predominant bacterial type following thermal addition. When temperature was increased in water from polluted sources, F. lutescens became a major component of the bacterial populations. In the laboratory, the numbers of Escherichia coli and Streptococcus faecalis were observed to decrease in proportion to the increase in F. lutescens after thermal addition. Similar results were observed when water from three aquatic systems of differing nutrient content was tested. A greater amount of organic material present in the water reduced the predominance of F. lutescens. These results indicate that, without use of chemical additives, this method may be useful for restoration of natural aquatic bacterial populations and reduction of undesirable microbial populations in water supplies.
4251574| The fluctuations of the total microbial abundance, the culturable heterotrophic bacterial population, and the composition of heterotrophic bacteria were investigated in relation to environmental parameters in a shallow, marine hydrothermal vent off the Island of Vulcano (Eolian Islands, Italy). Standing stock dynamics were studied by measuring the total population of picoplankton by direct count and the population of viable heterotrophic bacteria in water and sediment samples collected monthly. The environmental factors most strongly linked to the total microbial abundance and heterotrophic bacterial populations were pH and H
23468241|Methanogen populations of an intertidal mudflat in the Yangtze River estuary of China were investigated based on the methyl coenzyme M reductase A (mcrA) gene using 454-pyrosequencing and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Samples were collected at six depths from three locations. In the qPCR analyses, a mean depth-wise change of mcrA gene abundance was observed from (1.230.13)10 7 to (1.160.29)10 8 per g dried soil, which was inversely correlated with the depletion of sulfate (R 2 =0.74; =0.05) and salinity (R 2 =0.66; =0.05). The copy numbers of mcrA was at least 1 order of magnitude higher than dissimilatory sulfate reductase B (dsrB) genes, likely indicating the importance of methanogenesis at the mudflat. Sequences related to the orders Methanomicrobiales, Methanosarcinales, Methanobacteriales, Methanococcales and the uncultured methanogens; Rice Cluster I (RC-I), Zoige cluster I (ZC-I) and anaerobic methane oxidizing archaeal lineage-1 (ANME-1) were detected. Methanomicrobiales and Methanosarcinales dominated the entire sediment layers, but detectable changes of proportions were observed with depth. The hydrogenotrophic methanogens Methanomicrobiales slightly increased with depth while Methanosarcinales showed the reverse. Chao1 and ACE richness estimators revealed higher diversity of methanogens near the surface (010 cm) when compared with the bottom sediments. The near-surface sediments were mainly dominated by the family Methanosarcinaceae (45 %), which has members that can utilize substrates that cannot be used by sulfate-reducing bacteria. Overall, current data indicate that Methanosarcinales and Methanomicrobiales are the most dominant methanogens within the entire depth profile down to 100 cm, with higher abundance and diversity of methanogens in the deeper and upper sediment layers, respectively.
25153181| N fixation, diazotrophic community composition, and organisms actively expressing genes for N fixation were examined over at 3-year period (1997-1999) for intertidal microbial mats on a sand flat located in the Rachel Carson National Estuarine Research Reserve (RCNERR) (Beaufort, NC, USA). Specifically, diel variations of N fixation in the mats from the RCNERR were examined. Three distinct diel patterns of nitrogenase activity (NA) were observed. NA responses to short-term inhibitions of photosynthesis corresponded to one of the three patterns. High rates of NA were observed during peak O production periods for diel experiments during summer months. Different types of NA diel variations correspond to different stages of mat development. Chloramphenicol treatments indicated that the mechanism of protein synthesis supporting NA changed throughout the day. Analysis of mat DNA and RNA gave further evidence suggesting that in addition to cyanobacteria, other functional groups were responsible for the NA observed in the RCNERR mats. The role of microbial diversity in the N fixation dynamics of these mats is discussed. 
41489777|Patchy desert shrubs magnify the horizontal heterogeneities of carbon source and nutrient availability in an arid ecosystem, significantly affecting the abundance and activity of the soil microbial community. Since each shrub species develops special ecophysiological adaptations to the extreme harsh desert environments, previous studies elucidated that the effects of perennial shrubs on microbial diversity are unequal. The aim of the present study, conducted in the Negev Desert, Israel, was to illustrate the vertical changes of soil microbial community functionality in the root zone of perennial shrubs. Soil samples were collected from the 0-50 cm depth at 10-cm intervals under the canopy of Zygophyllum dumosum, Hammada scoparia, and from the open spaces between them, in the wet and dry seasons. Soil moisture and organic matter exhibited a significant (P<0.001) plant and depth dependence. The mean basal respiration rates and microbial biomass in soils collected beneath perennial shrubs were relatively higher than the control during the wet season, however, a contrasting trend was observed at some soil depths during the dry season. Relatively high abundance and activity of aromatic and carboxylic acid utilizers were observed in the vicinity of perennial shrubs, and the values recorded during the dry season were generally higher than the corresponding values during the wet season. In addition, a "mirror effect" in vertical changes of the community-level physiological profile was observed between Z. dumosum and H. scopana. This study demonstrated the stratification of the functional aspects in soils under the canopy of perennial shrubs, thus indicating that the scattered distribution of vegetation not only causes horizontal heterogeneities of the microbial community in an arid system, but also that the ecophysiological adaptations developed by xerophytes regulate the abundance and saprotrophic functionality of microorganisms in the root zone.
40343459|In temperate regions, biological soil crusts (BSCs: complex communities of cyanobacteria, eukaryotic algae, bryophytes, and lichens) are not well investigated regarding community structure and diversity. Furthermore, studies on succession are rare. For that reason, the community assembly of crusts representing two successional stages (initial, 5 years old; and stable, >20 years old) were analyzed in an inland sand ecosystem in Germany in a plot-based approach (218 plots, each 2020 cm). Two different methods were used to record the cyanobacteria and eukaryotic algae in these communities comprehensively: determination directly out of the soil and enrichment culture techniques. Additionally, lichens, bryophytes, and phanerogams were determined. We examine four hypotheses: (1) A combination of direct determination and enrichment culture technique is necessary to detect cyanobacteria and eukaryotic algae comprehensively. In total, 45 species of cyanobacteria and eukaryotic algae were detected in the study area with both techniques, including 26 eukaryotic algae and 19 cyanobacteria species. With both determination techniques, 22 identical taxa were detected (11 eukaryotic algae and 11 cyanobacteria). Thirteen taxa were only found by direct determination, and ten taxa were only found in enrichment cultures. Hence, the hypothesis is supported. Additionally, five lichen species (three genera), five bryophyte species (five genera), and 24 vascular plant species occurred. (2) There is a clear difference between the floristic structure of initial and stable crusts. The different successional stages are clearly separated by detrended correspondence analysis, showing a distinct structure of the community assembly in each stage. In the initial crusts, Klebsormidium flaccidum, Klebsormidium cf. klebsii, and Stichococcus bacillaris were important indicator species, whereas the stable crusts are especially characterized by Tortella inclinata. (3) The biodiversity of BSC taxa and vascular plant species increases from initial to stable BSCs. There are significantly higher genera and species numbers of cyanobacteria and eukaryotic algae in initial BSCs. Stable BSCs are characterized by significantly higher species numbers of bryophytes and vascular plant species. The results show that, in the investigated temperate region, the oftenassumed increase of biodiversity in the course of succession is clearly taxa-dependent. Both successional stages of BSCs are diversity "hot spots" with about 29 species of all taxa per 20  20 cm plot. (4) Nitrogen and chlorophyll a concentrations increase in the course of succession. The chlorophyll a content of the crusts (cyanobacteria, eukaryotic algae, bryophyte protonemata) is highly variable across the studied samples, with no significant differences between initial and stable BSCs; nor were ecologically significant differences in soil nutrient contents observed. According to our results, we cannot confirm this hypothesis; the age difference between our two stages is probably not big enough to show such an increase.
4251217|Recently attempts have been made to establish the presence and to determine the metabolic versatility of microorganisms in the terrestrial deep subsurface at the Savannah River Plant, Aiken, SC, USA. Sediment samples obtained at 20 different depths of up to 526 m were examined to determine carbon mineralization under aerobic, sulfate-reducing, and methanogenic conditions. The evolution of
4250597|A total of 308 bacteria were isolated from oil-storage tanks. Of these 20% were unidentifiable, even at the generic level. A numerical scoring method differentiated between the isolates and was used to estimate the diversity of the bacterial communities in the tanks over a period of 11 months. Although the scoring method suggested a higher diversity than did conventional identification, there was some consistency in the results produced by the two approaches. It is suggested that a scoring method based on only nine tests could be useful for estimating and comparing bacterial diversity in other habitats.
40926487|The effect of long-term fertilization on soildenitrifying communities was determined by measuring the abundance and diversity of the nitrite reductase genes nirK and nirS. Soil samples were collected from plots of a long-term fertilization experiment started in 1990, located in Taoyuan (11072" E, 2852" N), China. The treatments were no fertilizer (NF), urea (UR), balanced mineral fertilizers (BM), and BM combined with rice straw (BMR). The abundance, diversity, and composition of the soil-denitrifying bacteria were determined by using realtime quantitative PCR, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP), and cloning and sequencing of nirK and nirS genes. There was a pronounced difference in the community composition and diversity of nirK-containing denitrifiers responding to the long-term fertilization regimes; however, less variation was observed in communities of nirS-containing denitrifiers, indicating that denitrifiers possessing nirK were more sensitive to the fertilization practices than those with nirS. In contrast, fertilization regimes had similar effects on the copy numbers of nirK and nirS genes. The BMR treatment had the highest copy numbers of nirK and nirS, followed by the two mineral fertilization regimes (UR and BM), and the lowest was in the NF treatment. Of the measured soil parameters, the differences in the community composition of nirK and the abundance of nir denitrifiers were highly correlated with the soil carbon content. Therefore, longterm fertilization resulted in a strong impact on the community structure of nirK populations only, and total organic carbon was the dominant factor in relation to the variations of nir community sizes.
4250960| The role of compost microflora in the suppression of salmonella regrowth in composted sewage sludge was investigated. Microbial inhibition studies of salmonella growth were conducted on nutrient agar, in composts that had been subjected to different temperatures in compost piles, and in radiation sterilized composts inoculated with selected fractions of the compost microflora. Agar assays of inhibition indicated that bacteria and actinomycetes were not suppressive to salmonellae, but a few fungi were. However, compost inoculation assays showed consistently that fungi were not suppressive, but bacteria and actinomycetes were. In compost inoculation assays, microbial antagonists, when present, either killed salmonellae or reduced their growth rate. No suppression of salmonellae occurred in compost taken from 70C compost-pile zones despite the presence and growth of many types of microbes. With greater numbers and kinds of microbes in 55C compost, salmonella growth was suppressed 100-10,000-fold. Salmonellae died when inoculated into compost from unheated zones (25-40C) of piles. Prior colonization of compost with only noncoliform gram-negative bacteria suppressed salmonellae growth 3,000-fold. Coliforms when inoculated prior to salmonellae accounted for 75% of salmonella die-off. Mesophilic curing to allow colonization of curing piles in their entirety by gram-negative bacteria, especially coliforms, should be an effective way to prevent repopulation by salmonellae. 
41412429|Recent and substantial yield losses of Styrian oil pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo L. subsp. pepo var. styriaca Greb.) are primarily caused by the ascomycetous fungus Didymella bryoniae but bacterial pathogens are frequently involved as well. The diversity of endophytic microbial communities from seeds (spermosphere), roots (endorhiza), flowers (anthosphere), and fruits (carposphere) of three different pumpkin cultivars was studied to develop a biocontrol strategy. A multiphasic approach combining molecular, microscopic, and cultivation techniques was applied to select a consortium of endophytes for biocontrol. Specific community structures for Pseudomonas and Bacillus, two important plant-associated genera, were found for each microenvironment by fingerprinting of 16S ribosomal RNA genes. All microenvironments were dominated by bacteria; fungi were less abundant. Of the 2,320 microbial isolates analyzed in dual culture assays, 165 (7%) were tested positively for in vitro antagonism against D. bryoniae. Out of these, 43 isolates inhibited the growth of bacterial pumpkin pathogens (Pectobacterium carotovorum, Pseudomonas viridiflava, Xanthomonas cucurbitae); here only bacteria were selected. Microenvironment-specific antagonists were found, and the spermosphere and anthosphere were revealed as underexplored reservoirs for antagonists. In the latter, a potential role of pollen grains as bacterial vectors between flowers was recognized. Six broad spectrum antagonists selected according to their activity, genotypic diversity, and occurrence were evaluated under greenhouse conditions. Disease severity on pumpkins of D. bryoniae was significantly reduced by Pseudomonas chlororaphis treatment and by a combined treatment of strains (Lysobacter gummosus,  chlororaphis, Paenibacillus polymyxa, and Serratia plymuthica). This result provides a promising prospect to biologically control pumpkin diseases.
25256174|Lasiurus sindicus is a highly nutritive, drought-tolerant, perennial grass that is endemic to the Thar Desert of Rajasthan, India. Analysis of 16S rRNA coding genes of the bacterial isolates enriched in nitrogen-free semisolid medium, from the surface-sterilized roots of L. sindicus, showed predominance of Gram-negative over Gram-positive bacteria. According to comparative sequence analysis of 16S rDNA sequence data, Gram-positive bacteria with low GC content (Staphylococcus warneri and Bacillus sp.) and high GC content (Micrococcus luteus, Microbacterium sp.) were identified. Gram-negative bacteria included Azospirillum sp., Rhizobium sp., Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and Inquilinus limosus (-proteobacteria); Ralstonia sp., Variovorax paradoxus, and Bordetella petrii (-proteobacteria); and Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes, Stenotrophomonas sp. (-proteobacteria). The occurrence of nifH sequences in Azospirillum sp., Rhizobium sp., and P. pseudoalcaligenes showed the possibility of supplying biologically fixed nitrogen by the root-associated diazotrophs to the host plant.
4250772|Mating experiments between pairs of strains of Escherichia coli containing either the compatible plasmids TP120 (Inc N) and R1 (Inc FII) or the incompatible plasmids TP125 (Inc B) and TP113 (Inc B) were undertaken in mixed continuous-flow cultures and in dialysis sacs suspended in pond water. Plasmid transfer was readily demonstrated between strains carrying compatible plasmids TP120 and R1 in both continuous-flow culture and pond water. In mixed cultures of strains carrying plasmids TP125 and TP113, transfer was only observed in continuous-flow culture systems. Strains of E. coli containing aggregates of plasmids TP120 and R1 were shown to be stable over 5 months continuous cultivation under carbon-limited conditions at a growth rate of 0.1
4251113|Filamentous microorganisms were observed colonizing the cuticle of cyathostomes (Nematoda: Strongylidae) collected from the large intestine of Burchell's zebra (Equus burchelli antiquorum). Scanning (SEM) and transmission (TEM) electron microscopy revealed three filamentous microorganisms, designated as segmented, continuous multicellular, and helical. The segmented and continuous multicellular morphotypes each revealed a process of segmentation in their developmental stages, and those of the segmented filaments are demonstrated in this report. In contrast, the helical types of filaments appeared to be complexes of spiraling rod-shaped organisms. In addition to these filaments, the cyathostome cuticle was also colonized by other smaller microorganisms.
41489026|The commensal microbiota plays an important role in the well-being of the host organism, and it would be worthwhile to know the tenacious communities among them. Therefore, a study was undertaken to examine the changes in constitution of the intestinal microbiota of wild fish consequential to captivity. At first, the composition of intestinal microorganisms of Atlantic cod caught from the coastal area off Bodo, Norway, was examined. Thereafter, the changes in the bacterial community of the captive fish after offering them artificial feed or subjecting them to starvation were studied. The microbiota from the intestinal contents and wall segments were analyzed quantitatively by spread plate technique and DAPI staining and qualitatively by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. The study revealed that the counts of intestinal microbes in wildcaught Atlantic cod were not affected by captive rearing for 6 weeks, either when fed or when starved. However, the diversity of intestinal bacterial community was reduced in response to artificial feeding, whereas the change was restricted upon starvation.
41693736|Bioaerosols in cave air can serve as natural tracers and, together with physical parameters, give a detailed view of conditions in the cave atmosphere and responses to climatic changes. Airborne microbes in the Postojna Cave system indicated very dynamic atmospheric conditions, especially in the transitory seasonal periods between winter and summer. Physical parameters of cave atmosphere explained the highest variance in structure of microbial community in the winter and in the summer. The airborne microbial community is composed of different microbial groups with generally low abundances. At sites with elevated organic input, occasional high concentrations of bacteria and fungi can be expected of up to 1,000 colony-forming units/m per individual group. The most abundant group of airborne amoebozoans were the mycetozoans. Along with movements of air masses, airborne algae also travel deep underground. In a cave passage with elevated radon concentration (up to 60 kBq/m) airborne biota were less abundant; however, the concentration of DNA in the air was comparable to that in other parts of the cave. Due to seasonal natural air inflow, high concentrations of biological and inanimate particles are introduced underground. Sedimentation of airborne allochthonous material might represent an important and continuous source of organic material for cave fauna.
25153365|Soils contain the greatest reservoir of biodiversity on Earth, and the functionality of the soil ecosystem sustains the rest of the terrestrial biosphere. This functionality results from complex interactions between biological and physical processes that are strongly modulated by the soil physical structure. Using a novel combination of biochemical and biophysical indicators and synchrotron microtomography, we have discovered that soil microbes and plant roots microengineer their habitats by changing the porosity and clustering properties (i.e., spatial correlation) of the soil pores. Our results indicate that biota act to significantly alter their habitat toward a more porous, ordered, and aggregated structure that has important consequences for functional properties, including transport processes. These observations support the hypothesis that the soil-plant-microbe complex is self-organized.
4250730|The genus Spiroplasma (helical wall-less prokaryotes) is a recently described group of microorganisms that cause disease in plants, arthropods, and experimentally, in vertebrates. Two spiroplasmas from beetles have now been discovered in a search for microorganisms suitable for biological control of economically important coleopterous insects. Colorado potato beetles (CPB) infected with spiroplasma were commonly found on potato and other solanaceous plants in Maryland. Although this spiroplasma occurred in high concentration in gut fluids and sputum, it could not be cultivated in conventional spiroplasma media. However, another spiroplasma (CN-5 and related strains) reported here to occur commonly in association with larvae and adults of the green June beetle, Cotinus nitida, could be cultivated readily in the SM-1 formulation and several other conventional spiroplasma media. The CN-5 spiroplasma was serologically distinct from representative members of all 8 major groups now recognized. Thus, it represents a ninth major spiroplasma serogroup (IX), and can be considered to be an unnamed species. The CPB spiroplasma is apparently maintained in plant surface-insect gut cycles, but details of maintenance of the CN-5 spiroplasma are incompletely understood. Isolation of CN-5 spiroplasma from soil in which host larvae had fed suggests that transmission of this agent may occur in the soil. Both CN-5 and CPB spiroplasmas exhibited unusually active translational motility in natural fluids, and CN-5 organisms exhibited such motility in culture media. Although we have no evidence that either spiroplasma is pathogenic to its usual host, the pathogenicity of spiroplasmas to many hosts, including the beetle, Melolontha melolontha, suggests possible application for biological control.
25153002| The effects of toluene on indigenous microbial populations in-volved in the soil nitrogen cycle were examined. Ammonia oxidation potential (AOP) and nitrite oxidation potential (NOP) were both reduced after incubation with high toluene concentrations for 45 days, with the former activity showing greater sensitivity. KCl-extractable ammonium
4251538| Concentrations of phytoplankton (cyanobacteria, autotrophic flagellates, and microphytoplankton) and planktonic microorganisms (bacteria, heterotrophic flagellates, and ciliates) were measured in the water over a fringing coral reef at Miyako Island (Japan). Their in situ growth and production rates, as well as their grazing rates, were estimated using diffusion chambers. Bacteria dominated the heterotrophic biomass (37-73% of total C), whereas nanoflagellates dominated the autotrophic biomass (65-75% of total autotropic C). Growth and production rates showed that these microbial populations over the reef were in a very dynamic state: growth rates ranged between 2 and 4 doublings day
40605772|To clarify the relationship between Bartonella grahamii strains and both the rodent host species and the geographic location of the rodent habitat, we have investigated 31 B. grahamii strains from ten rodent host species from Asia (Japan and China), North America (Canada and the USA), and Europe (Russia and the UK). On the basis of multi-locus sequencing analysis of 16S rRNA, ftsZ, glt A, groEL, ribC, and rpoB, the strains were classified into two large groups, an Asian group and an American/European group. In addition, the strains examined were clearly clustered according to the geographic locations where the rodents had been captured. In the phylogenetic analysis based on git A, the Japanese strains were divided into two subgroups: one close to strains from China, and the other related to strains from Far Eastern Russia. Thus, these observations suggest that the B. grahamii strains distributed in Japanese rodents originated from two different geographic regions. In the American/European group, B. grahamii from the North American continent showed an ancestral lineage and strict host specificity; by contrast, European strains showed low host specificity. The phylogenetic analysis and host specificity of B. grahamii raise the possibility that B. grahamii strains originating in the North American continent were distributed to European countries by adapting to various rodent hosts.
40343438|Vibrio vulnificus is a serious opportunistic human pathogen commonly found in subtropical coastal waters, and is the leading cause of seafood-borne mortality in the USA. This taxon does not sustain prolonged presence in clinical or agricultural settings, where it would undergo human-induced selection for antibiotic resistance. Therefore, few studies have verified the effectiveness of commonly prescribed antibiotics in V. vulnificus treatment. Here we screened 151 coastal isolates and 10 primary septicaemia isolates against 26 antimicrobial agents representing diverse modes of action. The frequency of multiple resistances to antibiotics from all sources was unexpectedly high, particularly during summer months, and a substantial proportion of isolates (17.3%) were resistant to eight or more antimicrobial agents. Numerous isolates demonstrated resistance to antibiotics routinely prescribed for V. vulnificus infections, such as doxycycline, tetracycline, aminoglycosides and cephalosporins. These resistances were detected at similar frequencies in virulent and non-virulent strains (PCR-based virulence typing) and were present in septicaemia isolates, underlying the public health implications of our findings. Among environmental isolates, there were no consistent differences in the frequency of resistance between pristine and anthropogenically impacted estuaries, suggesting natural rather than human-derived sources of resistance traits. This report is the first to demonstrate prevalent antibiotic resistance in a human pathogen with no clinical reservoirs, implying the importance of environmental studies in understanding the spread, evolution and public health relevance of antibiotic resistance factors.
40926433|Liming is used to counteract forest decline induced by soil acidification. It consists of Ca and Mg input to forest soil and not only restores tree mineral nutrition but also modifies the availability of nutrients in soil. Ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi are involved in mineral nutrient uptake by trees and can recover them through dissolution of mineral surface. Oxalate and siderophore secretion are considered as the main agents of mineral weathering by ECMs. Here, we studied the effects of liming on the potential oxalate secretion and iron complexation by individual beech ECM root tips. Results show that freshly excised Lactarius subdulcis root tips from limed plots presented a high potential oxalate exudation of 177 m tiph . As this ECM species distribution is very dense, it is likely that, in the field, oxalate concentrations in the vicinity of its clusters could be very high. This points out that not only extraradical mycelium but also ECM root tips of certain species can contribute significantly to mineral weathering. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) separated potential oxalate production by ECM root tips in limed and untreated plots, and this activity was mainly driven by L. subdulcis ECMs, but NMDS on potential activity of iron mobilization by ECM root tips did not show a difference between limed and untreated plots. As the mean oxalate secretion did not significantly correlated with the mean iron mobilization by ECM morphotype, we conclude that iron complexation was due to either other organic acids or to siderophores.
4251531| The dissimilatory nitrate-reducing processes, denitrification, and dissimilatory nitrate-reduction to ammonium were studied in freshwater lake sediments within healthy and degrading Phragmites australis (reed) stands. The samples from the healthy vegetation site contained roots and rhizomes. Cores were supplied with 1.9-5.2 g
23469164|Whether or not treatment with antibiotics or probiotics for bacterial vaginosis (BV) is associated with a change in the diversity of vaginal microbiota in women was investigated. One hundred fifteen women, consisting of 30 healthy subjects, 30 BV-positive control subjects, 30 subjects with BV treated with a 7-day metronidazole regimen, and 25 subjects with BV treated with a 10-day probiotics regimen, were analyzed to determine the efficacy and disparity of diversity and richness of vaginal microbiota using 454 pyrosequencing. Follow-up visits at days 5 and 30 showed a greater BV cure rate in the probiotics-treated subjects (88.0 and 96 %, respectively) compared to the metronidazole-treated subjects (83.3 and 70 %, respectively [p=0.625 at day 5 and p=0.013 at day 30]). Treatment with metronidazole reduced the taxa diversity and eradicated most of the BV-associated phylotypes, while probiotics only suppressed the overgrowth and re-established vaginal homeostasis gradually and steadily. Despite significant interindividual variation, the microbiota of the actively treated groups or participants constituted a unique profile. Along with the decrease in pathogenic bacteria, such as Gardnerella, Atopobium, Prevotella, Megasphaera, Coriobacteriaceae, Lachnospiraceae, Mycoplasma, and Sneathia, a Lactobacillus-dominated vaginal microbiota was recovered. Acting as vaginal sentinels and biomarkers, the relative abundance of Lactobacillus and pathogenic bacteria determined the consistency of the BV clinical and microbiologic cure rates, as well as recurrent BV. Both 7-day intravaginal metronidazole and 10-day intravaginal probiotics have good efficacy against BV, while probiotics maintained normal vaginal microbiota longer due to effective and steady vaginal microbiota restoration, which provide new insights into BV treatment.
4287544|The role of fungi in the decomposition of organic matter in streams has been well examined, although the role of bacterial antagonists in such processes has gained little attention. To examine bacterial-fungal interactions, experiments involving pairwise combinations of four actinomyceter isolates (A1+ and A2+ could remove chitin from chitin-containing media, and A1- and A2- could not) and two fungal isolates (F+ a true fungus, F- an oomycote) were conducted. For each bacterial-fungal combination, 250-ml microcosms were sampled at 8 day intervals for 32 days. Microbial biomass and organic matter, as well as the activities of five extracellular enzymes, were measured. Each experiment consisted of a control group and four treatment groups. Controls comprised sterilized stream water and macrophytes. The first treatment was inoculated with only actinomycetes ( 10
4250595| The quantitative uptake of suspended particles has been studied in 14 species of ciliated protozoa in terms of the maximum rate of water cleared at low particle concentrations and of the maximum ingestion rate at high particle concentrations. The results, supported by data from the literature, show that ciliates which feed on larger particles (> 1-5 m) compare favorably with metazoan suspension feeders with respect to the ability to concentrate dilute suspensions of particles. Species specialized on smaller food particles (0.2-1 m), the size range of most bacteria in natural environments, require a higher concentration of particles. Bacterial population densities which can sustain ciliate growth are found in sediments, waters rich in organic material, and in the early successional stages of decomposing organic material. This is not the case in open waters in general where bacterivorous ciliates cannot play a role as grazers of bacteria. 
25153480|Rivers may serve as reservoirs for enteric organisms. Very little is known about the boundaries of microbial communities in moving bodies of water so this study was undertaken to find the limits of distribution of some bacteria, focusing on enteric organisms. The presence of Salmonella, Campylobacter, and Enterococcus spp. and the antimicrobial resistance phenotypes carried by these organisms was evaluated for the Upper Oconee River basin, a small river in the lower Piedmont of northeastern Georgia, USA. Samples were obtained from 83 sites during a 3-h period on a spring day (April 2005) in an approximately 30  20 km region. Campylobacter spp. was isolated at 12 sites. The Campylobacter isolates from three sites were resistant to tetracycline. Of the five short-variable region (SVR) subtypes of Campylobacter that were found, three were found at more than one site, two types were found twice, and one subtype was found three times. Enterococcus was isolated at 71 sites. E. casseliflavus was the most common species. Based on species identification and antimicrobial resistance patterns, 24 types of Enterococcus were found. Salmonella was isolated from 62 sites. Of the 19 Salmonella serovars that were isolated, serovar Muenchen accounted for about 20% of the isolates. The next three most common serovars isolated, Rubislaw, Hartford, and Give, accounted for about 44% of the river isolates. Antimicrobial resistance profiling offered limited differentiation of Salmonella isolates because only seven isolates were resistant to any antimicrobial. The sites at which Salmonella, Campylobacter, or Enterococcus were isolated did not correlate with each other or with the total coliform number or Escherichia coli count for the site. However, isolates of some of the same species and type occurred in clusters that were restricted to areas within 5 to 6 km.
25153241|High concentrations of tannins in fodder plants inhibit gastrointestinal bacteria and reduce ruminant performance. Increasing the proportion of tannin-resistant bacteria in the rumen protects ruminants from antinutritional effects. The reason for the protective effect is unclear, but could be elucidated if the mechanism(s) by which tannins inhibit bacteria and the mechanisms of tannin resistance were understood. A review of the literature indicates that the ability of tannins to complex with polymers and minerals is the basis of the inhibitory effect on gastrointestinal bacteria. Mechanisms by which bacteria can overcome inhibition include tannin modification/degradation, dissociation of tannin-substrate complexes, tannin inactivation by high-affinity binders, and membrane modification/repair and metal ion sequestration. Understanding the mechanism of action of tannins and the mechanism(s) bacteria use to overcome the inhibitory effects will allow better management of the rumen ecosystem to reduce the antinutritional effects of tannin-rich fodder plants and thereby improve ruminant production.
25153462|The biological control bacterium Pseudomonas putida BTP1 exerts its protective effect mostly by inducing an enhanced state of resistance in the host plant against pathogen attack [induced systemic resistance (ISR)]. We previously reported that a specific compound derived from benzylamine may be involved in the elicitation of the ISR phenomenon by this Pseudomonas strain. In this article, we provide further information about the N,N-dimethyl-N-tetradecyl-N-benzylammonium structure of this determinant for ISR and show that the benzylamine moiety may be important for perception of the molecule by root cells of different plant species. We also investigated some regulatory aspects of elicitor production with the global aim to better understand how in situ expression of these ISR elicitors can be modulated by physiological and environmental factors. The biosynthesis is clearly related to secondary metabolism, and chemostat experiments showed that the molecule is more efficiently produced at low cell growth rate. Interestingly, the presence of free amino acids in the environment is necessary for optimal production, and a specific positive effect of phenylalanine was evidenced in pulsed continuous cultures. The influence of other abiotic factors, such as mineral content, oxygen concentration, or pH, on elicitor production is also reported and discussed with respect to the specific conditions that the producing strain undergoes in the rhizosphere environment.
40926435|Gravel particles from four sites along the Arabian Gulf coast in autumn, winter, and spring were naturally colonized with microbial consortia containing between 7 and 400x10 cm of cultivable oil-utilizing bacteria. The 16S rRNA gene sequences of 70 representatives of oil-utilizing bacteria revealed that they were predominantly affiliated with the Gammaproteobacteria and the Actinobacteria. The Gammaproteobacteria comprised among others, the genera Pseudomonas, Pseudoalteromonas, Shewanella, Marinobacter, Psychrobacter, Idiomarina, Alcanivorax, Cobetia, and others. Actinobacteria comprised the genera Dietzia, Kocuria, Isoptericola, Rhodococcus, Microbacterium, and others. In autumn, Firmicutes members were isolated from bay and nonbay stations while Alphaproteobacteria were detected only during winter from Anjefa bay station. Fingerprinting by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of amplified 16S rRNA genes of whole microbial consortia confirmed the culture-based bacterial diversities in the various epilithons in various sites and seasons. Most of the representative oilutilizing bacteria isolated from the epilithons were diazotrophic and could attenuate oil also in nitrogen-rich (7.9-62%) and nitrogen-free (4-54%) cultures, which, makes the microbial consortia suitable for oil bioremediation in situ, without need for nitrogen supplementation. This was confirmed in bench-scale experiments in which unfertilized oily seawater was bioremediated by epilithon-coated gravel particles.
4250991| Stenothermic cold adaptation was a predominant growth characteristic among biopolymer degrading bacteria from Antarctic shelf sediments. Psychrophilic decomposers of protein (gelatin), chitin, and cellulose accounted for up to 84, 93, and 68%, respectively, of 0C-isolates from selected compartments of the sediments. Macroinvertebrates were recognized as a selective pressure on these fast-growing (zymogenous) psychrophiles. Psychrophilic properties of growth and biopolymer degradation coincided most in the case of proteolytic isolates. On the other hand, the majority of psychrophilic chitin- and cellulose-decomposers showed less efficient biopolymer degradation at environmental temperatures (0C). Temperature optima of the activities of pertinent depolymerizing enzymes (e.g., scleroprotease) exceeded by far the temperature optima for growth (between 4 and 12C). Therefore, it appears likely that enhanced rates of enzyme synthesis at low temperatures play a crucial role for the degradation of detrital organic matter in this permanently cold environment. 
41489800|The mechanisms that ultimately regulate the diversity of microbial eukaryotic communities in bryophyte ecosystems remain a contentious topic in microbial ecology. Although there is robust consensus that abiotic factors, such as water chemistry of the bryophyte and pH, explain a significant proportion of protist and microcrustacean diversity, there is no systematic assessment of the role of bryophyte habitat complexity on such prominent microbial groups. Water-holding capacity is correlated with bryophyte morphology and canopy structure. Similarly, canopy structure explains biodiversity dynamics of the macrobiota suggesting that canopy structure may also be a potential parameter for understanding microbial diversity. Canopy roughness of the dominant bryophyte species within the Bahoruco Cloud Forest, Cachte, Dominican Republic, concomitant with their associated diversity of testate amoebae and microcrustaceans was estimated to determine whether canopy structure could be added to the list of factors explaining microbial biodiversity in bryophytes. We hypothesized that smooth (with high moisture content) canopies will have higher species richness, density, and biomass of testate amoebae and higher richness and density of microcrustaceans than rough (desiccation-prone) canopies. For testate amoebae, we found 83 morphospecies with relative low abundances. Species richness and density differed among bryophytes with different bryophyte canopy structures and based on non-metric multidimensional scaling, canopy roughness explained 25% of the variation in species composition although not as predicted. Acroporium pungens (low roughness, LR) had the lowest species richness (20.61 SD per gram dry weight bryophyte), and density (2.10.61 SD individual per gram of dry weight bryophyte); whereas Thuidium urceolatum (high roughness) had the highest richness (2410.82 SD) and density (9464.30 SD). The fact that the bryophyte with the highest roughness had the highest levels of diversity for testate amoebae suggests that moisture levels at the level of the bryophyte canopy may not represent a biodiversity driver in a cloud forest with high relative humidity; however, high roughness could generate a dynamic and fluctuating moisture environment with concomitant alternating microbial communities. A total of 26 microcrustacean morphospecies were found across 11 bryophytes; however, no bryophyte canopy effect was detected on their richness and density. Microcrustacean mean density was low ranging from less than one individual per 50 cm of bryophyte in Leucobryum (LR) to a maximum of 63.37 SD individuals/50 cm in Monoclea (LR). This lack of pattern suggests that possible explanatory variables may be related to larger scale processes than those examined in this study.
40343434|To test if the quality and concentration of dissolved nitrogen (N) species could be a selective force in shaping bacterioplankton community structure, competition for various N compounds among five heterotrophic marine bacteria (Pseudomonas strains B, B25, and AX; Bacillus strain A6; Erythrobacter strain F19) was examined. Two of the five strains (AX and B25) were capable of utilizing urea for growth. The five strains were inoculated into dilute (1/1,000 strength) ZoBell medium enriched with various N sources (free amino acids, casein, ammonium, nitrate, or urea). Regardless of the added N source, the communities were either dominated by strain B (at 50 M N) or strain AX (at 250 M N). Without any addition of N, strain F19 dominated. If F19 was not included in the community, strain B25 dominated. Despite these differences in community structure, consumption of the added N compounds was surprisingly similar and no advantages of urea for the urea-utilizing bacterium B25 were obvious. To examine if urea could be of selective advantage to the ureadegrading strains B25 and AX, communities with and without B25 were amended with urea N. As expected, strain B25 became dominant when present, but without this strain the non-urea-utilizing strain B outcompeted the ureautilizing strain AX. Possibly, strain  benefited from N released during catabolism of urea by strain AX. Changes in community composition did not result in major changes in the nitrogen dynamics. The results indicate that dissolved N species can be a selective force in shaping microbial communities. Relative to nutrient generalists, nutrient specialists may either have competitive advantages or stimulate growth of other species by synergetic interactions. Results from the model communities suggest that there may be a large degree of unpredictability in the making of microbial communities, whereas major ecosystem functions such as N cycling appear relatively stable.
4251383|It is now well known that heterotrophic bacteria account for a large portion of total uptake of both phosphate (60% median) and ammonium (30% median) in freshwaters and marine environments. Less clear are the factors controlling relative uptake by bacteria, and the consequences of this uptake on the plankton community and biogeochemical processes, e.g., new production. Some of the variation in reported inorganic nutrient uptake by bacteria is undoubtedly due to methodological problems, but even so, uptake would be expected to vary because of variation in several parameters, perhaps the most interesting being dissolved organic matter. Uptake of ammonium by bacteria is very low whereas uptake of dissolved free amino acids (DFAA) is high in eutrophic estuaries (the Delaware Bay and Chesapeake Bay). The concentrations and turnover of DFAA are insufficient, however, in oligotrophic oceans where bacteria turn to ammonium and nitrate, although the latter only as a last resort. I argue here that high uptake of dissolved organic carbon, which has been questioned, is necessary to balance the measured uptake of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) in seawater culture experiments. What is problematic is that this DIN uptake exceeds bacterial biomass production. One possibility is that bacteria excrete dissolved organic nitrogen (DON). A recent study offers some support for this hypothesis. Lysis by viruses would also release DON. While ammonium uptake by heterotrophic bacteria has been hypothesized to affect phytoplankton community structure, other impacts on the phytoplankton and biomass production (both total and new) are less clear and need further work. Also, even though bacteria account for a very large fraction of phosphate uptake, how this helps to structure the plankton community has not been examined. What is clear is that the interactions between bacterial and phytoplankton uptake of inorganic nutrients are more complicated than simple competition.
4250452|The Dead Sea is a hypersaline water body. Its total dissolved salts content is on the average 322.6 gm/liter. The dominant cation is Mg (40.7 gm/liter), followed by Na (39.2 gm/liter), Ca (17 gm/liter) and K (7 gm/liter). The major anion is Cl (212 gm/liter), followed by Br (5 gm/liter); SO
40343460|Most asexual fungal symbionts of grasses in the genus Neotyphodium occurring in nature are of hybrid origin. Most hybrid Neotyphodium species result from interspecific hybridization events between pathogenic Epichlo species or co-occurring non-hybrid Neotyphodium species. Current hypotheses for the prevalence of hybrid Neotyphodium species include reduction of mutation accumulation and increased adaptive response to environmental extremes. We tested the adaptive response hypothesis by characterizing the distribution of uninfected, hybrid, and non-hybrid Neotyphodium endophytes in 24 native Arizona fescue host populations and abiotic parameters at each locality. Infection was high in all host populations (>70%), but the majority of host populations were infected by non-hybrid Neotyphodium (>50% on average). Principal component analysis indicates the frequency of plants infected with hybrid fungi is negatively related to soil nutrients and positively correlated with early spring moisture. Non-hybrid infected hosts are positively associated with soil nutrients and show a complex relationship with soil moisture (negative in early spring moisture, positive with late summer soil moisture). These results suggest the frequency of uninfected, hybrid, and non-hybrid infected plants is related to resource availability and abiotic stress factors. This supports the hypothesis that hybridization in asexual fungal symbionts increases host adaptability to extreme environments.
27770567|The aim of this study was to evaluate the resistance to ten antimicrobial agents and the presence of blaTEM1 gene of Gram-negative bacteria isolated from three natural oligotrophic lakes with varying degrees of anthropogenic influence. A total of 272 indigenous bacteria were recovered on eosin methylene blue medium; they were characterized for antimicrobial resistance and identified taxonomically by homology search and phylogenetic comparisons. Based on 16S ribosomal RNA sequences analysis, 97% of the isolates were found to be Gram-negative bacteria; they belonged to 11 different genera. Members of the genera Acinetobacter, Enterobacter, and Pseudomonas predominated. Most of the bacteria were resistant to at least one antimicrobial. The incidence of resistance to -lactams, chloramphenicol, and mercury was high, whereas resistance to tetracycline, aminoglycosides, and nalidixic acid was low. There was a great frequency of multiple resistances among the isolates from the three lakes, although no significant differences were found among the disturbed and reference lakes. The ampicillin resistance mechanism of 71% of the isolates was due to the gene blaTEM1. Our study suggests that multiresistant Gram-negative bacteria and the blaTEM1 gene are common in freshwater oligotrophic lakes, which are subject to different levels of anthropogenic inputs.
4251234|Mineralization of uniformly radiolabeled
40802178|A 4-year bacteriological survey (2003-2007) of four molluscs cultivated in France and faced with mortality episodes was performed by the French shellfish pathology network. The more abundant bacteria isolated during 92 mortality episodes, occurring mainly in Pacific oyster "Crassostrea gigas", were identified by genotyping methods. It allowed us both to confirm the representativeness of "Vibrio splendidus" and "Vibrio aestuarianus" bacterial strains and to identify both a large number of "Vibrio harveyi" related strains mainly detected during 2007 oyster mortality outbreaks and to a lesser extent bacterial strains identified as "Shewanella colwelliana". Because metalloprotease has been reported to constitute a virulence factor in a few Vibrio strains pathogenic for "C. gigas", several bacterial strains isolated in this study were screened to evaluate their pathogenicity in "C. gigas" spat by experimental infection and their ability to produce metalloprotease-like activity in the culture supernatant fluids. A high level (84%) of concordant results between azocaseinase activities and virulence of strains was obtained in this study. Because bacterial metalloprotease activities appeared as a common feature of pathogenic bacteria strains associated with mortality events of "C. gigas" reared in France, this phenotypic test could be useful for the evaluation of virulence in bacterial strains associated with such mortality episodes.
25153259|This study exploited the contrasting major element chemistry of adjacent, physically separable crystals of framework and sheet silicates in a pegmatitic granite to investigate the mineralogical influences of fungal community structure on mineral surfaces. Large intact crystals of variably weathered muscovite, plagioclase, K-feldspar, and quartz were individually extracted, together with whole-rock granite. Environmental scanning electron microscopy (ESEM) revealed a diversity of fungal structures, with microcolonial fungi and fungal hyphae clearly visible on surfaces of all mineral types. Fungal automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (FARISA) was used to generate a ribotype profile for each mineral sample and a randomization test revealed that ribotype profiles, or community fingerprints, differed between different mineral types. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) revealed that mineral chemistry affected individual fungal ribotypes, and strong relationships were found between certain ribotypes and particular chemical elements. This finding was further supported by analysis of variance (ANOVA) of the 16 most abundant ribotypes within the community. Significantly, individual ribotypes were largely restricted to single mineral types and ribotypes clustered strongly on the basis of mineral type. CCA also revealed that Al, Si, and Ca had a significant impact on fungal community structure within this system. These results show that fungal community structure was driven by the chemical composition of mineral substrates, indicating selective pressure by individual chemical elements on fungal populations in situ.
4287631|The effect of addition of a municipal solid waste (MSW) compost and its water-soluble and humic fraction to suppress the effect of Pythium ultimum on pea plants was studied and compared with that of a chemical pesticide (metalaxyl). The biotic and abiotic characteristics of compost involved in the biocontrol effects of these materials were also evaluated. The addition into soil of whole composts and their humic fractions reduced the effect of the pathogen on pea plants, significantly reducing the number of root lesions and Pythium populations and avoiding reductions of plant growth. The greatest pathogen suppression was achieved with the chemical pesticide. However, it also caused a significant decrease in the number of nontarget bacteria and fungi and on beneficial soil microorganisms such as Trichoderma and Pseudomonas. Addition of organic amendments increased population size of nontarget and specific biocontrol microorganisms. The humic fraction showed similar results to compost. All this suggests that metalaxyl has a nonspecific effect, producing adverse effects on aspects of soil quality. This was avoided if the chemical pesticide was reduced and replaced by organic amendments such as an MSW compost or its humic fraction.
41489049|Bacteria of the genus Spiroplasma are widely found in plants and arthropods. Some of the maternally transmitted Spiroplasma endosymbionts in arthropods are known to kill young male hosts (male killing). Here, we describe a new case of Spiroplasma-induced male killing in a moth, Ostrinia zaguliaevi. The all-female trait caused by Spiroplasma was maternally inherited for more than 11 generations but was spontaneously lost in several lineages. Antibiotic treatment eliminated the Spiroplasma infection and restored the 1: 1 sex ratio. The survival rates and presence/absence of the W chromosome in the embryonic and larval stages of O. zaguliaevi showed that males were selectively killed, exclusively during late embryogenesis in all-female broods. Based on phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA, dnaA and rpoB gene sequences, the causative bacteria were identified as Spiroplasma belonging to the tick symbiont Spiroplasma ixodetis clade. Electron microscopy confirmed bacterial structures in the follicle cells and follicular sheath of adult females. Although many congeneric Ostrinia moths harbor another sex ratiodistorting bacterium (Wolbachia), only O. zaguliaevi harbors Spiroplasma.
4251527|Practical methods for biomonitoring of natural systems are still under development. Bacteria are potentially useful indicators of water quality because of their species diversity and ability to rapidly respond to changing environmental conditions. In this study, bacterial populations from unpolluted and polluted stream sites in two watersheds were compared to determine their suitability for use as environmental indicators. Upper Three Runs Creek and Four Mile Creek headwaters have had little anthropogenic disturbance, as opposed to lower Four Mile Creek received thermal, radioactive, and chemical perturbations. Chemical and physical measurements provided evidence that seepage from holding ponds polluted Four Mile Creek. Polluted sites did not have altered total bacterial numbers but had decreased numbers of colony-forming units. Abundances of three bacterial species, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, Burkholderia cepacia, and Pseudomonas putida, were determined by colony hybridization with species-specific rDNA probes. Contribution of A. calcoaceticus to the assemblage was higher at polluted sites, which indicated either tolerance of polluted conditions or the ability to utilize compounds existing at these sites to reach larger populations. No differences in B. cepacia populations were detected, and differences in P. putida populations could not be attributed solely to disturbance. The pollution of Four Mile Creek induced differences in bacterial populations that could be monitored using the described approach.
4251579|Community persistence was investigated in the yeast assemblage inhabiting patches of necrotic stem tissue of the columnar cactus Stenocereus gummosus (pitaya agria). Two surveys, conducted in 1981 and 1996, were compared. The variation in species occurrence in a spatial hierarchy within neuroses, among plants within a location, and among locations, was persistent across the 15-yr time span. The core species had a community similarity coefficient of 0.75, and the rank of their variability was significantly correlated for the two surveys. The physiological potential of the yeasts was distributed in the same manner in 1996 and 1981. Likewise, the rank order of physiological potentials both within plant and between plants was significantly correlated. These results indicate a microbial community that persists regionally, even though individual necroses routinely experience extinction and colonization. The role of an insect vector, Drosophila mojavensis, in community persistence is discussed.
4250489|The disappearance of the organophosphorus insecticide, malathion, from a silt loam soil and from its organic and inorganic components was examined. Half-lives and the time taken for 90% decomposition in nonsterile, sodium azide-treated, and 2.5 Mrad-irradiated soils were similar (3/4-1 1/2 days and 4-6 days, respectively) but breakdown in autoclaved soils was negligible. Decay in nonsterile sand, silt, and clay minus organic matter fractions was 3-6 times slower than that recorded in the original soil. Breakdown of malathion in the clay plus organic matter fraction (organo-mineral complex) was rapid (half-life, 1 day), as was the case in the separated organic matter (half-life, 1 3/4 days). Filter-sterilized organic matter was not as effective in catalyzing the breakdown of malathion (half-life, 4 days), and no loss occurred from any of the autoclaved components. Irradiation doses of 2.5 and 5.0 Mrad had little influence on the ability of soil to degrade malathion. Thereafter, increases up to 20 Mrad had a more drastic, though far from totally inhibitory, effect. Our results suggest that either the colloidal organic matter itself, or a fraction associated with it, is the most important single factor concerned with the rapid breakdown of malathion in the soil studied. Direct microbial metabolism is a slower process and may have a significant role in malathion disappearance in coarse-textured soils low in colloidal organic matter. The catalytic component of the organic matter is suggested to be a stable exoenzyme and is supportive of reports by other workers. The quantitative effect of organo-mineral complex (containing the active degradative ingredient) additions to sand and silt fractions on the rate of subsequent malathion decay is also described.
4250507|Copepods of the genus Eurytemora, isolated from the Patuxent River, a tributary of Chesapeake Bay, were fed suspensions of the ciliate Uronema isolated from the Rhode River, a subestuary of Chesapeake Bay. Grazing by copepods was determined by the decrease in numbers of ciliates, which were monitored by both direct counting and particle size analysis. Results from both methods of analysis showed significant reduction in the numbers of Uronema in the suspension when Eurytemora was present. Survival of copepods with ciliates added as food source was significantly longer than without ciliates. Analysis of field samples collected in the fall showed that ciliates comprised approximately 20% of the total plankton biomass at selected sampling sites. The results of the laboratory and field studies indicate that copepods can feed on ciliates and suggest that, in nature, ciliates may comprise an important source of food for copepods.
23469153|Plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) affect plant cellular processes in various ways. The endophytic bacterial strain Enterobacter radicincitans DSM 16656 has been shown to improve plant growth and yield in various agricultural and vegetable crops. Besides its ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen, produce phytohormones, and solubilize phosphate compounds, the strain is highly competitive against native endophytic organisms and colonizes the endorhizosphere in high numbers. Here, we show that E. radicincitans inoculation of the noncrop plant Arabidopsis thaliana promotes plant growth. Furthermore, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis revealed that bacterial inoculation slightly decreased amounts of aliphatic glucosinolates in plant leaves in a fast-growing stage but increased these compounds in an older phase where growth is mostly completed. This effect seems to correlate with developmental stage and depends on the nitrogen requirement. Additionally, nitrogen deficiency studies with seedlings grown on medium containing different nitrogen concentrations suggest that plant nitrogen demand can influence the intensity of plant growth enhancement by E. radicincitans. This endophyte seems not to activate stress-inducible mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs). Analyzing transcription of the defense-related genes PR1, PR2, PR5, and PDF1.2 by quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) revealed that E. radicincitans DSM 16656 is able to induce priming via salicylic acid (SA) or jasmonate (JA)/ethylene (ET) signaling pathways to protect plants against potential pathogen attack.
4287651| The results of a study on ectoenzymatic activity (the enzyme activity bound to particles larger than 0.2 m) and its relation to organic particle concentration are reported here. The sampling was carried out during the 1994 Antarctic spring, at a fixed station (Station 11) in the polynya of the Ross Sea, an area characterized by quick changes in sea ice cover. The sampling was repeated 4 times over a 20-day time period. The particulate organic matter distribution followed the physical structure of the water column, which depends on ice dynamics and is mainly determined by salinity. In the mixed-water surface layer (0-50 m) the concentrations were higher (on average 65.6 gC/L) than in the deeper water layer (50 m-bottom) (on average 19.1 gC/L). This distribution and quality, expressed by the protein:carbohydrate ratio, linked the particulate organic matter to the phytoplanktonic bloom which was in progress in the area. We determined the kinetic parameters of the glycolytic and proteolytic ectoenzymes and also the total activity for the proteolytic enzyme, in order to evaluate the contribution of the particle-bound activity. We observed higher values in the surface layer than in the deeper layer. -Glucosidase activity ranged between 0.03 and 0.92 nmol
41693854|Alterations in microbial community composition, biomass, and function in the Florida Everglades impacted by cultural eutrophication reflect a new physicochemical environment associated with monotypic stands of Typha domingensis. Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) biomarkers were used to quantify microbial responses in detritus and surface soils in an active management experiment in the eutrophic Everglades. Creation of open plots through removal of Typha altered the physical and chemical characteristics of the region. Mass of PLFA biomarkers increased in open plots, but magnitude of changes differed among microbial groups. Biomarkers indicative of Gram-negative bacteria and fungi were significantly greater in open plots, reflective of the improved oxic environment. Reduction in the proportion of cyclopropyl lipids and the ratio of Gram-positive to Gram-negative bacteria in open plots further suggested an altered oxygen environment and conditions for the rapid growth of Gram-negative bacteria. Changes in the PLFA composition were greater in floc relative to soils, reflective of rapid inputs of new organic matter and direct interaction with the new physicochemical environment. Created open plot microbial mass and composition were significantly different from the oligotrophic Everglades due to differences in phosphorus availability, plant community structure, and a shift to organic peat from marl-peat soils. PLFA analysis also captured the dynamic inter-annual hydrologic variability, notably in PLFA concentrations, but to a lesser degree content. Recently, use of concentration has been advocated over content in studies of soil biogeochemistry, and our results highlight the differential response of these two quantitative measures to similar pressures.
4251226|A biflagellated protozoan was isolated from an acidic drainage stream located inside a disused pyrite mine. The stream contained copious amounts of "acid streamer" bacterial growths, and the flagellate was observed in situ apparently grazing the streamer bacteria. The protozoan was obligately acidophilic, growing between pH 1.8 and 4.5, but not at pH 1.6 or 5.0, with optimum growth between pH 3 and 4. It was highly sensitive to copper, molybdenum, silver, and uranium, but tolerated ferrous and ferric iron up to 50 and 25 mM, respectively. In the laboratory, the protozoan was found to graze a range of acidophilic bacteria, including the chemolithotrophs Thiobacillus ferrooxidans, Leptospirillum ferrooxidans, and the heterotroph Acidiphilium cryptum. Thiobacillus thiooxidans and Thiobacillus acidophilus were not grazed. Filamentous growth of certain acidophiles afforded some protection against being grazed by the flagellate. In mixed cultures of T. ferrooxidans and L. ferrooxidans, the protozoan isolate displayed preferential grazing of the former. The possibility of using acidophilic protozoa as a means of controlling bacteria responsible for the production of acid mine drainage is discussed.
4250736| The effect on decomposition of 4 different levels of nitrogen in aerial tissue of Spartina alterniflora, collected at the end of its growing season litter, was studied in laboratory percolators for 56 days at 20C. The CO
40343436|Mass mortalities of larval cultures of Chilean scallop Argopecten purpuratus have repeatedly occurred in northern Chile, characterized by larval agglutination and accumulation in the bottom of rearing tanks. The exopolysaccharide slime (EPS) producing CAM2 strain was isolated as the primary organism from moribund larvae in a pathogenic outbreak occurring in a commercial hatchery producing larvae of the Chilean scallop Argopecten purpuratus located in Baha Inglesa, Chile. The CAM2 strain was characterized biochemically and was identified by polymerase chain reaction amplification of 16S rRNA as Halomonas sp. (Accession number DQ885389.1). Healthy 7-day-old scallop larvae cultures were experimentally infected for a 48-h period with an overnight culture of the CAM2 strain at a final concentration of ca. 10 cells per milliliter, and the mortality and vital condition of larvae were determined by optical and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to describe the chronology of the disease. Pathogenic action of the CAM2 strain was clearly evidenced by SEM analysis, showing a high ability to adhere and detach larvae velum cells by using its "slimy" EPS, producing agglutination, loss of motility, and a posterior sinking of scallop larvae. After 48 h, a dense bacterial slime on the shell surface was observed, producing high percentages of larval agglutination (63.287.87%) and mortality (45.034.32%) that were significantly (P<0.05) higher than those of the unchallenged control cultures, which exhibited only 3.201.40% dead larvae and no larval agglutination. Furthermore, the CAM2 strain exhibited a high ability to adhere to fiberglass pieces of tanks used for scallop larvae rearing (1.6410 cells adhered per square millimeters at 24 h postinoculation), making it very difficult to eradicate it from the culture systems. This is the first report of a pathogenic activity on scallop larvae of Halomonas species, and it prompts the necessity of an appraisal on biofilm-producing bacteria in Chilean scallop hatcheries.
25153337| The diversity of nitrogen-fixing bacteria is well described for aquatic environments; however, terrestrial analyses remain mostly biased to rhizobial plant-microbe associations. We maximized the level of resolution for this study through the use of nucleotide sequence information extracted from a series of soil microenvironments, ranging from macroaggregates at 2000 m to the clay fraction at &lt;75 m in diameter. In addition, we attempted to create an overview of the distribution of terrestrial nitrogen fixers across such microenvironments by combining culture-independent techniques with a suite of natural soil environments from uniquely different origins. Soil diazotroph diversity was analyzed phylogenetically for 600 terrestrial nifH sequences from 12 midsized clone libraries based on microenvironments of three separate soils across a global scale. Statistical analyses of nifH gene clone libraries were used to estimate coverage, establish degrees of sequence overlap, and compare cluster distributions. These analyses revealed an extensive diversity in a tropical (19 phylotypes) and an arctic soil (17 phylotypes), and moderate diversity in a temperate soil (11 phylotypes). Within each soil, comparisons across aggregate size fractions delineated nifH gene cluster shifts within populations and degrees of sequence overlap that ranged from significantly different (arctic, tropical) to significantly similar (temperate). We suggest that this is due to population separation across aggregates of different size classes, which results from differences in the temporal stability of aggregates as niches for microbial communities. This study not only provides new knowledge of the arrangement of diazotrophic communities at the soil microscale, but it also contributes to the underrepresented knowledge of soil nifH sequences in the public databases. 
4251283| Isolations of soil microfungi from the humus (F/H-layer) of a coniferous forest soil which was either unpolluted (pH 4.1) or polluted (pH 6.6) for 25 years by deposition of alkaline dust, were made by soil washing and spore plating. Both techniques revealed similar changes in species composition. Alkaline dust exposure caused a reduction in overall species numbers, but led to higher relative isolation frequencies of Mortierella alpina, Oidiodendron tenuissimum, Penicillium montanese, Sagenomella verticillata, and Trichosporiella sporotrichioides. The incidence of M. isabellina, O. cf. clamydosporium, P. spinulosum, Penicillium sp. 1, P. sclerotiorum, Trichoderma viride, and Verticillium bulbillosum was reduced on polluted sites. The amount of the mainly fungal-derived phospholipid fatty acid 18: 26 decreased by 23%, while the amount of ergosterol increased by 9% in the polluted soil. 
4251102| Phospholipid analyses were performed on water column particulate and sediment samples from Ace Lake, a meromictic lake in the Vestfold Hills, Antarctica, to estimate the viable microbial biomass and community structure in the lake. In the water column, methanogenic bacterial phospholipids were present below 17 m in depth at concentrations which converted to a biomass of between 1 and 7  10
25153341| Two different strategies for molecular analysis of bacterial diversity, 16S rDNA cloning and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), were combined into a single protocol that took advantage of the best attributes of each: the ability of cloning to package DNA sequence information and the ability of DGGE to display a community profile. In this combined protocol, polymerase chain reaction products from environmental DNA were cloned, and then DGGE was used to screen the clone libraries. Both individual clones and pools of randomly selected clones were analyzed by DGGE, and these migration patterns were compared to the conventional DGGE profile produced directly from environmental DNA. For two simple bacterial communities (biofilm from a humics-fed laboratory reactor and planktonic bacteria filtered from an urban freshwater pond), pools of 35-50 clones produced DGGE profiles that contained most of the bands visible in the conventional DGGE profiles, indicating that the clone pools were adequate for identifying the dominant genotypes. However, DGGE profiles of two different pools of 50 clones from a lawn soil clone library were distinctly different from each other and from the conventional DGGE profile, indicating that this small number of clones poorly represented the bacterial diversity in soil. Individual clones with the same apparent DGGE mobility as prominent bands in the humics reactor community profiles were sequenced from the clone plasmid DNA rather than from bands excised from the gel. Because a longer fragment was cloned (1500 bp) than was actually analyzed in DGGE (350 bp), far more sequence information was available using this approach that could have been recovered from an excised gel band. This clone/DGGE protocol permitted rapid analysis of the microbial diversity in the two moderately complex systems, but was limited in its ability to represent the diversity in the soil microbial community. Nonetheless, clone/DGGE is a promising strategy for fractionating diverse microbial communities into manageable subsets consisting of small pools of clones. 
25153000|We present an approach to comparing the diversity and composition of bacterial communities from different habitats and for identifying which members of a community are most affected by an introduced bacterium. We use this method to explore both previously published and new data from field and growth chamber experiments in which we isolated heterotrophic bacteria from samples of root-free soil, roots of nontreated soybean seedlings, and from the roots of soybean seedlings grown from Bacillus cereus UW85n1-treated seeds. We characterize bacterial isolates for 40 physiological attributes, and grouped the isolates hierarchically using two-stage density-linkage cluster analysis. Multivariate analysis of variance and discriminant analysis of the relative frequencies of the clusters in the soil and rhizosphere habitats were then used to determine whether there were differences among the bacterial communities from the various habitats, and which of the clusters were most useful in discriminating among the communities. We used rarefied estimates of richness as a measure of community diversity in the various habitats. Introduction of UW85n1 affected the composition and/or diversity of rhizosphere communities in three of four experiments.
25256157|Heterotrophic bacteria provide the critical link in the microbial loop by converting dissolved organic matter (DOM) into particulate form. In this study, DOM was prepared from recently isolated estuarine bacterial strain Vibrio sp. (DSM14379) grown at different salinities [0.2%, 0.5%, 3%, 5%, or 10% (w/v)], washed, concentrated, and lysed by autoclaving. The corresponding lysate-containing media were designated
23597811|Nano zero-valent iron (NZVI) is a new option for contaminated soil and groundwater treatment, despite little is known on their impact on environmental microorganisms. Klebsiella oxytoca K5 strain, isolated from the NZVI-treated soil, was used to investigate the bacterial, phenotypical and molecular response to commercial NZVI exposure. Cytotoxicity assays at three NZVI concentrations (1, 5 and 10 mg mL -1 ) suggested a negligible bacteriostatic effect and the lack of bactericidal effect. Structural changes were analysed by electronic microscopy. Scanning electron microscopy revealed the presence of NZVI around some bacterial cells, but no apparent morphological changes were seen. NZVI attachment to the cell surface was confirmed by transmission electron microscopy, although most of them were not affected. A proteomic approach (two-dimensional electrophoresis, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry) was used to investigate NZVI impact. For the first time to our knowledge, results revealed that exposure of a soil bacterium to NZVI resulted in the overproduction of tryptophanase, associated with oxidative stress response. K5 may set up an adaptative stress response involving indole as a signal molecule to inform the bacterial population about environmental changes. These findings would improve knowledge on the molecular mechanisms underlying bacterial response to NZVI exposure.
41412424|Freshwater fungi have received little attention by scientific research in recent years, especially fungi of the pelagic zone. Recently, parasitic fungi, termed chytrids, have been found to play important roles in aquatic food webs. Yet, the diversity and community structure of planktonic fungi including chytrids are not well studied. In this study, we examined the temporal fluctuations of freshwater fungi, including chytrids, in Lake Inba by using molecular techniques of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). DGGE profiles, and associated sequence analysis, indicated that chytrids were present on all sampling dates from May to October (n = 12). In addition, analysis showed that a large proportion of the sequences belonged to chytrids of both parasitic and saprotrophic species. This finding was supported by microscopic observations using Calcofluor white to stain chytrids infecting various phytoplankton species. The percentages of infection by chytrids on two dominant diatom species, Aulacoseira granulata and Aulacoseira ambigua, showed a similar seasonal pattern in the DGGE band profiles. From the phylogenetic analysis and microscopic identification, the chytrids infecting the two diatoms are likely to be affiliated to Chytriomyces sp. and Zygorhizidium sp.. This is the first study to show that DGGE is a useful preliminary approach for examining the diversity of planktonic fungi including chytrids. Our results indicate both parasitic and saprotrophic chytrids are a significant component of freshwater fungi inhabiting the pelagic zone of Lake Inba, Japan. Further modification of DGGE, together with new molecular techniques and microscopic observation, would reveal the hidden diversity and ecological significance of planktonic fungi in aquatic ecosystems.
4251642|Microorganisms have developed mechanisms of coping with a variety of toxic metals; however, few studies have explored microbial resistance to lead. In this study, the overall mechanisms of a lead-resistant Pseudomonas marginalis and a lead-resistant Bacillus megaterium isolated from two different metal-contaminated soils were investigated. The P.marginalis had a higher lead resistance level at 2.5mM total lead as compared to 0.6 mM for B. megaterium. Resistance to soluble lead was much lower, 0.3 and 0.1 mM, respectively. The degree of lead resistance and the mechanism of lead resistance for these two isolates corresponded with their environmental lead exposure. When viewed with transmission electron microscopy, P.marginalis, isolated from a soil contaminated with high total but undetectable soluble lead, showed extracellular lead exclusion. B. megaterium, from a soil with both high total and soluble lead levels, was less resistant with an intracellular cytoplasmic accumulation of lead as observed with TEM. Polarization microscopy indicated that while P.marginalis produced a high amount of an extracellular polymer implicated in the organism's mechanism of lead resistance, B.megaterium produced no discernable extracellular polymeric substances. The study of these two organisms demonstrated differences in how soil microorganisms respond to environmental lead exposure, including the novel mechanism of intracellular sequestration of lead.
41412426|The question which bacterial species are present in water and if they are viable is essential for drinking water safety but also of general relevance in aquatic ecology. To approach this question we combined propidium iodide/SYTO9 staining ("live/dead staining" indicating membrane integrity), fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) and community fingerprinting for the analysis of a set of tap water samples. Live/dead staining revealed that about half of the bacteria in the tap water had intact membranes. Molecular analysis using 16S rRNA and 16S rRNA genebased single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) fingerprints and sequencing of drinking water bacteria before and after FACS sorting revealed: (1) the DNA-and RNA-based overall community structure differed substantially, (2) the community retrieved from RNA and DNA reflected different bacterial species, classified as 53 phylotypes (with only two common phylotypes), (3) the percentage of phylotpes with intact membranes or damaged cells were comparable for RNA-and DNA-based analyses, and (4) the retrieved species were primarily of aquatic origin. The pronounced difference between phylotypes obtained from DNA extracts (dominated by Betaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Actinobacteria) and from RNA extracts (dominated by Alpha-, Beta-, Gammaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Cyanobacteria) demonstrate the relevance of concomitant RNA and DNA analyses for drinking water studies. Unexpected was that a comparable fraction (about 21%) of phylotypes with membrane-injured cells was observed for DNA-and RNA-based analyses, contradicting the current understanding that RNA-based analyses represent the actively growing fraction of the bacterial community. Overall, we think that this combined approach provides an interesting tool for a concomitant phylogenetic and viability analysis of bacterial species of drinking water.
40926426|The objective of this study was to compare the microbial community composition and biomass associated with the rhizosphere of a perennial gramineous species (Lygeum spartum L.) with that of an annual (Piptatherum miliaceum L.), both growing in semiarid mine tailings. We also established their relationship with the contents of potentially toxic metals as well as with indicators of soil quality. The total phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) amount was significantly higher in the rhizosphere soil of the annual species than in the rhizosphere soil of the perennial species. The fungal/bacterial PLFA ratio was significantly greater in the perennial species compared to the annual species. The fatty acid 16: 15c, the fungaLbacterial PLFA ratio and monounsaturated/saturated PLFA ratio were correlated negatively with the soluble contents of toxic metals. The cyc/prec (cy17:0+cy19:0/16:17+18:17) ratio was correlated positively with the soluble contents of Pb, Zn, A1, Ni, Cd, and Cu. The results of the PLFA analysis for profiling microbial communities and their stress status of both the plant species indicate that perennial and annual gramineous species appear equally suitable for use in programmes of revegetation of semiarid mine tailings.
4287618|Salinity has been suggested as being a controlling factor for blooms of N
4250543|Comparative microbial functions in the plant root zone were studied by evaluating rhizosphere-derived Pseudomonas and Arthrobacter growth in chemostat culture and responses to root-exudate-related nutrients after varied starvation periods. These organisms were chosen to represent zymogenous and autochthonous microbes, respectively. In chemostat culture, the Pseudomonas isolate showed increased energy charge and decreased populations with higher growth rates, whereas the Arthrobacter had lower energy charge and cell population values which did not change appreciably with growth rate. The responses of these two types of organisms also differed with starvation. The Pseudomonas lost its ability to respire efficiently in the presence of several known root exudate components, whereas the Arthrobacter isolate, in comparison, maintained a lower but more consistent ability to utilize these nutrients with increased starvation. The Arthrobacter also showed increased utilization of several substrates after starvation, suggesting its potential ability to function under restricted nutrient availability conditions. These results suggest that Pseudomonas-type organisms in the rhizosphere may best function in periods of more intense exudate release, whereas organisms of the Arthrobacter-type may be more efficient at nutrient utilization during periods of lesser nutrient flux. Based on these data the rhizosphere-derived Pseudomonas isolate was considered to be an appropriate bacterium to use in more complex rhizosphere microcosm experiments where nutrient flux dynamics would be emphasized.
4251564| The abundance and biomass of heterotrophic nanoflagellates were examined in continental and deep-sea sediments of the Cretan Sea (Eastern Mediterranean); at depths of 40 to 1540 m. Nanoflagellate distribution was compared to the composition of sedimentary organic matter and bacterial standing stocks to investigate trophic interactions and factors potentially affecting distribution. Quantitative estimates were obtained using different samplers for testing whether the box corer is as effective as the multiplecorer for bacterial and protozoan population estimates. The sediments of the deep Cretan Sea appeared extremely deficient in organic nutrients, and were composed mostly (more than 90%) of detritus. Labile organic compounds (such as lipids, proteins, and soluble carbohydrates) were present at extremely low concentrations, decreasing with water depth. Refractory and structural carbohydrates were the dominant biochemical class. The decrease in food quality with depth was associated with a strong decline of the RNA:DNA ratio. Benthic bacteria were constrained by food availability, and reacted to different organic matter inputs (especially total carbohydrates) at different depths. Large size bacteria were significantly correlated with the amounts of proteins and chloroplastic pigments. Heterotrophic nanoflagellate distribution in the continental shelf and deep-sea sediments of the Cretan Sea was controlled by available food sources (i.e., labile organic compounds and bacteria). Flagellate density was significantly correlated with the concentration of food indicators (chlorophyll a, soluble carbohydrates, and lipids), and to bacterial number and biomass. Despite the oligotrophy of the system, flagellate densities were high (
4251618|If predators select for or against contaminant-degrading bacteria, it will affect bacterial survival and has important implications for bioremediation. Protozoa are important predators of bacteria. In order to determine whether protozoa preyed differentially on bacteria with different degradation abilities, two ciliates (Euplotes sp. and Cyclidium sp.) and three strains of PAH-degrading bacteria (Vibrio spp., degrading naphthalene, anthracene, or phenanthrene) were isolated from sediment from New York/New Jersey Harbor. By manipulating growth conditions, bacterial strains with different PAH-degradation abilities and different cell properties were produced. Stepwise regression models were used to analyze how clearance rates on suspended bacteria and grazing rates on bacteria attached to particles were affected by bacterial size, hydrophobicity, C:N ratio, protein content, and PAH-degradation ability. Clearance rates ranged from 0 to 49 nl
4251235|A system was developed to evaluate the effects of root growth of cotton seedlings on the inoculum dynamics of Gliocladium virens in nonsterile soil. In soil infested with G. virens, inoculum densities of the fungus increased when plants remained alive. After 30 days, shoots were excised and the roots allowed to deteriorate. During this portion of the experiment (30-60 days) soil inoculum densities of G. virens declined. In infested soil without a seedling, inoculum densities remained constant throughout the duration of the experiments. Colonization of roots by G. virens was found to increase throughout the duration of the experiments. At 60 days G. virens was recovered from approximately 60% of the root pieces (1-cm) sampled. The percentage of primary, secondary, or tertiary roots colonized was different (P = 0.01), but the total colonization of roots at three depths (0-10, 10-20, and 20-30 cm) was not different (P = 0.64). In noninfested soil, colonization of roots by indigenous propagules of G. virens was never greater than 3%.
4251111| The degree of phenotypic variation of the bacterial strains USDA 125-Sp, USDA 138 and USDA 138-Sm Bradyrhizobium japonicum a long time after introduction was studied in three experimental fields. A total of 54 phenotypic characters were analyzed by constructing a dendrogram based on an hierarchic classification. Strong similarities (92.6, 94 and 95%) were found between the isolates introduced into soil 8, 10 and 13 years ago and between their respective B. japonicum parental clones. The dendrogrammic analysis detected a small amount of phenotypic drift, however, between soil isolates and parental clones belonging to the same serogroup (selective effects were found to have generated 0 to 3.9% variation for the USDA 125-Sp inoculum introduced 8 years ago, and 3.2-3.5% after 10 and 13 years, respectively, for the USDA 138 and USDA 138-Sm bacterial inocula) and within the serogroup 125 soil isolates (2.7%). We found a similar evolution of serogroup 125 isolates when compared with parental clones conserved on slant agar at 4C. When a drift was observed, the isolates from soil presented a lower activity for several enzymes and lower diversity compared with the parental clones. 
4251397|The fish pathogen Vibrio anguillarum causes significant economic losses in commercially cultured fish species worldwide. At present, identification of V. anguillarum requires conventional isolation and culturing techniques. Using differential hybridization, a 310 base pair V. anguillarum-specific DNA fragment was isolated for use as a probe. In specificity studies against 19 different bacterial species, including two Vibrio sp. and fish pathogens, and 223 marine bacterial isolates, the probe hybridized exclusively to V. anguillarum strains. The probe also strongly hybridizes to 7 of 9 serotypes tested, with serotype O9 giving a weak probe reaction and serotype O7 negative. The probe allows rapid and accurate detection of both pathogenic and environmental strains of V. anguillarum.
23361602|Our goals were to evaluate the tolerance of mesorhizobia to acid and alkaline conditions as well as to investigate whether acid tolerance is related to the species or the origin site of the isolates. In addition, to investigate the molecular basis of acid tolerance, the expression of chaperone genes groEL and dnaKJ was analyzed using acid-tolerant and sensitive mesorhizobia. Tolerance to pH 5 and 9 was evaluated in liquid medium for 98 Portuguese chickpea mesorhizobia belonging to four species clusters. All isolates showed high sensitivity to pH 9. In contrast, mesorhizobia revealed high diversity in terms of tolerance to acid stress: 35% of the isolates were acid sensitive and 45% were highly tolerant to pH 5 or moderately acidophilic. An association between mesorhizobia tolerance to acid conditions and the origin soil pH was found. Furthermore, significant differences between species clusters regarding tolerance to acidity were obtained. Ten isolates were used to investigate the expression levels of the chaperone genes by northern hybridization. Interestingly, most acid-tolerant isolates displayed induction of the dnaK and groESL genes upon acid shock while the sensitive ones showed repression. This study suggests that acid tolerance in mesorhizobia is related to the pH of the origin soil and to the species cluster of the isolates. Additionally, the transcriptional analysis suggests a relationship between induction of major chaperone genes and higher tolerance to acid pH in mesorhizobia. This is the first report on transcriptional analysis of the major chaperones genes in mesorhizobia under acidity, contributing to a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of rhizobia acidity tolerance.
4250746|Water and sediment bacterial communities in a freshwater impoundment were studied over a 13-month period for stress-related responses to a point source of acid mine drainage (AMD). Comparisons of community structure were made on collections taken at the mouth of the acid stream, at a point 2 km downstream, and at the mouth of an uncontaminated stream. Monthly measurements of pH and specific conductance indicated the expected decrease in the AMD pollution with increasing distance from the source. Acridine orange direct counts did not differ significantly among the sites; however significantly fewer viable heterotrophs were observed by plate counts at the acid impacted station relative to the uncontaminated site. The diversity of the communities was significantly lower at the sites receiving mine drainage as compared with the unaffected station, and comparisons of community similarity showed that collections from the impacted sites were more like each other than like the control site. The assemblage at the latter site contained many bacterial guilds not found at the contaminated sites. The guilds unique to the control site showed a reduced in vitro ability to tolerate heavy metals as compared with the general community.
25153279|The culturable bacteria colonizing the rhizosphere of plants growing in the area of discharge of a tannery effluent were characterized. Relative proportions of aerobic, denitrifying, and sulfate-reducing bacteria were determined in the rhizosphere of Typha latifolia, Canna indica, and Phragmites australis. Aerobic bacteria were observed to be the most abundant group in the rhizosphere, and plant type did not seem to influence the abundance of the bacterial types analyzed. To isolate bacteria able to degrade polyphenols used in the tannery industry, enrichments were conducted under different conditions. Bacterial cultures were enriched with individual polyphenols (tannins Tara, Quebracho, or Mimosa) or with an undefined mixture of tannins present in the tannery effluent as carbon source. Cultures enriched with the effluent or Tara tannin were able to degrade tannic acid. Six bacterial isolates purified from these mixed cultures were able to use tannic acid as a sole carbon source in axenic culture. On the basis of 16S ribosomal DNA sequence analysis, these isolates were closely related to organisms belonging to the taxa Serratia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Klebsiella oxytoca, Herbaspirillum chlorophenolicum, and Pseudomonas putida.
4251396| The abundance and metabolic capacities of microorganisms residing in 49 sediment samples from 4 boreholes in Atlantic Coastal Plain sediments were examined. Radiolabeled time-course experiments assessing in situ mirobial capacities were initiated within 30 min of core recovery. Acetate (
4251807|The effect of co-inoculation with Pisolithus tinctorius and a PGPR belonging to the genus Bacillus (Bacillus licheniformis CECT 5106 and Bacillus pumilus CECT 5105) in enhancing growth of Pinus pinea plants and the changes that occurred in rhizosphere microbial communities and the degree of mycorrhization were evaluated. Both bacterial strains of Bacillus promote the growth of Pinus pinea seedlings, but this biological effect does not imply a synergic effect with mycorrhizal infection. However, the positive response to mycorrhiza in a longer-term experiment it could be expected. The introduction of both inocula causes an alteration in the microbial rhizosphere composition, despite the low levels of inocula that were found at the end of the assay.
4251191| Significantly higher numbers of Gram-negative heterotrophic bacteria were present at the air-water interface (neuston) of freshwater lakes than in the bulk water. Neuston bacteria were distinguished as a population distinct from bacteria in the bulk water by a higher incidence of pigmented colony types and significantly greater levels of multiple resistance to antibiotics and heavy metals. The incidence of plasmids in 236 neuston and 229 bulk water strains were similar (14 and 16.2%, respectively). Nine of 168 plasmid-free strains and 2 of 14 plasmid carrying strains, isolated from both bulk water and neuston, acted as recipients of plasmid R68.45 in plate matings with a Pseudomonas aeruginosa donor strain PAO4032 at 21C, but at frequencies below that of matings with a restriction-minus recipient strain of P. aeruginosa, strain PAO1168. In a model system composed of nutrient-free synthetic lake water, plasmid R68.45 was shown to transfer between P. aeruginosa strains at frequencies between 10
4251370|Although they are very unlikely to play large direct roles in water-column microbial loops, eukaryotic mycelial decomposers (the mycelial true fungi, eumycotes, and zoosporic "fungi," oomycotes) have the potential to be important secondary producers in decaying plant material in shallow aquatic systems. Their secondary productivity may lead to important exchanges of material with microbial loops: output of ascospores, conidia, zoosporic flagellates, leaked lysates, and particles of decayed plants containing mycelium; input of dissolved organics and inorganic nutrients. Development of methods for ecological study of the aquatic mycelial eukaryotic decomposers has not advanced as rapidly as that for the prokaryotes of microbial loops, probably because (1) there are fewer aquatic microbial ecologists with mycological training and inclination than with prokaryotic leanings; and (2) the mycelial decomposers are difficult to work with, because they produce their mycelial mass virtually entirely within opaque solid substrates. Direct microscopic methods have emerged as prime tools for the measurement of prokaryotic mass, whereas an index-chemical assay (ergosterol) is currently the most efficient way to measure the mass of eumycotes. For measuring productivity of prokaryotes of microbial loops, microbial ecologists may choose from several (>10) published and field-tested methods, involving direct microscopy or monitoring of radiotracers. Extensive reviews of distribution and dynamics of aquatic bacterial mass and productivity have appeared. For measuring productivity of eukaryotic mycelial decomposers, one has only two published methods from which to choose, a direct-microscopic and a radiotracer method, neither of which has had adequate field testing. We are, furthermore, much less well equipped to obtain mass and productivity information for the poorly known mycelial oomycotes than we are for the eumycotes. Application of productivity techniques and nucleic-acid technology, may within the next decade allow knowledge of ecology of aquatic eukaryotic mycelial decomposers to advance to levels approaching that for the prokaryotes of microbial loops.
40926476|The hypolithic microbial community associated with quartz pavement at a high-altitude tundra location in central Tibet is described. A small-scale ecological survey indicated that 36% of quartz rocks were colonized. Community profiling using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism revealed no significant difference in community structure among a number of colonized rocks. Real-time quantitative PCR and phylogenetic analysis of environmental phylotypes obtained from clone libraries were used to elucidate community structure across all domains. The hypolithon was dominated by cyanobacterial phylotypes (73%) with relatively low frequencies of other bacterial phylotypes, largely represented by the chloroflexi, actinobacteria, and bacteriodetes. Unidentified crenarchaeal phylotypes accounted for 4% of recoverable phylotypes, while algae, fungi, and mosses were indicated by a small fraction of recoverable phylotypes.
4251750| The influence of substrate concentration on plasmid transfer frequency in the rhizosphere was investigated using a physical model employing a hollow fiber membrane instead of a real root. The absolute number of transconjugants produced increased with increasing substrate (glucose) concentration, but the plasmid transfer frequency decreased exponentially with increasing substrate concentration from
41489208|Bacterial lipopeptides (LPs) are a diverse group of secondary metabolites synthesized through one or more non-ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs). In certain genera, such as Pseudomonas and Bacillus, these enzyme systems are often involved in synthesizing biosurfactants or antimicrobial compounds. Several different types of LPs have been reported for non-pathogenic plant-associated Pseudomonas. Focusing on this group of bacteria, we devised and validated a PCR method to detect novel LP-synthesizing NRPS genes by targeting their lipoinitiation and tandem thioesterase domains, thus avoiding amplification of genes for non-LP metabolites, such as the pyoverdine siderophores present in all fluorescent Pseudomonas. This approach enabled detection of as yet unknown NRPS genes in strains producing viscosin, viscosinamide, WLIP, or lokisin. Furthermore, it proved valuable to identify novel candidate LP producers among Pseudomonas rhizosphere isolates. By phylogenetic analysis of these amplicons, several of the corresponding NRPS genes can be tentatively assigned to the viscosin, amphisin, or entolysin biosynthetic groups, while some others may represent novel NRPS systems.
4251143| Organisms present in methanogenic freshwater lake sediments from the vicinity of Athens, Georgia, were adapted to mineralize 2,4-dichlorophenol. Repeated addition of 0.5 to 2.7 mmol/liter of phenol, and later of 0.5-6.2 mmol/liter p-hydroxybenzoate (p-OHB), to such enrichments led to the conversion of p-OHB to phenol at a rate of up to 100 mmol p-OHB per liter per day. Subsequently, a spore-forming, obligately anaerobic bacterium, strain JW/Z-1, was isolated which transformed p-OHB to phenol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (3,4-OHB) to catechol (1,2-dihydroxybenzene) stoichiometrically without further metabolism of the phenols. The strain did not transform benzoate, 4-chlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 4-chlorobenzoate, o- and m-hydroxybenzoate, 2,4- and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoate, 2,3,4- and 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoate, or 4-aminobenzoate. Yeast extract was required for growth of strain JW/Z-1 and only high concentrations of casein hydrolysate or tryptone could substitute it, to some extent. Except for sodium acetate, and some amino acids together with a 20-fold increased concentration of vitamins, no single carbohydrate or defined organic compound has been found to support growth of this strain in the presence (or in the absence) of 0.2 to 0.5% (w/v) yeast extract. The fermentation products during growth on yeast extract indicated that the metabolism of amino acid degradation was the major source for growth. The decarboxylating activity was inducible by p-OHB for the decarboxylation of p-OHB, and at a lower rate for 3,4-OHB, and by 3,4-OHB only for 3,4-OHB, suggesting that two different enzyme systems exist. The addition of the aromatic amino acids phenol or benzoate did not induce the decarboxylation activity in cultures growing with yeast extract. Growth was observed at temperatures ranging from 12-41C (
23469186|Bioassays experiments were conducted to determine the metabolic and community composition response of bacteria to transplants between relatively pristine coastal seawater and sewage-impacted seawater. There were four treatments: (1) pristine seawater bacteria+pristine seawater (Pb+Pw), (2) sewage-impacted bacteria+sewage-impacted water (Sb+Sw), (3) pristine seawater bacteria+sewage-impacted water (Pb+Sw), and (4) sewage-impacted bacteria+pristine seawater (Sb+Pw). Sewage-derived DOC was more labile and readily utilized by bacteria, which favored the growth of high nucleic acid (HNA) bacteria, resulting in high bacterial production (BP, 1134.92 to 13015.8 g C 1 -1 day -1 ) and low respiration rate (BR, <6711.3 g C 1 -1 day -1 ), as well as high bacterial growth efficiency (BGE, 0.680.09 to 0.710.05). In contrast, at the relatively pristine site, bacteria utilized natural marine-derived dissolved organic matter (DOM) at the expense of lowering their growth efficiency (BGE, <0.320.02) with low BP (<626.3 g C 1 -1 day -1 ) and high BR 13314.2 g C 1 -1 day -1 ). Sewage DOM input appeared to alter the partitioning of carbon between respiration and production of bacteria, resulting in a shift toward higher BGE, which would not enhance oxygen consumption. Taxonomic classification based on 454 pyrosequencing reads of the 16S rRNA gene amplicons revealed that changes in bacterial community structure occurred when seawater bacteria were transferred to the eutrophic sewage-impacted water. Sewage DOM fueled the growth of Gammma-proteobacteria and Epsilson-proteobacteria and reduced the bacterial richness, but the changes in the community were not apparent when sewage-impacted bacteria were transferred to pristine seawater.
4251503| Characteristics (biomass and activity) of biofilms affected by surface channel water or inflowing lateral source water were investigated on the Rhne River at two seasons (growing and dormant season), and in two contrasting hydrodynamic and trophic situations. Sources were characterized by slow water velocity, fine sediment particles, high total organic matter (TOM) (both dissolved and particulate estimated by ignition loss), whereas, in the channel, flow velocity was higher, granules were coarser, and TOM concentrations were lower. During the growing season, there was significantly higher nitrate concentration and less biodegradable organic carbon in the source water than in the channel water. In sources where hydrodynamic constraints were lower, the heterotroph component of the biofilm was more developed (both total and electron transport system-active bacteria) than in the channel. In sources, a high positive correlation was established between TOM and both total protein and electron transport system (ETS) activity: source biofilms consumed TOM of sediments, which was available in each season. In the channel, a strong correlation existed between dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and both total bacteria and ETS bacteria. Channel biofilms appeared to be more opportunistic in preferentially using the dissolved organic matter from overlying water, which fluctuates seasonally. The development and activity of microbial assemblages can be relevant descriptors of changes in trophic flow; but hydrodynamic factors, water velocity, and grain size can modify the relationships between biofilm characteristics and nutrients. 
41489103|Acid mine drainage of the Carnouls mine (France) is characterized by acid waters containing high concentrations of arsenic and iron. In the first 30 m along the Reigous, a small creek draining the site, more than 38% of the dissolved arsenic was removed by co-precipitation with Fe(III), in agreement with previous studies, which suggest a role of microbial activities in the co-precipitation of As(III) and As(V) with Fe(III) and sulfate. To investigate how this particular ecosystem functions, the bacterial community was characterized in water and sediments by 16S rRNA encoding gene library analysis. Based on the results obtained using a metaproteomic approach on sediments combined with high-sensitivity HPLC-chip spectrometry, several GroEL orthologs expressed by the community were characterized, and the active members of the prokaryotic community inhabiting the creek sediments were identified. Many of these bacteria are -proteobacteria such as Gallionella and Thiomonas, but -proteobacteria such as Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans and -proteobacteria such as Acidiphilium, Actinobacteria, and Firmicutes were also detected.
25153065|Cholera is a diarrheal disease caused by the gram-negative bacterium Vibrio cholerae, and an estimated 120,000 deaths from cholera occur globally every year. The natural reservoir of the bacterium is environmental. A recent report indicated an association between V. cholerae and chironomid egg masses. Chironomids, the "non-biting midges" (Diptera; Chironomidae), are the most widely distributed and frequently the most abundant insects in freshwater. Females attach egg masses, each containing hundreds of eggs encased in a layer of gelatin, to the water's edge where bacteria are abundant and may encounter the nutrient-rich substrate. Here we report the isolation of non-O1 and non-O139 V. cholerae from chironomid egg masses from different freshwater bodies in Israel, India, and Africa. In a yearly survey in Israel, chironomid populations were found to peak biannually, and it seemed that those peaks were followed by subsequent bacterial growth and disappearance during the winter in the Mediterranean region. The bacterial population rose as water temperature surpassed 25C. Thirty-five different serogroups of V. cholerae were identified among the bacteria isolated from chironomids, demonstrating population heterogeneity. Two strains of V. cholerae O37 and O201 that were isolated from chironomid egg masses in Zanzibar Island were NAG-ST positive. Our findings support the hypothesis that the association found between chironomids and the cholera bacteria is not a rare coincidence, indicating that chironomid egg masses may serve as yet another potential reservoir for V. cholerae.
4251033| The supernatant fluids of cultures of four bacterial strains isolated from the skin of barracuda contained extracellular polymer concentrations of 0.2-0.5 mg/ml and reduced frictional drag by 2.5-22% in a turbulent flow rheometer. The production and properties of one of the drag-reducing polymers, referred to as PS-6, were studied further. Polymer PS-6 was produced by strain NS-31 in minimal salts medium supplemented with ethanol or glucose. The polymer began to accumulate in the culture medium during exponential phase and continued to be produced during stationary phase. It reduced drag by 55% at a concentration of 0.75 mg/ml. Acid-base titration of the deproteinized polymer PS-6A gave two inflection points:
25256122|Sponges (Porifera) are filter feeders that take up microorganisms from seawater and digest them by phagocytosis. At the same time, many sponges are known to harbor massive consortia of symbiotic microorganisms, which are phylogenetically distinct from those in seawater, within the mesohyl matrix. In the present study, feeding experiments were performed to investigate whether phylogenetically different bacterial isolates, hereafter termed "food bacteria," microbial seawater consortia, and sponge symbiont consortia are taken up and processed differently by the host sponge. Aplysina aerophoba retained high numbers of bacterial isolates and microbial seawater consortia with rates of up to 2.76  10 bacteria (g sponge wet weight) h, whereas the retention of sponge symbionts was lower by nearly two orders of magnitude [5.37  10 bacteria (g sponge wet weight) h]. In order to visualize the processing of a food bacterium within sponge tissues, the green fluorescent protein-labeled Vibrio strain MMW1, which had originally been isolated from A. aerophoba, was constructed. Incubation of this strain with A. aerophoba and subsequent visualization in tissue cryosections showed its presence in the choanocytes and/or endopinacocytes lining the canals but, unlike latex beads, not in deeper regions of the mesohyl, which suggests digestion of the bacteria upon contact with the host. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) was performed on the incubation seawater to monitor the changes in phylogenetic composition after incubation of the sponge with either seawater or sponge symbiont consortia. However, the DGGE experiment provided no evidence for selective processing of individual lineages by the host sponge. In conclusion, this study extends early studies by Wilkinson et al. (Proc R Soc London B 220:519-528, 1984) that sponges, here A. aerophoba, are able to differentiate between food bacteria and their own bacterial symbionts.
4251308|In a marsh in New Brunswick, Canada, belowground biomass of Spartina alterniflora consistently exceeded aboveground biomass by a factor of approximately 9. Both values peaked in July. Redox potential of the sediment was negative at all levels tested (2, 6, and 11 cm below surface), and was negatively correlated with depth. Concentrations of ergosterol, a sterol typical of higher fungi, were negatively correlated with redox potential and were highest in roots and rhizomes in July and August, 1-3 cm below the surface. These maxima corresponded to a fungal content of approximately 0.6% per ash-free dry mass of Spartina material. Balsa wood panels buried in anaerobic salt marsh sediment were colonized by fungi within 12 weeks. Eight fungal species isolated from S. alterniflora roots did not grow in the absence of oxygen, but were able to grow downward into an anaerobic medium.
4251589| Microbiological, geochemical, and isotopic analyses of sediment and water samples from the unconsolidated Yegua formation in east-central Texas were used to assess microbial processes in the terrestrial subsurface. Previous geochemical studies suggested that sulfide oxidation at shallow depths may provide sulfate for sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) in deeper aquifer formations. The present study further examines this possibility, and provides a more detailed evaluation of the relationship between microbial activity, lithology, and the geochemical environment on meter-to-millimeter scales. Sediment of varied lithology (sands, silts, clays, lignite) was collected from two boreholes, to depths of 30 m. Our findings suggest that pyrite oxidation strongly influences the geochemical environment in shallow sediments (5 m), and produces acidic waters (pH 3.8) that are rich in sulfate (28 mM) and ferrous iron (0.3 mM). Sulfur and iron-oxidizing bacteria are readily detected in shallow sediments; they likely play an indirect role in pyrite oxidation. In consistent fashion, there is a relative paucity of pyrite in shallow sediments and a low
4251717|Twenty-eight bacterial strains were isolated from an ecosystem adapted to fluctuating oxic-anoxic conditions. This ecosystem comprised a mixture of different natural and wastewater treatment environments. Among the 28 strains isolated, 10 exhibited aerobic denitrifying activity, i.e., corespiration of oxygen and nitrate and simultaneous production of nitrite by 4 of them and of nitrogen gas by the remaining 6. Comparisons between the 16S rDNA sequences of the 10 strains showed that 3 of them were identical to M. aerodenitrificans, whereas RAPD profiles showed that the 3 strains were identical to each other but that they were different from M. aerodenitrificans. This implies that alternating aerobic-anoxic conditions allowed the isolation of a new strain of this aerobic denitrifier. Moreover, other denitrifying bacteria belonging to the genera Paracoccus, Thiobacillus, Enterobacter, Comamonas, and Sphingomonas were isolated in this way. These data imply that a wide variety of bacteria are able to carry out this type of metabolism. M. aerodenitrificans was also detected in methanogenic, denitrifying, nitrifying, phosphate removal, and activated sludge ecosystems by two-step PCR amplification. After 4 months of acclimation to oxic-anoxic phases, the strain was also detected in a canal and in a pond. This suggests that there is no specific natural ecological niche for aerobic denitrifiers but, as soon as selective pressure such as alternating aeration conditions is applied, this metabolism is amplified.
23597853|Although microorganisms are the primary drivers of biogeochemical cycles, the structure and functioning of microbial food webs are poorly studied. This is the case in Sphagnum peatlands, where microbial communities play a key role in the global carbon cycle. Here, we explored the structure of the microbial food web from a Sphagnum peatland by analyzing (1) the density and biomass of different microbial functional groups, (2) the natural stable isotope ( 13 C and  15 N) signatures of key microbial consumers (testate amoebae), and (3) the digestive vacuole contents of Hyalosphenia papilio, the dominant testate amoeba species in our system. Our results showed that the feeding type of testate amoeba species (bacterivory, algivory, or both) translates into their trophic position as assessed by isotopic signatures. Our study further demonstrates, for H. papilio, the energetic benefits of mixotrophy when the density of its preferential prey is low. Overall, our results show that testate amoebae occupy different trophic levels within the microbial food web, depending on their feeding behavior, the density of their food resources, and their metabolism (i.e., mixotrophy vs. heterotrophy). Combined analyses of predation, community structure, and stable isotopes now allow the structure of microbial food webs to be more completely described, which should lead to improved models of microbial community function.
25153331|Most soil microbial community studies to date have focused on homogenized bulk soil samples. However, it is likely that many important microbial processes occur in spatially segregated microenvironments in the soil leading to a microscale biogeography. This study attempts to localize specific microbial populations to different fractions or compartments within the soil matrix. Microbial populations associated with macroaggregates and inner- versus total-microaggregates of three diverse soils were characterized using culture-independent, molecular methods. Despite their relative paucity in most surveys of soil diversity, representatives of Gemmatimonadetes and Actinobacteria subdivision Rubrobacteridae were found to be highly abundant in inner-microaggregates of most soils analyzed. By contrast, clones affiliated with Acidobacteria were found to be relatively enriched in libraries derived from macroaggregate fractions of nearly all soils, but poorly represented in inner-microaggregate fractions. Based upon analysis of 16S rRNA, active community members within microaggregates of a Georgian Ultisol were comprised largely of Gemmatimonadetes and Rubrobacteridae, while within microaggregates of a Nebraska Mollisol, Rubrobacteridae and Alphaproteobacteria were the predominant active bacterial lineages. This work suggests that microaggregates represent a unique microenvironment that selects for specific microbial lineages across disparate soils.
4251489| A variety of infaunal marine polychaete and hemichordate species produce brominated secondary metabolites, particularly bromophenols, bromopyrroles, and bromobenzylalcohols. Rates of
4287691| Single-cell behavior within a biofilm was observed over a period of several hours. The observations were converted into quantitative stochastic rules governing the behavior of individual cells within a biofilm. Such a quantitative summary provides not only a concise description of the results but also information helpful when constructing computer models of dynamic biofilm systems. The time to division, emigration, and rate of motility of individual green fluorescent protein labeled Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 cells in a 3-10 m thick biofilm containing predominantly non-GFP labeled cells were calculated based on images of individual cells collected at 15-min time intervals. The biofilms were grown in flow cells and the images captured with a confocal laser microscope. Cells destined to emigrate are more active than those that remain; the geometric means for velocities in the biofilm are 1.0 m/h for remaining cells and 1.5 m/h for emigrating cells. The median time to emigration was 2.0 h. During the experimental observation period, the estimated probability for emigration is 0.44, illustrating that a substantial number of bacteria leave the field of view. Cells emigrate at a median time one-third that of the median time to replication. Specifically, the median time for cells to divide was 6.9 h, and it was estimated that 10% of the cells had a time to division greater than 10 h. 
41489092|The female genital tract (FGT) harbors very large numbers of bacterial species that are known to play an important role on vaginal health. Previous studies have focused on bacterial diversity in the vagina, but little is known about the ectocervical microbiota associated with FGT infections. In our study, vaginal swabs and ectocervical swabs were collected from 100 participants in China, including 30 women with bacterial vaginosis (BV; BV group), 22 women with cervicitis (Cer group), 18 women with BV in combination with cervicitis group) and 30 healthy control women (CN group). The diversity and richness of cervicovaginal microbiota were investigated with culture-independent polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and quantitative PCR (qPCR) targeting 11 microorganisms that have been associated with FGT infections. Despite significant interpersonal variations, the PCR-DGGE profiles revealed that vaginal microbiota and ectocervical microbiota were clearly much more complex in the BV group, while the ectocervical microbiota showed no significant difference between healthy and diseased participants. Using speciesspecific qPCR, BV and cervicitis were significantly associated with a dramatic decrease in Lactobacillus species (p< 0.05), and potential pathogenic species such as Gardnerella, Atopobium, Eggerthella, LeptotrichialSneathia, and Prevotella were more common and in higher copy numbers in BV than in CN samples (p values ranged from 0.000 to 0.021). No significant differences were observed between healthy and cervicitis samples (p> 0.05) in ectocervical microbiota. The total numbers of bacteria were significantly lower in the ectocervix as compared in the vagina (p< 0.05). Intriguingly, vaginal microbiota from participants with BV in combination with cervicitis was quite different from that of participants with Vor cervicitis alone. Our study demonstrated that the cervicovaginal microbiota was actively involved in the process of FGT infections. The predominant bacteria of the cervicovaginal communities were clearly associated with BV; however, there was not sufficient evidence that the ectocervical microbiota is directly involved in the development of cervicitis.
41489162|The use of indigenous bacterial root endophytes with biocontrol activity against soil-borne phytopathogens is an environmentally-friendly and ecologically-efficient action within an integrated disease management framework. The earliest steps of olive root colonization by Pseudomonas fluorescens PICF7 and Pseudomonas putida PICP2, effective biocontrol agents (BCAs) against Verticillium wilt of olive (Olea europaea L.) caused by the fungus Verticillium dahliae Kleb., are here described. A gnotobiotic study system using in vitro propagated olive plants, differential fluorescent-protein tagging of bacteria, and confocal laser scanning microscopy analysis have been successfully used to examine olive roots-Pseudomonas spp. interactions at the single-cell level. In vivo simultaneous visualization of PICF7 and PICP2 cells on/in root tissues enabled to discard competition between the two bacterial strains during root colonization. Results demonstated that both BCAs are able to endophytically colonized olive root tissues. Moreover, results suggest a pivotal role of root hairs in root colonization by both biocontrol Pseudomonas spp. However, colonization of root hairs appeared to be a highly specific event, and only a very low number of root hairs were effectively colonized by introduced bacteria. Strains PICF7 and PICP2 can simultaneously colonize the same root hair, demonstrating that early colonization of a given root hair by one strain did not hinder subsequent attachment and penetration by the other. Since many environmental factors can affect the number, anatomy, development, and physiology of root hairs, colonization competence and biocontrol effectiveness of BCAs may be greatly influenced by root hair's fitness. Finally, the in vitro study system here reported has shown to be a suitable tool to investigate colonization processes of woody plant roots by microorganisms with biocontrol potential.
25153030| Soil collected from an upland pasture was manipulated experimentally in ways shown previously to alter microbial community structure. One set of soil was subjected to chloroform fumigation for 0, 0.5, 2, or 24 h and the other was sterilised by gamma-irradiation and inoculated with a 10, 10, 10, or 10 dilution of a soil suspension prepared from unsterilized soil. Following incubation for 8 months, to allow for the stabilization of microbial biomass and activity, the resulting microbial community structure (determined by PCR-DGGE of bacterial specific amplification products of total soil DNA) was assessed. In addition, the functional stability (defined here as the resistance and resilience of short-term decomposition of plant residues to a transient heat or a persistent copper perturbation) was determined. Changes in the active bacterial population following perturbation (determined by RT-PCR-DGGE of total soil RNA) were also monitored. The manipulations resulted in distinct shifts in microbial community structure as shown by PCR-DGGE profiles, but no significant decreases in the number of bands. These shifts in microbial community structure were associated with a reduction in functional stability. The clear correlation between altered microbial community structure and functional stability observed in this upland pasture soil was not evident when the same protocols were applied to soils in other studies. RT-PCR-DGGE profiles only detected a shift in the active bacterial population following heat, but not copper, perturbation. We conclude that the functional stability of decomposition is related to specific components of the microbial community. 
4250605|Nitrogen fixation rates by epiphyllous microorganisms are affected by desiccation. Rates from leaf samples which had been dried for 12 h were 0.66 ng N/10
41489178|The yeast-like fungus Coniochaeta pulveracea was studied with regard to its novel lignocellulolytic activities and the possible effect thereof on yeasts from the woody phylloplane. An enrichment procedure was used to isolate C. pulveracea from a decaying Acacia tree, and the identity of the isolate was confirmed using morphology, as well as molecular and phylogenetic techniques. This isolate, as well as strains representing C. pulveracea from different geographical regions, were compared with regard to optimum growth temperature and enzyme activity to representatives of closely related species. These include strains of Coniochaeta boothii, Coniochaeta rhopalochaeta, and Coniochaeta subcorticalis. Plate assays for cellulase and xylanase activity indicated that all representatives of the above-mentioned species were able to produce extracellular hydrolytic enzymes and were also able to degrade birchwood toothpicks during a 50-day incubation period at 30C. To test the ability of these fungi and their enzymes to release simple sugars from complex cellulosic substrates, filtrates obtained from liquid cultures of Coniochaeta, cultivated on carbox- ymethyl cellulose (CMC) as sole carbon source, were analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography analysis. Consequently, the presence of mono-and disaccharides such as glucose and cellobiose was confirmed in these culture filtrates. Two subsequent experiments were conducted to determine whether these simple sugars released from woody material by Coniochaeta may enhance growth of phylloplane yeasts. In the first experiment, representatives of Coniochaeta were co-cultured with selected yeasts suspended in agar plates containing birchwood toothpicks, followed by examination of plates for colony formation. Results indicated that Coniochaeta growth on the toothpicks enhanced growth of nearby yeast colonies in the agar plates. In the second experiment, representatives of selected yeasts and Coniochaeta species were co-cultured on CMC and xylancontaining plates where after yeast colony formation was recorded on the plates. Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains, engineered to utilize specific wood degradation products, i.e., cellobiose or xylose, as sole carbon source were used as positive controls. While it was found that cellobiose released from CMC was assimilated by the yeasts, no evidence could be obtained that xylose released from xylan was used as carbon source by the yeasts. These ambiguous results could be ascribed to secretion of nutritious metabolic end products, other than the products of fungal xylanases.
4251158| The concentration of lignin in plant tissue is a major factor controlling organic matter degradation rates in forest ecosystems. Microbial biomass and lignin and cellulose decomposition were measured for six weeks in forest soil microcosms in order to determine the influence of pH, moisture, and temperature on organic matter decomposition. Microbial biomass was determined by chloroform fumigation; lignin and cellulose decomposition were measured radiometrically. The experiment was designed as a Latin square with soils of pH of 4.5, 5.5, and 6.5 adjusted to 20, 40, or 60% moisture content, and incubated at temperatures of 4, 12, or 24C. Microbial biomass and lignin and cellulose decomposition were not significantly affected by soil acidity. Microbial biomass was greater at higher soil moisture contents. Lignin and cellulose decomposition significantly increased at higher soil temperatures and moisture contents. Soil moisture was more important in affecting microbial biomass than either soil temperature or soil pH. 
25153257| The Charente River provides nutrient- and virus-rich freshwater input to the Marennes Olron Basin, the largest oyster-producing region in Europe. To evaluate virioplankton distribution in the Charente Estuary and identify which environmental variables control dynamic of virioplankton abundance, five stations defined by a salinity gradient (0-0.5, 0.6-5, 13-17, 20-24, and higher than 30 PSU) were surveyed over a year. Viral abundance was related to bacterioplankton abundance and activities, photosynthetic pigments, nutrient concentration, and physical parameters (temperature and salinity). On a spatial scale, virus displayed a decreasing pattern seaward with abundance ranging over the sampling period from 1.4  10 to 20.8  10 viruses mL making virioplankton the most abundant component of planktonic micro-organisms in the Charente Estuary. A good correlation was found between viral and bacterial abundance
40605706|Endophytic actinomycetes from Azadirachta indica A. Juss. were screened and evaluated for their antimicrobial activity against an array of pathogenic fungi and bacteria. A total of 55 separate isolates were obtained from 20 plants, and 60% of these showed inhibitory activity against one or more pathogenic fungi and bacteria. Actinomycetes were most commonly recovered from roots (54.5% of all isolates), followed by stems (23.6%), and leaves (21.8%). The dominant genus was Streptomyces (49.09% of all isolates), while Streptosporangium (14.5%), Microbispora (10.9%), Streptoverticillium (5.5%), Sacchromonospora sp. (5.5%), and Nocardia (3.6%) were also recovered. Streptomyces isolates AzR 006, 011, and 031 (all from roots) had acute activity against Pseudomonas fluorescens, while AzR027, 032, and 051 (also all from roots) showed activity against Escherichia coli. Meanwhile, an isolate of Nocardia sp. from leaves (AzL025) showed antagonism against Bacillus subtilis. Overall, 32 of the 55 were found to have broad spectrum significant antimicrobial activity, while about 4% of them showed strong and acute inhibition to pathogenic fungi and bacteria. Isolates of Streptomyces AzR031, 008, and 047, Nocardia sp. AzL025, and Streptosporangium sp. AzR 021 and 048 are of particular interest because they showed significant antagonistic activity against root pathogens, including Pythium and Phytophthora sp. Thus, many of the isolates recovered from A. indica in this study may be used in developing potential bio-control agents against a range of pathogenic fungi and bacteria and in the production of novel natural antimicrobial compounds. These results not only further our understanding of plant-microbe interactions but also indicate that there is an untapped resource of endophytic microorganisms that could be exploited in the biotechnological, medicinal, and agricultural industries.
25153139|Bacterioplankton community composition (BCC) was monitored in a shallow humic lake in northern Wisconsin, USA, over 3 years using automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA). Comparison of ARISA profiles of bacterial communities over time indicated that BCC was highly variable on a seasonal and annual scale. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling (MDS) analysis indicated little similarity in BCC from year to year. Nevertheless, annual patterns in bacterioplankton community diversity were observed. Trends in bacterioplankton community diversity were correlated to annual patterns in community succession observed for phytoplankton and zooplankton populations, consistent with the notion that food web interactions affect bacterioplankton community structure in this humic lake. Bacterioplankton communities experience a dramatic drop in richness and abundance each year in early summer, concurrent with an increase in the abundance of both mixotrophic and heterotrophic flagellates. A second drop in richness, but not abundance, is observed each year in late summer, coinciding with an intense bloom of the nonphagotrophic dinoflagellate Peridinium limbatum. A relationship between bacterial community composition, size, and abundance and the population dynamics of Daphnia was also observed. The noted synchrony between these major population and species shifts suggests that linkages across trophic levels play a role in determining the annual time course of events for the microbial and metazoan components of the plankton.
41693741|We studied the structure and diversity of the phyllosphere bacterial community of a Mediterranean ecosystem, in summer, the most stressful season in this environment. To this aim, we selected nine dominant perennial species, namely Arbutus unedo, Cistus incanus, Lavandula stoechas, Myrtus communis, Phillyrea latifolia, Pistacia lentiscus, Quercus coccifera (woody), Calamintha nepeta, and Melissa officinalis (herbaceous). We also examined the extent to which airborne bacteria resemble the epiphytic ones. Genotype composition of the leaf and airborne bacteria was analysed by using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiling of a 16S rDNA gene fragment; 75 bands were cloned and sequenced corresponding to 28 taxa. Of these, two were found both in the air and the phyllosphere, eight only in the air, and the remaining 18 only in the phyllosphere. Only four taxa were found on leaves of all nine plant species. Cluster analysis showed highest similarity for the five evergreen sclerophyllous species. Aromatic plants were not grouped all together: the representatives of Lamiaceae, bearing both glandular and non-glandular trichomes, formed a separate group, whereas the aromatic and evergreen sclerophyllous M. communis was grouped with the other species of the same habit. The epiphytic communities that were the richest in bacterial taxa were those of C. nepeta and M. officinalis (Lamiaceae). Our results highlight the remarkable presence of lactic acid bacteria in the phyllosphere under the harsh conditions of the Mediterranean summer, the profound dissimilarity in the structure of bacterial communities in phyllosphere and air, and the remarkable differences of leaf microbial communities on neighbouring plants subjected to similar microbial inocula; they also point to the importance of the leaf glandular trichome in determining colonization patterns.
40802269|The study was conducted on alterations found on stone artwork and integrates microbial control and a biotechnological method for the removal of undesirable chemical substances. The Demetra and Cronos sculptures are two of 12 stone statues decorating the courtyard of the Buonconsiglio Castle in Trento (Italy). An initial inspection of the statues revealed putative black crusts and highlighted the microbial contamination causing discoloration. In 2006, the Cultural Heritage Superintendence of Trento commissioned us to study and remove these chemical and biological stains. Stereomicroscopy characterised the stone of the sculptures as oolitic limestone, and infrared analyses confirmed the presence of black crusts. To remove the black crusts, we applied a remediation treatment of sulphate-reducing bacteria, which removes the chemical alteration but preserves the original stone and the patina noble. Using traditional and biomolecular methods, we studied the putative microbial contamination and confirmed the presence of biodeteriogens and chose biocide Biotin N for the removal of the agents causing the discolouration. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis fluorescent in situ hybridisation established that Cyanobacteria and green algae genera were responsible for the green staining whereas the black microbial contamination was due to dematiaceous fungi. After the biocide Biotin N treatment, we applied molecular methods and demonstrated that the Cyanobacteria, and most of the green algae and dematiaceous fungi, had been efficiently removed. The reported case study reveals that conservators can benefit from an integrated biotechnological approach aimed at the biocleaning of chemical alterations and the abatement of biodeteriogens.
4250610|A sessile predator, the ciliated protozoan Tokophrya lemnarum, produces a motile embryo. The embryo attaches to a substrate and secretes a stalk at metamorphosis. Production of the offspring is closely synchronized with the feeding schedule, so that fecundity per individual varies directly with the food level. Some embryos produced by an adult do not attach at metamorphosis but become freely floating adults. The percentage of nonattaching embryos is compared between adults fed high or low level diets. Adults on the low level diet produce 25% or more nonattaching embryos compared to 10% or less produced by adults on a high level diet. If the adult is switched from a low level diet to a high level diet, or from high to low, the percentage of nonattaching embryos produced on each diet remains relatively constant. It is suggested that nonattachment provides one means for individuals to escape areas of low prey density and availability.
4250652| Growth rate estimates () of phytoplankton populations that were sampled from nitrogen-limited continuous cultures and then incubated for short durations in batch culture with added
4287608|The spatial distribution of interstitial NO
25256112|We investigated controls on stream sediment denitrification in nine headwater streams in the Kalamazoo River Watershed, Michigan, USA. Factors influencing denitrification were determined by using experimental assays based on the chloramphenicol-amended acetylene inhibition technique. Using a coring technique, we found that sediment denitrification was highest in the top 5 cm of the benthos and was positively related to sediment organic content. To determine the effect of overlying water quality on sediment denitrification, first-order stream sediments were assayed with water from second- and third-order downstream reaches, and often showed higher denitrification rates relative to assays using site-specific water from the first-order stream reach. Denitrification was positively related to nitrate (
4251175|The role of biological activities in the reduction and volatilization of Hg(II) from a polluted pond was investigated. Elemental mercury was evolved from pond water immediately following spiking with
40926439|Bacterial communities inhabiting coastal sediments are subjected to oil spills. In order to examine the early structural response of a complex bacterial community to oil pollution, a kinetic study of the crude oil impact on bacterial communities inhabiting sediments from the contaminated Etang-de-Berre lagoon was performed. The sediments were maintained in slurries in presence or absence of crude oil and the kinetic study was carried out 14 days. During this period, 54% of crude oil was biodegraded showing the importance of the early degradation step. The metabolically active community (16S rRNA transcript analysis) was immediately impacted by the oil input, observed as an apparent decrease of species richness in the first hour of incubation. Nevertheless, this shift was quickly reversed, highlighting a fast, adaptative and efficient response of the metabolically active bacterial population. The high proportion of sequences related to hydrocarbonoclastic strains or petroleum-associated clones in active oiled community was consistent with significant increasing numbers of cultivable hydrocarbonoclastic bacteria at the end of the experiment. We concluded that "Etang-de-Berre" bacterial communities inhabiting oiled sediments for decades adopted a specific structure depending on oil presence and were able to face hydrocarbon contamination quickly and efficiently.
4251091| Abundance, biovolume, and species composition of pelagic ciliates in Lake Constance were recorded over two annual cycles (1987/88). Production was estimated from mean annual biovolumes and size-specific growth rates obtained from the literature. Cell concentrations and biovolumes ranged from 0.1 to 120 cells ml
