10.2307/1484734|Spore and pollen assemblages occurring in a pillar column of the Upper Pennsylvanian Redstone coal seam of West Virginia are used to interpret the phytoecological history of the ancient swamp in which the source material of the coal was deposited. Punctatosporites minutus and other bilaterally symmetrical monolete spore species predominate throughout the thickness of the seam and mask the vertical variation of other apparently more significant species. With the removal of P. minutus from the count, additional assemblages could be recognized, some of which correspond closely to variations in the maceral content of the seam. As a result, three phases in the ecological development of the Redstone coal were distinguished. Forty-nine sporomorph species, placed in 34 genera, were recognized. Ten species and one genus, Stripites, are described as new. Pollen grains attributed to the Chlamydospermae, Hamiapollenites and Vittatina, more typical of Permian assemblages, are recorded from the lower portions of the seam, and are considered to have been contributed from extra-swamp sources. Densosporites and Cristatisporites are reported for the first time from an Upper Pennsylvanian coal seam in the United States.
10.2307/1485637|Restudy of the dinoflagellate stratigraphy of Deep Sea Drilling Project Site 100 in the southwestern North Atlantic reveals six species which indicate that the lowermost part of the sedimentary section is not older than Kimmeridgian. The first appearance datums of four of these species in the Pictonia baylei ammonite zone permits a maximum age close to, or at, the Kimmeridgian/Oxfordian boundary. Correlation of mutually occurring species at D.S.D.P. Sites 100 and 534 suggests that the interval from the first appearance of Occisucysta balios to directly above the last appearance of Stephanelytron scarburghense can be used to distinguish the Kimmeridgian sensu gallico. In the Tethyan province, the Kimmeridgian/Tithonian boundary is tentatively placed between the last appearance of S. scarburghense and the first appearance of Cometodinium whitei. Amphorula metaelliptica first appears in the approximate position of this boundary. The new genus Atlantodinium, and the new species A. jurassicum, are proposed. Amphorula is emended, and the new species A. dodekovae is proposed. The new species, Meiourogonyaulax bejuii, is proposed. The nature of the tabulation of the sulcus may be valuable for recognizing leptodinioid cysts in the Jurassic.
10.2307/1484325|A method of contact microradiography, which is useful in revealing the internal structure of whole foraminifera, is described. Microradiographs of a number of different foraminifera, which demonstrate the type of result that can be expected with this method, are reproduced in this paper.
40983739|The paper presents results of detailed investigation of freshwater microalgae from the Upper Miocene deposits from Jzefina (Krakw-Silesia Upland, central Poland). During the studies 28 microphytoplankton species of the genera Sigmopollis, Geiselodinium, Botryococcus, Ovoidites, Cycloovoidites, Stigmozygodites, Diagonalites, Tetraporina, Spintetrapidites, Closterite-trapidites, Planctonites, Cystidiopsis, Zygodites, and Pseudoschizaea were identified. One new species Closteritetrapidites pacltovae E. Worobiec sp. nov. has been proposed. Most of the recorded algae preferred meso-to eutrophic, stagnant or slowly flowing shallow waters. The presence of resting cells  e.g. zygospores of Zygnemataceae (Mougeotia, Spirogyra, and Zygnema) and desmids (Closterium), suggests that the water body (bodies) might periodically dried out. The occurrence of Pseudoschizaea is characteristic for warm climate, possibly with seasonal moisture fluctuations. Occurrence of determined species in various localities (listed in synonyms) suggests that these algae were widespread in the past.
1486220|Planktic foraminifera, calcareous nannofossils and radiolaria were examined from Early Neogene sequence of John Lawrence Island, Andaman Sea in order to compare and contrast the stratigraphic ranges of various microfossil groups to achieve a better biostratigraphic resolution. Based on stratigraphic ranges of planktic foraminifera, the examined samples from the South Point section of John Lawrence Island are referable to the upper part of the Globigerinatella insueta Zone and lower part of Praeorbulina glomerosa Zone of Srinivasan (1988). These zones also correspond to Globigerinoides bisphericus (M4b) Zone and Praeorbulina sicana-Praeorbulina glomerosa (M5a) Zone of Berggren et al. (1995) delineating the Early / Middle Miocene boundary. The boundary between these two zones demarcates the Jarawaian / Inglisian Stage (Early / Middle Miocene) boundary. The calcareous nannofossil assemblage recovered from the examined samples is assigned to Helicosphaera ampliaperta (NN4) Zone of Martini (1971), whereas radiolarian studies reveal the samples to be referable to Calocycletta costata Zone of Reidel and Sanfilippo (1970). Berggren et al. (1995b) estimated an age range of 16.7-16.1 Ma for planktic foraminiferal zones (M4b-M5a) and 18.3-15.6 Ma for the calcareous nannofossil zone (NN4). According to Nigrini (1985) the radiolarian Calocycletta costata Zone ranges in age from 17.3-15.7 Ma. A comparison of above estimated ages reveals the age data based on planktic foraminifera to be more precise than the calcareous nannofossils and radiolaria. Thus, based on comparative age data the sequence examined at John Lawrence Island represents the upper part of calcareous nannofossil Helicosphaera ampliaperta (NN4) Zone and also the upper part of the radiolaria Calocycletta costata Zone. The inconsistency in the distribution and abundance of any single microfossil group throughout the examined section shows the need for employing multiple microfossil biostratigraphic approach. The study reveals that various microfossil groups serve as complimentary to each other for attaining enhanced biostratigraphic resolution.
10.2307/1485184|Post-depositional shape modification by calcite overgrowth in Emiliania huxleyi and Umbellosphaera irregularis is demonstrated in Late Quaternary sediments from the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aqaba. Overgrowth may produce forms which resemble discoasters, thus raising taxonomic problems. Waters of the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aqaba, supersaturated with CaCO<sub>3</sub>, are probably the cause of this modification.
10.2307/1484566| A quantitative study was made of the microfossils and sedimentology of most of the Tertiary section in Tecolote Tunnel, Santa Barbara County, California. Foraminiferal evidence indicates that the Cozy Dell shale and Coldwater sandstone are middle Eocene bathyal deposits with an abundance of turbidites. A major Middle Tertiary basinal cycle commenced in the Oligocene with the alluvial fan deposits of the Sespe formation, giving way to middle bathyal deposits with turbidites in the upper Vaqueros sandstone and Rincn shale formations, and finally to deeper-silled basin deposits in the Mohnian part of the Monterey shale, also with turbidites. One planktonic foraminiferal zone is recognized for the middle Eocene, and three were established for the Miocene. Carbonate/nitrogen ratios were useful in selecting the division between the nonmarine Sespe formation and the marine paralic facies of the basal Vaqueros sandstone. The stages of the California Miocene are adjusted to the standard European section by evaluating the Orbulina universa datum. 
10.2307/1484524|Lacazinella, n. gen., is proposed for the ovoid, prolate, spheroid form of trematophore foraminifera from the upper Eocene of the New Guinea region. Lacazina wichmanni Schlumberger, 1894, is taken as the type species of the new genus.
1486195| New palynological data from the Sal brickyard (Atlantic coast of northern Morocco) are analyzed for their late Neogene biostratigraphical implications and the relationship with paleoenvironmental changes. Palynological zones (I to VI) described in this paper are based on palynomorph concentrations, fluctuations in species distribution, ratios between marine and continental palynomorphs, and the Last Appearance Datums (LADs) of twelve species. The brevity of some of the ranges in comparison with published dinoflagellates ranges from other locations is analyzed in view of important ecological events that took place in the Gibraltar Arc area at the end of the Miocene. Zone boundaries reflect global glacio-eustatic and/or local tectonic events that induced major modifications to the Atlantic/Mediterranean connections. The palynological data allow to differenciate time of eustatic versus tectonic control and permit to define how the paleoceanographic evolution of the Rifian Strait eventually led to the Messinian Salinity Crisis. We postulate that the nine LADs taking place at the Mio/Pliocene boundary results from the reconfiguration of oceanic circulation pattern and environmental conditions in the Gibraltar Strait area, as marine communication between the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea resumed, marking the end of the Messinian Salinity Crisis. 
10.2307/1485827|Ninety-eight foraminiferal species identified in forty sediment samples collected from different parts of the Arabian Gulf (Persian Gulf) are illustrated and their distribution investigated. The identified foraminiferal fauna of the Gulf consists of 15% Textulariina (agglutinated forms), 37% Miliolina (porcellaneous forms), 0.1% Lagenina, 1% Globigerinina (planktic forms) and 47% Rotaliina (the last mentioned three suborders constituting the hyaline forms). Cluster analysis of quantitative data on the distribution of tests of foraminiferal species in the samples allow us to determine four assemblages, generally corresponding to the major geomorphic provinces of the Gulf: a western Iranian Shallow Shelf assemblage, an assemblage distributed all over the Axial Zone of the Arabian Gulf, a deep water assemblage of the Central Basin of the Gulf extending up to the Strait of Hormuz and an Arabian Shallow Shelf assemblage. The study of the geographical distribution of these assemblages and their relation to major geographical characteristics of the surrounding lands suggests that the nature of the foraminiferal assemblages depends mainly on biotic factors. The fauna of the Iranian Shelf displays a high diversity (average Yule-Simpson diversity index for the assemblage 39.2) as it receives an appreciable amount of nutrients from drainages in the topographically high Iranian hinterland. The fauna of the Arabian Shelf displays relatively low diversities (average Yule-Simpson diversity index for the assemblage 16.1) as the arid Arabian hinterland is practically deprived of active drainage. The foraminiferal fauna of the deepest parts of the investigated localities display low diversities and include appreciable proportions of agglutinated forms. Lowest diversities are observed near the Strait of Hormuz (Yule-Simpson diversity index of 14.9), highest diversities near the mouth of Shatt Al-Arab (Yule-Simpson diversity index of 62.9). This suggests that the amounts of nutrients provided by drainages debouching in a landlocked basin is an important factor determining the constitution of the foraminifera of bottom sediments.
10.2307/1484929|A palynological study of the miospores of the Albert Oil Shales (Tournaisian) of Albert and Westmorland Counties, New Brunswick, Canada, has indicated a fresh-water origin of the Albert Formation. The microflora is closely similar to the one recovered from rocks of the Horton Group of Nova Scotia. Thirty-eight determinable spore types have been described, of which seven represent new species.
10.2307/1484797|Degradation patterns in the walls of fossil pollen grains and spores are described. The smoothness and multiplicity of the wall perforations are indicative of biologic activity, assumed to be fungal in nature. Spore or pollen exines may be selectively attacked and removed from the microflora.
10.2307/1485649|The Capnuchosphaeridae and Capnodocinae are radiolarians that are restricted to the Upper Triassic. The Capnuchosphaeridae, one of the earliest families of the Liosphaerilae (Liosphaeracea which lack internal spicules), range from lower Karnian to upper Norian stages. The Capnodocinae, a subfamily of the Pantanelliidae characterized by hollow, tubular primary spines, has a range from upper Karnian to upper middle Norian. Collections of these two groups from the Rail Cabin Argillite of eastern Oregon include three new genera and 35 new species which are described herein.
10.2307/1484233|Recently discovered pollen grains with asymmetrically ridged ektexines from the Chinle formation (Upper Triassic) represent the extant genus Ephedra. The holotype specimen of Equisetosporites chinleana Daugherty is also a conspecific Ephedra pollen grain, and the species is transferred to form the new combination Ephedra chinleana (Daugherty) R. A. Scott. Since this species was its genotype, the genus Equisetosporites Daugherty should be abandoned.
10.2307/1484580|A neotype from Las Palmas is selected for Astrononion stelligerum (d'Orbigny). External sutural plates in this and some other species of Astrononion are shown to have developed from sutural tubes; consequently, the genus Pacinonion Vella, erected for species with sutural tubes, is considered a junior synonym of Astrononion. Three subgenera of Astrononion are proposed: Astrononion (umbilicate, with sutural tubes sometimes modified as plates; type: Nonionina stelligera d'Orbigny); Laminononion, new subgenus (non-umbilicate with rhomboidal or triangular plates covering the umbilicus; type: Astrononion tumidum Cushman and Edwards); and Fijinonion, new subgenus (umbilicate with broad, fused apertural plates; type: Astrononion fijiensis Cushman and Edwards).
40983741|Over 1000 samples from cores and cutting from 37 wells from offshore South America have been investigated and have provided new insight into the evolution of the miogypsinids. For the first time Paleomiogypsina, a genus first described from the Late Oligocene of Japan, is reported from the Early Oligocene of the American province. One new genus, Americogypsina and 18 new species, Neorotalia sp. 1, Paleomiogypsina braziliana, P. americana, Americogypsina braziliana, A. americana, A. koutsoukosi, Miogypsinella elongata, Mlla matsumaria, Mlla sp. 1, Miogypsinoides praegunteri, Mdes sp. 1, Miogypsinodella braziliana, Miogypsina triangulata, M. americoprimitiva, Miolepidocyclina braziliana, Ml. sp. 1, Ml. sp. 2, Ml sp. 3 are described. The American, regional evolutionary lineages of the miogypsinids taxa are described, starting in the Early Oligocene and ending in the Early Miocene. Their phylogenetic lineages are similar to those of the Tethyan miogypsinids, however the stratigraphic ranges of the main genera and their species are different, as the American miogypsinids made their first appearance earlier than their morphologically similar Tethyan counterparts.
10.2307/1485039|Specimens of the family Orbitoididae with more than one macrospheric embryo suggest that macrospheric embryos were formed at the center of individuals, proceeded through the test to the periphery and made their departure. The movement of these macrospheric embryos was facilitated by temporary chemical reactions in the protoplasm that caused dissolution of the chamber walls and allowed the embryos to pass. The occurrence of occasional multiembryo individuals along with large numbers of normal individuals is interpreted as indicative of true asexual reproduction rather than ecologically created variation.
1486166| Three new extinct taxa of the genus Stephanodiscus Ehrenberg (S. williamsii sp. nov., S. princeps sp. nov., S. yukonensis var. antiquus var. nov.) and four new extinct species and two new extinct varieties of the genus Cyclotella (Ktzing) Brbisson (C. iris var. insueta var. nov., C. tempereiformica sp. nov., C. distincta sp. nov., C. comtaeformica sp. nov., C. comtaeformica var. spinata var. nov. and C. praeminuta sp. nov.) are described from Upper Cenozoic lacustrine sediments of Lake Baikal (boreholes BDP-96-1 and BDP-96-2). The narrow biostratigraphic ranges of the new taxa warrant their use as index-fossil species for defining a diatom zonation, for accurate correlation and age control of Lake Baikal sediments. The comparative morphological analysis of the newly described Cyclotella taxa allowed us to trace the evolution of morphological features in these diatoms through time. The short time intervals during which the Stephanodiscus taxa existed in ancient Baikal imply that these species were unable to adapt to rapidly changing paleoecological and paleolimnological conditions caused by abrupt Pleistocene climatic fluctuations. 
10.2307/1484921|The diagnosis of the radiolarian suborder Albaillellaria is emended, and a new family, the Ceratoikiscidae, is erected. Four new species of Ceratoikiscum are described from calcareous concretions in Carboniferous (Namurian) goniatite bands of Staffordshire and Derbyshire, England. These species differ considerably from Devonian forms of the genus, and there is a suggestion of a minor change in the Ceratoikiscum species within the Arnsbergian (E2) Stage of the Namurian.
10.2307/1484782| The following sporomorphs are described from two Brazilian Lower Gondwana coal samples: Densosporites braziliensis, n. sp.; Anulatisporites papillatus, n. sp.; Punctatisporites reticulatus, n. sp.; Punctatisporites gretensis Balme and Hennelly; Leiotriletes directus Balme and Hennelly; L. sphaerotriangulatus (Loose) Potoni and Kremp; Verrucosisporites pseudoreticulatus Balme and Hennelly; V. bullatus Balme and Hennelly; Apiculatisporis filiformis (Balme and Hennelly), n. comb.; Pilasporites calculus Balme and Hennelly; Microreticulatisporites sp. A; Perisaccus dijkstrae, n. sp., Virkkispora ovalis, n. g., n. sp., and Pityosporites sakesarensis Pant and Srivastava. 
10.2307/1484143|Thirteen species belonging to the ostracode genus Bairdia are divided into four groups based on differences and similarities in the morphology of the male copulatory organ. The effect of temperature, salinity, and substrate on the distribution of Bairda is discussed. Four new species of Bairdia and one new species of Bairdoppilata collected in the Bahamas are described. The carapaces of females have smaller lenght-heigth ratios than those of males.
1486149|Internal skeletal structure of Nassellaria, Radiolaria forms during the early stages of ontogeny and is used as one of the main criteria of suprageneric classification. Its detailed knowledge represents also the structural basis of taxonomy of some genera. In order to use it properly a new descriptive terminology of the internal skeletal structure is developed for some large-cephalis bearing nassellarians. Eight Cenozoic to recent nassellarians assigned to three genera, Gondwanaria, Lipmanella and Lithomelissa including four new species, are described using this new terminology. Furthermore, on the basis of initial skeletal structure, the author clarifies the suprageneric taxonomy of genera, Gondwanaria Petrushevskaya and Lipmanella Loeblich and Tappan.
10.2307/1484445|A two-chambered microfossil with an internal tube and elongate neck is here described as Draffania biloba, n. gen., n. sp. It most resembles the Charophyta, but its actual relationships are unknown. It is confined to a narrow horizon in the upper Visean of Scotland and England.
3648473|The search for a Global Standard Stratotype-section and Point (GSSP) for the Paleocene/Eocene boundary has resulted in several concurrent studies of the Upper Paleocene-Lower Eocene interval in sections across Egypt from the Eastern and Western Deserts to Upper Egypt where spectacular outcrops occur along the Nile Valley. These studies have brought a wealth of data but their conclusions have been occasionally contradictory. I introduce these, and other relevant, sections, describing their lithostratigraphy, biostratigraphy and chemostratigraphy, summarizing the main results of their study, and discussing conflicting interpretations. Special attention is given to the interval that yields a record of the short-term events that are specific to the carbon isotope excursion, or CIE, and whose base now constitutes the principal means of correlation of the Paleocene/Eocene boundary.
10.2307/1485047|Minute fossils found in Pennsylvanian shale in Missouri are similar in ultrastructure to shields of coccoliths. Lathlike elements imbricate as in heliolithid coccoliths. No collar and second shield, however, can be seen, and the composition of the objects is not known.
10.2307/1485669|A new stratigraphically important species, Rhizosolenia sigmoida, is described from upper Pliocene sediments of the equatorial Pacific Ocean. It is distinguishable from Rhizosolenia bergonii Peragallo primarily by the length of the apical process and the shape of the apex of the calyptra. Rhizosolenia praebergonii Mukhina is separated from Rhizosolenia sigmoida by the inflection at the base of the apical process and the shape of the apex of the valve as well as by being temporally displaced.
10.2307/1484538|One subspecies and two species of foraminifera, Praealveolina cretacea tenuis Reichel, Thomasinella punica Schlumberger, and Buccicrenata libyca Gohrbandt, n. sp. are recorded from the Cenomanian Ain Tobi Formation of northwestern Libya, and the stratigraphy of that area is briefly discussed.
10.2307/1485465| A new Recent remaneicid, Abyssotherma pacifica, occurs in recruitment arrays placed in the vicinity of deep-sea (2600 m) hydrothermal springs in the East Pacific. It has quite a large (d. 500-1200 m) watchglass-shaped test, characterized by elongate ridges on the sutures of the spiral side, asymmetric and mushroom-shaped chambers on the umbilical side and an interior subdivided by secondary septa. A close homeomorph of the shallow, brackish-water species Bruneica clypea Brnnimann, Keij and Zaninetti, it differs in possessing two apertures per chamber in contrast to the single interiomarginal aperture of Bruneica. 
10.2307/1484130|Six bryozoan forms are described from the type locality of the Middle Miocene Bowden formation of Jamaica. All are new to the known Bowden assemblage, and one is believed to be a new species. The stratigraphic and geographic distribution of each of these forms is reviewed.
10.2307/1485498| On Seymour Island, Antarctica, the 1100m thick upper Campanian and Maastrichtian part of the nearshore marine Lpez de Bertodano Formation, which is well-dated by associated macro- and microfaunas and floras, contains rich palynomorph assemblages of paleoenvironmental significance. These assemblages were recovered from 179 samples and include 27 cryptogam spore species, plus additional species recycled from older Cretaceous rocks. No new taxa are proposed. The spore assemblages are consistent with a moist climate, and presence of salviniaceous aquatic ferns and abundant Sphagnum suggests that the northern Antarctic Peninsula region included mossy bogs/wetlands during the latest Cretaceous. 
3648478|In a detailed investigation of the sedimentology, mineralogy and trace element geochemistry of the stratigraphic interval spanning the Paleocene/Eocene (P/E) boundary in the Gabal el-Qreiya section, the author attempts to reconstruct environmental changes across the boundary especially for the interval representing the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM). The PETM interval consists of three distinct thin units of phosphatic shales followed by a calcareous phase. The basal unit is a laminated clay layer, whose base represents the base of the Eocene. It is enriched in silica and aluminium and is slightly phosphatic (bone-bearing). The middle unit is
3648480|We describe the planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy of the ~61m thick stratigraphic section spanning the Tarawan Chalk (~17m) and Esna Shale (~44 m) at Gebel Owaina and the ~35m thick section spanning the total thickness of the Esna Shale at Gebel Kilabiya, ~10km west of Owaina. The Owaina section spans Zones P4a (partim) to P6a (partim), whereas Kilabiya spans Zones P4c (partim) to P6a (partim). The Esna/Thebes contact at both localities is marked by a distinct angular unconformity within Zone P6a and a hiatus estimated >3 my; the sections are thus considerably less complete than at Dababiya, ~25km to the north. The recently revised Paleocene/Eocene boundary is located in both sections within the lower part of the Esna Shale at ~12m and 16.3m, respectively, above the base of the Esna Shale. The CIE-interval is reduced in both sections (~1m thick at G. Owaina and ~1.5m at G. Kilabiya) and exhibits evidence of a stratigraphic gap/hiatus within its upper part at both localities. The base of the CIE-interval is characterized by the lowest occurrences (LO) of Acarinina sibaiyaensis and marked at its top by the LO of Pseudohastigerina wilcoxensis. At Gebel Owaina the CIE-interval is directly preceded by the LO of Ac. wilcoxensis, Ac. angulosa, Acarinina esnaensis and Igorina broedermanni in descending order, whereas at Kilabiya this sequential order of bioevents is less well developed. Although the characteristic paleontologic trends observed elsewhere are subdued in the Kilabiya section, the latter shows a phased pattern within the CIE-interval comparable to that of the Dababiya Quarry Beds at Dababiya.
10.2307/1484220|The following study is based on two samples of the Marianna limestone (Oligocene), from Little Stave Creek, Clarke County, Alabama. One sample is from the Limestone member and the other from the Mint Spring member. The entire foraminiferal population was studied in order to establish the relationship of the microforaminifera to the other foraminifera present in each sample. Measurements made on series of foraminifera ranging in size from 60 to 800 microns indicate the lack of a natural size boundary for the microforaminifera group. Identifications of microforaminifera, where possible, were based on comparisons with foraminifera of larger size. Most microforaminifera are believed to be megalospheric forms. Some microforaminifera are not sufficiently differentiated in coiling or distinctive in test character, to permit identification with established genera or species. The lithology and microfossil assemblage of the two samples suggest deposition of the Marianna limestone in clear, calm, lower-neritic waters.
10.2307/1485506|The study of chorate dinoflagellate cysts with complex processes is made difficult by their tendency to be damaged or partially obscured by adherent debris. This has resulted in the group being relatively neglected by comparison with the simpler proximate and cavate cysts. To analyse the morphological variation of complex chorate cysts and produce listings of species characteristics, it proved necessary to return to the original descriptions of assigned species and, whenever possible, to re-examine type material. As a consequence of these morphological reassessments, emendations are made to the genera Compositosphaeridium Dodekova, Hystrichosphaerina Alberti, Systematophora Klement and Polystephanephorus Sarjeant and the species P. calathus (Sarjeant), P. paracalathus (Sarjeant), Hapsidaulax margarethae Sarjeant, Adnatosphaeridium caulleryi (Deflandre) and Surculosphaeridium cribrotubiferum Sarjeant. The new combinations Adnatosphaeridium densifilosum (Cookson and Eisenack), Adnatosphaeridium? speciosum (Alberti) and Hystrichosphaerina? varispinosa (Brenner) are proposed and the combination Surculosphaeridium? vestitum is retained. The re-evaluation of the group highlights the utility of complex chorate dinoflagellate cysts for biostratigraphic research and allows the postulation of several lineages that might form the basis of the group's continued evolution in the Late Jurassic and Cretaceous.
3648444|On the north-eastern margin of the Danish Basin (part of the Mesozoic North Sea Basin) the Upper Pliensbachian to Toarcian succession represents the early phase of delta outbuilding, involving marine shelf, distal prodelta and proximal prodelta environments. The marine shelf conditions are characterized by calcareous foraminiferal assemblages dominated by the suborder Lagenina. The prodelta environments are typified by low-diversity agglutinated assemblages concentrated in discrete stratigraphical horizons. In total seventeen foraminiferal species were recognized, the following five of which are described here for the first time: Haplophragmoides propygmaeus, Ammobaculites bivarians, Ammobaculites nanogyrus, Kutsevella spilota, and Bulbobaculites vermiculus. The taxonomic treatment has also lead to a revised biostratigraphic scheme subdividing the foraminiferal succession into six assemblages confined to discrete stratigraphical intervals.
4097082| Reticulofenestra circus var. lata is described from the Early Oligocene of North Atlantic Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) Site 558. The taxon is a large variety of Reticulofenestra circus, a medium-sized subcircular reticulofenestrid (8-10 micron in size). The outline of the new variety and the shape of the central area are identical to those of R. circus. Nonetheless it can be easily differentiated with the light microscope by the thicker collar and the considerable larger size (12-14m) of the coccolith. The quantitative distribution pattern shows that the taxon has a shorter stratigraphic range compared to that of R. circus, ranging from the uppermost part of Zone NP22 to the lower part of Zone NP23, within Chron C12r. The ages of the FO and of the LO of Reticulofenestra circus var. lata at Site 558 have been estimated at 32.46 and 31.71 Ma respectively, based on the available magnetostratigraphy. The LO is located slightly below the LO of Sphenolithus akropodus, whose biochronological age has been here calculated at 31.31 Ma. Reticulofenestra circus var. lata may represent a new Early Oligocene biostratigraphic marker. 
10.2307/1486105| In response to a growing need to define the Paleocene/Eocene boundary and record the events which immediately preceded and followed it within a 5 my span, the San Francisco de Paula section of western Cuba was evaluated for its potential as a boundary stratotype. Radiolarians, reported in previous studies by Cuban geologists as a major component of the faunal assemblages in this section, have been recollected and reanalyzed to determine their stratigraphic utility for recognition of the Paleocene/Eocene boundary in Cuba. On the basis of this and other recent microfossil studies of the San Francisco de Paula section, it is now known that the Paleocene/Eocene boundary in this succession is within an unconformity. Its placement herein is based on the highest occurrence of the planktonic foraminifera Morozovella velascoensis (Fernndez-Rodrguez et al. 1999, this volume). Radiolarians are present throughout the San Francisco de Paula succession with the exception of a barren interval in the middle of the section and two thin barren intervals near the top and the base. The most diverse radiolarian assemblages are from the shaley mudstones, which contain poorly preserved radiolarians that range from abundant to very rare. Other lithologies contain sparse, poorly preserved assemblages that appear strongly affected by dissolution. Thirty-five lowest and highest occurrences are noted within the section; however, because of poor preservation, several of these datums are higher or lower than expected when compared with the known global ranges of these species. The radiolarians from this study of the San Francisco de Paula section can be assigned to the stratigraphic interval from the upper Paleocene Bekoma campechensis to the lower Eocene Buryella clinata Zones. Species typical of the B. campechensis Zone include Bekoma campechensis, B. demissa, Bekoma spp., Buryella pentadica, B. tetradica, B. foremanae and Lamptonium pennatum. Faunas of the Bekoma bidartensis Zone contain Buryella tetradica, Giraffospyris lata, Phormocyrtis turgida, Podocyrtis (Podocyrtis) papalis, Pterocodon tenellus, Theocorys phyzella, Theocotyle nigriniae, Theocotylissa alpha, T. auctor and Thyrsocyrtis (Thyrsocyrtis) hirsuta. The radiolarian assemblage representing the lower part of the Buryella clinata Zone is similar to that of the Bekoma bidartensis Zone, and also includes the marker species Buryella clinata. Assignment of the upper part of the San Francisco de Paula section to the Buryella clinata Zone is tentative, because of poor preservation. In the San Francisco de Paula section, the precise location of the Paleocene/Eocene boundary cannot be determined on the basis of radiolarians. However, taken together, radiolarian and calcareous nannofossil evidence indicate that the Paleocene/Eocene boundary is within an unconformity between samples SFP-22 and SFP-21 at the highest local occurrence of Morozovella velascoensis, equivalent to the top of planktonic foraminiferal Zone P5. In addition to tabulating the stratigraphic ranges of radiolarian species in western Cuba, this study presents a preliminary correlation between the lower Paleogene standard radiolarian low latitude zonation and other zonal schemes presented for the Caribbean region and mid to high latitudes. Although the San Francisco de Paula section does possess some of the characteristics desirable in a stratotype for the Paleocene/Eocene boundary, its usefulness in terms of biostratigraphy is limited. 
20627993|The study of benthic foraminifera from the upper Maastrichtian intraplatform open shelflimestones in northeastern (Eastern Pontides) and central (Anatolides parts of Turkey reveals the presence of some benthic foraminiferal taxa, which appear to characterize the northern branch of the Neo-Tethys. The limestones are mainly composed of two microfacies: skeletal wackestone and bioclastic wackestone. These facies include Sirelina orduensis (Meri and nan), Laffitteina turcica (nan), Cideina soezerii (Sirel), Selimina spinalis (nan), Sivasella goekceni (Meri and nan) and Postomphalocyclus merici (nan). The geographic distribution of these species seems to be limited to the southern continental margin of the northern branch of the Neo-Tethys Ocean and the southern margin of the Rhodope-Pontide Fragment. These endemic taxa are associated with Orbitoides medius, Orbitoides apiculatus, Omphalocyclus macroporus, Pseudomphalocyclus blumenthali, Simplorbites papyraceus, Hellenocyclina beotica, Siderolites calcitrapoides, Loftusia minor, Smoutina cruysi, Sirtina orbitoidiformis, Laffitteina marsicana, Cuneolina ketini, Moncharmontia sp. and Dargenionella sp. which indicate a Late Maastrichtian age.
10.2307/1484625|Globigerina woodi connecta Jenkins, new subspecies, a form intermediate between Globigerina woodi woodi Jenkins and Globigerinoides trilobus (Reuss) in the Australasian Lower Miocene, is described, and its relationship to other species is discussed.
10.2307/1485102|The synonymy of the genera Asterellina and Eoeponidella was established in 1964. The geographical range of the Recent species of the genus Eoeponidella extends from Antarctica in the Southern Hemisphere to England and the Bering Sea in the Northern Hemisphere.
10.2307/1485809|The foraminiferan Heterohelix americana, first described in the Upper Cretaceous of the United States by Ehrenberg in 1843, was designated by Cushman (1927a) as the genotype of Heterohelix Ehrenberg. We have found, for the first time in Africa, a form close to this rare species in samples from Rd2 borehole of Western Senegal, together with a large number of other heterohelicids and hedbergbellids of probable early Turonian age. Specimens of Heterohelix americana and some accompanying planktonic forms are figured, and some of them discussed where this is warranted by differences or even contradictions in the literature.
10.2307/1484627|Dust from blackboard chalk may contaminate samples with its coccoliths, diatoms and microforaminifera.
10.2307/1484982|Palmula rakauroana Finlay, 1939, is redescribed, re-illustrated, and transferred to the genus Frondicularia. This foraminiferal species occurs only in the upper part of the Haumurian Stage (Maastrichtian) and appears to be restricted to the New Zealand area.
10.2307/1484584|Much of the recent discussion of mid-Tertiary correlations seems to be of little value, since the authors did not adhere to basic stratigraphic fundamentals. There are unambiguous type localities of the Chattian, Aquitanian and Burdigalian Stages. Foraminiferal evidence can be advanced to show that these three stages correspond with successive time intervals.
10.2307/1486044|Mixtacandona talianae n. sp. (Ostracoda, Candoninae), collected in the Holocene filling sedimentary succession of the Grotta del Lago near Triponzo (Umbria, Central Italy), is described and illustred. This medium-small sized species is characterized by a remarkable dorsal protuberance on the left valve. <sup>14</sup>C radiometric ages on the sediments correlatable with those bearing the new species have provided ages of 4,527-4,409 y BP (calibrated ages).
10.2307/1485791|A palynological assemblage consisting of thirty-five species of spores and pollen grains, distributed among twenty-seven genera has been recovered from the lower section of the Rancho de Lata Formation, Main Cordillera of San Juan Province, Argentina. One new genus of monosaccate pollen grains, Variapollenites Ottone, together with seven new species, Anapiculatisporites sandrae Ottone, Anapiculatisporites pamelae Ottone, Variapollenites rhombicus Ottone, Variapollenites curviplicatus Ottone, Variapollenites trisulcus Ottone, Platysaccus olivae Ottone, and Equisetosporites cinctus Ottone, are proposed. The present microfloristic assemblage is of the Ipswich Type, and considered as late Triassic in age.
10.2307/1484441|Sclerites of alcyonarians are frequent in certain sediments. A new classification is tentatively proposed to facilitate their study and their use in stratigraphy and paleobiology.
10.2307/1485916|The geographical distribution of the genus Scaliola shows that the modern and fossil representatives are restricted to the Indo-Pacific and Mediterranean regions, respectively. S. bella has the widest geographical distribution, and its migration rate seems to be less than 1 km per year. No representatives of the fossil Scaliola species are recorded in the studied modern sand samples.
10.2307/1485594|Current field and subsurface work in Trinidad shows that Globigerinoides ruber (d'Orbigny) ranges throughout the Miocene. A near extinction level occurred in the early Globorotalia mayeri Zone (= Zone N. 13), which coincides with the extinction level assigned to Globigerinoides subquadratus Bronnimann by various authors. Globigerinoides ruber rapidly recovered to become a common member of the faunas for the rest of the Globorotalia mayeri Zone, and was also found in spot samples and outcrop sections throughout the late Miocene. Faunas from the Buff Bay Formation in Jamaica were studied from a similar time span and confirmed the Trinidad findings with the presence of Globigerinoides ruber throughout the late Globorotalia mayeri Zone (= Zone N. 14) and in the late Miocene. The middle to late Miocene zonal boundaries originally assigned to the Buff Bay Formation are changed. Globigerinoides subquadratus is considered the junior synonym of G. ruber. The use of a Globigerinoides ruber Zone based on the pseudoextinction level is left to the discretion of the biostratigrapher.
10.2307/1485630|Alveovalvulinidae, n. fam., is described for foraminifers with inner structures consisting of alveoli conjoined through tubiform connections. This family ranges from Early Miocene to Holocene, and includes the genera Alveovalvulina and Guppyella (= Alveovalvulinella). The family Liebusellidae is redescribed. Four groups of agglutinated foraminifers with inner structures reached their maximum diversification during the Early and Middle Miocene: Alveovalvulinidae, Pavonitinidae, Spiropsammia and the Cyclamminidae (Cenozoic). They occur chiefly in bathyal to abyssal sediments of tropical waters. Other minor groups of agglutinated foraminifers with inner structures, mainly relict Cretaceous genera, do not appear to follow the Early-Middle Miocene diversification. The geographic distribution of the Neogene agglutinated foraminifers is as follows: 1) Alveovalvulinidae occur only in the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico; 2) Pavonitinidae and Spiropsammia occur chiefly in West Africa and central Europe; and 3) Liebusella has been reported only from along the eastern sides of the continents.
10.2307/1484396|Examination of material from three Dominican Republic Miocene localities has revealed the necessity for clarification of the genus Corynostylus Canu and Bassler, 1919. C. labiatus and C. ellipticus are determined to be synonymous. A new ascophoran genus is described together with one new species, Fusicanna dohmi, and the affinities of the genus are discussed.
10.2307/1485441|Dentokrithe, a new ostracode genus of Krithinae is described from Tertiary sediments. Three species are included. D. autochthona (Lyubimova and Guha) from the Lower Miocene of western and southern India. D. bartonensis (Jones) from the Upper Eocene of England (possibly also of Belgium and Netherlands), and D. indica (Tewari and Tandon) from the Middle Eocene of western India.
10.2307/1484241|The presence of Choffatella decipiens in the "Toco beds" of Trinidad is discussed, and the sole occurrence of the species in that area is found to be within the Tompire formation.
10.2307/1485482| This study of planktonic foraminifera, ostracodes and calcareous nannoplankton was undertaken to establish a paleoecological and biostratigraphic framework in the Arroyo-Hondo Section of the Pacific island Mara Madre, Nayarit, Mexico. A new planktonic foraminiferal species, Pulleniatina alticuspis, and three new ostracodes, Radimella mariae, R. labyrinthus, and Microxestoleberis willemi are described. The base of the section (Unit I) is barren of calcareous microfossils. On the basis of previous work on radiolarians and for its continuity in the next younger unit, it is considered latest Miocene in age. The following upper Unit II contains planktonic and benthic foraminifera that suggest a latest Miocene to Early Pliocene age. For the next younger units an Early Pliocene to Middle Pliocene age is indicated, based on the calcareous microfossil associations. In general terms, the nannoflora and microfauna suggest upper to middle bathyal depths in a subtropical environment, with intrusion of colder water masses, as evidenced by transitional forms, probably associated with the Californian current system. Finally, the affinities of some species of the Arroyo-Hondo Section with those of the Atlantic and Caribbean Province are discussed. 
3648465| Nummulites lyelli D'Archiac and Haime 1853, is described for the first time from photographs of both generations, using material from the species type locality at El-Mishgigah, in the El-Gharaq Formation exposed in the Fayum Depression. Nummulites praelyelli n.sp., described from the Mokattam Formation below the Citadel of Salah El Din, in the eastern part of Cairo, is interpreted to be the ancestor of Nummulites lyelli Archiac and Haime. The main ontogenetic trend in this newly identified lineage is a gradual change from tight to lax coiling during growth, whereas the opposite onotgenetic trend is found in the lineage of Nummulites gizehensis (Forskl) In this work, the group of Nummulites gizehensis and allied species is separated from the group of Nummulites lyelli, partly on this basis but definitively on the basis of granulation and septal morphology. We suggest that at the beginning of the Bartonian, Nummulites lyelli ecologically displaced the Late Lutetian Nummulites gizehensis in both space and time, rather than evolving from it. 
1486054|Chitinozoans from the Los Azules Formation, central Precordillera of Argentina are documented. The formation is divided into three members. Two chitinozoan assemblages are recognized: the late Llanvirn Lower Los Azules Palynological Assemblage in the middle member includes smooth forms, while the early Caradoc Upper Los Azules Palynological Assemblage, from the upper member, is mainly composed of ornamented specimens. Two new species are described: Eisenackitina yolei Ottone and Holfeltz and Hercochitina volkheimerii Ottone and Holfeltz. The Los Azules chitinozoan faunas have species in common with contemporaneous assemblages from Laurentia but also northern Gondwana and Baltica.
10.2307/1485802|Decrouezina n. gen. (type species: Assilina praespira var. aegyptiaca Cuvillier 1930) is newly erected from the Upper Libyan Stage (Late Cuisian) at Beni Hassan, Nile Valley, Egypt. It is involute in the earliest ontogenetic stage while most of the test is evolute (operculinoid or assilinoid coiling). It has an enlarged marginal cord, plexus marginalis, transverse trabecules and spindle - shaped pillars. Decrouezina carries in the ontogenetic stage the characters of the genus Ranikothalia which decipher the phyletic relationship between the two genera.
1486228| The Hocaky section, measured in the Alakiray Nappe of Antalya Nappes in SW Turkey, is one of the key sections that contains Upper Triassic to Middle Cretaceous Radiolaria bearing pelagic sediments. The lower part of the section is the Upper Triassic Gkdere Formation (cherty-limestone/limestone-chert alternation), while the upper part is the Jurassic-Cretaceous Hocaky Radiolarite (mainly chert-mudstone alternation with some limestone interlayers). Thin bedded limestone beds at base of the Hocaky Radiolarite contain moderately to well-preserved middle Hettangian-lower upper Sinemurian radiolarians. Radiolaria obtained from these basal limestone beds resemble and are correlative to the fauna from Queen Charlotte Island, British Columbia by Carter et al. (1998). Pantanellium browni (middle-upper Hettangian), Crucella hettangica (uppermost Hettangian-lowermost Sinemurian), Parahsuum simplum (lower Sinemurian) and Canutus rockfishensis-Wrangellium thurstonense (lower upper Sinemurian) radiolarian zones are recognized in this part of the section. In this study, 61 species and 14 taxa belonging to open nomenclature are investigated and 4 species are described as new, namely Bistarkum equalum, Praehexasaturnalis merici, Katroma hocakoeyensis and K. sashidai. 
10.2307/1484650|Two new genera and eight new species of lituolid foraminifera from the Lower Cretaceous and Upper Jurassic of Saudi Arabia are described and figured. Two species of Pseudocyclammina occurring here develop Choffatella-like chambers in the microspheric generation. The term "minimal chamber" is suggested as a designation for such chambers, and the application of the concept to other genera is briefly discussed.
40959484|Modern planktonic foraminifera collected with a sediment trap, and subfossil assemblages from surface sediments from the Galway Mound in the Porcupine Seabight off southwestern Ireland, (northeastern Atlantic), were studied in order to investigate recent assemblage variations. The sediment trap operated from April to August 2004 with a sampling interval of eight days and covered the spring bloom and early summer. Ten different species were recorded. Globorotalia hirsuta, Turborotalita quinqueloba and Globigerinita glutinata appeared predominately in spring. Neogloboquadrina incompta, Globigerina bulloides and Globorotalia inflata were abundant in spring and summer. Highest foraminiferal tests flux occurred in June. The faunal composition was similar to subfossil assemblages from surface sediments, but the species proportions were different. This contrast was mainly driven by the subtropical species G. hirsuta, which was frequent in 2004 but rare in surface sediment samples and in earlier plankton collections obtained from the southern Porcupine Seabight during the 1990s. The individual weight of deposited foraminifera is mainly influenced by the spring bloom, as indicated by sea-surface chlorophyll-a data. The top three-ranked species, G. hirsuta, N. incompta and G. bulloides, contributed 87 % to the foraminiferal carbonate flux at Galway Mound.
10.2307/1485519|Sixteen polycystine radiolarian species recovered from a single sample of the Gogo Formation, Western Australia, are described and illustrated. The material derives from one of the samples used by Glenister and Klapper (1966) for their conodont zonation of the Canning Basin and is of Polygnathus asymmetrica Zone age. The well-preserved radiolarians include Ceratoikiscum, Palaeoscenidium, and representatives of seven genera similar to entactinid forms known especially in Ohio (Foreman 1963), in the Urals (Nazarov 1975), and Byelorussia (Nazarov and Kruycheck 1977). Somewhat surprisingly, and apparently because of differences in stratigraphic level or biofacies, there is less similarity to the radiolarian assemblage of the Gogo Formation recently described by Nazarov, Cockbain and Playford (1982). Newly described taxa include one new genus, Helenifore, and four new species, Helenifore laticlavium, Helioentactinia perjucunda, Spongentactinella corynacantha, and Ceratoikiscum vimenum.
40959487|The relationships between the quantity and biochemical composition of organic matter and the species diversity and community structure of living benthic foraminiferal assemblages have been investigated at four sites on the Portuguese margin (NE Atlantic). All of the sites are located at approximately 1000m depth. Two out of the four sites are located in the Nazar and Cascais submarine canyons, while the other two are positioned on the adjacent open slope. The composition and vertical distribution in the sediment of the foraminiferal assemblages have been investigated in the topmost 10cm for the > 150m fraction and in the top cm for the 63-150m size fraction. Foraminiferal abundance and species richness are related to the quantity and biochemical composition of the sedimentary organic matter, as well as to the stability of the sea floor. The open slope stations are characterised by a relatively low quantity and nutritional quality of organic matter. The faunas of the two open slope stations are much poorer than those found in Nazar canyon. At both stations, there is a succession of shallow, intermediate and deep infaunal species, suggesting a fairly deep oxygen penetration into the sediment. At the northern open slope station, the faunal density is about two times lower than at the southern station, where the fauna is very largely concentrated in the uppermost half cm. This difference coincides with a lower nutritional quality of organic matter at the northern station. The faunas of the two canyons, where the quantity and nutritional quality of bio-available organic matter are higher, are very different. The rich fauna of Nazar canyon is characterised by a strong dominance of intermediate and deep infaunal species (e.g. Melonis barleeanus and Chilostomella oolina) in superficial sediment layers, suggesting a low bottom-water oxygen concentration and a minimal oxygen penetration into the sediment. In Cascais canyon the much poorer faunas of the superficial sediment layers are characterised by the co-occurrence of shallow, intermediate and deep infaunal taxa, again suggesting a rather limited oxygen penetration into the sediment. We suggest that the relatively low densities in the Cascais canyon could reflect an early stage of ecosystem colonisation after a recent turbidite deposition.
4097034|The micromammal faunas from two European sections close to the Paleocene-Eocene boundary (PEb), Tremp in Spain and Dormaal in Belgium, share several species and paleoecological features in spite of their different chronological and paleo- biogeographical situation: the Tremp faunas contain no immigrant taxa, while the Dormaal faunas post-dated the Mammal Dispersal Event. Both sections can be correlated with the Carbon Isotope Excursion (CIE) event, which lies several meters above the Tremp localities and could have begun sub-contemporaneously with the Dormaal Sand deposits. One of the most remarkable features of these faunas is the dominance in all the samples of dental micro-remains of the condylarth genus Paschatherium. Here we study the features and distribution of Paschatherium species and discuss the significance of their acme in relation to the PEb and the Initial Eocene Thermal Maximum.
10.2307/1485870|The Tortonian-Messinian evaporite-bearing sedimentary rocks of the Kizildere Formation from the easternmost Mediterranean region are palynologically investigated. The spores and pollen association encountered in this study correlates well with the Kizilhisar assemblage by Benda (1971).
41410979|The new agglutinated foraminiferal genus Olgia with the type species Olgia pacifica (Cushman) 1924 from the tropical Pacific and the new family Olgiidae fam. nov. are described based on an EM study of the inner and outer structure and the ultrastructure of the shell wall of the type species Clavulina pacifica Cushman 1924. The new genus differs from Clavulina in its wholly triangular shell, partially subdivided chambers, and presence of sutural pores together with the opened ends of the elongated angular extinctions of the chambers at the shell angles forming half closed chamberlets. The new family differs from the family Chrysalidinidae Neagu 1968 of the superfamily Chrysalinoidea by its complicated chamber interior, in the character of its aperture, and presence of the internal tooth plates interconnected from chamber to chamber.
10.2307/1485284| Radiolarian assemblages comprising 208 taxa were collected from the PARFLUX E sediment trap experiment at a pelagic station in the western tropical Atlantic. Their diversity is among the greatest ever reported for a living community. The settling flux rate of individual skeletons was on the order of 16  10<sup>3</sup> to 24  10<sup>3</sup> shells/m<sup>2</sup>/day. The species composition of the radiolarians in the sediment traps changed significantly between 389 and 988 m depth. We attributed this change to the input of nassellarian populations dwelling in aphotic deep water. The majority of radiolarian shells settle singly, and apparently reach the sea floor without substantial modification to the species composition and standing stock. The percentage of fragmentation counts of Pterocorys suggests that slow dissolution of radiolarian shells begins during the descent through the upper water column prior to reaching the bathypelagic zone. 
23250465|Sanctus sinaicus nov. gen et sp. is described from material collected in the uppermost part of the Khaboba Formation and througout the Tanka and Tayiba formations of Wadi Thal and Wadi Matulla in WestCentral Sinai. We assign this new genus and species to the Late Eocene according to associated planktonic foraminiferal assemblages. Its test is symmetrical in axial section with the division of chambers in the same section similar to that of amphisteginids in their early ontogenetic stage and lacks a canal system. In comparing Sanctus sinaicus with related amphistegenid species, such as Penoperculoides cubaensis Cole and Gravell 1952 from the Caribbean; Penoperculoides rozlozsniki (Mhes) (ex: Nummulites rozlozsniki Mhes) from Hungary; and "Non Nummulites rozlozsniki" described by Sander 1962, from the Dammam Formation of Saudi Arabia, we find that Sanctus sinaicus is similar to P. cubaensis in the type of coiling and the character of the umbo, which lacks alar prolongations, a canal system and transverse trabeculae, and differs from species of Nummulites in the central subdivision of chambers.
23250461|Analyses based on complete faunas are more reliable than those based on a few species. To minimize errors in identification due to geographical and ecological variations in skeletal morphology, as well as taxonomic "noise" caused by ontogenetic stages, the polycystine radiolarian fauna was grouped into 20 high-rank taxa (HRT); 12 Spumellaria and 8 Nassellaria families. Every region or local province has a characteristic "HRT-assemblage" on either the family/subfamily or the suborder/order level, with very specific quantitative ratios. The polycystine assemblages of the Norwegian fjords and the Norwegian Sea contain essentially the same set of species, but data on the HRT show differences between the offshore and fjord associations, and between the main fjords and their tributaries. We show herein that HRT can be used not only in the Norwegian Sea, but also in most of the climatic zones of the Pacific. We used 21 published surface sediment samples along longitude 175E between latitudes 48N and 14S in the western Pacific Ocean, documenting the relationships between the modern distribution of radiolaria and the present oceanographic conditions. The low-rank and high-rank approaches gave nearly identical results for this data set. Factor analysis produced essentially the same four factors using low-rank and high-rank taxa, but with different eigenvalues. Temperature reconstruction based on the factor analysis of high-rank taxa was also successful.
10.2307/1485648|A stratigraphy based upon abundance changes in the marine diatom Eucampia antarctica (Castr.) Mangin is presented for Late Pleistocene sediments of the Atlantic sector of the Southern Ocean south of the Polar Front. This stratigraphy is directly tied to lithology and concentrations of ice-rafted detritus. We find a positive correlation between E. antarctica abundance, increased ice-rafted detritus, and silty diatomaceous sediment. Low E. antarctica counts are associated with little or no ice-rafted detritus and diatomaceous ooze. Tentative correlation with the oxygen isotope record indicates that low E. antarctica abundances are associated with Oxygen Isotope Stages 1, 5a, 5c, and 5e.
10.2307/1484531|The geographic position of the convergence of subtropical and subantarctic waters in the South Atlantic has been determined by means of the planktonic foraminifera encountered in 98 surface samples. The species that can be considered indicators of the different water masses and of their mixtures were established, and the results are summarized in a chart showing the distribution of the water masses.
10.2307/1484223|The transparent-slide method of thin-sectioning and a method of making photomicrographs are discussed and illustrated.
10.2307/1484541|The microfloral assemblage of the Lathi Formation, beds of Lower to Middle Jurassic age in the Jaisalmer area of western Rajasthan, India, is described, and its bearing on possible depositional conditions is discussed. Similarity to the Mesozoic microfloras of Western Australia, South Africa and western Siberia is reported. The possibility of dipolar migration of similar floras from such a region is the subject of speculation.
10.2307/1485272|Sixty-two diatom taxa have been identified from a diatomaceous sandy clay that crops out near the outlet of Wilcox Lake, Petersburg. Virginia. These diatoms are mostly cosmopolitan marine forms, but some species suggest deposition in brackish water that had a freshwater inflow. The regional stratigraphy, as well as the pelecypods and foraminifers, indicates that the beds may have been laid down in a lagoonal or estuarine environment. The diatom assemblage suggests that the deposit is of early Pliocene age, although previous biostratigraphic studies have considered it to be latest Miocene.
10.2307/1485564|Improvements in three aspects of standard radiolarian faunal analysis are: the use of monolen mesh for wet sieving to avoid contamination; the use of zinc bromide solution as a heavy liquid for best separation of radiolarians from sandy residues; and modifications of Moore's (1973) technique for mounting randomly dispersed radiolarian skeletons on microscope slides.
30135274|Diverse and moderately well-preserved palynofloras occur in Middle Jurassic sediments of the Kashafrud Formation at the Senjedak section, southeast of Mashhad, northeastern Iran. Trilete and monolete spores and pollen dominate the assemblages, whereas dinoflagellate cysts, foraminiferal test linings, and fungal spores are minor components. Forty-seven species of spores (30 genera) and 15 species of pollen (eight genera) are identified. Representatives of Dictyophyllidites and Klukisporites are particularly abundant. Based on the stratigraphic distribution of miospores, three distinctive stratigraphically successive palynofloras informally termed in ascending order, Assemblages A, B, and C are identified within the Kashafrud Formation. These are compared with palynozones known from Iran and elsewhere. Based on the presence of certain miospore species, the Kashafrud palynofloras are collectively dated as Middle Jurassic (Bajocian-Bathonian), thus corroborating the faunal (ammonoid) evidence. The appearance of a key miospore species, Contignisporites burgeri, within the succession has been used to attribute a late Bajocian age and early Bathonian age to the lower and upper parts of the studied interval, respectively. Inferred natural relationships of the miospores imply derivation from a diverse parental flora of Pterophyta and gymnosperms, such as Coniferophyta, Cycadophyta, and Ginkgophyta, growing under warm, humid conditions during the Bajocian-Bathonian. The associated marine fauna (ammonites), marine palynomorphs (proximate dinoflagellate cysts, and acritarchs such as Micrhystridium), and foraminiferal test linings, along with terrestrial palynomorphs (spores and pollen) collectively indicate an open marine, nearshore depositional setting for the Kashafrud Formation at the section studied.
10.2307/1485048|The calcareous nannoplankton flora of an Upper Pliocene-Pleistocene deep-sea piston core from the subantarctic Pacific has been examined. Eight species (one new) were recognized and their stratigraphic ranges were determined within the section cored. During the Late Pliocene, Coccolithus gelidus Geitzenauer, n. sp., was the dominant subantarctic coccolithophoracean. The absence of Discoasters from the Pliocene section is believed to be a result of their intolerance of subantarctic temperatures.
10.2307/1485604|Confusion has arisen over the connotation and correlation of two competing tropical-subtropical Paleogene planktonic foraminiferal zonations (Berggren 1969; Blow 1979). This derives from the fact that the former scheme, when originally published, was viewed as provisional and precise definitions were not given for the zonal system. We review here the development of these two zonal schemes in a historical context, present a definition, in part revised and updated, of the P-zonation system of Berggren (1969), and correlate this and related zonal schemes to a magnetostratigraphic and, ultimately, magnetobiochronologic framework to the extent possible.
10.2307/1485613|Polychaete jaws are widely distributed in sediment samples from Florida and Belize, in densities up to 0.25 jaws/cm<sup>3</sup>. Most jaws recovered passed through a 0.5 mm mesh. Glycerid and arabellid jaws are common, and in Belize occur in densities consistent with the size of living populations. Nereidid jaws are slightly under-represented, and most specimens are partially degraded. Nereidid jaws may thus not survive into the fossil record. Eunicid and onuphid jaws are completely absent from all samples, in spite of the abundance of onuphids throughout the sampled locations. Lumbrinerid jaws are rare (Belize samples only), and may not be preserved as fossils. These results are broadly consistent with predictions based on laboratory study of jaw composition, and with the published record of fossil polychaete jaws (scolecodonts).
10.2307/1485509| A linear regression equation was used to estimate the traction velocity for each of the 31 most common benthic foraminiferal species in surface sediments of the Washington continental shelf. Using Scheff's method of multiple comparisons, the traction velocities of these species were compared individually and by groups in order to detect species that would be transported in the same statistical population. Three traction-velocity groups were recognized: 1) four species with roughly equidimensional tests and low traction velocities; 2) 19 species with elongate, inflated or coiled, moderately inflated tests and intermediate traction velocities; and 3) eight species with elongate, highly compressed or coiled, discoidal tests and high traction velocities. Depending upon the bottom-current velocity, one of these three traction-velocity groups might be expected to numerically dominate a current-sorted assemblage. However, each major faunal association, defined by cluster analysis in the preceding paper, is composed of mixtures from all three groups. Direct observations of bottom currents suggest that velocities at the sediment-water interface are generally too low, with directions too erratic to effectively sort species identified in this study. Hence, faunal assemblages appear to be dominated by indigenous species whose distributions reflect the oceanographic and sedimentologic factors that limited living representatives. 
10.2307/1484979| Phleger (1964) described the living benthonic foraminifera of the Gulf of California. Using the depth ranges of common species, he defined 12 depth biofacies. The present paper describes the results of a Q-mode factor analysis of the relative abundance of the 79 species and groups of species as given by Phleger. The analysis reveals that the living benthonic foraminifera of the Gulf of California may be grouped into 9 assemblages, each dominated by one or two abundant species or groups of species. Two assemblages occur in nearshore areas, one near rivers and one away from rivers. Two more assemblages occur in shelf depths offshore, one on sandy bottom and the other on silt and clay. Four assemblages are found below 80 fathoms on the slopes of the Gulf, and in the deep, enclosed basins within the Gulf. One is correlated with the oxygen-minimum layer which is well-developed south of Tiburn Island. Each of the enclosed basins contains a fauna controlled by its sill depth. A final assemblage occurs in samples deeper than 1300 fathoms in the area in open communication with the Pacific Ocean. 
10.2307/1484331|Haplophragmoides coahuilaensis, n. sp., is described from the lower Aurora limestone (Lower Cretaceous) of the Sierra de la Gavia, Coahuila, Mexico. This new species seems most closely related to Haplophragmoides? barrowensis Tappan, from the Lower Jurassic of Alaska, especially in the degree of evoluteness.
10.2307/1485131|Surface topography in Globigerinoides trilobus is briefly surveyed, and the nature and taxonomic significance of the difference between pustulose and honeycomb surfaces are investigated in a sample of G. aff. trilobus altiapertura. In this case, the intrasample dichotomy in topography does not correspond with any in the multivariate data for shell dimensions and it is therefore judged not to be important in taxonomy. Honeycomb topography seems to develop when pores are large and regularly arranged between spine bases, and it may reflect close packing of pores. Pores are smaller and rather randomly distributed among spine bases in pustulose topography. Depressions on crests of some pustules (spine bases) provide a clue to the erstwhile occurrence of spines in fossil shells.
1486005|A well-exposed sequence of the Caleta Herradura de Mejillones section on the Pacific coast of northern Chile includes horizons of planktonic foraminiferal Zones N7 to N17 of Early to Late Miocene age. Successive appearances of species of the Praeorbulina-Orbulina lineage occur in the rich planktonic foraminiferal assemblage. An abrupt assemblage change in the basal part of Middle Miocene Zone N10 is marked by abundant Globigerinita glutinata, which continues through most of Zone N10, and suggests upwelling conditions in the surrounding seas during this time.
10.2307/1485837|This report deals with the radiolarian assemblage occurring within the Josephine ophiolite and in overlying sedimentary strata in the Western Klamath terrane, Smith River subterrane, northwestern California. Twenty-seven new species, eight new genera, and one new family (Bernoulliidae, n. fam.) are described from this succession. An emended definition is given for Parvicingula Pessagno and a new name is given for Andromeda Baumgartner. In addition, a revised radiolarian zonation is presented for the Middle and Upper Jurassic. This new zonal scheme can be linked to both zonal schemes in Japan and Europe via first or last occurrence biohorizons of diagnostic taxa. Radiolarian biostratigraphic data from the Smith River and Rogue Valley subterranes is related to co-occurring megafossil chronostratigraphic data and to U/Pb geochronometry. Range, occurrence, and relative abundance of the more important taxa are shown in the text-figures. This investigation also establishes that well-preserved Radiolaria can be extracted from strata exposed to prehnite-pumpellyite facies metamorphism. Moreover, paleobiogeographic data are presented to substantiate tectonic transport of the Western Klamath terrane from low latitudes to high latitudes during the course of the Middle and Late Jurassic (Oxfordian-Callovian).
10.2307/1486067|The boreal Atlantic Ocean is characterized by its limited number of Polycystine radiolarian species, about 70 in total. The taxonomy and ontogeny of all the Actinommida species in these waters are discussed and the following species illustrated: Actinomma boreale, Actinomma leptoderma leptoderma (emended), A. leptoderma longispina n. subsp., A. trinacria (emended) and Drymyomma elegans. A key to the boreal Atlantic Ocean Actinommida is provided.
40960129|Larger foraminifera are recognized from the middle Tertiary (Oligocene-Miocene) carbonate sediments, Bey Dalari Autochton, which is a segment of a Tethyan Platform. Eight diagnostic species and their local ranges are documented. These 8 species establish three biostratigraphically useful faunal assemblages which are assigned to Tertiary e4 (Chattian), Tertiary e5 lower (Aquitanian) and Tertiary e5 upper (Burdigalian) of the Far Eastern Letter Stages. Diagnostic miogypsinid foraminifera and one new genus, Spinosemiogypsina antalyaensis, n. gen., n. sp. are described.
10.2307/1485163|Conspicuous Zenker's organs and testes or ovaries occupy the rather capacious region between inner and outer carapace lamellae in Saipanetta (Ostracoda). A new species, S. brooksi, from Bermuda, is proposed and the range of S. tumida (Brady) is extended to Madagascar. An emended description for S. kelloughae Maddocks is based on living material from the Gulf of Mexico. All species are dwelling in coarse sands associated with living corals.
10.2307/1484611|Galeacornea, a new genus of palynomorphs of unknown origin and affinity from the Middle Cretaceous of Portuguese Guinea and Senegal, is established with G. clavis, new species, as its type species. Three additional species, Galeacornea causea, G. protensa, and G. acuminata, all new, are assigned to the new genus. Possible relationships among the four species of Galeacornea as suggested by a comparative study of their varied and distinctive morphologic characters are discussed.
10.2307/1485034| Thirty-eight quantitative Recent bottom samples from the Laguna Mandinga, a small (20.39 square miles) tidal lagoon invading the coastal plain of Mexico about five miles southeast of Veracruz (19.10 N. lat., 96.10 W. long.), have yielded 5734 ostracode specimens. Six of the 20 species encountered are new. Grain size analysis of the substrate at each sampling station is presented along with individual species distribution. Laguna Mandinga is a tropical, shallow, brackish-water lagoon which is poorly ventilated. Abundant decaying organic matter is supplied by the mangroves bordering the lagoon. The total ostracode population per sample varies from none to a maximum of 1233 individuals. The total number of individuals and relative abundances generally increase inland from the strand line. The percentage of live versus dead individuals is consistently low. Juveniles constitute about 45% of the total ostracode population. The highest relative abundances of species and the highest absolute numbers of specimens occur in sediments the modal grain size of which falls in the medium sand size range. Sediments at these stations are poorly sorted, and consist of grains strongly fine-skewed to fine-skewed and leptokurtic to mesokurtic. About 25% of the ostracodes occur in sand of fine sand size mode. 
10.2307/1485534|Sixteen species of dinoflagellate cysts from five samples are present in the Pleistocene marine clays of Botany Bay, N.S.W. Species present include Bitectatodinium tepikiense Wilson 1973, Lingulodinium machaerophorum (Deflandre and Cookson) Wall 1967, Operculodinium centrocarpum (Deflandre and Cookson) Wall 1967, Operculodinium israelianum (Rossignol) Wall 1967, Polysphaeridium zoharyi (Rossignol) Bujak et al. 1980, Spiniferites bentori (Rossignol) Wall and Dale 1970, Spiniferites bulloideus (Deflandre and Cookson) Sarjeant 1970, Spiniferites mirabilis (Rossignol) Sarjeant 1970, Spiniferites pachydermus (Rossignol) Reid 1974, Spiniferites ramosus (Ehrenberg) Loeblich and Loeblich 1966, Spiniferites sp. cf. ramuliferus (Deflandre) Reid 1974, Tuberculodinium vancampoae (Rossignol) Wall 1967, Protoperidinium (Protoperidinium) conicum (Gran) Balech 1974, Protoperidinium (Protoperidinium) leonis (Pavillard) Balech 1974 and Cyst types A and B. This association implies a warm temperate estuarine depositional environment. The dinoflagellate samples are divided into two assemblages, Assemblages A and B, on the basis of a cluster analysis. Assemblage A represents a slightly more marine environment than Assemblage B.
40607109|Planktonic foraminifera populations were studied throughout the top 25 meters of the IODP ACEX 302 Hole 4C from the central Arctic Ocean at a resolution varying from 5cm (at the top of the record) to 10cm. Planktonic foraminifera occur in high absolute abundances only in the uppermost fifty centimetres and are dominated by the taxa Neogloboquadrina pachyderma. Except for a few intermittent layers below this level, most samples are barren of calcareous microfossils. Within the topmost sediments, Neogloboquadrina pachyderma specimens present large morphological variability in the shape and number of chambers in the final whorl, chamber sphericity, size, and coiling direction. Five morphotypes were identified among the sinistral (sin.) population (Nps-1 to Nps-5), including a small form (Nps-5) that is similar to a non-encrusted normal form also previously identified in the modern Arctic Ocean water masses. Twenty five percent of the sinistral population is made up by large specimens (Nps-2, 3, 4), with a maximal mean diameter larger than 250um. Following observations made in peri-Arctic seas (Hillaire-Marcel et al. 2004), we propose that occurrence of these large-sized specimens of N. pachyderma (sin.) in the central Arctic Ocean sediments could sign North Atlantic water sub-surface penetration.
10.2307/1485780|Fifteen species and three subspecies of foraminifera and forty-four species of ostracods are described from subsurface borehole Horus Well-1 in the northwestern desert of Egypt. The stratigraphic significance of some benthonic foraminifera (Thomasinella, Nezzazata and Nezzazatinella) furnish new information on the age determination. Cenomanian-Santonian time is suggested for the studied interval (Bahariya and Abu Roash Formations). Among the identified ostracodes, three species of Bairdia are described for the first time: B. bassiounii, B. compressa, and B. elongata. Also, one new subspecies of Nezzazata, N. convexa conica, is discussed. The identified foraminiferal species belong to 12 families: Thomasinellidae, Mayncinidae, Nezzazatidae, Textulariidae, Hauerinidae, Vaginulinidae, Heterohelicidae, Hedbergellidae, Favusellidae, Discorbidae, Rosalinidae, and Cibicididae. The identified ostracodal species belong to 12 families: Cytherellidae, Bairdiidae, Bythocyprididae, Paracyprididae, Brachycytheridae, Bythocytheridae, Cytherideidae, Cytheruridae, Loxoconchidae, Progonocytheridae, Trachyleberididae, and Xestoleberididae
10.2307/1484757|A hystrichosphaerid-dinoflagellate assemblage from the Permian (Leonardian) Wellington formation of Kansas is described and figured. It includes two new species of hystrichosphaerids, two new dinoflagellate genera, Nannoceratopsiella and Kofoidopsis, one new species of Deflandrea?, one undetermined species of Peridinium, and a dinoflagellate genus and species of unknown affinities. The hystrichosphaerids occur at horizons that, although barren of fresh-water clam shrimps (Conchostraca), are the equivalents of clam shrimp-bearing beds in the area. The dinoflagellates actually occur in a clam shrimp-bearing bed. Both occurrences indicate invasion by a restricted tongue of a salt sea over a coastal flat on which there were clam shrimp ponds. The Leonardian dinoflagellates illustrated in this paper are apparently the oldest at present known in the world.
10.2307/1485386|Seventy-six ostracode taxa from the Lower Miocene beds of Jamnagar and Porbandar Districts (Saurashtra), Gujarat, India, are described. A genus--Gujaratella--and 20 species--Alocopocythere gujaratensis, Caudites gujaratensis, Gujaratella boldi, G. bhandarii, Gyrocythere siddiquii, Havanardia indica, Hemicyprideis kachharai, H. panti, Loxocorniculum gujaratense, Miocyprideis lyubimovae, Paijenborchella (Eupaijenborchella) royi, Paracypris pandyai, Paranesidea gajensis, P. nandanaensis, Phlyctenophora chauhani, Pokornyella alata, P. pindaraensis, Quadracythere nandanaensis. Ruggieria guhai and Triebelina costellata--are new. The identifications of 24 taxa, previously described from Kutch and other areas, and also recorded in this work, are revised and brought up to date.
10.2307/1485406| The spatial and temporal distribution and abundance of planktonic foraminifera in ocean waters are influenced by the interaction of biological factors (algal symbionts, food supply, predation, interfaunal relationships, productivity) and physical-chemical factors (nutrients, light, temperature, salinity, water density, turbidity, etc.). Estimates of standing stock have generally been obtained from plankton tows and not from total volumes of sea water. Size fractions less than 200 have been ignored in most calculations of standing stocks, which usually increase by several orders of magnitude in progressively smaller size fractions. The relative abundance and distribution patterns of 32 species in Indian Ocean waters and surface sediments have been determined from 154 plankton tows and 190 core-tops. Principal-components analysis groups the populations into nine life assemblages and five fossil assemblages. A quantitative comparison between the life and fossil assemblages is then possible by algebraically relating the factor assemblages: F<sub>s</sub>F<sub>p</sub> C The matrix of coefficients, C, shows the degree to which the spatially and seasonally independent plankton assemblages, F<sub>p</sub>, are linearly mixed during the process of sedimentation to form the sea-bed assemblages, F<sub>s</sub>. A large fraction of the sea-bed assemblages above the CaCO<sub>3</sub> compensation depth may be derived by simple mixing of the plankton assemblages. The model shows, for example, how proportions of four discrete tropical and subtropical life assemblages contribute in producing a single tropical-subtropical fossil assemblage. According to this model, differential productivity, selective solution, and biotic mixing do not mark the primary distribution patterns of the living species. 
1486001|A highly diverse radiolarian fauna of Anisian age has been recovered from an 11m continuous succession of siliceous rocks with tuffs and mudstones in the Changning-Menglian belt of southwestern Yunnan, China. Seventy-three radiolarian species and subspecies, among which, six new species, one new subspecies and 36 unidentified species, are included in the investigation. The 6 new species and 1 new subspecies are Triassocampe goricani, Triassocampe dumitricai, Triassocampe coronata inflata, Triassocampe relica, Archaeospongoprunum muyinense, Neopaurinella deweveri and Neopaurinella kozuri. Based on morphological comparison and stratigraphical range, some possible evolutionary relations are suggested. Four radiolarian zones, namely, Triassocampe deweveri Zone (late Anisian), Triassocampe coronata coronata Zone (middle Anisian), Triassocampe coronata inflata Zone (middle Anisian), and Triassocampe dumitricai Zone (early Anisian) are established. The Early Triassic radiolarian fauna in this area has a very low diversity and mainly consists of survivors of the Permian radiolarians. The recovery of the Triassic radiolarian fauna takes place in early Anisian. In this period, the multicyrtid nassellarians are moderately diverse and characterized by having a slender shell with weak constriction among segments; the spumellarian species are characterized by having needle-like main spines. In the middle and late Anisian, the shells of the multicyrtid nassellarians became strong with developed constrictions between segments, and both the spumellarians with needle-like spines and the spumellarians with three-bladed spines are diverse.
10.2307/1484242|Construction and operational details of a machine for separating fine organic and inorganic debris from palynomorph preparations are described.
10.2307/1484990| Forty-six closely spaced sediment cores were obtained from a small region in the equatorial Pacific Ocean near lat. 0740N., long. 13400W. The ages of the cores were determined from the foraminiferal and radiolarian assemblages. Sequences of cores and continuous reflection profiles show that a sharp angular unconformity lies slightly below the sea floor, separating Holocene sediment up to a few centimeters in thickness from a chalk of Tertiary age. This unconformity is a Pleistocene erosion surface which truncates Tertiary sediments ranging in age from Late Eocene (approximately 40 m.y. B.P.) to Middle Miocene (approximately 10 m.y. B.P.). A substantial quantity of material, several tens to hundreds of meters in thickness, has been removed by erosion. 
10.2307/1485091|The diatom assemblage of the Fisher Canyon deposit in Caddo County, Oklahoma, is described, and its bearing on the depositional environment and the age of formation of the deposit is discussed. The diatom assemblage indicates a lake or pond environment of postglacial age rather than the Illinoisan or Wisconsinian age suggested by previous molluscan studies.
10.2307/1485914|Often the nannopaleontologist faces difficulties performing absolute counts of nannofossil species when doing a quantitative analysis. The different techniques available for the preparation of microscopic slides that may be used for absolute counts of nannofossils are discussed. A slide preparation method inspired by the random settling technique of Moore is described.
10.2307/1485515|Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and light-microscopy photographs of the same radiolarian specimens are vital for thorough and complete descriptions of polycystine species. Several media for light photography have been tested, including stained and unstained aqueous solutions, oils of varying refractive index and Farrants' medium. The latter proved to yield excellent results; it can be used for permanent preparations, and also allows for an easy and fast retrieval of the skeletons for ulterior SEM photography. Paired SEM pictures of radiolarian tests for stereoscopic viewing can furnish much useful information unavailable by other means. A detailed scheme on the steps to be taken for the preparation of Polycystina-containing samples is included.
4097072|Jurassic and Cretaceous charophytes of Western Canada (Saskatchewan and Alberta) are known from two narrow stratigraphic intervals and parts of the Bathonian (Middle Jurassic) and Aptian (Early Cretaceous) sequences of the prairie sequences. Thirteen species are accounted for with, twelve from the Bathonian and three from the Aptian. The Bathonian assemblage is one of the richest worldwide, and it provides valuable insight on the earliest phase of the Jurassic-Early Cretaceous radiation of the group.
10.2307/1485263|SEM (Scanning Electron-Microscope) studies of Eocene planktonic foraminifera from Israel show that the hispidity of test surfaces is due to the presence of protuberances (tubercles, pustules, pseudospines) of the same type as those found in many other Cenozoic species which do not possess true spines and spine-bases. Relatively raised interpore areas may be due to flaring pore-funnel walls (residual ridges) or to externally protruding inflational features (built-up ridges). Pore size and especially the ratio between pore-diameter and interpore distance, together with type and distribution of wall surface features, facilitate the recognition of species groups and genera, as well as of evolutionary lineages.
10.2307/1484148|A method and apparatus for the processing of foraminiferal samples is described and illustrated.
10.2307/1486102|Larger foraminifera were collected from various Paleocene and Eocene localities in western Cuba. Included was a measured section at San Francisco de Paula in Ciudad de la Habana Province in the Apolo and Capdevila Formations. This section spans the Paleocene/Eocene boundary and has been the focus of intensive biostratigraphic work. In this study, the stratigraphic occurrences of the larger foraminifera were correlated to biozonations based on planktonic foraminifera, calcareous nannofossils, radiolaria, and smaller benthic foraminifera already identified at San Francisco de Paula. Most of the above localities consist of synorogenic sedimentary rocks and the larger foraminifera collected from these sites have in fact been transported to deep water. In order to obtain some in situ larger foraminfera, additional upper Paleocene and lower Eocene samples were obtained from 10 wells in episutural basins from throughout Cuba. In all, eleven species of larger foraminifera were identified from the upper Paleocene and lower Eocene of Cuba. These are: Ranikothalia catenula (Cushman and Jarvis) (=Operculina catenula 1932), Discocyclina barkeri Vaughan and Cole, Discocyclina anconensis Barker, Discocyclina weaveri Vaughan, Eoconuloides lopeztrigoi (Palmer) (=Amphistegina lopeztrigoi 1934), Eoconuloides wellsi Cole and Bermudez, Eofabiania cushmani (Vaughan) (=Discocyclina cushmani 1929), Athecocyclina stephensoni (Vaughan) (=Discocyclina stephensoni 1929), Pseudophargmina cedarkeysensis, Cole, Hexagonocyclina cristensis (Vaughan) (=Orbitoclypeus? cristensis 1924), and Cushmania americana (Cushman) (=Conulites americana 1919). The larger foraminifera from Paleocene age samples contain an assemblage recognized throughout the Caribbean and Gulf Coastal Plain as the Ranikothalia catenula fauna. Eocene samples contain an assemblage of larger foraminifera refered to here as the Eoconuloides wellsi fauna. Based on data collected at the San Francisco de Paula section, the change from the Ranikothalia catenula fauna to the Eoconuloides wellsi fauna appears to post-date the benthic faunal turnover associated with the bathyal realm.
24413491|Detailed diatom analysis has been carried out on one hundred forty-two samples collected from the Lower to Middle Miocene stratigraphic succession located in the Abu Qada basin, west-central Sinai. The succession is composed only of two lithostratigraphic units belonging to Gharandal Group; they are Rudies Formation followed directly by Kareem Formation. The diatom analysis shows interesting diverse and abundant different diatom assemblages of both marine and non-marine origin. A total of 84 diatom species and varieties belonging to 32 genera were identified. The preservation of the recorded taxa varies from poorly preserved in some samples to generally moderately to well preserve in other samples. Several intervals of pronounced diatom dissolution detected throughout the studied section. A biostratigraphic zonal framework consisting of three planktonic diatom zones is proposed and the Early /Middle Miocene boundary is determined accurately by means of diatom taxa.
10.2307/1485683| Analysis of early Eocene benthic foraminifers of DSDP Site 338 (Outer Vring Plateau, Norwegian Sea) revealed three benthic foraminiferal assemblage zones: a lower barren Zone; a middle Nodosariid Assemblage Zone, characterized by Midway-type benthic foraminifers; and an upper Vagulinopsis decorata Assemblage Zone, divided into a lower Pullenia quinqueloba Subzone and an upper Haplophragmoides Subzone. The V. decorata Assemblage Zone is also characterized by Midway-type faunas, but benthic foraminiferal assemblages show an increasing proportion of deep water Velasco-type faunal elements. The fauna closely resembles age-equivalent benthic foraminiferal faunas from the North Atlantic (e.g. Rockall Plateau). From the poverty of planktonic foraminiferal assemblages and nannofloras it seems that similarities in benthic foraminiferal assemblages were probably not the result of an open marine connection across the Iceland-Faroe Ridge, but rather of migration through the epicontinental seas of NW Europe. The early Eocene subsidence history of Site 338 as inferred from benthic foraminiferal assemblages and lithostratigraphy confirms independent paleodepth estimates from backtracking and seismic stratigraphy and shows that this site has subsided during a maximum of 2.8 Ma from near sea level to upper bathyal depths. The maximum water depth must have been less than 500 m at the top of early Eocene and probably was in the order of 250 m. 
10.2307/1485408|Paleogene and Neogene world-wide distribution patterns of planktonic foraminifera are discussed. Differences in environmental conditions, mainly changing water temperatures, are regarded as the principal factors controlling the occurrence and distribution of individual species. Species associations caused by natural barriers, such as the Isthmus of Panama, may also develop at similar latitudes. Furthermore, anomalous distribution patterns, resulting from the exclusion of certain species at the expense of others are also known within the same area. As a result of all these differing species distributions numerous zonal schemes were proposed, some of which are herein shown on figures 1 and 6. Correlation problems that necessarily arise from this are discussed for a number of selected areas and sections. For the Paleogene, examples are discussed from the Caucausus-Crimea and eastern Mediterranean, where faunal differences are caused by climatic and facies changes. In the Neogene of the Caribbean-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific, different faunal developments and distribution patterns may occur at similar latitudes. A good example of temporary exclusion of certain species is found within the Caribbean, where during the presence of Globorotalia miocenica Palmer, G. exilis, and G. pertenuis Beard in the Middle Pliocene, Pulleniatina sp. and to a large degree also Globorotalia menardii (d'Orbigny) have disappeared, to return only after the extinction of the first named group of species.
10.2307/1484264|A more complex system of nomenclature is necessary to reflect adequately the complexity and high degree of specialization in the cytherid ostracods. Several new generic criteria are proposed for certain major groups of Cytheracea. The basic concepts involved are probably applicable to most cytherids. All of the structures considered lie on the ventral surface of the carapace.
10.2307/1485503|Some previous investigators have indicated that current lithostratigraphic evidence (including tephrochronology) suggests a Pleistocene age for the entire Terrebonne diatomite complex; however, biostratigraphic evidence from diatoms suggests that at least some of the diatomites in the complex are Pliocene. Because Gomphonema occidentale and G. marginatum (which have diagnostic, restricted stratigraphic ranges) and the indicative dominance of Fragilaria and Nitzschia in the "centric paucity" zone are present in diatomites from the eastern part of the Terrebonne area but are absent in diatomites from the western part, there can be little doubt that the former diatomites are older than the latter and are Pliocene in age. Since there is overwhelming evidence that the stratigraphic range of Stephanodiscus niagarae is from middle Miocene to Recent, claims of its first occurrence at about 1.8 m.y. (in the Tulelake core) are no longer tenable in considering age relationships in the Terrebonne diatomites. There are great differences between the eastern and western Terrebonne diatomites in respect to their paleoecology, lithostratigraphy, and biostratigraphy.
10.2307/1484654|The occurrence of pyrite crystals embedded in the exines of spores and microplankton is described from some Upper Palaeozoic sediments of Britain. Solution of the pyrite produces a variety of cavities which reflect the state of aggregation of the mineral. The morphology of these cavities or pyrite relic structures is described in detail and a classification into simple, cribrate and faviform structures is proposed. The form and distribution of the pyrite crystals favour an organic origin, possibly bacterial.
10.2307/1484527|Systematic descriptions of the calcareous foraminifera (excluding Nodosariidae) from the Kimmeridge Clay of Dorset (England) are given. Variation studies on the most common forms, here referred to Eoguttulina, show the difficulties in applying Cushman and Ozawa's classification of the Polymorphinidae to Jurassic members of the family. Four species are described as new.
41410971|Diverse and well-preserved assemblages of early to late Campanian silicoflagellates from the Smoking Hills and Mason River formations exposed in the District of Mackenzie, Northwest Territories, Canada include twenty-one known species and five new species in six genera. These include a rare occurrence of Cornua trifurcata and unusual skeletal morphologies of genus Arctyocha. These assemblages provide a new means for biostratigraphic division of the Upper Cretaceous through an expanded silicoflagellate-based zonal framework comprises five zones.
10.2307/1484732|The foraminiferal fauna of the Compton, Sedalia and Chouteau Limestones of the Kinderhookian Chouteau Group in Missouri and Illinois, described from 83 samples taken at 27 localities, consists of 42 species (including five new, five emended, and one problematic species) belonging to 16 genera and seven families. These 42 species, along with seven found in other Kinderhookian formations, constitute the known Kinderhookian arenaceous foraminiferal fauna of the United States. The fauna of the limestones of the Chouteau Group is essentially identical with the fauna of 35 species from the Rockford Limestone of Indiana. About half of the species occur in other Kinderhookian beds from Ohio and Kentucky westward to Oklahoma and Montana. Fourteen Kinderhookian species range downward into the Upper Devonian, and 28 (including 11 of the 14) range upward into the Osagean. Seventeen species are restricted to the Kinderhookian, eight occurring widely enough to be regarded as valuable Kinderhookian markers.
30136843|We present new oceanographic and modern sediment distribution data for transects along Marmaris-Fethiye-Kalkan-Ka-Finike and Antalya Bays (southwestern Turkey). Water temperature, salinity and dissolved oxygen content were measured and mapped for this region. Furthermore, we made short-term current speed measurements at the surface, 20m depth and the sea floor and use this data to interpret sediment movement. Orange peel and other types of grabs were used for surface sediment sampling. Samples were processed with Standard Methods of grain size analysis. Our regional maps of sediment distribution reflect grain size on a 1:100.000 scale. We used correlations between all our grain size data in our maps. Sediment distribution in this region is affected by current systems, bathymetry and both submarine, and terrestrial topographic features of the region. Finer materials do not accumulate in regions with high wave and current energy. Thus we find mostly thin accumulations of coarse material in our study region. Either. sediment does not accumulate at all along continental slopes exceeding 10 degrees or very little sediment accumulates there. Sediments in our study area consist of five types of basic sedimentary material: rock, gravel, sand, silt, clay and mud. Gravelly materials are gravel, sandy gravel and muddy sandy gravel. Sandy materials are sand, gravelly sand, gravelly muddy sand, muddy sand, silty sand and clayey sand. Silty material is composed of silt and sandy silt. Muddy materials consist of mud, gravelly mud and gravelly sandy mud. Deep parts of the area contain as well as mud which is high ratio clay. Generally, grain size distribution in this region is transitional from coarse to fine and trends parallel to the coastline. Generally, gravel and sandy gravel material are found in shallow areas and reach thickness of up to 5 meters. Blocks of limestone occur on the seafloor along coasts with steep seaward slopes. Gravel size materials are uncommon. Sandy materials accumulate at approximately 20-50-100-200 meters water depth. Silty materials are deposited at 200-500-750, 500-1200 meters depth at the sea floor. Muddy materials, however, are not found until 1200-2500 meters water depth and clayey materials spread further out to below 2500 meters depth.
10.2307/1485467|The recent podocopid Ostracoda of the Sedili River, its estuary and the open shelf of Jason Bay, off the southeast coast of the Malay Peninsula, have been studied quantitatively. The distribution of live and dead assemblages is recorded. A total of 101 species were recorded in the study. Of these, 50 were recorded live in the area. In the freshwater system of the Sedili River, only two species were recorded live, in the brackish water of the Sedili Estuary only 4 live species were recorded while 48 live species were recovered from the open shelf. The dead assemblage exhibits a much higher diversity yet lower dominance than the live assemblage and constitutes a total of 98 species from the 3 biotopes. The dead representatives of species which also occur live are more widely distributed than their live counterparts due to postmortem transportation. In this study one new genus is erected, Malaycythereis, n. gen., and the following new species and subspecies are erected: Malaycythereis trachodes, Caudites asiaticus, C. scopulicolus jasonensis, Cytherella incohatus, Hemicytheridea wangi, Keijella gonia, Loxoconcha malayensis, L. triconicula, Neocytheretta murilineata, Paracytheroma ventrosinuosa, Semicytherura contraria, Leptocythere pulchra, and Xestoleberis malaysiana.
1486210|The comparison of superposed praealveolinid assemblages from the well exposed outcrops in the Iberian Range and the Pyrenees with Prealveolina species from the type localities in Reichel's collection have allowed us to evaluate the stratigraphical range of each species. The species Praealveolina iberica, P. pennensis and P. debilis successively replace each other from Early to Mid Cenomanian; they have been correlated with Mantelliceras mantelli and Acanthoceras rotomagense ammonite zones, and with Rotalipora brotzeni and the lower part of the R. cushmanni planktonic foraminiferal zones. Praealveolina brevis and P. tenuis appear successively during the Upper Cenomanian, but the range of P. tenuis may overlap with the one of P. brevis in the Early Upper Cenomanian; they have been correlated with Calycoceras naviculare and Metoicoceras geslinianum and with R. cushmannni zone. P simplex occurs together with P. brevis and P. tenuis in the Upper Cenomanian. The stratigraphic relationship of P. cretacea and P. lata with the species treated in this paper have not been established yet because they were not found in the studied sediments.
10.2307/1485399|Modern silicoflagellate taxa found in North Pacific surface sediments are redefined and described, A new tropical species, Dictyocha calida, is introduced. Geographic distribution and relative abundance of each species are mapped for the North Pacific, based on Holocene sediment samples. The maps show that most species have definite climatic ranges, which can often be correlated with oceanic water masses. In addition, temperature preferences of certain species can be used for paleoclimatic interpretation.
10.2307/1484239|Employing criteria proposed as an objective basis for the "speciation" of fossil holothurian sclerite morphogroups, the differentiating continuous and discontinuous variates of 1169 topotype specimens of Rhabdotites, from the Oxfordian (Upper Jurassic) strata of Redcliff, near Weymouth, Dorset, England, are subjected to univariate statistical analysis. The discontinuous variate of pustule number is shown to be a non-differentiating "specific" character, and the "species" (qua parataxa) Rhabdotites dorsetensis Hodson, Harris and Lawson, R. divergens Hodson, Harris and Lawson, R. bifidus Hodson, Harris and Lawson, R. tridens Hodson, Harris and Lawson, and R. irregularis Hodson, Harris and Lawson, are placed in the single "species" (qua parataxon) R. dorsetensis Hodson, Harris and Lawson, which is revised.
10.2307/1485449| Acritarchs smaller than 10 m are abundant in sections of Cretaceous age drilled by the Deep Sea Drilling Project. Scanning electron images show that these apparently simple fossils possess intricate ornamental features which can be used to distinguish stratigraphically useful taxa. Their stratigraphic usefulness is shown by homotaxially correlated stratigraphic ranges in three widely separated sections of the western North Atlantic and by their occurrence in intervals largely devoid of other palynomorphs. An acritarch zonation is proposed, and is correlated directly with that previously published for dinoflagellates. Biostratigraphic evidence of a stratigraphic paraconformity at or near the contact between the Blake-Bahama and Hatteras Formations at Site 105 indicates a hiatus of late Aptian or early Albian age there. Other paraconformities may be present in the Valanginian and Albian. Thirty-one new species are described. 
10.2307/1484638|Upper Campanian and Maestrichtian Atlantic Coastal Plain sediments of New Jersey contain abundant delicately preserved planktonic foraminifera, and well-preserved late Campanian planktonic foraminifera have been recognized from Delaware Coastal Plain sediments. Twenty-eight species of planktonic foraminifera have been identified from the New Jersey and Delaware samples. One new species of Hedbergella is described and illustrated. Apparently, the Maestrichtian Boreal planktonic foraminiferal faunas differed somewhat from those of the Tethys.
10.2307/1484587|A simple photographic instrument and a universal stage, both for employment in the photography of microfossils, are described and illustrated.
4097070|Detailed inventory of filtered samples taken across the southern Indian Ocean in May-June 2003 yields quantifiable morphological groundwork for species analysis. Two samples were remarkable by their high content in Discosphaera tubifera, Rhabdosphaera clavigera, R. stylifera and Palusphaera vandelii, providing us with the opportunity to quantify intraspecific variability in these taxa. Despite its extreme geographic and ecologic restriction, this study is the first to provide an integrated description of rhabdoliths and rhabdospheres based on a large number of specimens. We show that the amplitude of variations varies broadly among Rhabdosphaeraceae species and that R. clavigera and R. stylifera are separate taxa. We discuss the implications of our results with regard to species definition, characterization of dimorphism, and inferences of living communities from fossil assemblages. We also report for the first time on malformations in these taxa.
10.2307/1484874|A morphologic continuum shown by the genus Technitella Norman, 1878, present in Recent bottom samples, is described. The systematic position of the genus is established and its nomenclature is stabilized and validated.
30130915|Living coccolithophore distributions from the Gulf of Manfredonia (Southern Adriatic Sea) were investigated and compared with the coccolith assemblages in the underlying surface sediments. In total, 55 samples from 13 stations in four transects collected at the end of October 2000 were analyzed to determine spatial and vertical distribution of individual taxa in the coastal environment. At all stations, the maximum coccosphere densities were between 10m and 30m of water depth (maximum values were $\sim 4\times10^{4}$ coccospheres per litre of seawater). Coccolithophore absolute abundances show a vertical stratification and spatial variation, as well as variable species diversity, increasing from the coast to the open sea and decreasing with depth. Different coccolithophore communities are recorded in the shallow and deep photic zone. Emiliania huxleyi, Syracosphaera spp., Rhabdosphaera spp., Coronosphaera spp., Umbellosphaera tenuis and holococcolithophores are present mainly in the surface waters, above the thermocline between 25-30m depth. In the deeper water samples, there is a significant increase in coccospheres of Florisphaera profunda. The coccolithophore cell density variability is compared with in situ measurements of environmental parameters (temperature, salinity, nitrates and phosphates). Cell densities of all dominant taxa are most highly correlated with temperature variability. The low correlations of cell densities with nitrates and phosphates may be caused by insufficient sampling resolution, nutrient levels close to detection limits, or both. The comparison of the living assemblage with surface sediment records shows significant differences in the presence and abundance of some species. The recognised fossil record in the surface sediments is mainly represented by Cretaceous-Pleistocene reworked species, showing stronger dynamic processes at the bottom, such as terrigenous input and resuspension, than phytoplankton growth. Most marked correspondence between living and fossil assemblages has been found in the deeper and open sea sediments.
10.2307/1484821|A new species of luminescent Ostracoda belonging to the genus Vargula is described from Long Bay, Manchioneal, Jamaica.
1486208|Calcareous algae are common components in the shallow-marine limestones of the Drunka Formation (Early Eocene) cropping out on both banks of Nile between Sohag and Quena. Calcareous algae include: Acicularia valeti Segonzac, Sandalia pavsici Radoicic, Clypeina occidentalis (Johnson and Kaska), C. cf. rotella Jing, Terquemella bellovacensis Munier-Chalmas (Dasycladales), Ovulites arabica (Pfender), O. pyriformis Schwager, O. margaritula (Lamarck), O. elongata Lamarck (Udoteaceae), Halimeda tuna (Ellis and Solander) Lamouroux, H. opuntia (Linneaus) Lamouroux and H. fragilis Taylor (Halimedaceae). Niloporella subglobosa n.gen.n.sp. and Acicularia robusta n.sp. are new calcareous algae. Among fossil Halimeda three evolutionary lineages are recognized in the the Mesozoic and early Cenozoic that derive from Paleozoic Protohalimedaceae: Halimeda cylindracea lineage, H. incrassata, and H. opuntia.
4097020|A new Orbitolinid foraminiferal genus Praeorbitolinoides (type species Praeorbitolinoides japonica, n. gen., n. sp.) is described from the Lower Aptian Orbitolma-bearing limestone, Shimanoshita Mudstone, Lower Yezo Group, Hokkaido, Japan. Praeorbitolinoides, gen. nov. is characterized by the presence of early postembryonic chambers, covering on the embryonic and periembryonic chambers, eccentric in position. Praeorbitolinoides japonica, n. gen., n. sp. is associated with Paleorbitolina lenticularis (Blumenbach) and Mesorbitolina parva (Douglass).
10.2307/1484661|The International Rules of Zoological Nomenclature are shown to disqualify "Hastigerina digitata Rhumbler, 1911".
10.2307/1484595|The foraminiferal fauna of the Lower Mississippian Hannibal Formation of northeastern Missouri and western Illinois, described from eight localities in Missouri and five localities in Illinois, consists of thirty species (one new and five unidentifiable) belonging to fifteen genera and seven families. The genus Blastammina Eisenack, 1932, is recognized outside the Baltic region for the first time, and its geologic range is extended upward into the Lower Mississippian. The age of the Hannibal Formation is definitely Kinderhookian on the basis of arenaceous foraminifera; further, although the Hannibal foraminiferal fauna is similar to the foraminiferal fauna of the Compton and Sedalia Limestones of southwestern and central Missouri and the undifferentiated Chouteau which overlies the Hannibal in northeastern Missouri and western Illinois, it is most closely related to that of the Northview Formation of southwestern Missouri.
10.2307/1485819|Well-preserved specimens of Globuligerina geczyi n. sp. were separated using concentrated acetic acid from indurated "ammonitico rosso" limestone of Gerecse Mountains, Transdanubian Central Range, Hungary. This planktonic foraminifera, of Late Hettangian or Early Sinemurian age is one of the earliest recorded.
10.2307/1485628|A horizontally mounted, bonded, diamond lap provides a rapid method for grinding oriented flat facets on larger foraminifera contained in hard limestones.
10.2307/1484845|Four zones, based on planktonic foraminiferal distribution, are proposed for the Lutetian of Kutch. The Priabonian sequence has been found to be absent in the Beranda Bernana region of western Kutch.
10.2307/1485024|A proteinaceous organic matrix has been found in the siliceous skeletons of polycystine Radiolaria isolated from deep-sea sediment cores. Quantitative amino acid analyses of three Recent species reveal species-specific proportions of seventeen amino acids, which in total account for 0.01-0.02% of the total skeletal weight. Comparative analyses of Recent and 5.1 million years (m. y.) old specimens indicate that this matrix undergoes severe diagenesis over geologic time. Although reductions in amino acid content of 70% and 90% are observed in two Recent-5.1-m. y.-old sample pairs, inter-species variations in composition are not obliterated. Promising applications suggested by these first data on fossil silicified protein are the dating of siliceous sediments by the epimerization-racemization of preserved amino acids and the tracing of evolutionary lineages in siliceous fossils by species-characteristic amino acid patterns.
10.2307/1484631|A method is described for the processing of large amounts of palynological basic data by using the IBM 1401 computer. The palynologist enters his observations on a counting sheet and is relieved from further recording or calculating. The computer calculates percentages and relative abundance indices, and prints bar histograms in groups of five. The virtual elimination of paper work and the capacity of the computer to interpret massive quantities of data in fractions of a minute make this method valuable in ecological studies of large areas, and especially in the establishment of type sections and biostratigraphic units in regions where large amounts of information are obtained from well samples.
10.2307/1485920|Forty-nine ostracode species from the Jurassic beds of Habo Hill, Kachchh, Gujarat, India are described. Two genera, Batella and Habocythere, 20 species and one subspecies are new. They are: Batella clavata, B. depressa, Cytherella kalajarensis, Cytherelloidea bhujensis, C. dhrangensis, C. langijarensis, C. paradifficila, Cytheropterina devai, C. pandeyi, C. sajjaniae, Habocythere diluta, H. ventrisulcata, Majungaella perforata kachchhensis, M. rasilis, Mandelstamia depecheae, Mesocytheridea? mathuri, Nophrecythere whatleyi, Procytheridea kachchhensis, Progonocythere haboensis, Schuleridea (Eoschuleridea) soodani, and Trichordis (Trichordis) gujaratensis. On the basis of the ostracodes, three assemblage zones have been proposed in this work for the beds of Chari Formation. These are, in ascending order: Zone I - Progonocythere laeviscula Zone, Zone II - Poorly Fossiliferous Zone and Zone III - Pirileberis remota Zone. Late Bathonian-Callovian age is assigned for the beds of Zone I and Callovian age for beds of Zone II and III of the Chari Formation. The ostracode fauna of the Jurassic beds of the Kachchh shows strongest affinity, besides Rajasthan, with those of Majunga Basin, Madagascar and to a lesser extent with Tanzania and Central Saudi Arabia. The paleozoogeographic implications of the ostracodes are also discussed in the paper.
10.2307/1484399|A rapid means of picking and separating species of microfossils by a suction apparatus is described.
10.2307/1486124|This work introduces an alternative method for extracting calcareous microfossils from carbonate rocks using acetic and hydrochloric acids. The method, developed at the Laboratory of Micropaleontology, Dept. of Geology/Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), has proved to be efficient in separating carbonate tests through the application of acids with controlled reaction time. Compared to traditional methods, especially to hydrogen peroxide digestion, the best results show an almost eight-fold increase in the number of extracted microfossil tests. The time required for the procedure does not exceed 2 hours.
40959486|We investigated benthic foraminiferal densities, composition, and microhabitats at three sampling stations on the Portuguese margin, at 980, 1860 and 3125m water depth. For each site, we studied two sets of three replicate cores, sampled during two successive multi-corer deployments. Our results show an overall trend of decreasing foraminiferal densities from the shallowest to the deepest site, in response to a decreasing labile organic matter flux to the sea floor. Faunas at 980m are strongly dominated by Uvigerina mediterranea, which shows a conspicuous faunal density maximum close to the sediment surface. At 1860m, the surface faunas are much poorer, and no longer dominated by a single taxon. Cibicidoides robertsonianus, C. kullenbergi, Uvigerina peregrina, Gavelinopsis translucens and Hoeglundina elegans are present in about equal quantities. The deep infaunal community at these two stations is dominated by Globobulimina affinis, and has comparable densities. At 3125m, the faunas are very poor in 5 of the 6 cores, and mainly consist of agglutinant taxa. At all three stations, important differences are observed between the 6 studied cores. At 980m, the faunal density is about 4 times higher in one of the cores, mainly due to high numbers of Uvigerina mediterranea. This could be explained by the position of this core in a topographical depression, where organic matter concentrates. At 1860m, two sets of three cores, taken during two successive multicorer deployments, contain different amounts of deep infaunal taxa. Finally, at 3125m, one of the 6 cores contains an exceptionally rich deep infaunal community (up to 450 individuals per 50cm), dominated by the calcareous taxa Fursenkoina bradyi, Globobulimina affinis and Chilostomella oolina. The fact that the subrecent fossil faunas of three studied cores from this site are all enriched in these taxa indicates that the observed high infaunal standing stocks are a recurrent phenomenon, in response to a currently unidentified process that strongly concentrates metabolisable organic matter in deeper sediment layers.
10.2307/1485871|A total of 38 box cores were collected from the Amerasian Basin, Arctic Ocean during the U.S. Geological Survey 1992 (PI92-AR) and 1993 (PI93-AR) Arctic Cruises aboard the U.S. Coast Guard Icebreaker Polar Star. In addition, the cruises collected geophysical data, piston cores and hydrographic data to address the geologic and oceanographic history of the western Arctic Ocean. This paper reports the results of the quantitative analyses of benthic foraminifer distribution data of the total (live + dead) assemblages derived from 22 box core-top samples. The results show that a distinct depth distribution of three dominant benthic foraminifer assemblages, the Textularia spp. - Spiroplectammina biformis, Cassidulina teretis and Oridorsalis tener - Eponides tumidulus Biofacies are strongly controlled by the dominant water masses within the Canada Basin: the Arctic Surface Water, Arctic Intermediate Water and Canada Basin Deep Water. The faunal distributions and their oceanographic associations in the Canada Basin are consistent with observations of benthic foraminifer distributions from other regions within the Arctic Ocean.
10.2307/1484616|A method of concentrating the microfauna of Recent sediments is described. It utilizes the vibratory action of a modified Syntron.
10.2307/1485118|The finding of microspheric individuals of Orbitoides apiculatus Schlumberger var. gruenbachensis Papp containing numerous megalospheric embryos demonstrates one of three types of reproduction in orbitoidal foraminifera. The multinucleate microspheric form produces haploid megalospheric individuals by a schizogonic type of reproduction. The peripherally situated embryos must have been able to destroy the walls of bypassed chambers, as they moved from the center of the test towards the periphery. In some cases, the direction of the advance of the embryos can be observed. The apparent dissolution was probably accomplished by the activity of enzymes.
1486009|We present a new approach for analyzing the turnover rates of Cretaceous radiolarians recorded in pelagic sequences of western Tethys. The analysis of major extinction-radiation events and the fluctuation of diversity are compared with major paleoceanographic events and variation of diversity in dinoflagellates, calcareous nannoplankton and ammonites. There is an extraordinary correlation between biotic changes and sea level changes, temperatures, O, C and Sr isotopes, phosphorus accumulation rates and anoxic episodes. This reveals a predominantly abiotic control on the evolution of radiolarians. The rate of turnover and the diversity through time of two major orders of radiolarians (nassellarians and spumellarians) exhibits (1) the quasi-parallelism of their diversity curves, excluding a direct competition between them, (2) greater resistance of spumellarians to extinction during the early stage of extinction intervals and (3) a stronger post-extinction recovery of nassellarians. Evolutionary rates of radiolarians can be a good means of monitoring global environmental changes and allowing us to understand more clearly the relationship between plankton evolution, climate and paleoceanographic processes.
10.2307/1485350|Eucoronis fridtjofnanseni, n. sp. is abundantly preserved in hemipelagic sediments of the Norwegian-Greenland Sea ranging in age from approximately 8 to 10.5 Ma. Its first and last appearances are abrupt, and it is easily distinguishable from other constituents of the high latitude radiolarian subfauna. Moreover, its stratigraphic range can be conveniently used to establish a new range zone within the radiolarian biozonation. Eucoronis fridjofnanseni evolved from a secondary branch of the Corythospyris lineage. A single dichotomy occurred in this lineage in the Middle Miocene and eventually gave rise to Eucoronis morphology with Corythospyris jubata and Clathrospyris sandellae as intermediate species. These intermediates represent a reversal of the major evolutionary trend with the development of complex skeletal forms from a simpler precursor. The evolutionary cycle regresses to a simple lattice design in E. fridtjofnanseni. Both E. fridtjofnanseni and the stem lineage acquired pairs of large sagittal lattice pores on the front and back of the lattice shell. Eucoronis is emended.
10.2307/1485430|A quantitative Neogene (Early Miocene-Pleistocene) planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy has been developed for the Mediterranean based on stratigraphic sequences from DSDP Sites 125, 132 and 372. The biochronologic framework in this study is based primarily on correlation with previously determined paleomagnetic ages for planktonic foraminiferal events in Pacific sequences. In terms of foraminiferal stratigraphy, the Pliocene/Pleistocene boundary in these 3 sites is placed at the last appearance of Globigerinoides obliquus and agrees closely with previous correlations based on the extinction of Discoaster brouweri. The Miocene/Pliocene boundary in the 2 western basin sites (132 and 372) is correlated to distinct lithologic changes, with pyrite-rich sediments of latest Miocene age separating Messinian evaporites from Early Pliocene pelagic deposits. Many of the important Neogene datum events in planktonic foraminiferal biochronology, as established in deep-sea cores from the Caribbean and Atlantic basins, can be recognized in the deep-sea cores taken from the Mediterranean. The identification of such datum events in the biostratigraphic framework of the Mediterranean helps to correlate the stratotypes of Neogene stages and boundaries, typified in land sections of this region, with global biochronology.
24413310|Two new species, Calcidiscus salamis sp. nov. and C. odebodea sp. nov. are described from the marine offshore Niger Delta Neogene sequence. Calcidiscus salamis is structurally similar to C. fuscus but has a closed central area. Calcidiscus odebodea differs from C. leptoporous in having strongly curved sutures. The new forms consistently occur throughout the Late Miocene to Early Pliocene offshore eastern and western Niger Delta sequences. They have the same stratigraphic range: NN11-NN13 zones (Messinian to Zanclean). The combination of their widespread geographic occurrence and short stratigraphic range makes them excellent index species for the high-resolution biostratigraphy of the Niger Delta marine offshore sequences where most Calcidiscus forms have much longer ranges.
4097115| The ostracod fauna from la Terma hot spring (2655'31" S - 68 08'45.7" W, 4026m above sea level), Southern Altiplano, Argentina, is described and the pool itself characterized. The occurrence of ostracods in this type of environments is registered for the first time in Argentina. Six species were found, two of which are new to the fauna of Argentina: Penthesilenula incae (Delachaux) and Hemicypris panningi (Brehm). Two species were found for the first time in the Altiplano: H. panningi (Brehm) and Cypridopsis fuhrmanni (Mhes). Some comments concerning how and when these species could spread to populate the Dry Altiplano are discussed briefly taking into account paleoclimatic data. This paper provides the first record of recent ostracods from the Southern Altiplano, Argentina. 
10.2307/1484810|Five reference works on fossil microplankton of interest to palynologists are described and compared.
10.2307/1484147|Relative abundance of miospore types is a powerful criterion for stratigraphic identification of coal beds. Precision of this technique is improved by application of simple statistical tests, such as Chi-square, which allow objective evaluation of the data. To be conducive to statistical analysis, quantitative collection and treatment of samples is essential. In order to characterize spore populations with adequate precision, many spores must be counted and grouped into few types.
10.2307/1484235|A new genus, Rimosocella, is proposed for cheilostome bryozoa described by Canu and Bassler (1920) as Quadricellaria? laciniosa. Study of topotypes from the Castle Hayne marl (Eocene) of North Carolina and additional material from the McBean formation (Eocene) of Georgia has disclosed the necessity for complete redescription and illustration of the species.
10.2307/1485241|Ichthyoliths permit the stratigraphic interpretation of pelagic brown clays (otherwise unfossiliferous or of poorly known age) at Deep Sea Drilling Project Sites 105, 137, 141, 150, 163, 172, 196, 198, 212, 213, 215, 221, 239 and 241. Ages are determined to about the precision of epochs and subepochs. At Site 212 in the Indian Ocean, brown clay beneath middle Eocene calcareous ooze can be dated as late Oligocene. This supports the surmise of the shipboard scientists that the calcareous sediments have been redeposited, and suggests that the age of sediments with which brown clays are interstratified may not always be a reliable guide to the age of the clays. At Sites 137, 213, 215, and 221, ichthyoliths indicate the presence of previously unrecognized hiatuses Notes are included on 11 stratigraphically useful Oligocene and younger fossil ichthyolith subtypes.
10.2307/1484453|The photography of foraminifera and other objects of similar size presents many problems to the novice. The apparatus described makes satisfactory photographs of small objects both rapidly and inexpensively. Many common difficulties in lighting, depth of field, long exposure, and vibration are not encountered in using this device.
10.2307/1485621|Calcareous nannoplankton have been investigated in 22 samples collected from the East China Sea continental shelf and 36 indigenous taxa identified. Nannoplankton abundance and diversity increase progressively in a seaward direction, reflecting changes in water temperature, salinity and terrigenous sediment input to the shelf. The chief environmental factors controlling the distribution of modern nannoplankton assemblages are the cold inshore Coastal Current flowing southward and the warm Kuroshio Current flowing northeastward over the southern middle and outer shelf. The continental shelf can be divided into three zones based on the nannoplankton assemblage: 1) an inner-shelf zone (Gephyrocapsa oceanica Zone) which is low in nannoplankton abundance and diversity and in which the species present are overwhelmingly dominated by G. oceanica; 2) a zone approximating the middle shelf (Gephyrocapsa oceanica-Emiliania huxleyi Zone) in which abundance and diversity are moderate--with G. oceanica and E. huxleyi the dominant species and G. oceanica predominating; and 3) an outer-shelf zone (Emiliania huxleyi-Gephyrocapsa oceanica Zone) of much abundance and diversity, with E. huxleyi predominant over G. oceanica.
10.2307/1485057| Oxygen and carbon isotope measurements on paleontologically inferred "planktonic" and "benthonic" foraminifera of Late Cretaceous and Early Tertiary age have shown that the "planktonic" foraminifera indeed inhabited surface waters of the oceans, while the "benthonic" foraminifera inhabited deep waters. Over a five-million-year period near the end of the Cretaceous, various planktonic foraminiferal species retained the same order of depth stratification beneath the surface of the ocean. The surface water in the Cretaceous had temperatures and  C<sup>13</sup> values for dissolved bicarbonate similar to those existing today in South Atlantic surface waters. The bottom-water temperature, however, was perhaps about 10 C warmer than today. Oxygen isotope studies of the Cretaceous pelecypod Inoceramus reveal that it had a benthonic habitat and that it shows consistently heavier oxygen isotope values than the benthonic foraminifera values. Isotope results from the foraminifera clearly indicate that there was a sharp climatic deterioration from middle to late Maastrichtian (68 to 66 million years B.P.). Whether or not this climatic change was the primary cause of the massive extinction of taxa near the end of the Cretaceous can not be proven, but the timing of these two events is sufficiently coincidental to suggest causal effect. 
10.2307/1484197|In the present paper, the author deals with two main groups of forms of Frondicularia from the Lower Lias of England. A group of smooth forms assigned to Frondicularia brizaeformis Bornemann is described and the variations in the growth stages discussed. Ornamented forms belonging to the Frondicularia sulcata Bornemann plexus are also described, and the significance and range of the chief variants are discussed and illustrated with an evolutionary diagram.
10.2307/1485745|An SEM study of Eponides repandus (Fichtel and Moll), the type species of the genus Eponides Montfort, from the Gulf of Aqaba, and comparison with its recently discovered holotype, show that Eponides possesses a primary interiomarginal, exclusively extraumbilical aperture which may be accompanied by multiple, areal supplementary apertures. A pseudoumbilicus is present, leading into a primary spiral-umbilical canal, delimited by an umbilical plate which coalesces with a septal flap and continues into a bipartitor cutting off the intercameral foramen. Eponides cf. E. concameratus (Williamson), included by many authors in E. repandus, is distinguished from the latter mainly by the average number of chambers and their rapid increase in size, ornamentation and by convexity of the ventral side. Biogeographical presence/absence and dominance patterns are different for these species. The basic architecture of the early stages of Poroeponides lateralis (Terquem), the type species of Poroeponides Cushman, is identical with that of the genus Eponides, but changes during ontogeny: the interiomarginal extraumbilical aperture of Poroeponides changes from slit-like to multiple interiomarginal; multiple areal supplementary apertures, present in early stages, become very numerous; flange-like chamber extensions become very large; the distal face increases rapidly in size and the ventral chamber wall is shortened, uncovering the mouth (pseudoumbilicus) of the continuous spiral umbilical canal. The function of the spiral umbilical canal is taken over by an enlarged pseudoumbilicus formed by strongly bent-in distal faces attached to a preceding septum. As also shown by their stratigraphic distribution, Eponides and Poroeponides are distinct genera. Within the genus Poroeponides several species may be recognized, each apparently evolving from a different stock. Aspects of functional test morphology are briefly discussed. Forty-seven SEM photos of whole and dissected specimens depict the test features discussed. A glossary of selected terms is appended.
10.2307/1484721|Radiosphaerid calcispheres, characterized by a distinctive spinose to prismatic outer wall layer, are a potentially useful index of the Frasnian Age, Upper Devonian, in North America. They are, where abundant and well preserved, diagnostic of a restricted, possibly hypersaline, marine environment, distant from clastic or fresh-water influx. Classification of calcispheres must allow for the wide morphologic range within taxa, the effects of differences in degree of calcification of different shell layers, and the fact that microcrystalline shell material is probably recrystallized from the original hyaline state.
40983738|Rich calcareous nannoplankton assemblages were recovered from the Badenian (Middle Miocene) in Slovenske gorice (Eastern Slovenia). Paleogeographically, the investigated area belonged to the Mura Depression, a heterogenous marginal basin of the Central Paratethys. Over one hundred species of calcareous nannoplankton were found in the Badenian marls, among them two new Pontosphaera species were determined and are described in this paper. The nannoplankton assemblages, containing specimens of Pontosphaera geminipora n. sp. and Pontosphaera desuetoidea n. sp., allow their assignment to the standard nannoplankton biozone NN5. Both species are rare and occur in diverse assemblages, indicating warm and stable, relatively deep and oligotrophic depositional environments.
30135294|Moderately well-preserved Archaeodictyomitrid radiolarian assemblages extracted from the Aptian/Albian transition interval (zones NC7 and NC8 of calcareous nannofossils) of the Sopoti section in southern Albania provide new data for the Radiolarian record during the lower Albian Oceanic Anoxic Event (OAElb), which was previously unexplored in Tethyan sediments. Two new species (Archaeodictyomitra ioniana n.sp. and Mita amphora n.sp.) are described and the age range of a number of Archaeodictyomitrid species is specified. The introduction of Mita amphora and M. gracilis at the base of the Albian reflects a biotic change that is highlighted by a longer/larger overall test size, wide intercostal pores and the development of robust costae throughout the test. These morphological changes are tentatively regarded as the biotic response of Archaeodictyomitrid radiolarian communities within the Ionian Zone to the palaeoceanographic changes that took place during the Aptian/Albian boundary interval.
10.2307/1485230|Actinommids (spumellarian Radiolaria) are a group of microfossils in which taxonomy and phylogeny hitherto have been based on features of morphology that change with the growth of individuals. To make Miocene actinommids from the equatorial Pacific useful in biostratigraphy, paleoceanography, and paleoecology, ontogenetically invariant morphological features can be analyzed by methods of numerical taxonomy to group the specimens into genera, which are further subdivided into species by visual comparison. According to these criteria, 31 species, 18 of which are new, are recognized in the Late Miocene section of DSDP Sites 77 and 289, and an informal revision of actinommid higher taxa is tentatively proposed.
10.2307/1484816|The author describes and figures for the first time the foraminiferal microfauna from the Lower Cretaceous (Albian) deposits in the Rumanian Plain. As many as 115 species of foraminifera from Giurgiu and Putineiu are described and figured, including the new species Uvigerinammina moesiana and three new subspecies, Lenticulina (Lenticulina) exarata danubiana, Gavelinopsis infracretacea simionescui and Globorotalites brotzeni rumanus.
10.2307/1485639|Specimens of Coscinodiscus marginatus, C. oculus-iridis, and C. radiatus from Plio-Pleistocene North Pacific sediments were examined in the light microscope and scanning electron microscope, then compared with descriptions and illustrations of various taxa in the literature. C. marginatus and C. oculus-iridis belong to the group of species characterized by a ring of labiate processes on the mantle, with two larger processes broadened and curled. C. radiatus, in contrast, possesses labiate processes upon the valve face as well as in a mantle ring, and the two larger processes have the same shape as others in the ring. C. marginatus is distinguished from C. oculus-iridis by the possession of a broad hyaline band projecting inward from the valve edge, which looks like a striate margin in light microscopy. The three taxa are otherwise very similar. Based on descriptions and figures in the literature, it is suggested that specimens of C. marginatus have occasionally been misidentified as Endictya species; C. oculus-iridis may be a synonym of C. argus, and C. obscurus and C. perforatus may be junior synonyms of C. radiatus. In modern North Pacific sediments, C. marginatus and C. oculus-iridis are characteristic of the subarctic zone, while C. radiatus is restricted to the subtropical and transitional zones. Core records spanning the last 2.6 m.y. (Late Pliocene to Recent) indicate that C. marginatus was abundant prior to about 2.4 Ma, and decreased markedly in relative abundance at that time; in the Pleistocene it has only been common during peak interglacial intervals. C. radiatus attained its greatest relative abundance in subtropical waters during the late Quaternary (since 0.7 Ma). C. oculus-iridis has always been a minor component of the sediment flora.
10.2307/1485113|The new genus Triangulina and two new species belonging in it are described from the Upper Eocene and Upper Oligocene to Lower Miocene of southern Australia. The affinities of the new genus are not clear, and it is referred to the Problematica.
10.2307/1485428| The Neogene evolutionary histories of Zygocircus, Neosemantis and Callimitra are examined in sediments from Deep Sea Drilling Project Site 77. Neosemantis is shown to represent an essentially monophyletic lineage that first appears abruptly in the late Early Miocene. Neosemantis cladophora (Jrgensen) is concluded to be closely related to Neosemantis distephanus distephanus (Haeckel), but this affinity cannot be documented. The origin of Neosemantis is interpreted as having resulted from genetic crossing of Zygocircus productus tricarinatus, n. subsp. and Callimitra atavia, n. sp. during Early and Middle Miocene time. Plagiacanthoidea is further emended to include the Trissocyclidae. Zygocircus, Neosemantis and Callimitra are emended. Seven new species-group taxa include: Zygocircus productus tricarinatus, n. subsp., Zygocircus productus abnormis, n. subsp., Neosemantis bjoerklundi mimicus, n. subsp., Neosemantis bjoerklundi bjoerklundi, n. sp. and n. subsp., Neosemantis distephanus verticalis, n. subsp., Callimitra atavia, n. sp., and Callimitra sharonae, n. sp. 
10.2307/1484898| An ostracode fauna of 38 species, many of them too few or too poorly preserved for complete identification, is recorded from the Oligocene Alazn and Huasteca Formations of the Tampico Embayment of Mexico. A new species of Cytheropteron is described. 
10.2307/1484182|For those in search of markers, a range chart, together with descriptions and figures, of five rare Jurassic index foraminifera is presented here. These forms have been described by the author in various papers within the past five or six years, and it was believed desirable to assemble and present this information here because of its possible economic applications.
10.2307/1484128|The present work is a biostratigraphic study of the Maestrichtian, Danian, and Montian formations and their microfaunas in Gabal Um Elghanayem of the Western Desert of Egypt. The Echinocorys chalk, with a typical Danian macrofauna, is flooded with Globorota lia of the simulatilis-velascoensis group and with other members of the Globorotalia zone microfauna.
10.2307/1484413|Comparison of the calcareous skeleton of the Permian alga Gymnocodium with that of the Recent Galaxaura supports Pia's view that they are related. The Permian species are now divided between Gymnocodium Pia emend. and Permocalculus gen. nov., and placed in the family Gymnocodiaceae, new family, of equal status with the Recent Chaetangiaceae which includes Galaxaura. Two new species of Permocalculus, P. digitus and P. plumosus, are proposed. The Permian material figured and described is from northern Iraq, Middle East.
10.2307/1484153|Palynological study of Recent Orinoco sediments shows the relative influence of location of source area and transport by air and water currents on pollen dispersal. Distribution of fungi, cuticles, reworked material, Hystrichosphaeridae, and foraminifera have also been studied. Variations in microfossil content with depth in core samples are found to be related to depositional history. The significance of the results in palynological and paleogeographical studies of older sediments is discussed.
4097063|Calcareous nannoplankton diversity, evolutionary rates and species longevity show markedly different characters above and below the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary. Excluding mass extinction events, and the initial origination and radiation, Mesozoic nannoplankton diversity is characterized by relatively continuous increase with low background evolutionary rates and high species longevity. Cenozoic diversity is more variable and features significant Eocene and Neogene diversity declines, with little or no recovery. Cenozoic evolutionary rates are also consistently higher than those of the Mesozoic, and species longevity is low. The response of nannoplankton to climate cooling in the two eras is particularly revealing: cold intervals in the Cretaceous saw greater paleobiogeographical differentiation and high-latitude nannoplankton provinces that supported diversifying communities, whereas, cooling in the Eocene and Neogene coincided with diversity declines, the selective extinction of warm-water taxa, and high-latitude provinces with reduced diversity. It appears likely that the presence of widespread stable, subtropical and tropical oligotrophic water masses promoted the diversification of the broadly K-strategist calcareous nannoplankton (and dinoflagellates) for much of the Mesozoic and into the early Paleogene. The switch to an icehouse climate, however, transformed the oceans, favouring the r-strategist diatoms at the expense of the other phytoplankton groups. The profound Eocene cooling established new, cold-water habitats that limited calcareous nannoplankton habitation and diversification, but promoted diatom expansion and diversification at high latitudes. Diatoms became the most competitive of the phytoplankton groups, flourishing in all environments but particularly those with high and pulsed nutrient inputs, although their expansion may also have been aided by tectonic and biological factors that increased the flux of biolimiting silica to the oceans.
10.2307/1485290|Dinoflagellate fossils are used to zone the Neocomian Cretaceous section at DSDP Site 105, in the western North Atlantic approximately 600 kilometers east of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. Four zones are proposed, which range in age from Berriasian to Barremian (or Aptian?). These are, in ascending stratigraphic order, the Biorbifera johnewingii Zone, the Druggidium apicopaucicum Zone, the Druggidium deflandrei Zone, and the Oligosphaeridium complex Zone. The highest zone is subdivided into a lower Druggidium rhabdoreticulatum Subzone and a higher Odontochitina operculata Subzone. The zonation at DSDP Site 105 is used to zone and date Neocomian sediments at DSDP Sites 99, 100 and 101, located in the North Atlantic near the Bahamas. Several species, including Biorbifera johnewingii, Pyxidinopsis challengerensis and Polysphaeridium warrenii, are proposed as guide fossils for correlating Neocomian sediments outside of the North Atlantic, and for distinguishing the Jurassic-Cretaceous boundary. Two new species and one new genus are described.
10.2307/1485573| Three new centric diatom species assigned to a new genus are described from Miocene lacustrine deposits of Idaho. Species of the new genus, Mesodictyon, have the areola cribrum in the middle of the loculus, strutted processes and radiating, non-fasciculated striae. The strutted processes of M. magnum (diameter 60-150 m) have long (2-3 m) tubular extensions. The strutted processes of M. fovis (diameter 14-80 m) are in distinct pits near the junction of the face and mantle. The valve face of M. undulatum (diameter 10-44 m) is weakly tangentially undulate. Preliminary evidence indicates that Mesodictyon has a wide geographic distribution and may be a useful biostratigraphic marker. 
4097108|A single mooring with two sediment traps (trap A at 500 and trap B at 1700 m below sea surface) was deployed at the southern margin of the Cretan Sea at a depth of 1750m. The duration of the deployment was 12 months (from January 2001 to February 2002) with sampling intervals of approximately 15 days. The results obtained from trap A at 500 m depth show that the total coccolithophore export production was generally low. The highest productivity season was recorded from January till late September with the highest flux values observed between late March to late June (maximum flux:
4097017| The present study was designed to gain insight into the protists and fungi that made up the microbiota in the past, fossilized in two different substrates: amber and sandstone. The amber, dated as Lower Cretaceous, was from lava in northern Spain, while fossil-bearing sandstone rocks were collected from the Linnaeus terrace and Mount Fleming regions of Antarctica. When examining this type of inclusion in hard substrates, it first has to be established whether the microorganism is mummified or only partially mineralized. In the latter case, some of the organism's autofluorescence may be preserved. In our amber samples, light microscopy revealed a very well preserved microcenosis in what must have been a semiaquatic habitat comprised of several types of protozoa including Amoeba, Paramecium and Astasia (Euglena), Amebas limax and the colpodid ciliate Pseudoplatyophrya nana, as well as an abundant fossilized mycelium. The SEM-BSE procedure provided us with ultrastructural details of the fungi and protozoa, especially amoebae and flagellates. In the sandstone samples from Linnaeus terrace, it was possible to identify presumptive diatoms. Ultrastructural details were well-preserved in a fossil Trebouxia-type microalga from Mount Flemming, including the inner chloroplast area normally occupied by the pyrenoid. This fossilized microalga was shown by energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) to contain high Si levels in the pyrenoid zone, and high Fe levels in the area corresponding to the chloroplast periphery, peripheric cytoplasm and cell wall. In sandstone from Linnaeus Terrace, fossilized algae showed no central core containing Si, and the entire cell appeared to be completely filled with Al, K and Fe, with Fe most intensely observed within the algal wall.The present observations suggest that a well-preserved cell ultrastructure is the best criterion of biogenicity. 
10.2307/1485119|A new species of holothurian sclerite, Calcancora kistnai, from the Pleistocene sediments off the coast from Bombay, India, is described and figured.
1486154|Results from our investigation of Upper Cretaceous diatoms from the Marca Shale Member of the Moreno Shale in California and from Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Hole 748C on the Kerguelen Plateau, Southern Indian Ocean enable a clarification of the taxonomic position of several diatoms. Differences in areola structure, a primary and conservative character of the diatom valve, are used to separate diatoms recently included in the genus Benetorus. We resurrect the genus Pomphodiscus to include species with locular areolae, a central rimoportula, and a central inflated chamber. We propose the new species Pomphodiscus kerguelensis n. sp. and new combination Pomphodiscus craspedodiscoides comb. nov.
10.2307/1485437|Mitrellataxis is a new multielement conodont genus characterized by small squat platform-cones (new term) and small cusplike elements. Presence of white matter, lamellar construction, and a basal cavity demonstrates that these elements are conodonts, not fish fragments. Despite diversity and the admixed fauna, small size and similar morphology of the elements allow tentative reconstruction of the apparatuses of Mitrellataxis species. Mitrellataxis chevronella, M. dombrowskiae and M. coronella are newly described species. Elements of Mitrellataxis have been recovered from Upper Devonian strata interpreted as ranging from the Scaphignathus velifer Zone to the lower Bispathodus costatus Zone in the mid-continent and western United States.
10.2307/1484849|The new family Indicolidae has been erected under the superfamily Globigerinacea Carpenter, Parker and Jones to receive Indicola rajasthanensis Singh and Kalia, n. gen., n. sp. The new genus Indicola, while possessing most of the characteristic features of planktonic foraminifera, is distinguishable by the development of a peculiar structure in the umbilical cavity and by the interiomarginal multiple primary aperture. It is restricted to the Flosculina zone, Bikaner Stage. Kirthar Series (Lutetian), equivalent to the topmost Lutetian, the Truncorotaloides rohri zone of Trinidad. The type locality is about 6 kilometers west of Shri Kolayatji village in Bikaner District, Rajasthan, India.
10.2307/1484928|Current paleontological research is handicapped by nomenclatorial formalism, the definition of species, and the practice of holotype designation. Species is redefined as a platonic idea based on a representative sample of mature phenotypes. Accurate study of such samples yields a large amount of genetic and environmental information. This method, here applied to mature shells of planktonic foraminifera from Pleistocene deep-sea cores, leads to stratigraphic zonations some two orders of magnitude more accurate than presently possible, and appears invaluable also for ecological and paleoecological studies.
10.2307/1485667|Septloculina, a new genus of the Hauerininae differs from other milioline genera by the arrangement of its chambers in seven planes of coiling so that seven chambers are visible externally. The following three new species are assigned to the new genus: Septloculina angulata, S. rotunda and S. tortuosa. These species have been recorded from the modern deposits of the littoral zone of the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. Quinqueloculina (Pseudoschlumbergerina) Cherif, which is a partial synonym of Septloculina, is considered as a junior synonym of Quinqueloculina d'Orbigny, and a lectotype of its type species (Sigmoilina ovata Sidebottom) is designated.
10.2307/1485351|Quantitative planktonic foraminiferal analysis of the equatorial and subtropical Pacific DSDP Sites 77B, 319 and 296 revealed more than 35 datum levels for the Early and Middle Miocene. Relative ages for these datum levels were derived from the estimated sediment accumulation rate of Site 77B, as calibrated by certain foraminiferal and radiolarian datum levels previously tied to the paleomagnetic record. This indirect approach of dating foraminiferal datum levels resulted in age estimates that are in relatively close agreement with ages of Middle Miocene foraminiferal datum levels previously tied to the paleomagnetic record by Ikebe et al. (1972), Berggren and Van Couvering (1974), Ryan et al. (1974), and Tsuchi et al. (1979). However, considerable age differences are apparent in the Early Miocene datum levels. Several intervals marked by severe calcium carbonate dissolution, often associated with a hiatus, are identified in the Early Miocene sequences. These dissolution intervals occur at about the same stratigraphic intervals in many deep-sea sections in the Pacific Ocean and form an important marker horizon for regional biostratigraphic correlations; they appear to have been caused by sea level changes accompanied by major paleoclimatic fluctuations.
10.2307/1484393|Favreina spp. (crustacean pellets) are described from horizons ranging from Triassic to Miocene in the Middle East. Three new Jurassic species and two new genera are also described from the same area. The problematic organisms Tubiphytes (= Nigriporella), Pseudovermiporella, Tubulites, Hensonella and Distichoplax are recorded and discussed.
10.2307/1485555|Twenty one species of benthic foraminifera with test sizes generally smaller than 0.100mm were isolated and described from the shallow waters of Northern Gulf of Elat (Red Sea). All species belong to suborder Rotaliina, in majority to the family Rotaliellidae and Glabratellidae. Two genera: Microglabratella and Selenita, and seven species: Schaferina (?) bicornis, Rotaliella grelli, Rotaliella (?) nana, Glabratellina saidi, Microglabratella tabaensis, Selenita megalosphera, and Rubratella steinitzi are new.
10.2307/1485845|The skeletal morphologies of three-sided silicoflagellates can be reproduced by a mathematical model that minimizes the apical surface area. The model allows the basal sides to bow outward; the morphology that best minimizes apical area has a basal ring that approximates a circle. More typical silicoflagellates from the geologic record, however, tend to have a basal ring more triangular in outline; our modeling shows that this can occur where the reduction of skeletal material, and thus weight, is a secondary factor. A model that minimizes the use of skeletal material produces unusual morphologies, indicating that the reduction of skeletal material is not of primary importance.
10.2307/1485697|Cenozoic radiolarian biostratigraphy was developed in low-latitude pelagic sections where these microfossils are abundant, diverse and well preserved. Radiolarian faunas, if preserved, are usually less abundant and diverse in shelf sediments than in deep-sea sediments. Such an assemblage occurs in the neritic Calvert, Choptank, and Eastover formations (Chesapeake Group) of the mid-Atlantic Coastal Plain. Although many biostratigraphically important forms are sparse or absent in these middle-latitude, shallow shelf sediments, the standard radiolarian biostratigraphic zones can be recognized. The Calvert Formation is of early to middle Miocene age (Stichocorys wolffii to Dorcadospyris alata zones), the Choptank Formation of middle Miocene age (Diartus petterssoni Zone), and the Eastover Formation of latest Miocene or early Pliocene age (Stichocorys peregrina or Spongaster pentas zones). These results suggest that radiolarians may be valuable for biostratigraphic purposes over a wider spectrum of facies than was previously recognized.
3648453|Charophytes are described and illustrated from the Upper Devonian of Western Australia, including five genera and nine species of which four are new species. Most belong to the Family Umbellinaceae being placed in a new Class Umbellinaphyceae of the Division Charophyta. Representatives of these genera occur in Devonian sediments of Europe, Asia, North America, and Australia. A species of Sycidium described by Karpinsky (1906) as Sycidium panderi is also identified from Western Australia.
10.2307/1485772|The phylogenetic relationships of 18 species of the Soritacea can be inferred from cladistic methodology. From 28 homologies, based on test morphology, the most likely (i.e., most parsimonious) cladogram contains 15 monophyletic groups. This cladogram, in which the ontogeny of homologues is documented for each species, appears to be satisfactorily robust in a variety of contexts. For instance congruent sequences of character development among all species is consistent with the postulate that ontogeny has remained stable during the evolution of this group. The cladogram is used to predict which biostratigraphic ranges are consistent with character ontogeny and distribution of homologies. Finally, the distribution of the symbiont flora among the examined soritid species is consistent with the branching pattern of the cladogram, as well as with the "symbiosis hypothesis" for soritid evolution. During this study, fine structural analysis of embryonic soritids revealed the presence of a double-layered porcellaneous wall, in which the outer layer is pitted and tubulated, rather than porous, and the inner layer is solid. A new species from the Pacific, Marginopora kudakajimaensis, is described.
10.2307/1484491|The problems involved in the photography of microfossils, especially foraminifera, are presented, and solutions for each problem are suggested. The properties of lenses in general, and the feasibility of using pinhole diaphragms in photomicrography, are discussed in detail. Equipment and techniques recommended for use in photomicrography, including stereoscopic photography, are described.
4499753|The J. W. Bailey Collection at the Farlow Herbarium of Harvard University holds type specimens of radiolarians from the sea off Kamchatka, or the present day Bering Sea, which he described in 1856 in his article: Notice ofMicroscopic Forms found in the soundings of the Sea of Kamschatka. Bailey described thirteen polycystine and two phaeodarian species, which are all recognized in the examined slide collection. In this paper the type specimens of the species described by Bailey (1856) are photographed and illustrated with some diagnostic information that may contribute to a refined taxonomic analysis.
10.2307/1484557|An aberrant specimen of Miliolinella with two apertures, one at each end of the test, is described and figured.
10.2307/1485093|A new technique, which must be carried out in a fume hood, is proposed for the removal of gold plating from calcareous shells.
10.2307/1484719|This paper illustrates and describes well-preserved stromatoporoid maculate microtissue, and notes the appearance of maculae under various conditions of preservation. Maculae are distinguished from nonmaculate structures, such as vacuoles, cellules or tubules, pseudomaculae, specks, and reticulate microtissue.
10.2307/1484758|The mechanical disaggregation of shales for palynology without the use of acids has contributed to an improved recovery of pollen, spores and other microfossils. A rotary washing mechanism and bromoform separation technique were utilized in a study of Tertiary sediments.
10.2307/1484142|Recent living, dead and total foraminiferal populations in sediment samples collected by aqualung divers in the vicinity of Heald Bank, northwest Gulf of Mexico were studied. Fifty living species were identified; living specimens composed thirty-five percent of the total fauna. Comparisons of living, dead and total populations permit valid ecological conclusions and suggest geological considerations on changing conditions and transportation of tests. Faunal variations within short lateral distances are appreciable.
1486002|Small foraminifers and fusulinaceans from Upper Permian strata in the Bolshaya and Malaya Laba, and Belaya river basins in the Peredovoy Range of the Northwestern Caucasus have been restudied. New age data show that they are clearly Late Changhsingian in age. The foraminifers occur in rocks in isolated outcrops that include bedded limestone, biohermal buildups, and terrigenous clastics. Many foraminiferal species previously described by K. Miklukho-Maklay in 1954 are here revised and redescribed based on specimens from some of the same sections. Nine new species and two new genera of small foraminifers are described. The foraminifer assemblage is correlated with similar coeval associations in South China, the South Primorye, Pamirs, and Transcaucasia.
10.2307/1484115|A formula system for the temporary classification of fossil pollen and spore types is suggested. The system is a shorthand method which first classifies pollen and spores on the basis of morphology and then further subdivides the morphological classification on the basis of sculpturing. The system is rapid, comprehensive, versatile, expansible, and simple enough to permit its use by new workers in the field with a minimum of training.
10.2307/1485696| A high resolution study of seasonal variation in the flux of the planktonic foraminifer Neogloboquadrina pachyderma to the sea floor has been carried out in the northeast Pacific (50N, 145W). Using an automated time series sediment trap moored at 3858 m, a total of 24 consecutive two-week samples were taken from September 1982 to September 1983. Two distinct morphologic groups of N. pachyderma were recognized, based on textural and coiling differences. Variations in the shell flux of each N. pachyderma group are directly related to seasonal changes in water temperature and structure and depth of the thermocline. Group A, predominantly sinistral forms with a crystalline, heavily calcified test, is most abundant when surface water temperatures are less than 8C and the upper 100 m of the water column are well mixed. In contrast, the less calcified, reticulate forms of Group B are predominantly dextrally coiled and are most abundant when surface water temperatures are greater than 8C and the thermocline is well established at depths between 5 and 20 m. The association of each N. pachyderma group with different near-surface water conditions suggests they are strongly dependent on specific thermal environments. By examining the variation in the shell flux of N. pachyderma as it relates to seasonal changes in local hydrography, it is possible to better understand the ecology of this important paleoclimatic indicator. 
4097071|Foraminifera inhabiting the muddy substrata within the coastal mangrove forests (Rhizophora stylosa Griff.) on Moorea, French Polynesia, are distinct from other near shore foraminiferal assemblages around the island. Yet the mangroves were introduced from New Caledonia only in 1937 at Vaianahe Bay; they have since spread to many other sites around Moorea. They invade and occupy mud substrata below Paspalum marshes, the marshes themselves and mud under overhanging Hibiscus stands. The mangrove foraminifera cluster uniquely among themselves when compared to other lagoonal habitats, including those invaded by the mangroves. Thus, the introduction of mangroves has apparently allowed the development of a new community or assemblage of foraminifera. Mangrove foraminifera include Ammoastuta salsa, Ammotium tepida, Paratrochammina stoeni, Reophax cf. R. bacillaris, Trichohylus aguayoi, Trochammina inflata, and other subsidiary species of Ammonia, Elphidium, Quinqueloculina, Cornuspira, and Rosalina. Arenoparrellla mexicana, a characteristic species in mangroves elsewhere, is absent from Moorea, perhaps because it was never there like the mangroves themselves. The mangrove species cluster midway between those of shallow-water lagoonal mud, salt grass Paspalum marshes, and the muddy habitats below Hibiscus trees, even when they occur at similar elevations above or below sea level. The foraminifera in the unique cluster in the mangroves were not introduced with the initial mangrove trees, as the trees were established from propagules carried to the site by humans. The cluster is also found in other newer stands on the island that were colonized by floating propagules. The foraminiferal mangrove assemblage at Moorea is a more recent amalgamation of taxa recruited from the species pools in the associated salt grass Paspalum, Hibiscus and shallow-water lagoonal mud habitats. This recruitment happened quickly, most likely as soon as the mangroves grew to sufficient size to trap fine sediment and organic material, as these species are constantly transported about the lagoon chiefly by birds, rafts of algae or foam, and turbidity created by winds and storms. Some but not all foraminiferal species from these environments were able to occupy the new mangrove habitat. This indicates that the unique clusters of foraminifera have no biologic unity, but are simply associations of species that tolerate slightly different but similar environments at different elevations and with increased organic content, and with decreased wave action caused by mangrove roots. Previous studies of foraminiferal and other associations also indicate that in many situations marine organisms are not necessarily dependent on other specific species. Even in seemingly structured reef and rocky-shore communities with geologic histories of similar communities over thousands of years, the rapidity with which dispersal of larvae, eggs, or adult organisms takes place, and similar environmental conditions maintain this similarity of community, not principally any biologic dependence of species upon one another.
10.2307/1485146| Re-examination of specimens of Cassidulina winniana Howe from the Cook Mountain Eocene, Louisiana, indicates that this species is referable to Cassigerinella Pokorn and that it is a senior synonym of Cassigerinella eocaena Cordey. The presence of a tooth plate in the genotypic species C. boudecensis Pokorn 1955 (=C. chipolensis (Cushman and Ponton, 1932)) suggests that, contrary to prevailing views, Pokorn's genus must be excluded from the Globigerinacea. Cassigerinella shows an affinity to the genera placed in the Islandiellidae. 
10.2307/1486110|Seven distinctive radiolarian assemblages defined from the Gamilaroi terrane of eastern Australia form the basis of an uppermost Lower to Middle Devonian radiolarian biostratigraphy. In ascending order these are the: Stigmosphaerostylus horrida, Helenifore laticlavium, Circulaforma admissarius, Helenifore pilosidiscus n. sp., Protoholoeciscus hindea, Ceratoikiscum regalinodus, and Trilonche minax assemblages. Gamilaroi terrane sedimentation occurred during the interval Early (Pragian) to Late (Frasnian) Devonian in a volcanic island arc environment in which radiolarians were abundant but sedimentary facies were locally variable. Radiolarian assemblages can be used for terrane-wide correlation. Although assemblages are dominated by spumellarians they also include more distinctive ceratoikiscid forms. Two new ceratoikiscid taxa: Circulaforma davidi n. sp. and Helenifore pilosidiscus n. sp are described.
10.2307/1485981|The distribution patterns of selected calcareous nannofossils were investigated by means of quantitative methods in uppermost Oligocene to lower middle Miocene sediments from onland stratigraphic sections in Italy. Our goal was to test the reliability, in the Mediterranean region, of the biohorizons used in the standard zonations of Martini (1971) and Bukry (1973, 1975) and of others recently proposed in the literature. Biostratigraphic reliability was evaluated by considering the mode of occurrence of single biohorizons and their potential for correlation among distant and various facies sections. Several conventionally used boundary definition biohorizons (Discoaster druggii FO, Triquetrorhabdulus carinatus LO, Helicosphaera recta LO, Cyclicargolithus abisectus acme end) are considered as not reliable. They are therefore of limited use for solving the geological problems of the region. However, by using distinct changes in the distribution patterns of calcareous nannofossils, like first common and continuous occurrence (FCO), last common and continuous occurrence (LCO), and acme end (AE), besides classical first occurrence (FO) and last occurrence (LO), at least 13 biohorizons can be consistently correlated among the studied sections. We established a set of 11 regional biostratigraphic zones and subzones, which are also recognized in poorly fossiliferous turbiditic successions. The average time resolution of the proposed zonal system is less than 1 m.y., which can be substantially improved by integrating calcareous nannofossil and planktonic foraminifera biostratigraphies. The correlation of the proposed zonal system to the Standard Chronostratigraphic Scale is discussed. The Oligocene/Miocene and Aquitanian/Burdigalian boundaries lack formal definition and are currently recognized by different criteria. We propose that, for the time being, these boundaries should be recognized by buffer intervals which include several calcareous nannofossil biohorizons. A new Sphenolithus species is described, Sphenolithus disbelemnos n. sp.
10.2307/1484817| Small specimens and fragments of Bryozoa (150-800) were collected from 189 grab samples of bottom sediments from the Rhne delta marine area. They belong to 119 different forms, of which 105 species were fully identified. Maps are given showing the total number of species per sample (text-fig. 5) and the total number of specimens per 100 gm. (text-fig. 7). The distribution patterns that emerged, notably the fact that Bryozoa are virtually absent from the entire fluviomarine fan, suggest that the rate of deposition is a major controlling factor in the distribution of these sessile organisms. A second set of maps (text-figs. 8-23) illustrates the percentage distribution of several selected species in the area. Finally, the various assemblages are analysed in terms of zoarial form (text-figs. 25-33). The results are applied to a 58 m. deep core hole, situated near the mouth of the Grand Rhne distributary, which revealed almost the entire late Pleistocene -- Recent deltaic marine sedimentary record (text-fig. 34). 
10.2307/1485623|A well-preserved assemblage of radiolarians in the Bone Spring Limestone (Leonardian, Permian) includes rare specimens of an unusual radiolarian, Nabespecha leonardia, n. gen., n. sp. The shell consists of a central cephalothoracic structure from which spokelike rays (usually 8) radiate.
10.2307/1484909|The new planktonic foraminiferal genus Neoacarinina and the two new species Neoacarinina blowi and Globorotalia crozetensis are described from the late Pleistocene of a deep-sea core from the southwest Indian Ocean. The extinction of G. crozetensis may be a useful datum for the Pleistocene-Holocene boundary at this latitude.
10.2307/1484917|Light microscopy, x-ray analysis and electron microscopy show that the foraminifer Hoeglundina elegans (d'Orbigny) possesses a bilamellar test composed of hexagonal prisms of aragonite aligned with their C- (and X-) axes normal to the surface of the test in a morphologically and optically "radial" structure. Growth of crystal units proceeds epitaxially from the basal pinacoids aligned parallel with the test surface, as determined by the stereochemistry of active-passive organic matrices. The latter seem to form a kind of cellular mass, as indicated by the configuration of organic material enveloping the crystal units within each outer lamella and inner lining, and as indicated by the distribution of interlamellar sheets of organic material. Concentrations of organic material are present, often with small, irregularly shaped crystal grains. Pores occur in bundles forming "pore fields" on the surface. The organic pore linings seem to be closely related to concentrations of organic material.
10.2307/1484606| Three localities occurring in the upper portion of the Juana Daz formation contain planktonic foraminifera correlating with the Globigerina ampliapertura and Globorotalia opima opima assemblage zones of Trinidad. One new subspecies is described. 
10.2307/1484314|The taxonomy, morphology and affinities of the subfamily Hastigerininae are discussed. Lectotypes have been designated and described for Globigerina siphonifera d'Orbigny and Globigerina aequilateralis Brady whilst a neotype has been designated for Nonionina pelagica, this same neotype also standing as lectotype for Hastigerina murrayi Thomson. The morphology of the genus Hastigerinella Cushman 1927 is discussed and a re-interpretation of Rhumbler's figure of the type species, Hastigerina digitata Rhumbler, is given, based on examination of Recent conspecific material. A new subgenus of Globorotalia Cushman 1927, Globorotalia (Beella) new subgenus, is proposed. The classification of the Globorotaliinae and Hastigerininae is revised, and the interrelationships of their genera and subgenera are re-examined in the light of the authors' previous work. The iteration of biocharacters, especially the character of digitate, radially elongate chambers, within the Globigerinaceae, is discussed.
10.2307/1484317|An investigation of the foraminifera in cores of the bottom sediments of the central Arctic Ocean indicates significant quantitative trends in this relatively uniform environment. Foraminiferal occurrences are compared with sediments, sea-floor topography, water depth, calcium carbonate distribution, organic carbon content of the sediments, temperature and salinity of the water, and associated organisms. A total of 105 species of foraminifera, of which twenty were useful in establishing depth zones, were collected at depths between 433 and 2760 meters. Five species and one variety are new. Faunal changes correspond generally to changes in slope. Application of the data suggests displacement of the sediments in parts of some cores.
10.2307/1484965| The faunistic composition of Recent planktonic foraminiferal assemblages from the Atlantic Ocean between 0 and 46N latitude correlates with average ocean temperatures at the surface, and at depths of 50 and 100 m. This correlation provides the basis for an independent model of reconstructing Pleistocene paleotemperatures. In this model, Parks' Distance Coefficient is used to construct a similarity matrix comparing every Recent sample station with every other station based on the abundances of species and phenotypes. Relative to the station(s) of highest faunal diversity there is a linear relationship between the similarity of all stations and average ocean temperatures at depths of 0, 50 and 100 m. Pleistocene foraminiferal assemblages contain the same species and phenotypes as those found in Recent sediments. Comparison of the similarity of Pleistocene assemblages with Recent ones by the method suggested above allows an estimate of average ocean temperatures during the Pleistocene Epoch. The model, tested in Caribbean core P-6304-8, suggests that during the last 100,000 years the temperature range between glacial and interglacial intervals was 7.0C at the surface and at a depth of 50 m., and 6.3C at a depth of 100 m. The results of this study provide an independent estimate of paleotemperatures during the Pleistocene Epoch. Comparison of faunistic and isotopic paleotemperatures for the core intervals examined are consistent with Emiliani's estimate of paleotemperature variations in the Caribbean, whereby 70% of the isotopic variation between glacial and interglacial periods is directly related to changes in ocean temperature. 
10.2307/1485800| The acritarch genera Micrhystridium Deflandre 1937 and Veryhachium Deunff 1954a are re-examined in light of the many revisions in their diagnoses and reassessed in relation to morphologically similar genera. Principal criteria utilized are the number of spines or other processes; their character and situation in one or several planes; whether the spines or other processes are solid or hollow; and, if hollow, whether their cavities are or are not linked to the vesicle interior. The diagnosis of Micrhystridium is revised and the genera Brachiprojectidium, Lecithodinium, Microbaculidinium, Nannobarbophora and Odontothrix, erected by Habib and Knapp 1982 on the basis of scanning electron microscope studies, are reduced to the status of subgenera of Micrhystridium and emended. The statuses of Eomicrhystridium Deflandre 1968 and Lophosphaeridium Timofeyev 1959 ex Downie 1963 are critically discussed. Emendations are proposed to the generic diagnoses of Buedingiisphaeridium Schaarschmidt 1963, Comasphaeridium Staplin, Jansonius and Pocock 1965 and Filisphaeridium Staplin, Jansonius and Pocock 1965. The genus Solisphaeridium Staplin, Jansonius and Pocock 1965 is treated as a junior synonym of Micrhystridium; Adara Fombella 1977, as a junior synonym of Buedingiisphaeridium; Elektoriskos Loeblich Jr. 1970a, Globosphaeridium Moczydlowska 1991 and Heliosphaeridium Moczydlowska 1991, as junior synonyms of Comasphaeridium; Trichosphaeridium Timofeyev 1966 and Asteridium Moczydlowska 1991 as junior synonyms of Filisphaeridium. New names have been formulated for five species which, upon reassignment to Comasphaeridium or Filisphaeridium, became junior homonyms. The diagnoses of Veryhachium and of the related spinose polygonomorph genera Dorsennidium Wicander 1974, Neoveryhachium Cramer 1970, Polygonium Vavrdov 1966 and Striatotheca Burmann 1970 are emended. Goniosphaeridium Eisenack 1969 and Celtiberium Fombella 1977 are treated as junior synonyms of Polygonium and Exilisphaeridium Wicander 1974 as a junior synonym of Dorsennidium Wicander 1974. The new genus Striatostellula is proposed. Polygonomorph genera having broad-based processes are likewise reconsidered. Pulvinosphaeridium Eisenack 1954, and its type species P. pulvinellum, are emended, the new genus Chalaziosphaeridium being proposed to incorporate other species formerly placed into Pulvinosphaeridium. The genera Palacanthus Wicander 1974 and Estiastra Eisenack 1959 are likewise emended, the new genus Barbestiastra being proposed. Rhiptosocherma Loeblich Jr. and Tappan 1978 is considered a junior synonym of Estiastra and Pulvinomorpha Timofeyev 1966 as a junior synonym of Pulvinosphaeridium. The above generic emendations and rejections involve the reassignment to other genera of over 300 species. 
40607081|Complete apparatuses are described for Jinogondolella aserrata, J. errata (new species), and J. postserrata (transitional from J. aserrata) from a single bed in a section of the Bell Canyon Formation exposed in the Apache Mountains, West Texas. The conodont assemblage precisely equates this bed in age to the upper part of the Pinery Limestone Member of the Bell Canyon Formation and the base of the Capitanian in its type locality in the Guadalupe Mountains. The apparatus of Jinogondolella is different from most other gondolellid genera in that it has dimorphic to polymorphic elements in the S2 position and three pairs of platform elements.
4097031|The Paleocene-Eocene transition is exposed at Gebel Serai, 50km east of Qena, and at Taramsa, 10km west of Qena in the central Nile Valley of Egypt. The continuous deposition across the P/E boundary, the negative 
10.2307/1485210|A detailed radiolarian biostratigraphy for Antarctic Early Pliocene sediments, with particular emphasis on the Gilbert Reversed Epoch (5.18 to 3.32 Ma) has been established by examination of a suite of Eltanin piston cores and DSDP cores from sites in the Southern Ocean. Five new partial-range zones, based on first and last appearances of several radiolarian species, have been defined for the Early Pliocene. The zones from oldest to youngest age: Anthocyrtidium ehrenbergi Zone. Triceraspyris pacifica Zone, Lychnocanium grande rugosum Zone, Antarctissa longa Zone, and Helotholus vema Zone, ranging from the lowermost Gilbert to the Gauss-Matuyama boundary at 2.43 Ma. Detailed paleomagnetic analysis of the piston cores allows general correlation of the zones to the established magnetostratigraphic time scale. The new zonation offers inter-core correlations that are not always possible with the previously established zonations. Detailed inter-core correlations are also assisted by a high degree of similarity among reversible frequency changes of radiolarian species in these Pliocene sequences.
10.2307/1485517|In the BCS (Burlington Carbonate Shelf), low diversity of conodonts in the basal Gnathodus punctatus Zone reflects its deposition in the unstable, shallow-water/nearshore environment. Increasing diversity to within the overlying Doliognathus latus Zone resulted from the transgression of the warm, tropical sea producing a more stable deep-water/offshore environment. Faunal diversity declines upward to within the Gnathodus bulbosus Zone because of the upward growth of the BCS and/or regression of the sea producing a restricted nearshore shallow-water environment. Conodont zonation in the BCS reflects these environmental changes, evolution and migration. Parts of several conodont zones may have been deposited contemporaneously.
10.2307/1484379| The occurrence of Lepidocyclina in the upper Eocene to the lower Miocene of the Indian region is discussed, and the validity of the subgenus Trybliolepidina is supported. Two new species, Lepidocyclina (Trybliolepidina) kathiawarensis Chatterji and L. (T.) raoi Chatterji, and one new variety, L. (Nephrolepidina) martini (Schlumberger) var. kamalae Chatterji, along with L. (N.) morgani (Lemoine and Douvill) and L. (N.) borneensis (Provale), are described from the Gaj beds (lower Miocene) of Kathiawar, western India. 
1486032|A rich and diverse association of dasyclad algae occurs in the Middle Triassic rocks cropping out in Guizhou Province, China, including Macroporella alpina, Macroporella dinarica, Diplopora annulata, Diplopora annulatissima, Diplopora sinica n. sp., Pseudodiplopora proba n. gen., n. comb., and Julpiaella subtilis n. gen., n. comb. Study of this assemblage offered the opportunity to discuss the complex taxonomy of Diplopora-like dasyclads. A review of the criteria of identifying and separating "diplopores," primarily branch morphology and the existence and shape of vestibules, led to the introduction of two new genera and one new species.
10.2307/1485659|A diverse radiolarian assemblage is described from the Pliocene of Bianco in southern Italy. Previously, radiolarians have not been described from the Pliocene of continental southern Italy, and the section contains a fairly continuous record of both calcareous and siliceous microfossils, the latter of which occur very sporadically in other time-equivalent Italian sections. Comparison with assemblages from tropical and subtropical oceans reveals that the fauna belongs to the late Spongaster pentas or the early Pterocanium prismatium Zone. Strong paleoenvironmental signals are reflected in the fluctuations of abundances of several of the 30 taxa studied, but no definite trend or consistent co-variation of any group of species was found through the section.
10.2307/1485910|This paper presents a biostratigraphic and taxonomic analysis of late Cretaceous planktic foraminiferal Heterohelicidae from Tethyan and SW Atlantic sections. Albian and Cenomanian heterohelicids are small opportunists. Since the Turonian, an overall gradual increase in numeric importance and species richness can be observed, with iterative introduction of chamber proliferation. The early Turonian, mid Santonian and early Maastrichtian are periods of rapid speciation. Differences between localities are attributed to paleo-environmental conditions. A new genus, Laeviheterohelix, groups the smooth, microperforate heterohelicids. Four spacies and one variety are new: Heterohelix labellosa, Laeviheterohelix flabelliformis, Laeviheterohelix turgida, Pseudoguembelina hariaensis and sigalia deflaensis rugocostata.
1486151|A new species of skolochorate dinoflagellate cyst, Exochosphaeridium alisitosense, from upper Albian strata in Baja California, Mexico is described. The genus Exochosphaeridium is emended to include fossil dinoflagellate cysts with nontabular to intratabular processes, occasionally modified in the antapical area and with a short apical horn, and assigned to the subfamily Cribroperidinioideae. E. alisitosense, has intratabular processes and a reticulate antapical area that together with the adjacent paraplates, delineates a symmetrical sexiform arrangement with dextral torsion. This species also has an S-type ventral organization with an A/ai paratabulation pattern.
10.2307/1484896|Hayella Roth is shown to be both a junior synonym of Ilselithina Stradner and a junior homonym of Hayella Gartner.
10.2307/1485768|The type mateiral of the Miocene diatom Dimeregramma brandywinensis Patrick is reexamined and the results show that it is appropriate to transfer the species to Delphineis Andrews. A new combination, Delphineis brandywinensis (Patrick) Prasad is proposed. Its relationships with other closeley related species are discussed.
10.2307/1486103|Planktonic foraminifera were studied from five sections in western Cuba. Biostratigraphic studies by previous workers had indicated the presence of a continuous section through the upper Paleocene and lower Eocene in this region. The primary goal of this investigation was to verify this and if possible, propose a Global Stratotype Section and Point (GSSP) for the Paleocene/Eocene boundary. Our study shows that the sections are in fact incomplete. Only 4 biozones: the Planorotalites pseudomenardii Total Range Zone (P4), the Morozovella velascoensis Interval Zone (P5), the Morozovella formosa formosa/Morzovella lensiformis-Morozovella aragonensis Interval Zone (P6b) and the Morozovella aragonensis/Morozovella formosa formosa Concurrent Range Zone (P7) were identified from the sections. No record of the Morozovella velascoensis-Morzovella formosa formosa/Morzovella lensiformis Interval Zone (P6a) was identified in this study. The biozonal boundaries are associated with unconformities. In the San Francisco de Paula section in Ciudad de La Habana, four unconformities were identified. These unconformities appear to be related to Paleocene and early Eocene tectonic activity. The tectonic activity in the region during the late Paleocene and early Eocene has resulted in an incomplete biostratigraphic record. Consequently, western Cuba is not a suitable candidate for the location of a Paleocene-Eocene GSSP. The biostratigraphic data obtained will provide information toward the more precise timing of tectonic events in the area.
10.2307/1485502|The arrangement of pores in the lattice-shells of radiolarians can be an important descriptor of the skeletons, if the pattern can be characterized quantitatively. An image analysis system integrated with a personal computer provides a convenient means of measuring distances between pores, and their angular relations, together with the variability of those measures. Both regular and irregular patterns can be quantified. The procedure is adaptable to a wide spectrum of patterns in the organic world.
10.2307/1484547| Abundant and well-preserved spores are recorded from coals and shales of the Upper Sedimentary Group and Lower Limestone Group of the Midland Valley of Scotland. One genus, Tricidarisporites, and nine species are described as new. Comparison with other spore assemblages has indicated that there may have been regional variations in the distribution of the Visan floras. 
10.2307/1484956| Studies of the Lower Carboniferous (Mississippian) foraminifera of southwestern Alberta, Canada, have revealed a new late Visan (upper Meramec) species, Archaediscus pachytheca. The species occurs predominantly in skeletal micrites of foraminiferal zone 15 (V3b). 
10.2307/1485038|Of the 88 benthonic forminiferal species present in the surface sediments of the Tail of the Grand Banks, 43 were found living in the summer of 1967. The western part of the Tail is characterized by a richer standing crop and by the presence of six restricted species. This distribution pattern is ascribed to the high fertility of the water mass caused by mixing. A substrate-habitat relationship is observed only in the case of the sessile species Cibicides lobatulus (Walker and Jacob).
10.2307/1484673|Discocyclina ramaraoi, n. sp., is described and illustrated from the Upper Paleocene and Lower Eocene sediments of Pondicherry, south India. It is the only representative of the genus occurring in these beds. Previous identifications of these Pondicherry specimens are shown to be incorrect.
10.2307/1484992|Size data are given on four common species of ostracodes occurring both alive and dead in the modern sediments of four quantitative bottom samples from Laguna Mandinga, Veracruz, Mexico. The species are Cyprideis bensoni Sandberg, Cytherura erugata Krutak, Perissocytheridea brachyforma Swain, and P. rugata Swain. Each of these species occurs at many stations in the lagoon. By the selection of the one station with the maximum standard deviation of grain size and the one station with the minimum standard deviation of grain size in which each of the selected species occurs, a maximum range of grain size was determined for each species. The observed ranges of height, width and length of each species (including both juveniles and adults) were then plotted against the histogram and cumulative curve showing mean, median, mode and standard deviation of the sediment grain size distribution. Results indicate it may be feasible to use ostracode valve length as an approximation of the statistics reflecting the measures of "central tendency" (mean, median, mode) of the sediment grain size, and also suggest that this carapace dimension might be useful in making estimates of original grain size in diagenetically altered sedimentary rocks.
10.2307/1484304|The nomenclature of the foraminifera is overloaded with synonyms; the reasons for this situation are enumerated. The synonymy of Nonion affine (Reuss) is given as an illustration of this nomenclatorial confusion. This synonymy is the result of a study of types in the United States National Museum, Washington, D.C. Infraspecific categories, their concepts and usage, are discussed. The main purpose of this article is to call attention to the necessity for a greater respect for the basic laws of biology and for the International Rules of Zoological Nomenclature.
10.2307/1484198|Coscinophragma cribrosum was found in a rock specimen from the Regenbolshorn, Adelboden (Canton Bern), in the area of the ultrahelvetic Tothorn - Sex Mort nappe. The sample had been labelled "?Cenomanian," but the association of Coscinophragma cribrosum with true Urgonian foraminifera in this limestone proves its Urgo-Aptian age.
10.2307/1485265| The chert member of the San Hiplito Formation contains a diversified, fairly well-preserved, Late Triassic radiolarian assemblage which includes 25 new species, 8 new genera, 1 new subfamily, and 1 new family. Numerous other taxa are figured but not described, either due to their poor state of preservation or to rareness. The member is divided into a lower capnodoce Zone (late Karnian to late middle Norian) and an upper Pantanellium silberlingi Zone (late middle Norian to late Norian). Investigations now in progress indicate that the Capnodoce Zone is widespread in the western part of the Cordilleran region. In addition to the occurrence of this Zone in Baja California, it is known from the Rattlesnake Creek terrane of the Klamath Mountains of California, from the Brisbois Formation and the Rail Cabin Argillite (Suplee-Izee area) of eastern Oregon, and from the Cache Creek Group of British Columbia. The P. silberlingi Zone appears to be present in the Kunga Formation of the Queen Charlotte Islands. 
4097025| The Permian - Triassic boundary of the (rk da section (Taurus, Antalya Nappes, Turkey) was sampled for ostracodes. 38 species belonging to 22 genera were discovered. This ostracode fauna is the first one described throughout the Permian - Triassic boundary outside of South China. Six species are new: Sargentina pamucakensis Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Bairdia kemerensis Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Bairdiacypris ottomanensis Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Liuzhinia antalyaensis Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Arqoviella tahtaliensis Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Callicythere lysi Crasquin-Soleau n. sp. The ostracodes at the base of the Kokarkuyu Formation (Induan) are the oldest Triassic forms ever discovered (Hindeodus parvus and Isarcicella isarcica staeschei zones). The Permian genus Revyia is recognized for the first time in Triassic and the Triassic genera Callicythere and Luizhinia for the first time in the Permian. The fauna discovered here, in the very first levels of the Triassic, illustrate the turn-over between Paleozoic and Mesozoic forms. 
10.2307/1485933|An analysis of the distribution and dynamics of living benthic foraminifera was carried out in the central portion of the Lagoon of Venice between November 1992 and September 1994 through monthly sampling at 12 selected sites. The comparison between population dynamics and biotic and abiotic factors allows for an understanding of the foraminifera response to changes in physical and chemical aspects. The distribution of living assemblages allows distinction between lagoon areas with high productivity, characterized by prevailing indigenous species, and areas with low productivity as those with allochthonous species prevailing. Living assemblages appear to be controlled by phytoplankton and interspecific competition. The comparison between living and total assemblages seems to confirm, in the study area, a present evolution to more marine conditions.
40607071|Described herein is a new living agglutinated foraminifer found at the shelf edge at the island of San Salvador, which is located on a small, isolated carbonate platform at the eastern margin of the Bahamas. All specimens come from the Doolittle's Grotto dive site on the southwestern tip of the island at Sandy Point and from one size fraction (0.5mm) of one sample, taken at 43.3m. Named Geracia bahamensis n.gen. n.sp. in honor of Dr. Donald and Kathy Gerace, founders of the island's Gerace Research Centre, and for the Bahamian islands, the species is an elongate, subtriangular, coarsely agglutinated form with tubular chambers in triloculine arrangement and having an oval aperture. The thin wall consists of carbonate sand and silt grains cemented by an organic matrix. The taxon is provisionally classified in the Family Trilocularenidae Mikhalevich and Kaminski 2008 but lacks a tooth or external flap.
24413301|A new species of planktonic foraminifera belonging to the genus Globorotalia (subgenus Hirsutella), named G. (H.) eleonorae, was found in the late Miocene sedimentary successions cropping out in the Atlantic coastal area of northern Morocco (Oued Akrech and Ain el Beida zones, near Rabat). The First Occurrence of G. (H.) eleonorae is recorded in the Chron C3Bn at 7.204 Ma, the Last Occurrence is found in the Chron C3An.ln at 6.232 Ma. In terms of standard planktonic foraminiferal zonal schemes the taxon ranges within N.17 Zone of Blow (1969); from the Neogloboquadrina acostaensis/Globorotalia lenguaensis Zone, M13 (the Globigerinoides extremus/Globorotalia plesiotumida-G. lenguaensis Subzone, M13b (Sub) Tropical) to the G. lenguaensis/Globorotalia tumida Zone, M14, and from the Neogloboquadrina mayeri-Globorotalia conomiozea Zone, Mt9 to the G. conomiozea/Globorotalia mediterranea-Globorotalia sphericomiozea Zone, Mt10 (Transitional) of Berggren et al. (1995); within the G. lenguaensis/G. tumida Zone, M14 ((Sub) Tropical of Iaccarino et al. (2007).
10.2307/1485783|A new conical agglutinated orbitolinid foraminiferal genus Karsella (type species Karsella hottingeri n. sp.) with complex exoskeletal and endoskeletal structures is described and figured. It is found in exotic limestone blocks of Thanetian age within the ophiolitic melange near the village of Saray, NE of Van, Eastern Turkey.
4097066|Many studies relating to long-term global change and climate variability rely on proxy data from fossils and geochemistry to reconstruct paleoenvironments. Such data can also contribute to our understanding of biodiversity through time. In this respect, calcareous nannofossils are an excellent proxy resource, with a number of taxa having become established as indices of paleotemperature and/or paleofertility. However, although the majority of the original works that identified these nannofossil proxies are basically sound, the application of the proxies to a widening range of scenarios, in differing paleoenvironmental situations and time-intervals, is beginning to challenge some of our original assumptions. Consequently, there is a growing need for more precise evaluations of the status of these proxies. In addition, there are a number of nannofossil taxa which have proxy potential but which require focused study to determine the extent of their utility. Here, we point to the problems associated with some of the most commonly used Mesozoic nannofossil proxy taxa (Watznaueria spp., Biscutum constans, Zeugrhabdotus erectus, Nannoconus spp.), and introduce the taxon Micula as a potential fertility proxy, by virtue of its high abundance in particular environments. Further to this, we outline a program that is in progress, involving geochemical 'finger-printing' of individual taxa combined with nannofossil statistical data, that should enable us to better understand the paleoecological preferences of these taxa and so help in restoring confidence in these proxies and provide a better understanding of their potential limitations.
10.2307/1484850|The distributions of the three major groups of benthonic foraminifera (agglutinated, porcelaneous and hyaline) in the Gulf of Mexico Holocene continental shelf sediments are presented and discussed in relation to broad environmental factors, temperature, salinity and depth. The distributions are consistent with the hypothesis that availability of calcium carbonate for use in test construction is the controlling environmental factor, but is dependent upon temperature, salinity and depth. Foraminifera can thus be useful in paleoclimatic and paleoecologic studies as indicators of variations in water depth, temperature and salinity.
1486130|Clarkina, which characterizes Upper Permian (Lopingian Series) strata, evolved from Jinogondolella altudaensis in the Delaware basin of West Texas as demonstrated by transitional continuity. The West Texas section is significantly more complete in the uppermost Guadalupian interval than that of the probable GSSP reference section in South China, and clarifies the phylogenetic relationships among other conodont taxa as well. Jinogondolella granti clearly evolved into J. artafrons new species, both characterized by Pa elements with a distinctive fused carina. Representatives of Jinogondolella crofti are limited to the uppermost part of the altudaensis zone, and are interpreted as terminal paedomorphs. The associated foraminifer (non-fusulinid) fauna has some species in common with Zechstein faunas, possibly presaging the evaporitic basin that would develop following this latest Guadalupian marine deposition in West Texas.
10.2307/1485956|Description and illustration of diagnostic pedicle features play an important role in the identification of elasmobranch scales from the Triassic of northeastern British Columbia. Two main types of scale pedicle are recognized, truncate and tetrahedroid. Morphological changes in the scales including pedicle type, pedicle base and margins, and subcrown ornamentation are observed across the Carnian/Norian boundary. The most useful features of Middle and Late Triassic elasmobranch scales from northeastern British Columbia (B.C.) are described, illustrated, and organized into a hierarchy with divisions of part, supergroup, group, and subgroup. A key which can be used to determine scale subgroup is provided.
10.2307/1484953|Globigerinoides rubra in the section at le Castella, Calabria, southern Italy, the type section for the Pliocene-Pleistocene boundary, changes from a large, thin-walled, tropical type with large openings to a small, compact type with small openings. These two types are assigned to the subspecies G. rubra rubra and G. rubra gomitulus, respectively. The morphological changes parallel changes in the oxygen isotopic composition of the foraminiferal shells and can be used to estimate Pleistocene temperatures at middle latitudes in the absence of mass spectrometric analysis.
10.2307/1484904|An analysis of cluster patterns of Recent foraminifera was determined based on Jaccard coefficients of association using presence/absence data. Six thanatotopes and eight thanatofacies were determined by using cluster analysis. The environmental parameters controlling the thanatotopes are salinity variations and wave agitation in the nearshore area, sediment distribution and wave agitation on the shallow inner shelf, and cool temperatures and moderately quiet waters on the outer shelf. The thanatofacies patterns, do not completely correspond with the assemblages that characterize the thanatotopes.
24413309|A detailed micropaleontological analysis was performed in core SA03-01, recovered in the southern Adriatic basin, in the framework of the EC-project EUROSTRATAFORM. The results of an integrated study based on calcareous nannofossils and foraminifera, during the Late Glacial-Holocene transition, are here presented. This study reports high runoff input from the near Apennines during the lowermost phase of the Greenland Stadial 1/Younger Dryas (GS-1/YD), as well as the presence of cold and productive waters. More arid conditions and enhanced seasonality contrast are inferred upwards. The Pre-Boreal is marked by the initial development of the warm and oligotrophic coccolithophore group, reflecting an overall warming trend since the beginning of the Holocene. Within this warming, three short-lived cold and dry episodes have been detected in the foraminifer record. During the deposition of S1a equivalent (9.7 kyr), the coccolithophore and foraminifer records reflect a widespread temperature increase of surface waters and oligotrophic conditions. Moreover, the high development of Florisphaera profunda and the absence of the genus Globorotalia are indicative of strong water stratification, responsible for very critical oxygen conditions in the sea floor, which in turn allowed the formation of the sapropel layer. The S1 interruption (8.6-8.2 kyr) is recorded by a general opposite behaviour of the coccolithophore species when compared to that exhibited during the previous phase. The unexpected peak of F. profunda may be explained by the wetter conditions associated to the cold and multicentennial 8.2 kyr event in Europe. However, the foraminifer data suggest that this period is characterized by moderate cooling and a slight increase of oxygenation in the sea floor. During the S1b eq. interval, the coccolithophore records suggest the reoccurrence of a shallow pycnocline, which may result of the presence of surface turbid and fresh waters. Based on foraminifer data, this second phase of the sapropel is relatively colder than the first one, even if its base is characterized by a slight temperature increase.
10.2307/1485438|Globigerinoides kennetti, n. sp., is described from upper Miocene to lower Pliocene sediments of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
10.2307/1484796|Two methods of chemical concentration of diatoms occurring in fresh-water sediments, and one chemico-mechanical method of concentration for diatoms occurring in marine sediments are outlined, with emphasis on the extreme care that needs to be exercised during the preparation of samples. A method for the preparation of strewn slides is then explained. A detailed procedure for the study of diatom-strewn slides under the microscope, using the "England finder", is described, and a note on diatom analysis is added.
10.2307/1485756|Four new species of radiolarians in the genus Ceratoikiscum are described from samples of carbonate concretions in the Cape Phillips Formation on Cornwallis Island, Canadian Arctic. These are Ceratoikiscum extratriangulum, C. leonoides, C. octopleura, and C. supratriangulum. These Silurian species are some of the oldest to be documented and are known only from the Wenlockian.
10.2307/1484287|The term ossiculith is proposed for minute (0.05-0.50 mm.), planoconvex, ellipsoidal or irregular calcareous particles, often teratological, occurring sporadically in the auditory labyrinth of Recent fishes and extremely rarely identifiable as microfossils (Claiborne Eocene of Texas). Gastroliths of larval crayfish are similar in size and shape to planoconvex examples, but are distinguished by their calcareophosphatic composition, very fine lamination, and excavated channel.
30130917|The stratigraphic distribution of benthic foraminiferal and dasycladacean algal taxa in the Jurassic platform carbonate succession of the Bolkar Mountains permitted to recognise five zones and two subzones in the Jurassic (Bajocian to Tithonian). These are in ascending order: J1-Bosniella croatica/Riyadhella regularis zone (Bajocian); J2-Redmondoides lugeoni/R. cf. rotundatus zone (lower Bathonian) comprising J12a-Paravalvulina complicata subzone in its middle part; J3-Paleopfenderina trochoidea/P. salernitana zone (upper Bathonian-Callovian) comprising J3a.-Satorina apuliensis/Kilianina blancheti subzone in its lower part; J4-Kurnubia ex gr. palastiniensis zone (Oxfordian-lower Kimmeridgian); J5-Clypeina juras sica zone (upper Kimmeridgian-Tithonian). This biostratigraphic scheme corresponds to those for the peri-Mediterranean Jurassic platforms, except for J2 zone and J2a subzone which are first time introduced from the Bolkar Mountains Jurassic succession. Some benthic foraminiferal taxa which are less known from the peri-Mediterranean Jurassic platforms are discussed in their taxonomic positions and local stratigraphic ranges. Riyadhella regularis which is associated with Bosniella croatica is restricted to the Bajocian, whereas in the other peri-Mediterranean platforms it ranges up to the end of the Callovian as long as Bosniella croatica. Paravalvulina complicata and Redmondoides cf. rotundatus are recorded from the lower Bathonian, below the Satorina apuliensis/Kilianina blancheti subzone (upper Bathonian). Pseudomarssonella gr. maxima is considered as a pfenderinid taxon herein, and ranges from the upper part of the lower Bathonian to the lower Tithonian. 'Tokayella'' taurica may be related to the genus Bosniella, and is restricted to the Kurnubia ex gr. palastiniensis zone (Oxfordian-lower Kimmeridgian). The re-establishment of the Bolkar Da Carbonate Platform on the exposed portions of the ancient Permian-Triassic platform started at the Bajocian. The fossil content and predominantly fine-grained carbonate sediments of the Jurassic succession suggest deposition in shallow and restricted marine environments varying from lagoon to peritidal flat of an inner platform.
20627983|Several foraminiferal species of Cenomanian-Turonian age have been recorded from the Umm Khayshar section in Southern Galala Plateau, Eastern Desert, Egypt. The most abundant species are: Thomasinella fragmentaria Omara, T. punica Schlumberger, Biconcava bentori Hamaoui, Daxia cenomana Cuvillier and Szakal, Flabellammina aegyptiaca Said and Barakat, F. alexanderi Cushman, Nezzazata gyra conica (Smout), N. simplex Omara, Dicyclina sampoi Cherchi and Schroeder and Nakkadyia awadi (a new genus and a new species). The occurrence of Whiteinella archaeocretacea (Pessagno) delineates the latest Cenomanian-Early Turonian interval through the Maghra El Hadida Formation. The identified fauna provide an interpretation of the environmental conditions that prevailed during the Cenomanian-Turonian age. The Cenomanian transgression occupied most lowlands marked by shallow marine facies. At the end of the Cenomanian, sea-level rise deposited mixed clastic  carbonate rocks with a considerable faunal content. At the start of the Turonian, a wide marine transgression took place as reflected from the planktonic/ammonite-bearing rocks.
41410988|Three new genera of coccolithophores are introduced and one genus is emended. Six new species are described. They are part of the so-called first radiation of the fasciculiths that began in the latest Danian and constitute a marker for correlation of the Danian/Selandian boundary.
10.2307/1485483|A recent biostratigraphic list composed of the diatoms Coscinodiscus gorbunovii, C. miocaenicus, Melosira jouseana, Cyclotella pygmaea (= C. hannaites), Stephanodiscus carconensis, and C. elgeri from the western Snake River Basin of Oregon and Idaho is considered to be of limited value. Field and literature observations have revealed that most of these taxa are either modern forms or forms with long stratigraphic ranges. An alternate list is proposed; it employs the following western Snake River Basin diatoms: Tetracyclus ellipticus var. latissimus f. minor, Opephora cantalense var. obesa, T. stellare var. eximia, Gomphonema occidentale, Fragilariopsis (Fragilaria?) sp. 1, O. glangeaudi, Rhoicosphenia curvata f. minor and G. cholnokyites.
10.2307/1485698|A micropaleontological study of Neogene samples from the region of Esmeraldas defines ages and sheds light on depositional settings and regional history. The late Middle to early Late Miocene Borbon Formation consists mostly of tuffaceous diatomites and mudstones, best dated by their radiolarian component. The overlying Esmeraldas (Punta Gorda) tuffaceous mudstones yield a rich foraminiferal fauna of Pliocene (Zanclean) age, but few siliceous remains. The benthonic foraminifera of the Miocene are typical of a Caribbean/East Pacific tropical province. The Pliocene foraminiferal fauna is distinct, allied to that of California. Miocene sediments were deposited in mid-bathyal depths. The Pliocene foraminiferal fauna suggests deposition in the upper bathyal zone. A wide bathymetric range of molluscan species is attributed to taphonomic dispersal of molluscan shells by large predators. Presumably these sediments were emplaced on top of a progressively shoaling accretionary wedge, which underwent faulting as sediments accumulated and which emerged in the latest Pliocene or in Pleistocene time.
10.2307/1485309|A taxonomic restudy of the modern coccolithophore flora of the Pacific and North Atlantic is presented. Eighteen new species and three new subspecies, as well as other taxa inadequately delineated in previous studies, are described in detail from information obtained by electron microscope techniques.
10.2307/1484540|The "Orbulina" datum is probably a dependable time line at the base of the Burdigalian in deposits of deep-water origin within tropical and warm-temperate areas. "Orbulina" developed in post-Burdigalian time in temperate areas. Faunal evidence and potassium/argon dates corroborate the approximate correlation of the Saucesian Stage of California with the Burdigalian Stage of Europe. "Orbulina universa" is shown to be a final spherical chamber associated with different species and genera of globigerinids.
10.2307/1484674| A foraminiferal fauna from the Upper Cretaceous of Lrida, Spain, contains specimens of a primitive Orbitoides of upper Santonian age. Two species, Orbitoides dordoniensis (J. Hofker, Sr.) and Orbitoides tissoti Schlumberger, are described, compared, and illustrated. 
10.2307/1484366|The results of a micropaleontological study of material collected from Ain Maqfi, Farafra Oasis, Egypt, are presented. Although this area was treated previously by LeRoy, this paper records in detail the planktonic foraminifera of the section, as well as the reefal assemblages that are intercalated in and cap the Esna shale of this oasis. The planktonic forms have been given only moderate consideration by previous workers. The age of the Esna shale of Farafra is established as upper Paleocene; many of the primitive Nummulites and Alveolina species that occur in this succession are thus shown to be of upper Paleocene age. This work demonstrates by paleontological methods the presence of an unconformity between the Maestrichtian and the upper Paleocene, thus resolving an 80-year-long controversy.
10.2307/1484951|The ecology and distribution of Recent fresh-water ostracodes of Kashmir, India, from the shallow-water Dal and Nagin Lakes, the deep-water Manasbal Lake, and the shallow connecting channel between Dal Lake and the Jhelum River are discussed. The quantitative and specific distribution of ostracodes in these lakes is controlled by factors such as depth, clarity of water, penetration of light and the total dissolved solids and carbonate contents, the last two being obviously dependent on the varying geological setting of these lakes. The somewhat restricted and thin-shelled character of the ostracode fauna of the channel is probably due to the low pH value and the turbidity of the water.
1486229| Sphaerogypsina anatolica n.sp. (Foraminifera), is described from the shallow water sediments of Lutetian age in the vicinity of Andrn town, west of Kahramanmara city (southeastern Turkey). The new species may be distinguished from the other known species by its coarse perforate wall, spiral early chambers, two layered chamber walls and coarse inner structure. 
10.2307/1485078|The influence of dynamic environment is considered in relationship to the probable degree of isochroneity which might be reasonably expected for the various types of planktonic foraminiferal zones. Zones based on "local extinctions" are considered to have a considerable degree of "in-built" diachroneity, and recommendations are made for the replacement of this type of zone by zones derived from evolutionary considerations. Some heterochronous repetitive evolutionary sequences are also considered as not suitable for biostratigraphic correlations. The concept of "datum-planes" is examined; these are considered as largely misleading and should not replace the concept of formally defined zones. Examples of variation of end-ranges of taxa are considered for the late Pliocene/ Pleistocene and for the Oligocene. A proposal to combine Zone P.19 and Zone P.20 (=N.1) (Blow, 1969) into a new single "Zone P.19/20" is also made.
10.2307/1484199|Study of the type specimens of the foraminiferal species "Rotalia" deeckei Franke, 1925, indicates that it belongs to Thalmanninella Sigal, 1948, which is here regarded as a subgenus of Rotalipora Brotzen, 1942. The evolutionary relationships of Rotalipora, Thalmanninella and related forms are also discussed.
10.2307/1485816| Approximately one third (11 species) of the world obligate brackish foraminiferal taxa occur in New Zealand's estuaries and upper reaches of enclosed harbours, inlets and lagoons. The previously confused local taxonomy of New Zealand's obligate (11 species) and common facultative (9 species) brackish foraminifera is integrated with current overseas usage. Nineteen of the 20 brackish species in New Zealand have a world-wide distribution. All 20 species occur in northern New Zealand (lat 35S) with a progressive decrease in diversity to 13 species in the south (lat 47S). Cluster analysis based on the quantitative faunal counts of 68 samples from 5 study areas results in the recognition of nine brackish foraminiferal associations. Within brackish settings, salinity and secondly tidal exposure, are the two environmental factors having the strongest influence on foraminiferal distribution. With increasing salinity, brackish faunas increase in diversity, decrease in abundance of agglutinated taxa and increase in abundance of calcareous taxa. The associations exhibit the following general trend correlated with increasing salinity: a. Trochamminita (least saline); b. Haplophragmoides wilberti, Miliammina; c. Ammonia - Miliammina; d. Elphidium excavatum, Ammonia - Elphidium, Ammonia; e. Marginal Marine (most saline). Five associations are apparently restricted to the intertidal zone: a. Trochammina inflata (above mean high water); b. Trochamminita, Haplophragmoides wilberti (above mean sea level); c. Elphidium excavatum (predominantly mid-tidal); d. Ammonia - Elphidium (between mean low and mean high water). Tidal current transport of foraminiferal tests produces mixed assemblages in the mouths and lower channels of New Zealand estuaries (diurnal microtidal and low mesotidal ranges). 
10.2307/1485820| The primary means by which diatom absolute abundances are determined is known as the random settling technique. Previous research has demonstrated that this technique produces randomly distributed slides and reproducible results which are unbiased towards a specific size fraction of particles. However, results on the accuracy of the method have never been published. Determining the accuracy of the random settling method is the purpose of this study. In order to determine accuracy, two diatom samples were used. Five slides were prepared for each sample using the random settling technique. Prior to settling, two tablets containing a previously determined amount of Lycopodium spores were added to each diatom subsample. Because the true absolute abundance of diatoms within the sediment was unknown, diatom results had to be compared with results for a previously determined quantity of spores. In addition, five slides, each made using four Lycopodium tablets, were prepared by random settling, in order to study changes in accuracy and variability with increasing amounts of particles. It was determined that Lycopodium absolute abundances derived using the random settling technique were consistently underestimated with respect to true absolute abundances by anywhere from 20% to 28%. The largest amount of variability observed in diatom absolute abundance results for five slides was 12%. If the average estimated diatom absolute abundance falls below the "true" diatom absolute abundance within the sediment by 28%, as can be the case for Lycopodium spores, then diatom absolute abundances can be underestimated by between 16% and 40% after a count totaling 400 valves. 
10.2307/1485740|Dinoflagellate cysts are documented from the Bracklesham Group of Eocene age at Bracklesham Bay, southern England. Stratigraphically significant species permit subdivision of the section into three of the assemblage zones of Bujak et al. (1980b): Pentadinium laticinctum Assemblage Zone (B-2), Phthanoperidinium comatum Assemblage Zone (B-3), and Areosphaeridium arcuatum Assemblage Zone (B-4), in ascending order. The studied section at Bracklesham Bay is biostratigraphically correlated with sections at Whitecliff Bay and Alum Bay previously studied by Eaton (1976). The three formations, Wittering, Earnley and Selsey, belonging to the Bracklesham Group are delimited at Alum Bay, and a possibility of redefining the top of the Group is discussed. This correlation indicates that the lithostratigraphic boundaries are almost synchronous. Selected taxa, including mostly new and reattributed taxa, are dealt with in the Systematics section herein, which includes one new genus, Trivalvadinium, and 18 new species. Four species/subspecies are generically reattributed and diagnoses of two reattributed taxa are emended. One subspecies is raised to specific level.
10.2307/1484973|Large standing stocks of benthic foraminifera occur in the intense and shallow oxygen minimum of each of three areas in the eastern Pacific. These populations are characterized by high dominance, low diversity, and relatively small, thin-shelled specimens. Most of the calcareous tests produced are preserved in the anaerobic sediments associated with the oxygen minima because of apparent carbonate saturation of interstitial water. Oxygen is not a limiting ecological factor for benthic foraminifera in these low-oxygen environments.
23250632|Middle Pennsylvanian (Desmoinesian) foraminifers and a diverse radiolarian fauna are described from carbonate concretions in the black phosphatic facies of the Excello Shale Member of the Mouse Creek Formation (Marmaton Group) from two sections near the towns of Booneville and Medora in south-central Iowa. One new species of foraminifer, Ammobaculites marmatonensis, and nine new species of radiolarians are described: Albaillella mucronulata, Pseudoalbaillella boonevillensis, Ps. excella, Ps. decurvata, Ps. desmoinesiensis, Entactinia dianae, Spongentactinia? incerta, Tetragregnon iowaensis, and Latentidiota medorensis. The assemblage of radiolarians is similar to the assemblage of the Entactinia  Pseudoalbaillella Beds of the upper Moscovian described from Bashkiria, Southern Urals, Russia. Foraminifers and radiolarians are found together with the conodonts Idiognathodus acutus Ellison, Gondolella bella? Stauffer and Plummer, Neognathodus dilatus (Stauffer and Plummer) and Neognathodus roundyi (Gunnell). The latter species is especially useful for correlation of the Excello fauna to other areas in North America and to the International Carboniferous Time Scale.
10.2307/1485390|A preliminary palynological reconnaissance of the Upper Silurian (Ludlovian) Mississinewa Shale of northern Indiana reveals the presence of several morphologically advanced trilete spore types and possible land plant remains. This assemblage is dominated by simple-laevigate and patinate-laevigate spores. Other spores bearing equatorial ribs, and patinate forms displaying anastomosing distal verrucae were also recovered. These structural and ornamental spore characters represent the adaptations of early land plants to terrestrial selective pressures.
10.2307/1485789|Stichocorys peregrina, Didymocyrtis penultima and Didymocyrtis antepenultima Late Miocene radiolarian zones are encountered from mudstone strata of Sawai Bay Formation, Neill Island, Andamans. Percentage data of forty-five coarser taxonomic groups of radiolarians were subjected to Q-mode cluster analysis. Cluster A comprises Stichocorys, Phormospyris, Eucyrtidium, Lamprocyclas, Acrosphaera and Cycladophora groups. Cluster B was divided into subclusters at 0.83 level of clustering. Subcluster B<sub>1</sub> comprised Didymocyrtis-Diartus, Pyloniids, Collosphaera, Phacodiscids, Pterocorythids, Pterocanium and Spongodiscids, whereas subcluster B<sub>2</sub> comprised Porodiscus, Euchitonids, Stylodictya-Stylochlamydium, Spongopyle, Phormostichoartus, Lophophaenids and Lithelius groups. Based on the ecology of the modern homeomorphs of the dominant radiolarian groups, it is suggested that cluster A and cluster B indicate colder and warmer periods, respectively. Subcluster B<sub>1</sub> indicates surface-water fauna and subcluster B<sub>2</sub> represents subsurface water fauna. Dominance of subcluster B<sub>2</sub> in Didymocyrtis antepenultima zone (8.5-7.2 Ma) suggests that subsurface fauna was thriving more probably due to the monsoonal upwelling during warmer periods. This finding is also substantiated with diatom/radiolaria ratio. Presence and absence of deep (1200-2000m) and intermediate (700-1200m) water dwelling radiolarians like the Plectopyramids, Botryostrobus and Sethoperinids groups indicate basinal shallowing during Late Miocene. It may be due to subduction of the Indian plate below the Asian plate, coupled with huge sediment discharged from the Irrawaddy River of Burma during monsoon dominated warmer periods (5.0-6.3 and 8.5-7.7 Ma) in Late Miocene.
10.2307/1484746|Assemblages of organic-shelled microplankton are described from Callovian and Oxfordian horizons of Dorset. These include one new genus and three new species of dinoflagellates. In addition, a hystrichosphere subspecies is elevated to specific status. Comparisons are made with described assemblages of comparable age, and the stratigraphic significance of the results is discussed.
10.2307/1485400|Pussella Danielopol is an interstitial bairdiid and the end member of the regressive evolutionary series represented by species of Anchistrocheles. Its special features result from small size and adaptation for the interstitial habitat. Resemblances to Cytheracea are due to convergence. A second species of Pussella and three new species of Anchistrocheles are described. A. acerosa (Brady) is re-illustrated, and the soft parts of A. angulata (Brady) are described for the first time.
10.2307/1485572|A unique association of podocopid ostracodes has been identified in samples from five artificial "wood-island" experimental stations in depths of 1800 to 4000 m. No resemblance exists between this fauna and that typically inhabiting bathyal and abyssal mud bottoms. Most close relatives of the wood-island assemblage reside in phytal or organic-rich habitats in the coastal zone, and some are parasitic or commensal. This obligate, submergent association of Paradoxostomatidae, Eucytherurinae and Cypridacea probably evolved from arrivals on driftwood and probably still depends on larger invertebrates for dispersal and nutrition. Fourteen species, 12 of which are new, and the new genus Xylocythere are described.
30130919|The core MD97-2114 (4222.32'S; 17120.42'W) on the northern slope of the submarine Chatham Rise (east of New Zealand, 1935m water depth), is a significant case-study for the improvement of the resolution of the mid-late Pleistocene integrated calcareous nannofossil and planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy. Quantitative data of calcareous nannofossils and planktonic foraminifera, well preserved and abundant throughout the core, are correlated with magnetostratigraphy and oxygen isotope stratigraphy and indicate that the studied core contains a sedimentary record of the past ca. 1.07 Ma. Several standard nannofossil events were documented and their correlation with Marine Isotope Stages (MIS) is consistent with previous calibrations. Moreover, some subsidiary events are here recorded thus improving the biostratigraphic resolution. The identification of one standard and a number of additional foraminiferal bioevents have been achieved by using climatically/ecologically controlled entries/exits or variations in abundance. The integrated scheme obtained includes 17 bioevents, calibrated with magneto-isotope stratigraphy, and provides a biostratigraphic resolution of ca 63kyr. The bioevents of the two investigated groups of calcareous plankton appear closely spaced in two selected intervals in the lower part of the core, placed at the middle-lower part of the Brunhes Chron and at the top of the Jaramillo Subchron. The implications for the recognition of the chronostratigraphic lower-middle and middle-upper Pleistocene boundaries are discussed.
10.2307/1484100|This paper describes and illustrates some 275 species of foraminifera from the Upper Cretaceous and Lower Tertiary strata of two sections in the northern part of the Sinai Peninsula, Egypt. An attempt is also made to zone and correlate the strata of the two sections and to explain the peculiar temporal and spatial distribution of species in them. It is believed to have been caused by the type of basin in which the sedimentation of these two successions took place. The tectonic history of the basin is discussed, and its influence on the distribution of species is suggested.
10.2307/1485610|Coryell and Johnson described 27 species in 16 genera from the Upper Mississippian Clore Limestone in Hardin County, Illinois. Seven of the genera and 24 species were described as new. Three of the new genera are accepted: Kloedenellina, Sargentina, and Glyptopleurites. The new Family Tetratylidae is described. Lokius, based on a broken steinkern, is tentatively transferred to Monoceratina? sygnae (Coryell and Johnson 1939) in the emended Family Monoceratinidae. Gillina is a synonym of Kloedenellina; Ceratopleurina is a synonym of Glyptopleura Girty 1910; Reversabella is a synonym of Sansabella Roundy 1926. The following 9 species described by Coryell and Johnson have been transferred to other genera or are herein considered to be junior synonyms: Paraparchites nicklesi (Ulrich and Bassler 1906) = Shivaella nicklesi (Ulrich and Bassler 1906); Jonesina puncta Morey, Coryell and Johnson 1939, as well as Kloedenella sigurdi are synonyms of Nuferella odini (Coryell and Johnson 1939); Beyrichiopsis brynhildae is transferred to Geffenina brynhildae (Coryell and Johnson 1939); Gillina vitharri is a synonym of Kloedenellina heimdalli Coryell and Johnson 1939; Reversabella njorthi is transferred to Sansabella as S. njorthi (Coryell and Johnson 1939); Ceratopleurina mimiri is transferred to Glyptopleura as G. mimiri (Coryell and Johnson 1939); Sargentina forsetti is a synonym of S. allani Coryell and Johnson 1939; Reversabella reversa (Morey) Coryell and Johnson 1939, a steinkern, is referred to Sansabella sp. indet. The remaining 18 new species not referred to different genera are neither discussed nor illustrated. The holotype of Hypotetragona impolita Morey 1935, is illustrated to support the conclusion that Kloedenellina is not a synonym of Hypotetragona.
10.2307/1484603|The sedimentary successions in the British Solomon Islands range in age from upper Oligocene through Quaternary. They have yielded 32 species of larger foraminifera, now recorded for the first time, including species of Cycloclypeus (subgenera Cycloclypeus, Katacycloclypeus), Heterostegina, Lepidocyclina (subgenera Eulepidina, Nephrolepidina, "Trybliolepidina"), Miogypsina, Miogypsinoides, and Spiroclypeus. Three distinct faunas are recognised and dated as Aquitanian, Burdigalian, and post-Miocene, respectively. Two new species are described, one of which is named.
10.2307/1484579|Trinidulus, a new trilete spore genus is established. It is a stratigraphically useful spore from the Morrow Formation, Lower Pennsylvanian, of the Texas and Oklahoma Panhandle.
10.2307/1485822| The distribution of Recent nannofossils and planktonic foraminifera in 140 surface sediment samples beneath the Benguela system (from 35S to 17S latitude) are related to mean annual chlorophyll a (0-30m integrated) and sea-surface temperature by factor analysis and regression techniques. Independent Q-mode factor analyses of the floral and faunal census data yield 4 and 3 factors, respectively, explaining in both cases more than 95% of the variance. Their distribution is closely related to the various surface water masses induced by the coastal upwelling process. Multiple regressions show a good correlation between chlorophyll a concentrations and the nannofossil factor loadings, on the one hand, and between sea-surface temperatures and the planktonic foraminiferal factor loadings, on the other. The derived transfer functions reproduce accurately the modern sea-surface conditions of the Benguela system, with standard errors for chlorophyll a and sea-surface temperature estimates of 0.93 mg.m<sup>-3</sup> and 0.43C, respectively. 
20627980|A new genus of Late Cretaceous (Santonian-early Maastrichtian) ostracodes, Bicornicythereis, is described, based on the following species that occur in the U.S. Coastal Plain: B. bicornis (Israelsky), B. communis (Israelsky), B. levis (Crane), B. nodilinea (Crane), B. polita (Crane) and B. veclitella (Crane). One species included in the new genus, B. communis, was assigned to the genus Curfsina for many years. Analysis of the muscle scar patterns of that species and of species assigned to Curfsina in Europe, South Africa and Australia indicates that, although similar externally, the species evolved from pre-existing species in each region, and therefore should not be assigned to the same genus. The paleobiogeographic pattern of benthic ostracodes, particularly where faunal barriers are widely recognized to exist, is emphasized as crucial during phylogenetic analysis.
10.2307/1485724|The intercalary archeopyle and pyriform outline of Lacrymodinium warrenii, n. gen., n. sp., at first suggest affinity to peridinioid dinoflagellates or to Pareodinia and its allies. Well-defined parasutures, however, indicate a distinctive gonyaulacoid paratabulation, with an exsert epicyst pattern most similar to the thecal tabulation of modern Triadinium, and a partiform hypocyst pattern most similar to that of fossil Carpathodinium and Microdinium. Despite clear distinctions implied by their published descriptions, Paragonyaulacysta borealis, P. capillosa, and Pluriarvalium osmingtonense may closely resemble Lacrymodinium warrenii, but we cannot confirm from published reports, those features that we consider critical for comparison.
10.2307/1485955|Forty four planktonic foraminiferal species are now reported from the Santonian, Campanian and Maastrichtian deposits of the Romanian Black Sea offshore. The Late Cretaceous deposits consist of white yellowish limestones of the Unirea Formation [(? Late) Santonian to Early Maastrichtian] and white chalk with flints of the White Chalk Formation ("Middle" to Late Maastrichtian in age). The taxa of the family Globotruncanidae are dominant but within it the plano-convex tests are rare. The most frequent species have biconvex tests. The planispirally enrolled taxa, hedbergellid forms as well as the rugoglobigerinids, are rare. The maximal faunal diversity is encountered during Early - "Middle" Maastrichtian. A local biostratigraphical scale consisting of six biozones is established.
40959491|We describe single-chambered (monothalamous), soft-shelled, benthic foraminifera from the lower oxygen-border zone to the upper hydrogen-sulfide-border zone (120-240m water depth) in the NW Black Sea. The transect is situated inside the field of active methane seeps associated with the submarine Dnieper Canyon, although none of the samples are from the seeps themselves. Within this depth range, monothalamous foraminifera were more numerous than hard-shelled, multichambered taxa. Both groups reached their highest abundance between 150 and 170m, with a sharp peak at 160m. A total of 40 informal groupings (morphospecies or morphotypes), and one described species, of monothalamous foraminifera, either organic-walled 'allogromiids' or agglutinated 'saccamminids', was recognised. In all studied samples, they were found within the surficial detritus layer as well as the underlying 0-1cm sediment layer.
10.2307/1484299|Although hollinid ostracods from the Middle Devonian Jeffersonville limestone at the Falls of the Ohio have been known for many years, a detailed study reveals a new genus, Flaccivelum, and fifteen new species, belonging to the genera Abditoloculina, Ctenoloculina, Hollina, Hollinella, and Subligaculum. Nine other species, belonging to the genera Abditoloculina, Adelphobolbina, Flaccivelum, Hollina, and Hollinella, have been previously described. Many of the species of Abditoloculina are closely related, but can be distinguished by the number of loculi in the female.
10.2307/1484807| Forty-four species of ostracodes are listed from the Miocene of eastern Costa Rica in the region of the Ro Reventazn. Similarity to faunas from the Panam Miocene is discussed, and correlations with the Gatn and Caimito Formations and the La Boca Member of the Panam Formation are suggested. Three new species -- Costa stokesae, Costa barrocoloradensis and Ambocythere? costaricana -- are described, and six other species are discussed in some detail. 
10.2307/1485536|Study of four species of the biserial planktonic foraminifer Streptochilus from Deep Sea Drilling Project cores of the Eauripik Rise, western equatorial Pacific, and Ninetyeast Ridge, Indian Ocean, shows that both the stratigraphic distribution of species and their frequency patterns (though not actual frequencies or abundances) are correlative in the two areas, supporting their use as stratigraphic and paleoecologic index fossils. Their distributional trends are linked to eustatic sea level changes and to changes in the mixing of surface waters; low frequencies and species turnovers occur during regressive phases when strong circulation of oxygenated waters could lead to the subsequent decline of their oxygen-minimum habitat. The species S. subglobigerum, S. latum, S. globigerum, and S. globulosum succeed one another at intervals averaging 2.5 my from late middle Miocene Zone N15 through Quaternary Zone N23. The new species, Streptochilus subglobigerum, is described for what was formerly thought to be a stratigraphically lower, disjunct part of the range of S. globigerum. These four species most likely belong to a single phylogenetic lineage as evidenced by some transitional morphologies.
10.2307/1484256|The genus Cuncolina is represented in the lowermost Cretaceous of southwestern France by Cuneolina hensoni n. sp., an interesting zonal marker for para-reefal (Urgonian) facies.
1486033|A transgressive shallow-marine succession suggested as a reference-section for early Thanetian by the 'Early Paleogene working group' (IGCP 286) was studied for its orthophragminid foraminifera from Haymana-Polatli Basin in central Anatolia. Orthophragminae, closely associated with Assilina yvettae and Operculina heberti, have been identified in a friable clastic-carbonate sequence which contains Glomalveolina in its different horizons. Basinal sediments with planktonic taxa overlie the shallow-water deposits and preclude the study of orthophragminae higher in the succession. Orthophragminae, studied in oriented sections, were grouped into four categories considering the qualitative and quantitative aspects of megalospheric embryo and morphologic elements of equatorial and lateral chamberlets in equatorial and partly vertical sections. Thus, Discocyclina seunesi, Orbitoclypeus neumannae and Discocyclina sp.1 have been identified and a new species, Orbitoclypeus haymanaensis, is erected. These assemblages were dated to Thanetian based upon the calcareous nannofossil and planktonic foraminifera identified in the overlying basinal sediments and also the benthonic foraminifera either associated with orthophragminae or present in different horizons of the shallow-marine succession.
10.2307/1485567|Oligocene through Pliocene foraminifera in the Yakataga Reef section, Gulf of Alaska Tertiary Province, help reconstruct the depositional history of the upper Poul Creek and lower Yakataga formations. Biofacies patterns reflect middle bathyal conditions during the Oligocene and Early Miocene, a Middle Miocene hiatus and upper bathyal to shelfedge depths during the Late Miocene and Early Pliocene. A regressive episode in the lowermost Yakataga Formation may represent a terminal Miocene event. Surface water temperatures during the Late Miocene-Early Pliocene change upsection from cold subarctic to cool temperate. The foraminifera also indicate that the Poul Creek-Yakataga Formation contact is Late Miocene.
10.2307/1484294|The development of the series Bolivinoides strigillata - decorata - australis - gigantea in the Upper Cretaceous of Belgium is followed. In a nearly continuous sequence of formations, the group is found to increase the number of pustules on the last-formed sutures from two to nine. This continuous increase can be used as a stratigraphic tool in working out chronology from the lower Campanian to the uppermost Maestrichtian in northwestern Europe. In other areas where the same sequence of species, or parts of the sequence, are found, it can be applied in stratigraphy in the same manner.
10.2307/1484454|A Globotruncana fauna from a sample of the Pecan Gap chalk is reviewed and two forms are described. A species of Globorotalites has been examined and its genetic relationship to the genus Globotruncana is suggested. The systematic position of this form is discussed, and the validity of the genus Globorotalites is questioned.
4097069|Radiolarians from the C. perneri-M. opimus graptolite Zone (Sheinwoodian; Wenlock) are described from a section in the Cape Phillips Formation, Nunavut, Canada, with a focus on the spherical radiolarian component (Archaeospicularia, Entactinaria, and Spumellaria). Three new genera, Involutentactinia, Perforentactinia, and Franklinia are described and the genera Labyrinthospahera, Gyrosphaera, and Haplotaeniatum are emended. Ten new species are described: Involutentactinia eccentra n. sp., containing two varieties; Involutentactinia eccentra n. sp. sensu strictu, and I. eccentra cupressa n. var.; Magnentactinia ostentata n. sp., Perforentactinia excepta n. sp., Plussatispila aethra n. sp., Franklinia tricae n. sp., F. dipulvisphaera, n. sp., Haplotaeniatum vertigospongum, n. sp., Gyrosphaera cavea n. sp., Labyrinthosphaera lancia, n. sp., and Labyrinthosphaera? lenzi n. sp. Haplotaenitaumiids and entactiniids are dominant and respectively, comprise as much as 35% and 20% percent of the fauna in some samples. Secuicollactines represent a small but persistent component. Inaniguttids, formerly thought to be a dominant portion of upper Sheinwoodian faunas, are represented by only one inaniguttid species, P. aethra, which makes up between 0.5 to 18% of the fauna. This first detailed glimpse at the upper Sheinwoodian revises the ranges of two biostratigraphically important taxa: the first appearance of Inanihella tarangulica group taxa occurs above the C. perneri-M. opimus Zone and the last appearance of Haplotaeniatum is within the C. perneri-M. opimusZone. Revisions to the existing radiolarian biozonation of Noble and Aitchison are proposed; the Long-spined inaniguttid 2 zone now extends through the C. perneri -M. opimus Zone encompassing this fauna, and the base of the Long-spined inaniguttid 3 Zone is redefined and moved to the base of the Homerian.
10.2307/1484690|The resting cysts (spores) of over thirty species of modern marine and fresh-water dinoflagellates belonging to the genera Gonyaulax, Protoceratium, Peridinium, Diplopsalis, Diplopsalopsis, Diplopeltopsis and Scrippsiella are described morphologically and their systematic relationships with fossil dinoflagellates and hystrichospheres are discussed. These modern cysts were studied in vivo in North Atlantic phytoplankton at Woods Hole and in a series of over seven hundred single-cell incubation experiments. Fossil or subfossil cysts also were examined from Caribbean, Mediterranean and western Arabian Sea surface sediments. It is concluded that 1) resting cysts of modern thecate dinoflagellates are homologous with fossil dinoflagellates and hystrichospheres that have archeopyles and acid-resistant cell walls, 2) systematic morphological fluctuation shown by the cysts of modern Peridiniales essentially follows the pattern already established from their thecal morphology, and 3) this conformity in present-day theca-cyst relationships reflects the evolutionary development of the Peridiniales, which can be traced through cysts in geological history. Finally, it is recommended that all Peridiniales be classified according to a single standard with a single nomenclature irrespective of their occurrence as thecae or cysts, or in the living or fossil condition.
10.2307/1484964|Balmeisporites, a widely occuring genus of Cretaceous megaspores, is examined from samples collected in North America. Walls are two-layered and consist of a psilate exine and a variously ornamented perine. An acrolamella is present on all forms. Monophyllosporites, a genus of monolete megaspores, is also described.
10.2307/1485716| Collections of Late Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) planktonic foraminifera from several regions, including Central Mexico, the Caribbean, Europe (Scandinavia, Austria), and the South Atlantic Ocean, contain a rich assemblage of the trochoidal superfamily Hedbergellacea with roughened test surfaces. The Helvetiellinae, n. subfam., is herein erected to include all Hedbergellacea characterized by this spinosopapillate test ornamentation, with two genera, Helvetiella, n. gen. and Bucherina Brnnimann and Brown. Helvetiellids appear to be restricted to Late Maastrichtian time, and are generally associated with Abathomphalus mayaroensis (Bolli). However, they are more abundant in cool-water faunas and thus can be used to correlate warm (tropical) and cool-water assemblages during Late Cretaceous time. The origin of helvetiellids remains uncertain; it may be that they originate from a rugoglobigerinid ancestor of early Late Maastrichtian age. 
10.2307/1485899|Species of the genus Ichthyolaria from the Upper Triassic and Lower Jurassic are investigated and described. First the morphology of each chamber, rib and the keel surrounding the test are transferred to geometrical functions reducing complete test morphology to a small set of parameters. Then dependencies of each parameter on growth are modelled by geometrical functions representing the morphogenetic programs. Parameters of these growth independent functions are used as characters in classification analyses based on clustering and ordination methods. Groups demonstrating homogeneity in characters can now be interpreted as biological species using the criterion of cohesion in morphogenetic programs. Classification of Ichthyolarias results in 10 species, where one of lowermost Jurassic age (Ichthyolaria gigantea) and two of Triassic age (I. serotriadica, I. parvolimbata) are new. Evolutionary tendencies and phylogenetic relationships are proven using multivariate discriminant analyses.
30136844|We studied benthic foraminifer and ostracod faunas from the Southwestern coasts of Antalya (Turkey) in 227 sediment samples collected by SCUBA divers in July and August, 2002. We identified 50 foraminifer genera and 96 species, some of which contained numerous large specimens. The large abundances of Indo-Pacific species, such as Peneroplis arietinus (Batsch), Amphisorus hemprichii Ehrenberg, Sorites variabilis Lacroix, Amphistegina lobifera Larsen, and Heterostegina depressa d'Orbigny is noteworthy. In some samples 75% of the sand is composed of Amphistegina lobifera Larsen tests. In contrast to this rich foraminifer fauna, ostracods are poorly represented by only 21 genera and 23 species.
10.2307/1484155| The suborder Cladocopa comprises three genera and about forty-one living species, which are worldwide in distribution. Most Recent species are limited to the coastal waters of northwestern Europe and the Mediterranean Sea. Fossil occurrences are limited to Europe, with the exception of four specimens found near the top of a North Atlantic sediment core. Large forms from the Paleozoic of Europe are referable to the family Leperditellidae rather than to the Cladocopa. Recent Cladocopa are found exclusively in waters of normal salinity, and seem to prefer water temperatures between 4 and 14 C. Although collected occasionally at depths of 1280 to 2600 meters, they are usually found in waters less than 500 meters deep. The geologic evidence indicates that the anterior shell concavity was a late acquisition and may be an adaptation permitting more efficient swimming. If so, this may enable the Cladocopa to compete more successfully, and thus may account for the relatively large number of species of Cladocopa existing at the present time. A new species of the genus Polycope from the Great Bahama Bank is described and figured. Important papers concerning Recent Cladocopa are included in the bibliography. 
10.2307/1484870| Although of unknown exact affinity, acritarchs are probably algal resting cysts, the vesicle wall of which was internally constructed. As the surface sculpture, therefore, would show less environmental influence than does the gross morphology, previous taxonomic neglect or discounting of this feature seems unwarranted. The use of scanning electron microscopy has particularly aided the detailed study of surface sculpture and also allowed better distinction between various types of processes and pylome characters. A simplified terminology is presented for acritarch wall sculpture that avoids terms for which there are currently conflicting definitions. The sculptural features here defined and illustrated include both those visible with the light microscope and those requiring electron microscopy for recognition or interpretation. Basic terms used include laevigate, granulate, punctate, foveolate, corrugate, echinate, baculate, gemmate, fossulate, rugulate, costate, and cristate. Combined terms may be used to indicate compound wall sculpture, and the prefix micro- is used to indicate features of less than 1  in diameter or breadth. Eleven new acritarch genera and 12 new species are described from the Ordovician and Silurian of Oklahoma and Indiana. 
3648479|A paleomagnetic study of the Paleocene-Eocene Esna Shale and Tarawan Chalk at the Dababiya and Qreiya sections near Luxor in central Egypt reveals stable normal and reverse polarity magnetizations. However, these (neritic) pelagic marine sediments have evidently been remagnetized because 1) the stable magnetizations are carried by hematite with no evidence of a primary magnetic mineral like magnetite, 2) the magnetic polarity stratigraphy is not consistent between the sections and with patterns expected from global magnetobiostratigraphic time scales, and 3) the directions correspond to late Cenozoic directions and are far from expected early Cenozoic reference directions for Africa. Our interpretation suggests that reported paleomagnetic results from other Cenozoic sediments from the Nile Valley suffered a similar fate. We suggest that the remagnetization may be associated with weathering and fluid flow during Neogene uplift and rifting in the formation of the early Nile Valley.
10.2307/1485821|Textularia crenata has a calc-agglutinated, canaliculate wall. The canaliculi are developed in the lateral chamber walls and in the apertural face. Initially, canaliculi are also present in the septa, but, with growth, those of the older septa become occluded with fine-grained detrital particles and calcareous cement. This phenomenon has not previously been recorded and it may offer a clue to the function of the canaliculi. It is here suggested that, because the adult tests are large (greater than 2mm long), the canaliculi may serve to shorten the line of communication between the cytoplasm of the first-formed part of the test and the ambient environment, especially for gaseous exchange.
1486153|Larger benthic foraminifera from the upper part of the lower Miocene to the middle Miocene, upper Burdigalian-Serravallian (Tf1-Tf2), from previously unstudied sections in East Kalimantan are described and figured. Lepidocyclina praedelicata is described as a new species. This comprises a new ancestral link in the evolution of the Lepidocyclina from L. praedelicata in the early Miocene (Burdigalian; uppermost Te to lower Tf1) into L. delicata in the middle Miocene (Serravallian; Tf2). Analysis of the larger benthic foraminifera has allowed accurate dating of the carbonate sections studied using the East Indian Letter Classification.
10.2307/1484456|During the past few years, numerous reports of the occurrence of the foraminiferal genus Choffatella have appeared in the literature. Many of them appear to be erroneous. Consequently, a critical review of the genus seems to be in order.
10.2307/1485262|A new species of symbiotic algae, Chlamydomonas provasolii, has been isolated from the soritid foraminifers Cyclorbiculina compressa (d'Orbigny) and Sorites marginalis (Lamarck), and compared with the symbiotic alga Chlamydomonas hedleyi Lee, Crockett, Hagen and Stone from Archaias angulatus (Fichtel and Moll). The new species is distinguished by the structure of its pyrenoid and chloroplast. The dinoflagellate Symbiodinium microadriaticum Freudenthal, which is the dominant algal symbiont in S. marginalis, has also been identified with fresh isolates from the "upside-down jellyfish," Cassiopeia frondosa. The presence of 3 different species of symbiotic algae in modern soritids suggests a general adaptation for symbiosis in larger foraminifera. Nutritional experiments indicate that the symbionts have the same requirements in the different hosts, and that the hosts must feed in order to satisfy the vitamin requirements of the symbionts. It is possible to interpret the cytological differentiation of S. marginalis, which is multinucleate and heterokaryotic with separate regions devoted to feeding and photosynthesis, as an acellular or coenocytic lower protist colonialism. The physological, cytological and physiological evidence from modern large foraminifera, taken with morphological and paleoecological data from fossil examples, strongly suggests that the iterative evolution of "giants" in different lineages was fueled by symbiosis.
10.2307/1484277|The status of the genera Ammodiscus Reuss, 1862, and Involutina Terquem, 1862, is discussed on the basis of their revision by Bornemann, 1874, and Loeblich and Tappan, 1954. Ammodiscus Reuss is retained for agglutinated planispiral evolute species, similar to the type species Ammodiscus infimus Bornemann, 1874 (not Strickland, 1846) = Ammodiscus siliceus (Terquem), 1862. Involutina Terquem is restricted to those planispiral calcareous species, with lateral umbilical filling, similar to the type species Involutina jonesi Terquem and Piette (1862) = Involutina liasina (Jones), 1853.
10.2307/1485329|From the top 3 cm. of each of 64 central Arctic Ocean sediment cores, samples were obtained, 33 of which contain ostracodes. The cores were taken from water depths between 1351 and 3812 m. Of the remaining 31 barren cores, 29 were taken from depths exceeding 3600 m. in the Canada Basin. The 19 Arctic species include 18 benthic and one epipelagic species belonging to nine genera, five of which are reported for the first time from the Arctic Ocean. Seven species of Polycope, three species of Cytheropteron, and one species each of Parakrithella, Paracytherois and Pedicythere are new. All 19 ostracode species constitute a bathyal fauna which extends to approximately 3000 m. The bathyal fauna is found along the Alpha Cordillera and the Chukchi Rise. Only Cytheropteron bronwynae, n. sp., and Krithe "bartonensis" (Jones) occur below approximately 3000 m. These two species compose the abyssal fauna. The central Arctic ostracode faunas are more similar to the faunas of Scandinavia than to those of the northern Pacific. Probably, the broad shallow shelf between Siberia and Alaska blocks the migration of deep-water species from the Pacific to the Arctic. Which of the physical, chemical and biological parameters are most important for the distribution of Arctic ostracodes is poorly known. Below 900 m., temperature and salinity are nearly constant. Food supply and pressure may be more important factors for the Arctic species. Correlation analysis using multiple regression techniques and twenty-four variables showed some relationship between ostracode species and water depth. A few species showed very high correlation, and, taken together, the fauna has a correlation coefficient of .9372, at the .0010 significance level, with water depth.
10.2307/1485023|On the basis of stratigraphic ranges of planktonic foraminifera, the Khasib, Tanuma, Sadi and Qurna Formations in southeastern Iraq are divided into five concurrent-range zones and are correlated with the European standard stages and with the similar zones or subzones in North Africa, Central Europe, the Gulf Coast region and the West Indies. Thirty-one species and subspecies of planktonic foraminifera, including one new species, belong to the family Heterohelicidae, and are herein described and illustrated. This is the first detailed account of the Upper Cretaceous foraminifera from Iraq.
1486034|A distinctive long-spined Inaniguttid dominated radiolarian fauna is present in cherts of the Kekesayi terrane in west Junggar, Xinjiang Province, China. This fauna contains moderately well preserved specimens of Protoceratoikiscum clarksoni on which the presence of caveal ribs and patagial tissue can be observed. Characteristics of the fauna are similar to others of correlative late Middle Ordovician (Llandeilan) age known from Scotland (U.K.) suggesting that Protoceratoikiscum clarksoni may be biostratigraphically useful.
10.2307/1485668|The last Middle Miocene occurrence of Globigerinoides ruber is recognized in the Mediterranean region where it appears to be synchronous with the same event reported from low latitudes. Hence, the term Globigerinoides ruber Zone, which is used for low latitudes, is herewith introduced into the Mediterranean planktonic foraminiferal zonal scheme, though with a different definition of its base. Another event characteristic to the Mediterranean region is a massive increase of Globigerinoides obliquus within the Globorotalia mayeri Zone, above the last Middle Miocene occurrence of Globigerinoides ruber. Where the two events occur close together, a hiatus may be assumed within the lower part of the Globorotalia mayeri Zone.
10.2307/1485448|The Late Miocene oxygen isotope stratigraphy in DSDP Site 158 can be correlated to the paleomagnetic reversal record using planktonic diatoms. Two oxygen isotope events that record, in part, the growth of the East Antarctic ice sheet are tied in this way to the lower part of Magnetic Epoch 11 and the lower part of Magnetic Epoch 10 (approximately 11 and 10 Ma [mega-annum], respectively).
10.2307/1485984| Two Orbitolina species were found in the Late Aptian-Early Albian of Venezuela. The first one, Orbitolina (Mesorbitolina) pervia Douglass 1960 was collected in the Eastern allochthonous area, at Bergantin, La Maravilla, in the Chimana Formation. This species is well known in different Tethyan regions. The second one, Orbitolina (Mesorbitolina) ovalis n. sp., is a new oval species coming from the Western autochthonous area, at Jabon, in the Upper part of the Peas-Altas Formation. This species, also identified in Peru, could be characteristic of a Western Province. 
10.2307/1484670|Globorotalia pachyderma (Ehrenberg) is sinistrally coiled in polar and subpolar seas and dextrally coiled towards lower latitudes. In the New Zealand Upper Cenozoic, G. pachyderma possibly evolved from Globorotalia continuosa Blow, and there are ten alternating sinistral and dextral populations of G. pachyderma which have been interpreted as indicative of alternating cold and warmer marine conditions. Comparison is made with Upper Cenozoic G. pachyderma coiling ratios of New Zealand, Italy and California.
41410986|Seven new species and a new genus of deep-water agglutinated foraminifera (DWAF) are reported from the Upper Oligocene of the Congo submarine canyon area, offshore Angola. The new taxa Ammodiscus kenderi n.sp., Haplophragmoides volati n.sp., Ammobaculites duponti n.sp., Spiropsammia primitiva n.sp, Tetrataxiella subtilissima, n.sp., Discamminoides evolutus, n. sp., and Plectoverneuilinella angolaensis n.gen., n.sp. (belonging to the new family Plectoverneuilinellidae), are described herein. The new species are sometimes common components of a "flysch-type" agglutinated foraminiferal assemblage associated with deep marine clastic sediments.
10.2307/1484567|The wall structure of representative species of the foraminiferal families Miliolidae, Soritidae, Nodosariidae Sphaeroidinidae, Buliminidae, Discorbidae, Elphidiidae, and Globigerinidae has been examined by transmitted light, polarized light, phase-contrast microscopy and electron microscopy. The submicronic structures of the surfaces of the tests, revealed by electron microscopy of carbon replicas, are correlated with the features observed in thin sections studied with the light microscope.
23250464|Well preserved pleuridia attributed to the problematic group known as melanosclerites have been discovered in Upper Ordovician greenish-grey silty shales of the Shiala Formation of the Tethyan Garhwal Himalaya of India. This material is attributed to genus Melanosteus, which has also been reported from Ordovician and Silurian erratic boulders of the Baltic region, as well in Devonian Upper Gasp Limestones from the Gasp Peninsula, Canada. The new species Melanosteus indica comes from below the Ordovician--Silurian boundary as established by acritarchs from the same section.
10.2307/1485869|Paleontological analyses of patterns of evolution at the 'species level' too often make uncritical use of taxonomic range data gathered primarily for biostratigraphic purposes. In this contributon, taxonomic evolution is studied from a stratophenetic lineage phylogeny of Paleogne planktonic foraminifera. This phylogeny, previously published in Micropaleontology, was constructed to eliminate 'pseudospeciation' and 'pseudoextinction' from the record, leaving only genuine cladogenesis (lineage branching) and terminal extinction. The phylogeny thus obtained obeys a valid cladistic geometry. Following the Cretaceous/Paleogene boundary extinctions, the planktonic foraminifera made a rapid initial recovery in less than one million years to a more stable level of diversity. Lineage diversity and morphologic disparity ultimately reached a maximum in the middle Eocene. Diversity fluctuations in the group during most of the Paleogene result primarily from the expansion and decline of one sub-clade, the muricates. Rates of cladogenesis and extinction in the planktonic foraminifera as a whole did not covary. Cladogenesis peaked in the earliest Paleocene and the late early Eocene. Enhanced extinction occurred in the mid-Paleocene and through the middle Eocene. Neither the Paleocene/Eocene nor Eocene/Oligocene boundaries were exceptional events in the evolutionary history of planktonic foraminifera. Survivorship curves, both uncorrected and normalised to variations in the general extinction probability (the 'corrected survivorship score' technique) are approximately straight, in contrast with the case of morphospecies longevities, which show a strongly age-dependent pattern (Pearson 1992). This suggests that the latter pattern is largely an artifact of taxonomic data gathering. A further interesting feature is evident from the lineage phylogeny: those lineages which terminate in branching have a mean duration which is less than half that of those which terminate in extinction, pointing to a strongly radiative pattern of evolution in the group.
10.2307/1484897| The nomenclatural problem arising out of naming reworked older fossils occurring in younger sediments is discussed. Monosaccate pollen grains with an equatorially girdling saccus have been described by Potoni and Sah (1960) as Cannanoropollis and by Lele (1964) as Virkkipollenites. The former name was applied to Permian reworked fossils found in Tertiary Cannanore lignites, while the latter name was used to designate fossils encountered in Talchir (Permian) sediments. The name Sehorisporites was introduced by Dev (1961) for monosaccate pollen occurring in Lower Cretaceous Jabalpur sediments, which is in fact reworked Permian pollen. Bharadwaj (1962), in a subsequent study of the Raniganj (Upper Permian) coals, designated similar pollen as Densipollenites. It is suggested that, since the names Cannanoropollis and Sehorisporites were given to reworked specimens and have received comparatively little use, the names Virkkipollenites and Densipollenites ought to be conserved. 
1486196|Type specimens of the nine Pleurosigma taxa described by A. Mann (1925) from the Philippine Islands were critically re-investigated as a result of a loan of these slides held in the Albert Mann collection at the United States National Museum, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C., (USNM). Improved photomicrographic documentation and more recent insights into the taxonomy of the genus Pleurosigma lead to some revision of Mann's views. Mann noted a similarity between his P. obtusum and P. prisma and these species are here synonymized under the former name. No specific differences can be demonstrated for P. exemptum and P. obesum and the latter is here synonymized under the former name. Although Mann noted some resemblance between specimens of P. falx and small specimens of P. decorum W. Smith, I have found that P. falx A.Mann, closely resembles specimens of P. normanii Ralfs in Pritchard. Because no specific differences have been detected by light microscopy (LM), P. falx is here synonymized with P. normanii which has priority. On the other hand, Mann considered his P. acus very similar to P. intermedium W. Smith but in reality these species differ in several LM respects. As a result of this study, six of the nine new species P.acus, P.dolosum, P.exemptum, P.obtusum, P.rigens and P.suluense proposed by Mann are considered to be valid.
1486219|Recently exposed Oligocene-Miocene (O-M) strata in Santa Elena, Guyanilla and the section at Playa de Jaboncilla, southwestern Puerto Rico show variations in lithology and in the occurrence and relative abundance of planktonic and benthic foraminifers. The planktonic foraminifers are interspersed in the relatively deeper, open marine shelf segments, whereas the intervening shallower segments are characterized by an abundance of benthic foraminifers. Although shallow marine, smaller benthic foraminifers are generally of limited use for biostratigraphy, they are used in conjunction with planktonic taxa to develop a high-resolution biostratigraphy for the Oligocene-Miocene reefal carbonates of southwestern Puerto Rico. Upper Oligocene mudstone and packstone and overlying Miocene argillaceous limestone and chalk yielded a diverse foraminiferal fauna comprising both planktonic (Catapsydrax, Chiloguembelina, Dentoglobigerina, Globigerina, Globigerinoides) and benthic (Anomalinoides, Archaias, Cancris, Elphidium, Eorupertia, Hanzawaia, Heterostegina, Lepidocyclina, Miogypsina, Miosorites, Neorotalia, Rosalina, Siphonina, Stilostomella and Yaucorotalia) taxa. This assemblage indicates a late Oligocene-Miocene (P21 -M14 Zone) age for the Santa Elena and Playa de Jaboncilla sections, with a break in sedimentation at the top of the upper Oligocene. Significant shallowing occurred between the upper Oligocene and Miocene resulting in a hiatus, comparing well with the global sea-level regression at that time. This hiatus lasted for 3.3 million years as shown by the absence of planktonic foram Zone P22 (27.1 Ma - 23.8 Ma).
10.2307/1485960|The fortuitous spalling of a carapace of the nonmarine Permian Suchonella typica Spizharsky 1939 disclosed the adductor muscle attachment scar as well as two accessory scars on both the right side of the steinkern and the inside of the spalled right valve. This central muscle field is illustrated and discussed. An objective list of species described in or referred to Suchonella Spizharsky 1939 is appended.
10.2307/1485035| In the western North Atlantic the "cold wall" of the Gulf Stream system separates the planktonic foraminiferal fauna of the slope waters from that of the northern Sargasso Sea. A second, almost equally distinct boundary is the east-west trending "oceanic front", situated at about 30 N, that divides the planktonic fauna of the northern Sargasso Sea from that of the southern. Seasonal fluctuations in foraminiferal populations occur mainly north of the oceanic front. Globigerina bulloides, Globorotalia truncatulinoides and Globigerinoides ruber are the dominant species in the slope waters, northern and southern Sargasso Sea, respectively. 
10.2307/1485638|Five dinoflagellate cyst Oppel-zones are proposed for the Miocene to Holocene in the west coast of northern Japan based on several selected species. Age justification for these zones utilizes planktonic foraminifera, Radiolaria, calcareous nannofossils, and diatom zonations, which have been established previously in the same area of northern Japan. These dinoflagellate cyst zones are the Diphyes latiusculum Oppel-Zone (latest Early to earliest Middle Miocene), Operculodinium echigoense Oppel-Zone (early Middle Miocene to early Late Miocene), Capillicysta fusca Oppel-Zone (early Late Miocene to Early Pliocene), Achomosphaera callosa Oppel-Zone (Late Pliocene to Early Pleistocene), and O. centrocarpum Oppel-Zone (Late Pleistocene to Holocene). These five zones are compared with other Late Cenozoic dinoflagellate cyst zonations, and it is concluded that many species have varying stratigraphic ranges in different biogeographic provinces. Brief taxonomic notes are included for two species which are used for the present zonal names, these being D. latiusculum Matsuoka and C. fusca Matsuoka and Bujak, n. gen., n. sp.
24413302|A new superfamily, Globigerinitoidea, was designated by BouDagher-Fadel (2012) to represent all the trochospiral, compressed to almost planispiral, smooth, muricate or pustulose-walled, nonspinose planktonic foraminifera that evolved from forms originating in the Cretaceous. Members of this superfamily Globigerinitoidea include the smooth Globanomalinidae, which evolved from Hedbergella holmedelensis in the Danian; the keeled Planorotalitidae, which evolved from the globanomalinids in the Selandian; the pustulose, low trochospiral Tenuitellidae, which evolved from the globanomalinids in the Late Bartonian; and the microperforate, trochospiral Globigerinitidae, which evolved from the tenuitellids in the Late Priabonian. Unfortunately in BouDagher-Fadel (2012), the Globigerinitoidea superfamily was misattributed and is in fact a new superfamily, and the new family Planorotalitidae was not fully described and here is emended. In addition, a new tenuitellid species, Tenuitellinata praepseudoedita, was suggested by BouDagher-Fadel (2012) but is here defined from a figure originally presented by Li (1987).
10.2307/1484373|Humic acid drilling-mud "thinners" derived from oxidized coal have been found to contain from 600,000 to 4,000,000 pollen and spores per gram of coal. Various brands of quebracho thinners contain, in addition to the primary constituent, quebracho extract, varying amounts of oxidized coal as a filler. Hence, such quebracho thinners are also a source of coal-derived pollen and spores. Palynologists, working with cuttings from which the drilling mud cannot be completely eliminated, must reckon with the built-in flora of the mud thinners.
10.2307/1484196|Three new species of holothurian sclerites, Thuroholia marginata, Achistrum frizzelli, and Rota martini, from the Lower Mississippian Escabrosa limestone of Cochise County, Arizona, are described and figured. The new genus Rota is described.
24413483|Doncieuxina Boukhary, Al Menoufy and Hntzsch n. gen (type species: Nummulites spirectypa Doncieux 1926), Nummulites partschi De La Harpe 1880, Nummulites roselli Schaub 1981, Nummulites minervensis Schaub 1981, Aegyptoclypeus dakhlensis Boukhary, Abul-Nasr and Al Menoufy n. gen., n. sp., Discocyclina nudimargo Schwager 1883 and Assilina aff. A. prisca Schaub 1981, collected from two nummulitic banks within the Thebes Formation in Wadi Dakhl, Southern Galala, Eastern Desert, Egypt, have been described and photographed. Their age is estimated as Early Eocene (Ypresian) as the assemblage has been assigned to the shallow benthic zone SBZ 6 of Serra-Kiel et al. 1998.
10.2307/1485359|Komewuia Cookson and Eisenack, 1960 is a valid and distinct genus. Wiggins's (1975) transfer of the type species of Komewuia to Kalyptea is not acceptable because the species lacks kalypteoid characteristics. The genus Komewuia is emended. Two new species, K. evittii and K. stoveri are proposed. Pontiadinium inequicornutum Baltes, 1971, ex Stover and Evitt, 1978 is transferred to Komewuia because the species shares all major characteristics with it, making Pontiadinium a subjective junior synonym of Komewuia. Morphologically intermediate forms between K. evittii and K. glabra and between K. evittii and K. stoveri are discussed.
10.2307/1484476|The stratigraphic position of Globotruncana helvetica Bolli in several sections in Tunisia is discussed. Although G. helvetica is considered to be an indicator of Lower Turonian age by most micropaleontologists, in Tunisia this species occurs much higher in the stratigraphic column. Megafossils found below, within and above the G. helvetica zone indicate a basal Senonian (Lower Coniacian) age for this zone.
10.2307/1484860|A systematic study of the foraminiferal fauna from the type section of the Raghavapuram Shales has revealed the presence of a fairly rich assemblage consisting entirely of arenaceous forms. Fifteen species of foraminifera are described and illustrated. The dominant genera are Haplophragmoides and Ammobaculites. The foraminifera suggest a Lower Cretaceous age for the Raghavapuram Shales. The assemblage shows close affinity with those described from the Lower Cretaceous of the Great Artesian Basin, Australia.
40607069|The stratigraphie framework of the Lower Miocene series within the Sivas Basin (central Turkey) is discussed on the basis of hyaline larger foraminifera from a transgressive shallow-marine sequence (Karacaren Formation). A biometric study of Aquitanian to lower Burdigalian taxa (genera Miogypsina, Miogypsinoides, Nephrolepidina, Eulepidina, Spiroclypeus and Operculina) provides new insight into their taxonomy, stratigraphy and paleobiogeography in the Tethys. The miogypsinid taxa can be arranged in the Miogypsinoides bantamensis, Miogypsina gunteri, M. tani and M. globulina parts of the main miogypsinid lineage of Drooger (1963, 1993), the majority of which are described for the first time from Turkey. Moreover, a new Miogypsinoides taxon, M. sivasensis n. sp., from the lower Aquitanian is also introduced. Nephrolepidina, the most common lepidocyclinid taxon is associated with typical Aquitanian and early Burdigalian miogypsinids. Based on biomtrie data Nephrolepidina does not serve a high-resolution biostratigraphic perspective since all Aquitanian assemblages are referable to N. morgani or a transitional stage from N. morgani to N. tournoueri (TV. ex. interc. morgani-tournoueri (type 1), although stratigraphically lowest samples have more primitive features. The second distinct Nephrolepidina assemblage, identified in association with early Burdigalian M. globulina, is referred to N. ex. interc. morgani-tournoueri (type 2), which has surprisingly more primitive features than those described from Aquitanian. Eulepidina, identified only from the early Burdigalian in association with M. globulina, is assigned to E. aff. formosa, showing a clear influence of Indo-Pacific fauna. Nummulitids are rare, only Spiroclypeus blanckenhorni could be found in reasonable quantity in the lower Aquitanian deposits in association with M. gunteri and N. morgani. Simultaneously, its stratigraphical range is extended to the early Aquitanian. Assemblages from the basal part of the Karacaren Formation suggest that the transition from continental to marine sedimentation cannot be explained by a single regional transgression, but requires at least three such marine flooding events, confined to a time interval between early and late Aquitanian.
10.2307/1485324|This paper describes two new species of Hamiapollenites from the Early Permian Wellington Formation of Oklahoma. One of the new species, Hamiapollenites spinosus, is ornamented with spines on the ribs and sacci and is thought to be the first bisaccate grain described as having such ornamentation. It is illustrated by scanning electron microscope and light microscope photographs. The second new species, Hamiapollenites rugosus, has proximal ribs with cross-striae which are considered unusual for the genus.
30130911|Study of benthic foraminifera from late Pleistocene (~444 Kyr to 150 Kyr BP) samples from Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Hole 716A (456.0'N, 7317.0'E; present water depth 533.3 m), Maldives Ridge, equatorial Indian Ocean, led to the discovery of one new genus Acostinella n.gen. and five new species of benthic foraminifera including Adelosina bhallai n.sp., Siphonaperta bhallai n.sp., Triloculinella bhallai n.sp., Hofkeruva sahaii n.sp., Acostinella sahaii n.sp. These taxa were examined under the scanning electron microscope, which has helped to explain their morphological descriptions and assign them a taxonomic classification. The taxa have rare and sporadic occurrences at Hole 716A and thus we do not know their potential in paleoceanographic and paleoclimatic reconstructions, which requires further studies from other parts of the Indian Ocean.
10.2307/1485961|The history of the nomenclature of the "kirkbyan pit" in the Paleozoic Kirkbyacea is discussed. This "pit" has been considered a diagnostic feature in the Paleozoic Kirkbyacea.
10.2307/1484481|A simple, inexpensive die and its use in producing plastic depression slides for storing foraminifera, pollen or other microfossils are described.
10.2307/1486139|The Upper Devonian Maple Mill Shale Formation in southeastern Iowa, U.S.A., has yielded a diverse and unusual ostracode fauna consisting of eighteen benthic species and one (probably planktonic) entomozoacean species. Only two species have been previously described. Although the remaining species are considered new, because of poor preservation only three are named herein: Triceratina lethiersi n. sp., Graphiadactylloides kalonaensis n. sp. and Entomozoe (Nehdentomis?) kindlei n. sp. At the species level the fauna is unique. The absence of Bairdiacea suggests a low oxygen (hypoxic) environment. Conodonts indicate that the ostracode-bearing layer correlates with the Scaphignathus velifer Zone and fragments of cephalopods indicate the Platyclymenia do III-IV Zone.
10.2307/1485256|Eocladopyxis peniculatum Morgenroth, 1966, represents one of the earliest known ancestors of the modern pyrodinioid dinoflagellate Pyrodinium bahamense Plate, 1906, and may be in the direct lineage leading to the modern species. Both the modern and the fossil species occur most abundantly in semi-enclosed, shallow-water bays with restricted circulation with the open ocean, suggesting that certain members of the Eocladopyxis-Pyrodinium complex may have evolved under, and are indicators of, marine-brackish, near-shore conditions. As known, E. peniculatum is restricted to the Paleocene and Eocene.
10.2307/1484336|This paper discusses the transatlantic correlation of Miocene sediments in southern Trinidad in the light of evidence seen in Malta and Sicily. The Burdigalian / Aquitanian boundary as seen in the Mediterranean region is correlated with the boundary between the Globorotalia fohsi barisanensis subzone and the Globigerinatella insueta zone of southern Trinidad, British West Indies.
10.2307/1486114|The name Sengoerina is proposed for a new biseriamminid genus characterized by a coiled stage of initially globular to progressively angular, biserial chambers followed by an uncoiled stage of angular, biserial chambers. Unlike Dagmarita, it has a distinct coiled stage and lacks spine-like projections at the outer margins of the chambers. Sengoerina constitutes the root stock of the angular-chambered, dagmaritin-type biseriamminids which evolved from the globivalvulines in the Late Permian.
10.2307/1485323|Siliceous dinoflagellates of the species Actiniscus pentasterias (Ehrenberg) are described from more than 20 outcrops and submarine exposures in the northeast Pacific rim area. Trends in the geographic and stratigraphic distribution of this taxon are recorded with respect to the documented abundance of the siliceous marine microflora in the interval from the Middle Miocene to the Lower Pliocene. Scanning electron micrographs of specimens illustrate the remarkable symmetry and geometry of this little-known group of microfossils.
10.2307/1484288|A study of the foraminifera of the Santa Cruz Basin has revealed relationships between the living and dead populations. Two wide depth zones are recognized, into which both living and non-living individuals can be grouped. A slight depth zonation of living forms is present below sill depth. Distributional trends exhibited above sill level are: (1) A slight decrease in the number of living genera and species with depth, and (2) a decrease in the concentration of tests with depth. Below sill depth the following conditions exist: (1) A greatly reduced number of living genera and species; (2) a relatively uniform test concentration; and (3) over 50 per cent reduction in the concentration of planktonic tests. Recent distributional patterns within the basin are complicated by the presence of Miocene, Pliocene, and Pleistocene fossils. Two new foraminiferal species are described.
10.2307/1485937| Presence of the warm-water species Tectatodinium pellitum Wall 1967 emend. nov. is established for the mid Pliocene Coralline Crag Formation (about 3.75-3.55 Ma) at Rockhall Wood, Suffolk, in eastern England, when North Sea temperatures were 4 to 5C higher than today. The dinoflagellate assemblage reflects warm temperate conditions, as do other fossil groups. The reputed occurrence of Tectatodinium pellitum in post-2.6 Ma upper Pliocene through lower Pleistocene? deposits of eastern England is not substantiated: its apparent absence likely reflects cooling initiated at 2.6 Ma. The cool-tolerant species Habibacysta tectata Head et al. 1989b is documented for the first time from eastern England where it occurs commonly in the Royal Society borehole at Ludham, Norfolk (about 2.4-1.8 Ma) and Chillesford Sand Member (about 2.0 Ma) of the Norwich Crag Formation, Chillesford, Suffolk -- two sections previously reported as containing Tectatodinium pellitum. The common presence of H. tectata seems to indicate mild- to cool-temperate marine conditions based on its fossil occurrences at high-latitude sites. Species determinations have been aided by restudy of the holotypes of T. pellitum and H. tectata. Previous misidentification of these species has obscured their paleoenvironmental significance. The holotype of Tectatodinium pellitum, the type of the genus, has a non-tegillate wall comprising a thin pedium and thick, spongy, distally open luxuria. The species, here emended to include new observations of wall structure and archeopyle margin, ranges from at least early Eocene to present day, occurring in deposits of 50 Ma in the Labrador Sea, Ocean Drilling Program Hole 647A. The genus Tectatodinium is here emended to include only those species with a lanate to spongy, distally open luxuria. Pyxidinopsis? pannonia (Lentin and Williams 1973) comb. nov. (al. Tectatodinium? pannonium) and Pyxidinopsis psilata (Wall and Dale in Wall et al. 1973) comb. nov. (al. Tectatodinium psilatum Wall and Dale in Wall et al. 1973) do not meet this requirement and are transferred accordingly. Barssidinium pliocenicum (Head 1993) comb. nov. (al. Sumatradinium pliocenicum), mentioned along with other species in the text, is transferred in compliance with the newly established taxonomy of Sumatradinium Lentin and Williams 1976 emend. Lentin et al. 1994 and Barssidinium Lentin et al. 1994. 
10.2307/1485060|A neotype for Vermiculum subrotundum Montagu. 1803, the type species of Miliolinella Wiesner, 1931, is established. It is considered that the type species of Renoidea Brown, 1827 (nomen oblitum), R. glabra Brown, 1827, and the type species of Pateoris Loeblich and Tappan, 1953, Quinqueloculina subrotunda forma hauerinoides Rhumbler, 1936, are synonymous with V. subrotundum. Miliolinella is redescribed as having quinqueloculine chamber arrangement and an apertural flap in the early stages of ontogeny. Synonyms of Miliolinella include Triloculinella Riccio, 1950; Pateoris Loeblich and Tappan, 1953; Scutuloris Loeblich and Tappan, 1953; and Erichsenella Tinoco, 1955. The differences between Miliolinella and related genera are discussed with special reference to Quinquinella Vella, 1957, and Nummoloculina Steinmann, 1881.
10.2307/1484570|Hastigerina digitata Rhumbler, 1911, of Cushman (1927) is shown to be non-existent. As a result, the type of the genus Hastigerinella Cushman, 1927, becomes Hastigerinella eocanica Nuttall, 1928.
10.2307/1484482|Interest in the use of spores and pollen as a stratigraphic tool in the oil industry has recently been accelerated. It has already been demonstrated in a number of areas that these fossils occur in adequate numbers for general stratigraphic work. They are wind-blown, hence independent of ecologic conditions which restrict the distribution of marine organisms. They are therefore useful in solving certain stratigraphic problems under conditions in which foraminifera or other fossils are unsatisfactory.
10.2307/1485790| Zygnemataceous zygospores are reported for the first time from upper Pliocene marine clays of a transgressive sequence known as the St. Erth Beds. The marine clays were deposited under the warm shallow waters of a coastal embayment. The freshwater zygnemataceous zygospores, and other algal spores of suspected freshwater origin, are not in situ although they are considered essentially contemporaneous. These algal spores may have been washed directly into the embayment: alternatively they are reworked from freshwater sediments that may have existed along the coast prior to marine transgression. Palynological analysis shows the algal spores to be rare, with vascular plant tissues and non-algal sporomorphs dominating the St. Erth assemblages. The algal spores are typically distinct in having unstructured hyaline walls that do not readily accept safranin-o stain. A total of 18 formal and informal taxa have been documented: these include the extant zygnematacean species Debarya glyptosperma (perhaps constituting the oldest known record of zygospores assignable this species) and representatives of the fossil genera Lecaniella (formae 1-10, some resembling zygospores of the Zygnemataceae), Gelasinicysta n. gen., and Planctonites (which includes at least one possible representative of the Desmidiaceae). The presence of these algal spores records a hinterland with freshwater habitats of probably ephemeral nature and subject to seasonal warming: detailed interpretations are impeded by incomplete understanding of the biology of related extant taxa. Fluorescence microscopy (FM) shows the algal spores to be among the brightest fluorescing objects in the stained palynological residues. FM may therefore be an effective, as well as non-destructive, way to rapidly locate scarce algal spore specimens in stained hylogen-rich samples. Gelasinicysta n. gen. (type species: Gelasinicysta vangeelii n. gen., n. sp.) is proposed for hyaline-walled fossil algal spores with a continuous equatorial fissure and dimpled ornament. Gelasinicysta shangsica (He 1984) n. comb. (al. Lacunalites shangsicus He 1984) is transferred accordingly. Planctonites nagyae (Nagy 1969) n. nom., n. comb. (al. Deflandridium stellatum Nagy 1969) is transferred on the basis of its similarity with P. stellarius (R. Potoni), the type, from which it differs in its larger size. 
10.2307/1486070| A new foraminifer genus Neosivasella n. gen. and species N. sungurlui n. sp., showing some similarities to the Sivasella monolateralis Sirel and Gndz, is here described from the Upper Thanetian rocks of the Southeast Turkey. The genus is included in the family Lepidorbitoididae. 
10.2307/1484125|This study represents a survey of United States literature pertaining to ostracodes from the Mississippian, Pennsylvanian, and Permian periods. The text consists of a check list of genera and species, recording their occurrences within series. The figures consist of eleven maps of outcrops by series, with locations of areas treated in faunal papers, and one range chart of valid genera, on which the number of species within each genus is indicated.
10.2307/1485797|Viable microfossils, identical to those described as Cobricosphaeridium giganteum by McMinn (1991), were collected from surface sediments of Tuggerah Lake, New South Wales, and subjected to incubation experiments. The organism that germinated was the nauplius stage of an unidentified copepod rather than a dinoflagellate species, as previously assumed.
10.2307/1484843|The genus Webbinelloidea Stewart and Lampe, 1947, is revised following a study of the types of Stewart and Lampe (1947) and Summerson (1958), and of specimens subsequently collected by the authors from the Middle Devonian limestones of central Ohio. All of the forms reported from the Middle Devonian of Ohio by Stewart and Lampe (1947) and Summerson (1958), which we refer herein to Webbinelloidea, are placed in the type species, W. similis Stewart and Lampe, 1947. Four morphological groups with sub-groups are recognized within W. similis. Sorosphaeroidea Stewart and Lampe, 1947, is a junior synonym of Webbinelloidea Stewart and Lampe, 1947, by the action of the first revisers, Loeblich and Tappan (1964).
10.2307/1484961| The new fossil dinoflagellate genus Shublikodinium, ten new species and two new varieties are described and placed in the new family Shublikodiniaceae, which is distinguishable from other dinoflagellate families by having a sutural tabulation formula of 6, 5a, 7, 7, 3, and a combination archeopyle of the new Type A + 51. These new Upper Triassic dinoflagellate taxa were established from core material taken in the Shublik Formation in the Mobil-Phillips-Socal, Kuparuk State 7-11-12 well on the arctic North Slope of Alaska. 
10.2307/1485888|The genus Globotruncanita Reiss includes globotruncanids with a single peripheral keel in all the chambers of the last whorl. Species formerly assigned to this genus, including Globotruncana arbica El-Naggar, G. bahijae El-Naggar, G. falsostuarti Sigal, G. gagnebini Tilev, G. pseudoconica Solakius, G. putahensis Takanayagi, G. rosseta pettersi Gandolfi and G. youssefi El-Naggar, are excluded from it; all of them have double keel at some stage in their ontogeny. Species considered to be valid members of Globotruncanita include: Globotruncanita atlantica (Caron), G. calcarata (Cushman), G. conica (White), G. elevata (Brotzen), G. fareedi (El-Naggar), G. insignis (Gandolfi), G. stuarti (de Lapparent), G. stuartiformis (Dalbiez) and G. subspinosa (Pessagno). Other species have been placed in synonymy as follows: Globotruncana andori de Klasz [=G. elevata (Brotzen)], G. falsocalcarata Kerdany and Abdelsalam [=?G. calcarata (Cushman), until further documentation], G. arca var. esnehensis Nakkady and G. sharawnaensis El-Naggar [=G. conica (White)] and G. stuarti parva Gandolfi [=G. stuarti (de Lapparent)]. The valid species of Globotruncanita are re-described and their taxonomic history is analyzed. The valid species of Globotruncanita were taxonomically analyzed from a phylogenetic perspective and the phylogenetic relationships of these species was established. In addition to external taxonomic characters, the valid species were submitted to a quantitative character analysis and a set of phylogenetic characters were choosen. More than 200 thin-sections of isolated specimens of the nine Globotruncanita species were done and examined from an ontogenic perspective. Biometric parameters were measured directly from these thin-sections. The usefulness of this biometric analysis in the identification of Globotruncanita species in thin-sections of indurated carbonate rocks was tested and resulted in a thin-section diagnosis for the nine valid species of Globotruncanita. The theory of a stuartiformis-elevata-subspinosa-calcarata transformation series is rejected. The latter species are not regarded as apomorphic descendents of stuartiformis, but rather homoplasus species. All species of Globotruncanita are derived from a common Archeoglobigerina ancestor. The oldest member of the Globotruncanita clade is e2, a morphotype directly related to G. elevata (Brotzen) but showing more primitive ontogenetic stages such as nonkeeled early whorls. Convergent similarities in external morphology are in many instances the result of phylogenetic recapitulation as all the species share a distant common ancestor (e2 morphotype), whereby homoplasus external characters are often confused as transitional forms. Three distinctive lineage branches are distinguished in the phylogenetic tree of Globotruncanita herein refered to as the elevata-branch, the calcarata-branch and the stuartiformis-branch. A direct ancestor to the first Globotruncanita remains undiscovered.
10.2307/1485398|The apertural characteristics of Cribrospirolina Haman, 1972, are presented using scanning electron microscope (SEM) photography. Morphologic observations are made on the taxa belonging to this genus. These observations should be regarded as supplementary to the type of Cribrospirolina by Haman, 1972.
24413486|Integration between calcareous nannofossil and the planktonic foraminifera investigations of two exposed section (Gebel Duwi and Gebel Hamadat) from the Quseir area, northwestern Red Sea margin, Egypt allow to divided the calcareous nannofossil Zone NP4 into NTp6, NTp7A, NTp7B, NTp8A, NTp8B, and NTp8C subzones, which reflects continuous, well preserved, and very diverse calcareous microplankton bio-events across the Danian/Selandian boundary. The Danian/Selandian boundary is bracketed at the base of Subzone NTp8B within P3b Subzone below a level close to a sequences planktonic foraminiferal bioevents from older to younger: LO of Igorina albeari, Morozovella occulsa, M. aequa, M. acuta, M. velascoensis, and Subbotina velascoensis. Small specimens (<125m) of Globanomalina pseudomenardii first appear within the upper part of nannofossil NP4 Zone near the base of Selandian that differ from those previously documented. Comparison of the calcareous nannofossil and planktonic foraminiferal bio-events noted in the different paleolatitudes revealed variations in the stratigraphic range across the Danian /Selandian boundary. This variation in the timing of the first appearances of planktonic foraminifera is primarily due to taxonomically different concepts and/or climatic changes in different paleogeographic setting. A strong drop in the relative sea-level during the late Danian associated with Neoeponides duwi benthic assemblage was identified resulting from eustatic sea level changes.
10.2307/1485709|Limestone samples containing well-preserved radiolarian faunas were collected from strata of middle Callovian age in southern Alaska (Shelikof Formation) and east-central Oregon (Lonesome Formation). All the radiolarian-bearing samples cited can be directly correlated to ammonite biostratigraphy. Forty-five species and 14 genera are discussed herein. One new genus (Milax) and 22 new species are described. Many of the taxa appear to be short-ranging and should prove useful in the development of a detailed zonal scheme for Jurassic radiolarian-bearing strata from North America.
30130909|Samples collected from the Guys Hill Formation (Yellow Limestone Group, middle Eocene) in the Seven Rivers region of northwestern Jamaica yielded a rich ostracode fauna, including eight new species. The samples were collected to determine the environment of deposition for the strata that contain both fully-terrestrial and marine vertebrates, including seacows in the transition between land- and sea-faring morphologies. Adult and juvenile and male and female ostracode specimens were recognized, indicating an autochthonous thanatocoenosis. The dominance of cytherideid ostracodes, particularly the presence of significant numbers of noded cytherideids, indicates brackish conditions, at least during part of the chronostratigraphic interval, and marine taxa, such as Orionina and Hemicythere, indicate fluctuating paleoenvironmental conditions, which is consistent with the range of vertebrate fossil faunas collected from the site. New species include Cytherelloidea nebuloreticulata, Paracytheridea jamaicaensis, P. inflata, Cythereis? iturraldei, Quadracythere robusta, Quadracythere polycosta, Hemicythere elongata, and Orionina anteroexposita.
10.2307/1484949|The drilling vessel Submarex of Global Marine Drilling Corporation was used to drill and core sediments to a depth of 56.4 m. on the Nicaragua Rise in the Caribbean Sea between Walton Bank and Jamaica, West Indies, in 610 m. of water. The detailed paleoecology based on benthonic foraminifera contained in the cored section is described. The presence of the shallow-water foraminifer Amphistegina gibbosa indicates paleotectonism immediately before, and possibly during, the time of deposition of the sediments contained in the very bottom section of the core.
10.2307/1485757|Examination of absolute and relative abundance curves of Cycladophora davisiana from Plio-Pleistocene sediment cores (time interval Brunhes Chron to Gauss/Matuyama Chron) recovered in the Atlantic sector of the Southern Ocean (south and north of the Polar Front) supports the stratigraphic significance of this radiolarian species. Beside already defined abundance peaks in the uppermost Pleistocene other stratigraphically useful C. davisiana peaks can be determined in the lower Brunhes Chron, near the Brunhes/Matuyama and the Matuyama/Gauss Chron boundary. The correlation of the C. davisiana abundance curve to the abundance curve of the diatom species Eucampia balaustium for the last glacial interval supports the hypothesis that C. davisiana is a deep-dwelling species and thus the C. davisiana abundance fluctuations reflect changes in deep water masses rather than in surface water.
10.2307/1484723|The genera "Sphaeroidinella" and "Sphaeroidinellopsis" are shown to be isomorphic growth forms derived from at least two different species of Globigerinoides in the bathyal zone. The Sphaeroidinella dehiscens datum, defining the approximate Miocene-Pliocene boundary, falls within the 8 to 10 million year interval in southern California.
10.2307/1485962|Although passive distribution of ostracodes by high-altitude winds has been previously postulated (Angell and Hancock 1989, and references therein: Marmonier and Ward 1990, and references therein), this paper is an effort to subject the postulations to experiment. This report is based on the comparison of the weight of living ostracodes with the weight of volcanic particles distributed by high-altitude winds.
10.2307/1485267|Planktonic foraminifera from the type section of the Ewekoro Formation place the formation within the Globorotalia pusilla pusilla-Morozovella angulata Zone and the lower part of the Globorotalia pseudomenardii Zone. The applicability of Radiometric ages from the type section to the Paleocene-Eocene boundary and the Pseudohastigerina datum is still an unresolved problem, the solution to which lies in more precisely relating subsurface paleontologic data to the overlying Akinbo Formation at the type section.
10.2307/1485484|This paper emphasizes the need to study fossil sporomorphs by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) as well as by light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Previously described species of fossil sporomorphs must be reinvestigated using the TEM. During fossilization and laboratory preparation, the fine structure of the spore and pollen wall may be damaged. Several types of destruction of the fine structure of the sporoderm are: (1) changes produced during sedimentation; (2) damage to wall structure during the maceration process of the sediments; (3) alteration of the ultrastructure during preparation for TEM; and (4) wall degradation of fern spores, pollen grains of gymnosperms, and angiosperm pollen. The outer layer of some pollen grains is completely destroyed. Thus, results obtained from SEM and LM images of sporomorph specimens may be deceptive.
10.2307/1485520|Effective disaggregation of samples commonly presents problems for micropaleontologists. Eight rock samples of differing ease or difficulty of disaggregation were tested by boiling in seven commercially available surfactants to determine the degree of disaggregation. Quaternary-O was used as a standard for comparison of results. Quaternary-O and Stepan Biosoft gave the best overall results, although different individual surfactants performed best on some samples. Continued experimentation is needed to estimate the value of surfactants in breaking down rock samples.
10.2307/1484250|Megaspores referable to the European Lower Cretaceous species Pyrobolospora hexapartita (Dijkstra) and Minerisporites marginatus (Dijkstra) are recorded for the first time from Australian Upper Mesozoic deposits. Two new species of Pyrobolospora are described. A new "megaspore" genus, of which three species are distinguished, is instituted. The possible affinity of Pyrobolospora and of the closely associated microspore Perotrilites striatus sp. nov. with the Marsiliaceae is discussed. The stratigraphic position of the containing sediments is indicated.
10.2307/1484966|Visual inspection of the sea bed from the submersible, Vickers Pisces, confirms the observation that attached macroscopic algae are virtually absent below 25 metres in the Irish Sea and Malin Sea. However, stable bottoms to depths exceeding 100 metres support an epifauna with hydroids as a dominant element. Samples show that the hydroids provide an attachment surface and shelter for a number of foraminiferal species.
10.2307/1484529|A new genus of holothurian sclerite comprising one new species, Thalattocanthus consonus, from the Middle Pennsylvanian Wewoka shale at Lake Okmulgee, Oklahoma, is described and figured.
10.2307/1485385| Forty-three quantitative (100 cc.) bottom samples from Bay St. Louis, on the coast of Mississippi, have yielded 1623 ostracodes. Sixteen species of podocopid ostracodes occur in these samples, in four discrete sedimentary biotopes of the Bay area: estuaries, marshes, bay, and sound. Comparison of the thanatocoenosis (total population - live + dead) and biocoenosis (live only) of the 16 species reveals significantly different map distributions in each of the four sedimentary facies; of the 16 species of the thanatocoenosis only 10 are present in the biocoenosis. Total ostracode populations (live + dead) vary from none in 17 samples to a maximum of 464 individuals per 100 cc. in one. Total populations and relative abundance of individuals is higher in estuaries and marshes, lower in the bay and sound. The proportion of living ostracodes is higher in the bay, marshes, and estuaries than in the sound biotope. Ostracodes of Bay St. Louis are adapted to substrates ranging from organic, gyttja-like marsh mucks to fairly well-sorted sands. Ranges of six environmental characteristics measured are: depth 0.33-7.00 m., salinity 0.0-25.2  (or parts/mille), pH 3.9-9.7, temperature 24.5-32.5 C., Eh -520-+125 mv., and dissolved oxygen 0.0-12.2 p.p.m. 
24413479|The foraminifers of the Shahhat Member of the Al Bayda Formation exposed in three sections (at the Wadi Az Zad quarry, and the Wadi Al Kuf and Al Hamamah road cuts) in the region of Jabal Al Akhdar in Libya have been investigated. The rock unit consists of marly limestone grading into marl in places and is assigned a Late Eocene age according to the presence of forms suggesting the Nummulites fabianii Biozone, and suggesting also the Early Oligocene age, to which the Shahhat Member has been generally assigned in most previous publications should be revised. Nummulites ruetimeyeri de la Harpe 1883 and Chapmanina gassinensis (Silvestri 1904) has been recovered in association with Nummulites fabianii (Prever in Fabiani 1905). Gaziryina pulchellus (Hantken 1883) n. gen. in de la Harpe (1883) has also been retrieved in association with a Nonion-Uvigerina assemblage suggesting relatively deep marine conditions in the lower intervals of the investigated Late Eocene marly sequence. Nummulites gizehensis (Forskal) is found in the underlying Darnah Formation (Middle Eocene, Lutetian), and the overlying algal limestone of the remaining of the Al Bayda Formation includes species suggesting the Nummulites fichteli Biozone of Early Oligocene age.
10.2307/1484999|Foraminiferal specimens prepared for scanning electron microscopy have been damaged or destroyed during air transit. Possible reasons and solutions for the problem are proposed.
10.2307/1484596|Bolivinoides draco dorreeni Finlay is reported and figured for the first time from the Magellan Basin, Chile. B. draco dorreeni occurs in the lower part of the Rocallosa Formation at its type locality and in correlative outcrops on the north coast of Seno Skyring (Skyring Water). It dates these units as late Maestrichtian in age, and adds new evidence to the hypothesis that a warm-water phase extended all over the world toward the end of Maestrichtian time.
23250631|Eight new living species of the genus Florisphaera are described from an exceptionally rich water sample from the Indian Ocean. Five of them have been previously illustrated from diverse localities in the global ocean.
30136845|Many researchers report abnormal test morphologies in benthic foraminifers and some suggest that anthropogenic pollution may be one of the causes for these anomalies. Some species are even used as bioindicators of anthropogenic pollution. However, environmental stress may be exerted by natural factors also, such as hypersalinity, periodical acidification and strong hydrodynamics. We observed large populations of morphologically abnormal foraminifer individuals in 227 recent sediment samples on the southwestern coast of Antalya (Turkey). In 117 of our samples we found morphologically abnormal Textularia bocki Hglund individuals. The proportion of abnormal individuals to normal ones within a population is 3.2%. We also found morphologically abnormal individuals of Peneroplis arietinus Batsch, P. pertusus (Forskl), P. planatus (Fichtel and Moll), Amphisorus hemprichii Ehrenberg, Sorites orbiculus Ehrenberg, S. variabilis Lacroix and Spiroloculina cf. S. angulata d'Orbigny in 87 of our sediment samples. The abundance and large sizes of these abnormal individuals are significant. There is no industrial plant near the study area and this region is not a popular tourist attraction. Thus, anthropogenic waste cannot be regarded as an important cause for unhealthy foraminifers in this region. There are frequent freshwater springs along the coast around Kalkan, Ka and eastern Kekova. Seasonal discharge from submarine caves also contributes freshwater to the sea ranging between 12% and 50%. Radioactivity levels and heavy metal concentrations in these submarine discharges are insignificant. However, we see a correlation between the abundance of abnormal individuals and the locations of caves and freshwater springs in the region. Our results suggest that rapid changes in ecological parameters related to submarine groundwater discharge may be responsible for morphological anomalies in foraminiferal genera and species.
10.2307/1485192|A new species of the diatom genus Stephanodiscus has been recovered from Pliocene freshwater deposits in the Klamath River basin at Chiloquin, Oregon. This new rhomboid-shaped taxon has been found in 3 closely related deposits: Terrebone, Oregon; Chiloquin, Oregon; and Pit River, California. It is clearly separated from a similar diatom, S. eccentrica Hustedt, by the rhomboid-shaped valve and other morphological details.
4097105| Modern and Late Quaternary oceanic assemblages of calcareous dinoflagellate cysts are often dominated by the species Calciodinellum albatrosianum, Leonella granifera and Pernambugia tuberosa. Their distribution in surface sediments of the South and equatorial Atlantic Ocean has been found to be related to a set of environmental parameters such as temperature, nutrient concentration, stratification and salinity. However, the direct influence of single parameters on the species is as yet unknown. In order to determine the effect of temperature on culture growth and cyst production, strains of the species were investigated in a temperature gradient box under controlled laboratory conditions. Whereas culture growth was observed over a relatively broad range of 12.3-30.4C in C. albatrosianum, 15.5- 30.7C in L. granifera, and 13.3-32.8C in P. tuberosa, fossilisable cysts were mainly produced in a smaller range of 16.1-21.7C in C. albatrosianum, 18.0-24.0C in L. granifera and 22.3-27.6C in P. tuberosa. By comparing laboratory and field data it is shown that a good correlation exists in P. tuberosa, whereas in C. albatrosianum and L. granifera higher temperatures of fossilisable cyst production were expected from the field data. As possible explanations different depths of vegetative reproduction and cyst production and seasonably in cyst production are discussed. 
10.2307/1485939|Seven new radiolarian species from the Oligocene Mahurangi Limestone of Northland, New Zealand, are formally described. They are: Dorcadospyris mahurangi (Trissocyclidae), Dictyoprora gibsoni, Siphocampe missilis, Spirocyrtis proboscis (Artostrobiidae), Anthocyrtidium odontatum, Lamprocyclas matakohe (Pterocorythidae), Phormocyrtis vasculum (Theoperidae).
10.2307/1486109|One new foraminiferal family, Orduellinidae (type genus Orduella n. gen.) in the superfamily Orbitoidacea is described. Four new foraminiferal genera from the Paleocene of Turkey are proposed, as follows: Haymanella (Lituolidae), type species Haymanella paleocenica; Kayseriella (Hauerinidae), type species Kayseriella decastroi; Elazigella (Spiroloculinidae), type species Elazigella altineri and Orduella (Orduellinidae n. fam.), type species Orduella sphaerica. One new foraminiferal species Hottingerina anatolica from the Thanetian is described and figured. The stratigraphy of the type localities of new foraminiferal taxa are briefly discussed.
10.2307/1485285|Six cores from the eastern Mediterranean containing the sapropel layers A through D (S-1 to S-5) were investigated for their content of opal phytoplankton (diatoms and silicoflagellates). Diatoms and silicoflagellates were only observed in 2 cores, TR171-27 and TR172-22, within sapropel layers C and D. The occurrence of abundant and sometimes excellently preserved diatom assemblages within sapropel layer D is interpreted in a model based on strong upwelling east of Crete along the southern Turkish coastline, which delivered abundant organic material to deeper waters. The impact of this organic influx was to produce transient low oxygen or anoxic bottom condition resulting in the formation of sapropel D. This new model of sapropel formation assumes increased primary productivity and can be applied to sapropels which contain abundant and well-preserved diatom assemblages. Other processes affecting the salinity of surface waters may account for the formation of sapropels that are barren of diatoms.
40960128|The Lapta Group, Late Cretaceous-Middle Eocene in age, mainly consists of basal breccias, micritic limestones and clayey limestones with volcanic, calciturbidite and breccia interbeds. It unconformably overlies the Triassic-Lower Cretaceous platform carbonates in the Beparmak (Kyrenia) Range. The detailed study of planktonic foraminiferal assemblages obtained from three stratigraphic sections through the Lapta Group revealed six biozones: Racemiguembelinafructicosa Zone and Abathomphalus mayaroensis Zone of Maastrichtian age; and Acarinina uncinata Zone (P2), Morozovella angulata Zone (P3), Globanomalina pseudomenardii Zone (P4) and Morozovella velascoensis Zone (P5) of Paleocene age. The Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary and the lower part of the Danian including Guembelitria cretacea (P0), Parvularugoglobigerina eugubina (Pa) and Parvularugoglobigerina eugubina-Praemurcia uncinata (P1) zones have not been recorded. Absence of this interval has been attributed to the volcanic level between micritic limestones and clayey limestones in the lower part of the sequence. The clayey limestones of the Lapta Group are overlain by radiolarian calcareous mudstones which pass into alternating siltstone and sandstone of the Ardahan Formation. In contrast to the Lapta Group, the Ardahan Formation lacks zonal marker species and is characterized generally by poorly preserved, less diverse and less abundant planktonic foraminiferal assemblages which hamper biozonation. However, the occurrences of typical Middle Eocene planktonic foraminiferal taxa such as Acarinina bullbrooki (Bolli), Globigerinatheka kugleri (Bolli, Loeblich and Tappan), Globigerinatheka subconglobata (Shutskaya), Morozovella spinulosa (Cushman), Morozovella lehnen (Cushman and Jarvis), Truncorotaloides topilensis (Cushman) and Truncorotaloides rohri Brnnimann and Bermudez together with Turborotalia cerroazulensis cerroazulensis (Cole) and Globorotaloides suteri Bolli suggest a Bartonian age for the Ardahan Formation.
4499756|Here we describe Reticulofenestra cisnerosii nov. sp. a rounded species of "Reticulofenestrid" with a well defined stratigraphic distribution in the Mediterranean Neogene. The first occurrence of this new taxa is placed in the middle part of subchron Thvera (C3n4n); in the subzone CN10b (Okada and Bukry 1980); and the last occurrence is observed into the subchron C3n1r, middle part of subzone CN 11 a (Okada and Bukry 1980), just before the regular record of Discoaster asymmetricus. In the region studied, this species is linked with warm, moderately saline and relatively fertile waters. This species has also been observed in the equatorial Pacific.
10.2307/1485115|A general discussion of all of the interpretations published on the biostratigraphy of the Carmen-Zambrano section of northern Colombia is given in this article. Some remarks on the zonation established by Benton Stone (1968) are included. It is noteworthy that most of the conclusions to which Stone came had been already reached by other investigators.
10.2307/1485376|Agglutinated species constitute the major foraminiferal group in the Polish External Carpathians. Some of them exhibit relatively short local stratigraphic ranges or periods of abundant occurrence. Based on these forms, 19 successive assemblages, covering the interval from Lower Cretaceous to Upper Eocene, can be distinguished. We have recognized 69 agglutinated species from the investigated area, 30 of which were first named from specimens recovered in other parts of the Polish External Carpathians.
10.2307/1485291|Three successive miospore assemblages are described from the Upper Devonian and Lower Carboniferous strata of Hook Head in southeast Ireland. Their stratigraphic significance and position within the existing miospore zonation schemes of western Europe are discussed. Comparisons are made with Tournaisian microfloras described from eastern Canada. Twenty-two new species are erected, four new spore types are described, and one new combination is proposed.
10.2307/1485710| Changes in fauna and flora across the Eocene/Oligocene boundary are documented in an expanded section of indurated deep sea oozes and ash beds deposited close to the CCD and now exposed at Bath Cliff, Barbados. A sedimentation rate of 27 m/m.y. for the Late Eocene is calculated. The spread of events through time does not suggest any catastrophe at the boundary. The last occurrence of disc-shaped discoasters (CP 15/CP 16 Zone boundary) occurs before the last occurrence of Hantkenina, which is taken to represent the epoch boundary. The last occurrence of Turborotalia cerroazulensis s.l. occurs slightly before the boundary, whereas the Cryptoprora ornata/Theocyrtis tuberosa radiolarian Zone boundary occurs slightly after it. The Thyrsocyrtis bromia radiolarian Zone of the Late Eocene has been replaced by three new zones--from top to bottom: Cryptoprora ornata Zone, Calocyclas bandyca Zone, and "Carpocanistrum" azyx Zone. A microtektite horizon occurs in the Cryptoprora ornata Zone slightly less than one million years before the epoch boundary. In the basal Oligocene a sudden enrichment of
10.2307/1485644|A reexamination of the radiolarian fauna from lower Carboniferous phosphatic nodules from the Montagne Noire of France has allowed the author to re-assign four of Deflandre's genera to the single modified genus Pylentonema. The seven primary spines in connection with seven rays of an internal double spicule which are enclosed into a single cortical shell are the major generic characters in common.
4097080|Internal features of the smooth, traditionally nonmarine ostracode "Carbonita" altilis (Jones and Kirkby 1879) are reported in detail for the first time. Based on the 26-28 stigmata within the adductor muscle scar (AMS) field, a ridge and groove contact margin, and an adont hinge, we establish the new genus Velatomorpha. Included within this genus are taxa previously assigned to Carbonita, Healdia?, and Microcheilinella. The characters diagnosed for this new genus warrant placement in the Suborder Metacopina, Superfamily Healdioidea. The associated biota and sedimentary fades indicate that Velatomorpha lived in a mixed freshwater-marine (brackish) estuarine environment. The implication of our taxonomic revision for Velatomorpha altilis underscores the necessity to carefully evaluate the internal features of smooth, podocopid and metacopine ostracodes reported from Paleozoic strata before making taxonomic assignments and generalized paleoecological inferences.
10.2307/1484157|Modern planktonic foraminiferal assemblages from quantitative plankton samples collected in the western North Atlantic reflect broad ecologic zones. The relative abundance of eight species increases southward to the Sargasso Sea, whereas that of five other species increases northward to the colder slope waters. The greatest absolute abundance of planktonic foraminifera is in the Gulf Stream system, where strong temperature and salinity gradients exist.
10.2307/1485064|Scanning electron microscope investigation of the walls of different species of the foraminiferal genus Quinqueloculina revealed in all cases a three-layered internal structure with a thick central layer consisting of a three-dimensional random array of calcite needles that has a high permeability. The different patterns of crystal arrangement in the thin inner and outer layers are regarded as important for the taxonomy of this genus.
10.2307/1485436|Scanning electron micrographs supplement earlier observations on the living coccolithophorids of the North Pacific Central Gyre, and suggest that new forms may be present among the 44 taxa described. Vertical and seasonal distribution data obtained from 6 cruises during 1972-1974 confirm the existence of depth-dependent communities, particularly in the summer months. The populations become less structured in the winter months when some taxa, notably Emiliania huxleyi, expand their depth range, probably responding to a greater degree of mixing in the water mass.
10.2307/1484430|The Paleogene of Lakhpat in northwestern Kutch occurs in several mappable zones, distinguished primarily on the basis of the larger foraminifera. The strata are mostly horizontal or subhorizontal, and the areal distribution of the zones is mainly controlled by topography. These are zones of marine regression, and nowhere has a great thickness been attained.
41410969|Nine Nummulites species: Nummulites fraasi De La Harpe 1883, Nummulites luxorensis Boukhary, Hussein-Kamel and Abdelmalik n. sp., Nummulites dandaraensis Boukhary, Hussein-Kamel and Abdelmalik n. sp., Nummulites rotularius Deshayes 1838, Nummulites subramondi De La Harpe 1883 (Topotype material from Gebel Deir, near Esna) sensu Schaub 1951, Nummulites thalmanni Schaub 1981, Nummulites aff, arnii Schaub 1981, Nummulites ornatus Schaub 1951 and Nummulites cailliaudi D'Archiac and Haime 1853 (Topotype material from Garra El Hamra, Bahariya Oasis) are described from Ypresian rocks in the Luxor-Minia reach of the Nile Valley and also from the region of Bahariya oasis. The study of the larger foraminifera from these two localities enables us to correlate the Thebes Formation in the Luxor-Qena stretch in the Nile Valley with the Minia Formation in some localities as in G. Drunka, Wadi Gabrawi, Assiut environ and Beni Hassan. The investigated strata could be also equated to the Naqb and Qazzun Formations in Bahariya Oasis, where the Naqb Formation is found to be correlatable with the Nusf and Farafra Formations, both underlying the Qazzun Formation.The Thebes-Minia sequence could be also correlated with a recently described sequence from Northern Galala in the Eastern Desert (Boukhary et al. 2009). The identified biozones match well with the SBZ 10 SBZ 12 zones of Serra Kiel et al. 1998.
10.2307/1484792|A continuous variation in degree of preservation or in developmental stages of patagium is found in specimens of the genera Hymeniastrum and Dictyastrum from a Northeast Pacific bottom sample. The variations are discussed and illustrated. A relationship of this variation to radiolarian ontogeny seems unlikely, although its real significance can not be decided at this time. The taxonomic value of patagium needs critical reconsideration for some of the spumellarian Radiolavia.
10.2307/1485580|Cribrokamaena of Middle Mississippian age and Crassikamaena from the Middle-Late? Devonian are new genera of calcareous algae with possible affinities to the Palaeobereselleae. Described species include Cribrokamaena citrosa and Crassikamaena foraminosa, the types of their respective genera, and Cribrokamaena furcillata. These organisms flourished in various shallow-water carbonate environments and are found at numerous localities in the United States.
10.2307/1485040|A general account is given of the newly rediscovered W. B. Carpenter Collection, consisting mainly of approximately 3,000 slides of foraminifers.
4097107|Water samples were collected for coccolithophore analysis at coastal environments, in August 2002, from 7 stations in the Gulf of Kastro (Andros Island, middle Aegean Sea, Eastern Mediterranean). The studies on coccolithophore regional dynamics in the middle Aegean Sea coastal environments have revealed a unique heterococcolith-holococcolith combination coccosphere indicating a life-cycle association of the taxa Syracosphaera halldalii in Gaarder and Hasle 1971 ex Jordan and Green 1994 and Calyptrolithina divergens var. tuberosa (Heimdal 1980) Jordan et al. 1993. Consequently their systematic taxonomy is emended and the name Syracosphaera halldalii is considered as the appropriate one for the well-established association.
10.2307/1484624|Ten species (five new) and three subspecies (all new) of the family Hystrichosphaeridae, and a new monotypic genus, Mathurosphaera, of uncertain affinity are described from the Cambay Basin of western India. The forms considered here are restricted to Oligocene and Eocene horizons only. Most of these organisms have been used successfully as index fossils to demarcate the pre-Miocene horizons.
10.2307/1484683|The conodont fauna of the Upper Mississippian Paoli and equivalent formations in the outcrop area around the margin of the Illinois Basin is described, on the basis of samples collected from eight localities in Illinois, Kentucky, and Indiana, which yielded an average of seven specimens per kilogram of sample. Twenty-six species, including the new species Synprioniodina denticamura, and thirteen genera were recognized. There are faunal differences between the lower and upper members of the Paoli, and conodonts are somewhat more abundant in the northern localities. There is no apparent lithofacies control of distribution.
10.2307/1485843|Radiolarian assemblages from the plankton and sediments in various Norwegian fjords and sediments from stations in the Norwegian Sea were compared using multivariate analysis. The sediments were very different from all of the plankton in all seasons. This difference was the largest source of variability in the data set, followed in turn by differences due to season, regions, various fjords, depths and locale within a given fjord. The sediments did not average the seasonal plankton signals observed, but did conserve most of the geographical information presented in the plankton assemblage. The information in the plankton and sediments was conveyed by different groups of species. While the sediments can be excellent indicators of environmental conditions in the overlying water column, they say relatively little about the species composition in the overlying plankton.
10.2307/1484630|The Leitz Ultropak unit, composed of a light reflector, objective lenses, aperture diaphragms, and a relief condenser, can be used with a simple monocular biological microscope-camera combination to provide an excellent instrument for producing sharp, evenly illuminated photomicrographs of such microfossils as foraminifers, ostracodes and conodonts. The use of this equipment, together with various specimen preparation and mounting techniques, has made it possible, for the most part, to resolve two of the most complex problems in photomicrography, depth of field and proper illumination.
10.2307/1485975|Molecular biological techniques are used to reveal or confirm phylogenies and biogeographic and ecologic histories of fossilizable organisms with great success. Using the PCR (polymerase chain reaction) technique, we have successfully amplified and sequenced ribosomal DNA (18S-rDNA) from benthic and planktic foraminifera. DNA is first extracted from single living specimens and DNA templates are prepared. The DNA is then amplified using PCR for single and double strands. The direct methods using primers developed for protists and fungi allow amplification of the 18S-rRNA gene, a relatively conservative gene useful in phylogenetic analyses. The amplified DNA is sequenced on acrylomide gels using the chain-terminaton method. The 18S-rDNA nucleotide sequences may then be analyzed using standard phylogenetic analytical techniques such as PAUP (Phylogenetic Analysis Using Parsimony) or PHYLIP (Phylogeny Inference Package)..
4097045|Thirty-five Late Permian ostracode species are reported from subsurface samples of the David-1 and Emunah-1 wells in Israel, including the new species Arqoviella piscatoris, Arqoviella davidensis and Richterina? sylvieae. Together with previously recorded species, the total number of Late Permian ostracodes from Israel now amounts to forty-four. Similar taxa are reported mainly from Hungary, Greece, Oman and Turkey. The local ostracode zone is renamed the Sargentina (P) Assemblage Zone. The fauna indicates a normal marine, shelf environment of deposition.
10.2307/1485688|Seasonal changes in the flux of individual planktonic foraminiferal species to the sea floor have been studied in the Panama Basin using material collected in one year by an array of automated sediment traps. The traps were placed at three depths in the water column, at 890, 2590, and 3560 m, with each designed to collect a time-series of six consecutive two-month samples. In general, two basic seasonal flux patterns were recognized from these records of each species. One group of species is marked by a distinct maximum in flux during February and March, in association with the period of most extensive upwelling in the Panama Basin. The species that display this flux pattern are typically nonspinose and live predominantly at or below the thermocline, then migrate toward the surface as upwelling intensities. The second group displays more of a bimodal seasonal flux pattern, with maximum values during June through August and a secondary peak in February and March. This group consists primarily of the spinose species that live above the thermocline in the mixed zone and possess symbiotic zooxanthellae. The increase in flux of these species during the summer occurs when the mixed zone is relatively deep and is associated with a phytoplankton bloom, while the winter increase occurs during the upwelling of nutrient-rich waters.
10.2307/1484378|Widespread but seldom-observed morphological features of fossil dinoflagellates and some hystrichospheres relate to the ways in which the test ruptures, and the manner in which the plate pattern of a motile dinoflagellate is reflected on the cyst that formed within it. Evidence is presented that many post-Paleozoic hystrichospheres are dinoflagellate cysts. Criteria for recognizing fossil dinoflagellates and for distinguishing encysted and free-swimming stages are presented and applied to 112 genera variously described as dinoflagellates, hystrichospheres, or incertae sedis. Selected aspects of the morphology of twenty-two described and several undescribed genera are illustrated and discussed.
10.2307/1485743|Core samples spanning the Lower to Middle Jurassic transition from four wells located in the East Shetland Basin contain foraminiferal assemblages, composed almost totally of agglutinating taxa that accumulated under conditions controlled by delta progradation. The quantitative distribution of species and higher taxa define two dominant and four subordinate assemblages. Environmental conditions are interpreted on the basis of faunal features combined with aspects of sedimentary facies. The Trochammina - Verneuilinoides assemblage (upper Drake Formation, Upper Toarcian) with intermediate diversities is referred to prodelta waters of normal marine salinity, while the overlying Ammodiscus - Trochammina assemblage (lower Rannoch Formation, Lower Bajocian) is attributed to hyposaline basal delta front conditions. Thirty agglutinating and 36 calcareous species are documented. The following agglutinating species are proposed as new: Recurvoides pachyspirus, R. tenuispirus, Bulbobaculites oviloculus, Trochammina eoparva, T. semiturgida, Verneuilinoides subvitreus.
10.2307/1485557|The concept of the Globorotalia menardii Zone, as a biostratigraphic interval, is traced from its first use in the planktic foraminiferal zonation of Trinidad formations (Bolli 1957, 1959). The zone was considered the youngest middle Miocene zone in Trinidad and was used as a marker for the upper Lengua Formation. Zonal schemes were subsequently proposed for the late Miocene to Recent in other areas. A re-examination of residues from sample locality KR 23425, type locality of the Globorotalia menardii Zone in Trinidad, revealed an upper Miocene planktic foraminiferal fauna from the lower Globorotalia acostaensis Zone. The Globorotalia continuosa Zone (N.15) of Blow (1969, 1979), is from the same type locality and is therefore, the same age as Blow's G. acostaensis Zone (N.16). The type microflora for nannofossil Zone NN9 (Martini 1971) was established at this locality and is also upper Miocene. A review of Trinidad faunas from the upper middle Miocene Cipero Formation has shown that faunas assigned to the upper and lower Lengua in the Naparima Fold Belt can be re-assigned to the Globorotalia mayeri Zone of the upper Cipero Formation. In the Southern Basin beds assigned to the upper Lengua contain upper Miocene faunas and are now placed in the Lengua/Lower Cruse Formation. Beds containing the Globorotalia mayeri Zone occur unconformably below the Lengua/Lower Cruse Formation and are assignable to the Cipero and Karamat formations. The presence of a minute form of Globorotalia aff. mayeri in sample KR 23425 suggests that perhaps locally small specimens within the variation limits of G. mayeri may have ranged younger than previously considered. Also in sample KR 23425 dwarfed forms assignable to Velapertina indigena were found. This genus initially recorded from the Paratethys region has now been identified in Ecuador and Trinidad.
10.2307/1485143|An analysis of the planktonic foraminifera in 437 surface plankton tows (0-10 m.) and 83 deep tows (0-300 m.), which were made during 1959 to 1963 at five ocean stations in the western North Atlantic, has revealed distinct and predictable seasonal abundance cycles for the individual species. From these cycles has emerged a definite pattern of seasonal succession among the species which is found to be applicable over broad geographic regions. The mean annual species compositions at these five ocean stations, which are located in a broad arc extending from the central Labrador Sea to the western Sargasso Sea, indicate that three major faunal assemblages -- the subarctic, transitional and subtropical -- are recognizable. Transcending this faunal zonation is a scheme of dominance in which only two or three species have really important annual concentrations, regardless of whether a station has as few as 5 or as many as 17 species. The position of dominance among these species shifts on a seasonal basis. At Stations Delta and Echo, for example, the dominance of Globigerina bulloides during the cooler months is replaced by that of Globigerinoides ruber during the warmer months. An investigation of the seasonal cycle of various physical, chemical and biological parameters indicated that phytoplankton productivity is the principal factor controlling the seasonal distribution of the total standing crop of planktonic foraminifera. Other factors, such as temperature, salinity, oxygen, phosphate, silicate and total nitrogen, appear to play a lesser role in the seasonal distribution of both the total population and the individual species concentrations. The possible influences of current transport and of seasonal and diurnal vertical migration on the observed abundance cycles were also shown to be minimal in the region under study. On this evidence and on inferences from the results of feeding experiments on littoral foraminifera and the delineation of seasonal succession in the phytoplankton by others, it is hypothesized that specificity in food requirements is the prime factor controlling the seasonal succession in the planktonic foraminifera.
1486031| The deep-sea, Upper Cretaceous through Paleocene benthic Foraminifera from the Mndez and Velasco Formation (Tampico Embayment, northeastern Mexico) were first described in classical papers of the 1920s. These faunas were among the first deep-water faunas of this age to be described, and many of the species have been recognized in Deep Sea Drilling Project and Ocean Drilling Program sites worldwide. We present the first taxonomic update of these classic faunas since the 1920s, with special attention to species first described from this area, and species that have been widely used in paleobathymetric reconstructions. Benthic foraminiferal assemblages were analyzed from the Cretaceous Mndez and Paleocene Velasco Formations in seven sections in the northeastern and central-eastern parts of Mexico. The Foraminifera are generally well preserved, although commonly recrystallized and filled with sparry calcite. They indicate paleodepths ranging from upper to middle bathyal for the three northernmost sections, and lower bathyal for the other sections. The clastic unit between the Mndez and Velasco Formations contains a mixture of neritic and bathyal species, and probably originated as a result of mass-wasting associated with the bolide impact on the Yucatan peninsula. From the about 140 benthic foraminiferal taxa identified, we describe 88 species belonging to 41 genera. These correspond to the most representative taxa in northeastern Mexico across the Cretaceous-Paleogene transition, because of their common occurrence, paleobathymetric significance, or first description from this region. 
10.2307/1485796| Finding of the microspheric individual of Dizerina anatolica Meri containing 6 macrospheric embryos clearly indicates the presence of the schizogonic type reproduction in the Lepidorbitoididae. Location of the haploid macrospheric embryos within the test indicates the generation of these embryos in the rotaloid periembryonic part, and later, their movements toward the periphery of the test. 
10.2307/1485100|Fifteen species of benthonic and two species of planktonic foraminifera originally described or known to occur in Albian sediments of the Great Artesian Basin in Australia were recently recognized in middle to late Albian sediments in Zululand, South Africa. They are austral faunal elements, non-tropical in their nature. Their environment was shallow-water marine, with the occasional influence of open marine conditions. Three species and one subspecies are new.
10.2307/1484753|Additional specimens of Puncia novozealandica and Manawa tryphena are illustrated. Puncia goodwoodensis, n. sp. is described from the Miocene of New Zealand. It is suggested that the Punciidae are a relict group of palaeocopid ostracodes surviving on the New Zealand shelf, isolated since the Mesozoic.
10.2307/1484141| Microspores are described from three representative rock samples from the Billefjorden sandstones of the Lower Carboniferous of central Vestspitsbergen. The age of this series is considered to range from Tournaisian to at least Visan and perhaps Namurian. One new genus, Velosporites, and thirteen new species are erected. Several species are shown to resemble previously described Russian, Canadian and Scottish types. 
20627991|We herein describe a new family, the Ammolagenidae, and emend the description of the genus Ammolagena Eimer and Fickert, 1899 based on a study of paralectotypes of the type species Ammolagena clavata (Jones and Parker 1860) in the Natural History Museum, London. The genus Ammolagena possesses a second aperture that opens out of the proloculus opposite the tubular chamber. Because no other genus belonging to the Suborder Ammodiscina possesses a second opening, and in the absence of any regular mode of coiling, we remove the genus Ammolagena from the Ammodiscina, and place it in the new family Ammolagenidae within the Suborder Hormosinina, Superfamily Hormosinellacea.
10.2307/1484637|One new genus and four new species of ephedroid pollen from the Albian - Turonian sequence in the Senegal Basin, West Africa, are established. Specimens of the new taxa -- Steevesipollenites, n. gen.; S. multilineatus, n. sp. (the type species) S. binodosus, n. sp.; Gnetaceaepollenites diversus n. sp.; and G. clathratus, n. sp. -- reveal morphologic features unknown in Recent Ephedra pollen. The described forms, together with associated ephedroid grains very similar to those from extant Ephedra species, attest to the diversity of Cretaceous gnetalean pollen.
30135295|Quantitative analysis of radiolarian assemblages from the late middle Eocene to late Oligocene at Hole 689B (ODP Leg 113, Maud Rise, Southern Ocean) reveal that radiolarian faunal turnovers occurred at ~38.5 Ma (Subchron C18nln), ~36.3 Ma (Subchron C16n2n), 34.5-33.9 Ma (Subchron C13r), ~28.3 Ma (Subchron C9r), ~26.9 Ma (Subchron C8r), and 26.4-26.2 Ma (Subchron C8n2n). These faunal turnovers are characterized by an increase or decrease of the Antarctic-diagnostic assemblage. Furthermore, species diversity indexes such as species richness, diversity and equitability and total accumulation rate of radiolarians decreases significantly near the turnover events. The patterns of increase and decrease in the Antarctic group suggest that the faunal turnover events are interpreted as replacement events between the Antarctic and Subantarctic assemblages. The intervals with higher levels of the Antarctic group at 38.5-36.3 Ma, 34.5-33.9 Ma, and 28.3-26.9 Ma were under the influence of the Antarctic bioprovince. Two faunal turnover events at 34.5-33.9 Ma and ~28.3 Ma are correlated with the positive shift of $\delta^{18}O$ isotopes in the early stage of Oi-1 glaciation and Oi-2a event, respectively. Events at ~36.3 Ma and 26.9-26.2 Ma when the Antarctic-dominant assemblages decreased correspond to warming events in late Eocene and the late Oligocene warming, respectively. Thus, faunal changes in radiolarians can be used to monitor paleoceanographic change in the Southern Ocean and migration of the high-latitude water mass boundary during the Eo-cene-Oligocene interval.
10.2307/1484302|Conorbitoides, n. gen., Ctenorbitoides, n. gen., and Aktinorbitoides, n. gen., conical and stellate pseudorbitoid genera, are described from the late Upper Cretaceous of Cuba. These forms are associated with encrusting foraminifera which, together with Rhodophyta, play an important role as reef builders. A key to the genera of the Pseudorbitoididae is also presented.
10.2307/1485653|An ostracode fauna of 10 species is documented from sections of latest Zemorrian and earliest Saucesian age (equivalent to planktic foraminiferal zone P23/N4) in the lower Rincon Formation, Los Sauces Creek, Ventura County, California. Seven species are described as new, three as nomina aperta. Bathyal morphotypes of Paracosta and Buntonia make up more than 98% of the composite assemblage, which also includes species of "Paijenborchella," Hamanella, n. gen., Loxoconcha, Acanthocythereis, Asymmetricythere, Cytherura and Xestoleberis. A predominance of complete carapaces infilled with pyrite and calcite indicates rapid burial in a slightly basic and reducing environment. The thin-bedded mudstones also contain pelletal phosphorite and a rich foraminiferal fauna which includes species generally indicative of the shelf-edge environment, low-oxygen water conditions, and lower-bathyal (>2000 m) depths, which suggests that the Rincon built up by deposition of distal-fringe turbidites immediately following rapid subsidence. Recognition of this ostracode peak zone in uppermost Zemorrian strata 70 km to the west demonstrates its biostratigraphic continuity in this basin.
10.2307/1484328| Important papers concerning Diplopora annulatissima Pia are reviewed in order to discuss its geologic range. With regard to the subdivision of Diplopora annulata Schafhutl, it is proposed to reject the three varieties (dolomitica, septentrionalis and debilis) and the two "forms" (trichophora and vesiculifera) because they were established on the improbable supposition of sexual dimorphism in the species Diplopora annulata. In their stead, it is proposed to use the characters of the "forms" in establishing two new subspecies: Diplopora annulata Schafhutl subsp. annulata and Diplopora annulata Schafhutl subsp. dolomitica. 
41410993|Cypridea Bosquet 1852 (Cypridoidea, Cyprideidae) is a Kimmeridgian to Lower Eocene nonmarine ostracod genus, the representatives of which are very common and stratigraphically useful in Late Tithonian to earliest Barremian "Purbeck/Wealden-like" nonmarine deposits of the world. The revision of particularly North American representatives led to progress in its taxonomy, and a breakthrough in its biostratigraphic supraregional biostratigraphic application. Key to their successful application is an upgraded taxonomic concept including new insights into the coherences of specific reproductive mechanisms (asexual and mixed reproduction) in the context with diversity and dispersal modes, combined with the understanding and evidence that these ostracods are not as endemic as erstwhile believed. This taxonomic concept resolves crucial problems resulting from an overestimation of the taxonomic significance of several carapace characters (particularly ornamentation elements and the outline), and facilitates improved stratigraphic and paleoecologic applications as well as providing the basis for further research. The revision includes an extensive historic overview of most relevant publications. Representatives of Cypridea have great utility in improving the biostratigraphic age determination for and correlation of Early Cretaceous formations of the Western Interior foreland basin. With respect to suprageneric taxonomy, the family Cyprideidae Martin 1940 is partially revised as well. Longispinella Sohn 1979 is now considered a subgenus of Cypridea while Cypridea (Guangdongia) Guan 1978 is allocated to Bisulcocypridea Sohn 1969, and the genus Praecypridea Sames, Whatley and Schudack 2010(b) is included. The genus Cypridea is emended anew. As for the subgeneric taxonomy, the North American species Cypridea (Pseudocypridina) inornata (Peck 1951) is now considered a junior synonym of Cypridea (P.) setina (Anderson 1939), Cypridea (P.) laeli Sohn 1979 considered an ecophenotype of Cypridea (P.) piedmonti (Roth 1933), and Cypridea (Longispinella) asymmetrica Sohn 1979 designated synonymous (sexual dimorph) to C. (L.) longispina Peck 1941. Sexual dimorphism is presumed in several species of Cypridea and mixed reproduction corroborated as being the most likely reproductive mechanism among taxa of this genus. Cypridea? minuta (Peck 1951) most probably represents an early representative of the sulcate Bisulcocypridea Sohn. Ostracod correlations mainly based on representatives of Cypridea strongly suggest a much higher maximum age for some Lower Cretaceous formations (Lakota Formation, South Dakota and Wyoming, and Cedar Mountain Formation, Utah) of the Western Interior foreland basin, i.e., Berriasian to Early Valanginian instead of Barremian or Aptian.
10.2307/1485684|Graphic correlation of foraminifer and nannofossil events establishes a high resolution chronology for the Pliocene at Deep Sea Drilling Project Site 532. Coarsely sampled magnetic inclination data are reinterpreted to indicate a complete Pliocene section. The age model suggests mean accumulation rates of 9.5 cm 10<sup>-3</sup> yr for the first half of the early Pliocene and 5.8 cm 10<sup>-3</sup> yr throughout the later part of the early Pliocene - early Pleistocene. Major upwelling began at the location of Site 532 at 3.2 Ma. Time series analysis indicated a 41 ky cyclicity to the CaCO<sub>3</sub> record between 2 and 4.5 Ma. Data support ages of 1.9 Ma for the first appearance of Globorotalia truncatulinoides and approximately isochronous southern hemisphere first appearances for Globorotalia crassaformis (4.70 Ma), Globorotalia puncticulata (4.77 Ma), and Globorotalia inflata (3.68 Ma).
10.2307/1484623|About 4000 rock samples from the upper Cenozoic sequence of western Taiwan previously examined in the micropaleontology laboratory have been restudied for the purpose of determining the stratigraphic ranges of the various species of the "Rotalia" group of foraminifera. Twenty species, three subspecies and one variety representing four genera have been distinguished, and seven of them are the first reported occurrence in Taiwan.
10.2307/1485563|An abundant and diverse assemblage of Oligocene peridinioid dinoflagellate cysts has been recovered from 15 boreholes in the Niger Delta. Seven new species belonging to Lejeunecysta, two new species of Phelodinium and one new species of Selenopemphix are proposed. Four new species, tentatively assigned to Lejeunecysta, are described and left in open nomenclature, due to uncertainty as to generic rank. Lejeunecysta fallax is emended.
40607079|A latest Guadalupian conodont fauna containing two new species is described from the uppermost part of the Bell Canyon Formation and lowermost part of the Castile Formation from a continuous section exposed along Texas FM 2185 in the northwestern part of the Apache Mountains, West Texas. The new species are Jinogondolella latidentata and Jinogondolella gladiflexa. Other latest Guadalupian species present in this fauna include Jinogondolella artafrons, J. granti, J. crofti, and Clarkina hongshuiensis, the last species occurring in the very basal beds of the Castile Formation. The general evolution of Jinogondolella species in the Guadalupian is discussed.
10.2307/1485453|The homeomorphism of the Cretaceous genus Broeckina, the Miocene Miosorites, and the Pleistocene-Holocene Parasorites is discussed. These three genera evolved from three different origins at different times, and their inner morphology clearly differentiates them from each other.
10.2307/1486113|The discrepancies in the stratigraphical ranges of selected dinoflagellate cysts recorded in the Boreal and Tethyan realms have revealed two migrational events during the Early Jurassic. The first event occurred at the early-late Pliensbachian boundary and consists of mutual biotic exchanges between the two realms. This is linked to a major Early Jurassic transgression which improved marine communications between the Boreal and Tethyan areas. The second dinoflagellate migrational event occurred during the mid Toarcian and was driven by paleoenvironmental factors. The numerous available Lower Jurassic dinoflagellate cyst data from the Boreal and Tethyan realms indicates that phytoplankton distribution was profoundly affected by paleoecological factors. Information pertaining to the life strategies and the paleoecological requirements of the genera Luehndea, Nannoceratopsis and Valvaeodinium has also been determined.
4499774|Occurrences of fossil marine diatom resting spore genus Liradiscus Greville are described from the middle Eocene to middle Miocene samples of Deep Sea Drilling Project Leg 38 Site 338 in the Norwegian Sea. The genus Liradiscus is characterized by a thick frustule sculptured by numerous veins. In this paper, five new taxa (L. cucurbitus, L. castaneus, L. castaneus var. reticulatus, L. caepus and L. nimbus) are described, and their stratigraphical ranges are presented. These species are short-ranging and may be potentially useful biostratigraphic markers to improve resolution of diatom biostratigraphy of the Norwegian Sea. Liradiscus castaneus var. castaneus may be evolved from var. reticulatus in the middle part of the Zone NPD 2A (18.4-20.3 Ma). The geologic ranges of L. reticulatus and L. petasus in the Norwegian Sea (L. reticulatus: early Miocene, L. petasus: late early Oligocene to middle early Miocene) are differentiated from those in the North Pacific (L. reticulatus: middle late Miocene, L. petasus:early late Miocene), suggesting possible the regional environmental differences.
10.2307/1484252|The distribution of some species of fresh-water ostracodes in Trinidad is discussed. It is possible to recognize five different types of fauna which occur in zones from the headwaters of the rivers down to sea level. This zonation is more or less in accordance with the distribution of the Thecamoebina.
10.2307/1484443|Investigations by Bolli, Ericson, and others have shown that changes in the direction of coiling noted throughout the time-range of certain pelagic foraminifera can be used in stratigraphic correlation. Such changes have also been noted in a species of Globorotalia occurring commonly in West Pakistan, in which an abrupt change from left to right coiling and back again to left coiling occurs near the Lower Eocene/Palaeocene boundary.
10.2307/1484515|The external and internal anatomy and the ecology of two ostracode species, Aurila conradi (Howe and McGuirt) subsp. littorala Grossman, new subspecies, and Loxoconcha purisubrhomboidea Edwards, are described. Both species live in the same Thalassia flat, but because of differences in their cephalic appendages, Aurila conradi littorala is restricted to the bottom sediment, whereas Loxoconcha purisubrhomboidea prefers the vegetation as a substrate.
10.2307/1485191|Specimens of nine species of benthonic foraminifera were placed on a 5792-m deep-sea mooring in the central North Pacific at nine different water depths ranging from 306 to 5590 m to assess the influence of calcium carbonate dissolution upon benthonic foraminifera. Amphistegina sp. is the most susceptible to carbonate dissolution, followed by: Pyrgo murrhina; Planulina wuellerstorfi; a group of four species with similar relative susceptibilities, Cibicidoides kullenbergi, Epistominella umbonifera, Hoeglundina elegans and Oridorsalis tener; and two species, the least susceptible to dissolution, Gyroidinoides orbicularis and Gyroidinoides soldanii. The relative resistance to dissolution of H. elegans and E. umbonifera in comparison to the other deep-sea species indicates that dissolution does not preferentially alter the distribution of these two deep-sea species within the depth range that calcareous benthonic foraminifera are found. Modification of the benthonic foraminiferal test increases with increasing water depth and calcium carbonate undersaturation. A dissolution index based on the percentage of broken benthonic foraminiferal tests shows increased breakage of tests with higher levels of carbonate undersaturation and indicates that the preservational state of benthonic foraminifera may be useful in determining the state of preservation of calcareous sediments; it also provides a means to estimate undersaturation levels from the sediment record.
10.2307/1484952|Palynological data from samples of five Cretaceous-Tertiary sections in Montana have been subjected to cluster analysis. The results of the analyses have been graphed as two-dimensional dendrograms. The implications of using cluster analysis in paleoecological and stratigraphic applications are discussed.
10.2307/1485949| This is the first detailed account of Late Jurassic, deeper marine, southern hemisphere, agglutinated benthic faunas, and their close taxonomic affinity to coeval assemblages from northern high latitudes. Over 1100m of dark shale, siltstone and sandstone in Thakkhola (Nepal) are dated by means of ammonites, dinoflagellate cysts and foraminifera as Oxfordian through latest Albian. The succession was deposited along the northern Gondwana margin, bordering Tethys, while Thakkhola lay at mid-latitudes (30-41S). A highly diversified agglutinated faunal record in the Oxfordian lower Nupra Formation, with 44 taxa, is segmented (in ascending order) into the Eomarssonella paraconica assemblage, Verneuilinoides graciosus assemblage and Spiroplectammina suprajurassica assemblage. The assemblages are of restricted deeper shelf nature, in agreement with geochemical, sedimentary and ammonite-based depositional interpretation. The Tithonian upper Nupra Formation is attributed to a prodelta depositional setting, and contains a low-diversity, mainly agglutinated assemblage named after Trochammina annae. The Early Cretaceous Tangbe Formation shows a change to coarser terrigenous clastics deposited under shallow shelf conditions characterized by the Trochammina aff. schaimica assemblage of agglutinated taxa with extremely low diversity. The Late Jurassic assemblages of Nepal have a majority of taxa in common with those of Western Siberia, Svalbard and the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, which suggests that these "boreal faunas" contain many cosmopolitan taxa, suitable for global stratigraphic correlations. 
10.2307/1485314|The Pantanelliidae Pessagno is among the first families of Liosphaerilae (Liosphaeracea, lacking internal spicules) to make their appearance in the Mesozoic. This family originated in the Late Triassic (early Karnian) and became extinct in the Early Cretaceous (late Albian), with 2 major periods (Late Triassic, Middle Jurassic) and one minor period (Early Cretaceous) of adaptive radiation. This report focuses primarily on Norian to early Callovian Pantanelliinae from strata in California (Franciscan Complex), eastern Oregon (Rail Cabin, Nicely, Snowshoe, and Lonesome Formations), and in British Columbia (Kunga and Maude Formations, Queen Charlotte Islands). Forty-one new species and 4 new genera are described.
10.2307/1485116|Fossil spores considered to be a new species of Ancyrospora have been recovered from the Cedar City Formation (Middle Devonian) of Callaway County, Missouri. It is possible to demonstrate numerous individual variations in morphology, due to the degree of completeness of preservation, that could conceivably result in different taxonomic assignments. The new species Ancyrospora fallacia is erected for these fossils.
10.2307/1485571|Morphological characters employed in the description and supraspecific classification of the Lepidocyclinidae are explained and discussed in the context of evolutionary development. The subfamily Helicolepidininae is redescribed, special emphasis being laid on the condition of the embryonic apparatus, the thickening of the spiral wall, and the presence or absence of principal auxiliary chambers. Polylepidina is redefined, with P. chiapasensis (Vaughan) as its type species, and referred to the Helicolepidininae along with Pseudolepidina. Lepidocyclina antillea Cushman is assigned to Eulinderina. The Palaeocene genera Actinosiphon and Orbitosiphon are redescribed and removed from the Lepidocyclinidae. One new family, the Actinosiphonidae, and one new species, Orbitosiphon praepunjabensis, are erected. The subgeneric classification of the Lepidocyclininae is reviewed, and its continuation justified on the basis of stratigraphic utility. Changes made during the last 25 years are considered, and three subgenera, Lepidocyclina (Lepidocyclina), L. (Eulepidina), and L. (Nephrolepidina), are discriminated on the nature and arrangement of their periembryonic chambers, in particular, the presence or absence of adauxiliary chambers. Two distinct groups of species are recognized within L. (Lepidocyclina) on the basis of equatorial chamber shape. The evolutionary history of the Lepidocyclinidae is discussed briefly, and a key provided for the identification of genera and subgenera. A glossary of morphological terms is appended.
10.2307/1485976|The Foraminifera have remained an enigmatic group for molecular biologists, and the origins of this geologically important group remain unclear. Here we report techniques developed to isolate and purify foraminiferal DNA. We also outline techniques for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification, cloning and nucleotide sequencing of prepared foraminiferal DNA. Detailed protocols for all of the major techniques are discussed. Using these techniques we have been able to obtain the complete DNA sequences for the nuclear small-subunit (18s) ribosomal RNA coding region for six benthic foraminifera from three suborders. Preliminary phylogenetic tests indicate that the sequences collected are representative of the foraminifera and not their symbionts or food organisms. We believe that the techniques herein form a reliable method for the investigation of foraminiferal DNA sequences. We also discuss the problems which might be caused by foraminiferal endosymbioses and the caveats of using PCR techniques.
10.2307/1485752|Indian Ocean planktonic foraminiferal biogeography has been examined for 5 Neogene time-slices and used to reconstruct surface circulation patterns. The major changes in biogeographic patterns were associated with regional tectonic and global climatic events. The closure of the Indo-Pacific passage at the end of the early Miocene strengthened low-latitude circulation in the Indian Ocean and led to the development of distinct tropical and subtropical faunal provinces. Global climatic cooling during the middle and late Miocene resulted in steeper latitudinal temperature gradients and enhanced faunal provincialization. Planktonic foraminiferal distributions indicate the presence of an Agulhas Current, Subtropical Convergence and seasonal monsoon system by the late Miocene. A polar faunal province is first recognized in the Indian Ocean by the late Pliocene and attributed to further high-latitude cooling.
1486194| This report deals with the Upper Jurassic (lower and middle Oxfordian) Radiolaria of the Sula Islands, Indonesia. The radiolarian assemblage, though abundant and extremely well preserved, is poorly diversified and includes  fifty species level taxa. The presence of common Praeparvicingula and rare pantanelliids within the faunal assemblage in association with Austral ammonites suggests that the Sula Islands were situated in the Northern Austral Province (>30 south) during the Oxfordian. This paleolatitude is in keeping with the Gondwanaland origin proposed by some workers. The Sula Island middle Oxfordian assemblage is strikingly similar to that described from the Galice Formation (Smith River subterrane, Klamath Mountains, North America). Some faunal elements described from the Sula Island assemblage are characteristic of the Southern Hemisphere and are only known elsewhere from New Zealand (Aita and Mackie 1992). Three radiolarian taxa were originally described from the Galice Formation in the Northern Hemisphere. No ammonite taxa are in common between the Sula Islands and the Galice Formation. 
1486059|The full stratigraphic range of Buccicrenata is here emended to include the Kimmeridgian to Cenomanian and its origin is placed in the Upper Jurassic of the Middle East. Subsequently, the genus spread in the palaeotropics (probably during Aptian time) to inhabit North Africa and Central America from Venezuela to Texas. Throughout the evolutionary development of the genus, the characteristic long, low and depressed, kidney-shaped chambers are present in the later part at least of the initial planispiral. A new species, Buccicrenata primitiva n.sp., is proposed.
10.2307/1485664|The Paleocene strata of eastern and central Alabama and western Georgia are rich in well preserved benthonic foraminifera but relatively poor in well preserved planktonic foraminifera. The portions of the Paleocene section lacking planktonic foraminifera can be integrated into the global geochronologic time scale through the use of benthonic foraminiferal assemblages. A paleontological analysis of benthonic foraminifera on 154 samples selected from the Eastern Gulf Coastal Plain provided the basis of a chronostratigraphic framework. Four biozones were defined: the Eponides elevatus Zone (= Zone P1b), the Alabamina midwayana Zone (= Zone P1c through lower P4), the Discorbis washburni Zone (= middle Zone P4) and the Alabamina westraliensis Zone (= upper Zone P4 through P6a). The use of benthonic foraminifera in local correlation is an effective tool, particularly in the case of surface and subsurface sections which have undergone diagenetic changes and do not contain well preserved planktonic microfossils. We anticipate that this biostratigraphic zonation may be effectively applied to other units of the Mississippi Embayment and the Gulf Coastal Plain.
24413335|Foraminifera from the Cenomanian-Turonian Dakota Formation, Straight Cliffs Formation, Iron Springs Formation, and Tropic Shale of southwest Utah are described and illustrated in detail. The assemblage comprises 37 taxa including 27 agglutinated species and only nine calcareous taxa. The associations of the foraminifera can be summarized on the basis of their distributions relative to geologic age and formation. The lowermost units of the Dakota Formation in southwest Utah and Coal Mine Mesa Arizona are characterized by a Trochammina rutherfordi mellariolium-Verneuilinoides perplexus association. The uppermost strata of the Dakota Formation and lower Tropic Shale (upper Cenomanian) are characterized by a Trochamminoides apricarius-Haplophragmium arenatum association. Strata assigned to the lower-to middle Turonian Iron Springs and Straight Cliffs Formation are highly variable with respect to foraminiferal distributions. Lower Turonian deposits from the Tropic Shale, however, contain an association of Reophax inordinata and Ammomargulina lorangerae. The temporal and spatial variability of the foraminifera are attributed to transgressive-regressive facies shifts during deposition of the Greenhorn Marine Cycle. We recognize four paleoecological associations of agglutinated foraminifiera that include: (1) a marsh assemblage dominated by Trochammina and Miliammina; (2) a central estuary assemblage dominated by Ammobaculites and Trochammina; (3) a distal estuary assemblage dominated by Verneuilinoides, Textularia, and Trochamminoides; and (4) a shelf assemblage dominated by Haplophragmium and Reophax.
10.2307/1485841|A survey of pterocorythids throughout the Cenozoic shows that there are only two generalized, persistent stocks from which developed fourteen branches here treated as genera or subgenera. These branchings are the "speciations" of evolutionists, but we use the term "species" for chronospecies which would be subdivisions of the evolutionists' anagenetic species. Thus we distribute the approximately fifty pterocorythid genera previously recognized among only sixteen genus-level taxa. We have found it necessary to describe the new genera Cryptocarpium and Albatrossidium, and the subgenera Calocyclior, Calocyclissima, Calocyclopsis, Podocyrtopsis and Podocyrtoges, as well as six new species to clarify generic origins and terminations. Cephalic structure tends to be conservative and distinctive at the generic level, as also does to a somewhat lesser extent the shape of the thorax and the nature of its wall and pores. More distal parts of the skeleton vary markedly within genera. Relationships can be determined only by following evolutionary changes through time - in many cases, superficially similar species have quite different evolutionary origins.
10.2307/1484278|The morphology, possible relationships, and distribution of fossil pollen of the genus Aquilapollenites are discussed, and the original generic description is emended. Seven new species are described.
10.2307/1485810|Ocular structures are poorly known in some podocopid ostracodes, including the Family Loxoconchidae, Sars 1925, although the features are useful in taxonomy and seem to have potential in paleoenvironmental reconstruction. Here, 10 species of Loxoconcha and Loxocorniculum were studied with polished and thin sections, internal molds, and light and scanning electron microscopy. The ocular sinus may be well developed even in species that have indistinct external ocular structures. In general, the ocular sinus in adults of these loxoconchids is low, relatively wide, unstalked, and has a subcentral concavity and a distinct rim. In Loxoconcha, depending upon the species, either the anterior or posterior distal part of the sinus may be the higher, while in Loxocorniculum the anterior portion is higher. The sinuses in both genera are unlike the elongate, stalked, and distally bulbous structure in the trachyleberids. The ocular sinus in each species is diagnostic, thereby providing another character for taxonomic studies. Ocular structures also may provide a means of estimating paleodepths.
4499778|The planktonic foraminiferal genus, Huberella n.gen., of the Family Heterohelicidae Cushman, 1927, is described from the Turonian (Upper Cretaceous) of the western North Atlantic and equatorial Pacific. It accommodates a lineage which is characterized by the development of lid-like chamber projections attached to the previous chamber of the row in the adult portion of the test. Development of these structures does not result in the presence of accessory apertures along the zigzag suture. Two species are included in this lineage, Huberella praehuberi n.sp. and H. huberi n.sp. The latter is designated as type species of the newly described genus.
10.2307/1485221|Globotruncana dentata, n. sp., is widely and deeply umbilicate, planoconvex with 2 1/2 to 3 whorls, double-keeled in the early stages, later becoming single-keeled; and it has 6 to 7 chambers in a regularly expanding last whorl. The last chamber is shaped like a canine tooth. The specimens were found in the basal part of the Toolonga Calcilutite at C-Y Creek, northwestern Western Australia.
10.2307/1484110|Names of fossil pollen and spores to be published and used in scientific work must conform to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature. Private nomenclatorial systems may be used but have no scientific status. Pollen belonging to extant taxa must be referred to them, despite assertions that only artificial taxa should be used for fossil pollen. Dispersed fossil pollen forms belonging to extant genera should be described as organ species, a procedure that eliminates many of the objections raised against the use of names of extant genera for microfossils.
10.2307/1485320|Marine Norian (Upper Triassic) sediments from the Sverdrup Basin, arctic Canada, contain diverse assemblages of previously undescribed dinoflagellate cysts. Sverdrupiella, n. gen., is the most consistently represented genus within these strata and comprises a plexus of eleven species of cavate to bicavate cysts with anterior intercalary archeopyles. Other cyst types are rarer but may be sporadically common. These include three species of apparently single-walled cysts with anterior intercalary archeopyles assigned to Heibergella, n. gen., three species of double-walled cysts in which the apex is removed during archeopyle formation assigned to Noricysta, n. gen., and a single species of double-walled, crest-bearing cysts with anterior intercalary archeopyles assigned to Hebecysta, n. gen.
4097062|The coccolithophores are among the few organisms of the phytoplankton to calcify. Although together with the planktonic foraminifera they dominate calcite production in the open ocean, the amount of calcite they secrete is difficult to determine. The amount of calcite in the form of coccoliths that is dissolved during sedimentation is also difficult to estimate as is the amount of calcite represented by sedimented coccoliths. Because of their minuteness, coccoliths cannot be directly weighed. Instead, indirect methods must be used to estimate their weight. I describe here a method that allows quick estimations of the weight of individual coccoliths, based on the measure of their brightness when viewed in cross-polarized light. This birefringence method can only be applied to the group Heliolithae (excluding some of the coccoliths produced in the Family Coccolithaceae). For Coccolithaceae and some Ortholithae an estimate of the weight can be made using a correcting factor. The birefringence method is highly reproducible (+/- 0.13pg). However, a significant systematic error of 13.5% may occur when coccoliths with asymmetrical appearance in cross polarized light (e.g., Helicospheara carteri) are not measured in specific orientations.
10.2307/1485881|The Quinn River Formation, Black Rock terrane, Quinn River Crossing, is one of the few Nevadan sections of Permian and Triassic strata that are unaffected by Sonoman deformation. The formation consists of: (1) a basal tuff overlain by limestone and ferruginous dolomite, (2) interbedded radiolarian-bearing chert and argillite, (3) siltstone and carbonaceous shale, and (4) partly volcaniclastic rocks that include siltstone, shale, and minor sandstone and radiolarian-bearing argillite. Disconformities separate the dolomite from the radiolarian chert and the chert from the silstone and shale. Abrupt lithologic and faunal changes indicate that the partly volcaniclastic unit is faulted. All but the uppermost (barren) chert samples contain Late Permian (Abadehian and Djulfian) radiolarian taxa belonging to Albaillella, Deflandrella, Ishigaum, Neoalbaillella, and Triplanospongos. These radiolarians suggest that early Wordian conodonts reported from near the top of the chert and argillite unit are reworked. Poorly preserved Early(?) or Middle Triassic radiolarians and Middle Triassic ammonites and pectenacid bivalves from the middle part of the volcaniclastic unit indicate that Early Triassic deposition cannot be documented at the Quinn River locality. Late Triassic (early to middle Carnian) radiolarians assignable to the Triassocampe nova Assemblage Zone of Yao occur about 21 meters below the top of the Quinn River section; diagnostic genera include Castrum, Corum, Poulpus, Pseudostylosphaera, Triassocampe, and Xipha. The ages of the Quinn River brachiopod, conodont, and radiolarian faunas resemble those of the Dekkas and Pit Formations, eastern Klamath terrane, northern California. The Early Triassic age for the lower part of the Pit Formation is questioned because the unit contains only unidentifiable "primitive" radiolarians and long-ranging (Late Permian and Early Triassic) neogondolellid conodonts. The analogous Quinn River and eastern Klamath rock types and faunal ages, as well as similar hiatuses in their stratigraphic records, suggest that they may be lateral equivalents that formed in the same island-arc sedimentary basin.
10.2307/1484144| Eight megaspore species from Tasmanian and South Australian lower Mesozoic sediments are recorded; six of these are new types. Megaspores referable to Nathorstisporites hopliticus Jung which includes those of Lycostrobus scotti Nathorst are recorded for the first time from the Southern Hemisphere. Two new species of Nathorstisporites and closely associated microspores are described. A new genus, Banksisporites, is instituted to include the megaspores previously referred to Trileites pinguis (Harris) Potoni and Duosporites tenuis (Dijkstra) Pirart. A Rhaetic-Liassic and a Rhaetic age are indicated for the Leigh Creek Coal Measures, South Australia, and the New Town Coal Measures, Tasmania, respectively. 
1486193| Sparse assemblages of palynomorphs have been collected from the glacially derived Khalaqah Member of the Kooli Formation in northwest Yemen. The presence of common Leiosphaeridia and Deusilites tentus, indeterminate taeniate bisaccate pollen, and such species as Plicatipollenites malabarensis, Verrucosisporites sp., Brevitriletes cf. B. cornutus, and Cristatisporites cf. C. crassilabratus, suggest an age range from Late Carboniferous to Early Permian. Previous workers have considered that a small variation in wall thickness could be used to separate Deusilites tenuistriatus Gutirrez et al. 1997 from the Early Permian of Brazil and Argentina from Deusilites tentus Hemer and Nygreen 1967. The evidence from the Kooli Formation, of highly variable wall thicknesses within a single population of Deusilites suggests that the two species should not be separated and that D. tenuistriatus is a junior synonym of D. tentus. 
10.2307/1485866|A palynological study of Campanian-Maastrichtian sequences is conducted on core sections from the Be'er Sheva Valley (M-8 section) and the Shefela Basin (Zor'a B and Hartuv B cores) in Israel. For the first time, a five-fold regional dinoflagellate cyst zonation of the Upper Campanian-Lower Maastrichtian of Israel is proposed, calibrated against calcareous nannofossil and planktonic foraminiferal datums. The consistent occurrence of these zones in the studied sections demonstrates the potential of a dinoflagellate cyst-based zonation in correlating Campanian-Maastrichtian rocks in Israel. The last occurrence of Xenascus ceratioides is found most useful in determining the position of the Campanian/Maastrichtian boundary in Israel.
10.2307/1484269|Three problematic microfossils from the Middle East are described as new: Pseudovermiporella sodalica from the Permian, Aeolisaccus dunningtoni from the Permian, Triassic, and Jurassic, and Lacrymorphus perplexus from the Triassic. It is suggested that Aeolisaccus may be a pteropod, and the other two algae.
10.2307/1485529|Diatom preservation patterns in surface sediments of the Pacific sector of the Southern Ocean were examined. A belt of well-preserved diatoms is bounded on the north and south by sediments containing poorly preserved diatoms. The northern boundary correlates closely with the Subantarctic Front and appears to result from reduced phytoplankton productivity caused by temperature effects on metabolic processes. The southern boundary is caused by the damping effect that late winter/early spring sea-ice cover has on diatom productivity in the water column. Our evidence suggests that the southern boundary represents the spring sea-ice position rather than summer position. When these data are applied to late Quaternary sections in the Pacific sector it appears that there was only a modest northward expansion of winter sea-ice cover during glacial maxima.
10.2307/1484251|The lamellar foraminifera, which construct their tests by the addition of lamellae of perforate calcite or aragonite, one per instar, covering the whole test, are here recognized as a distinct group and are separated from the non-lamellar foraminifera, which construct their tests by the simple addition, at each instar, of a chamber on the former apertural face. The lamellar group comprises part of the suborder Biloculinidea Sigal, and the superfamilies Lagenidea Glaessner, Buliminidea Glaessner, Rotaliidea Glaessner emend. Smout, Monolamellidea Reiss, and Bilamellidea Reiss. The present classification is based on anatomy, composition and texture of the chamber walls, apertural characters and tooth-plates, canal systems, and chamber arrangement. Although essentially not a phylogenetic ("vertical") one, the present classification supports Hofker's conclusions to a great extent. The families belonging to the various superfamilies of lamellar foraminifera are briefly discussed, and their systematic positions are indicated in tabular form. Photomicrographs of thin sections of various genera illustrate the important characteristics of the superfamilies.
10.2307/1484427| The term "geniculus" was introduced by R. Potoni (1934) for "a small peculiarity as an inwardly or outwardly turned equatorial knee in pollen grains." An attempt is made here to determine the exact nature of this "small peculiarity" in pollen of Quercus prinoides by using a new technique which permits reconstruction of the pollen grain from serial photographs taken at every half micron through it. The geniculus is found to be an equatorial thinning and bulging of the exine, which is thought to serve as an aid in germination. It is present in several species of the genus Quercus and appears to be characteristic of the genus. The geniculus is also found to occur in species of several genera that are assigned to families other than the Fagaceae. 
10.2307/1484985|Calcareous nannofossils contained within the tests of planktonic foraminifers confirm that some specimens occurring beyond the stratigraphic range of the species have been reworked upward or downward. Other specimens which seemingly have been reworked upward actually contain nannofossils that prove them to be in place or reworked downward. This last group appears to represent immature specimens of advanced species in a lineage in which the ontogenetic stages resemble closely earlier species or subspecies in the lineage.
10.2307/1485867|The acritarch genus Dorsennidium has a relatively simple morphology, yet it presently contains 75 species. The genus is re-evaluated and, using a listing of criteria derived from the emended diagnosis, a number of junior synonyms are identified. Two new subgenera, Dorsennidium subgenus Quadranidium and Dorsennidium subgenus Dorsennidium, are distinguished, containing tetrahedral four-spined and sub-spheroidal to polygonal five- to ten-spined species respectively. Only 33 species are retained, making the genus of greater utility in biostratigraphy and paleoecology. One species is transferred to Acanthodiacrodium and one questionably to Micrhystridium, three to Polygonium, three to Palacanthus and one to the dinoflagellate genus Raphidodinium, while Dorsennidium europaeum forma nervosum is elevated to specific status.
10.2307/1485964|A quantitative preparation method is described in order to enable high precision coccoliths analysis with the scanning electron microscope (SEM). This technique is fast and easy to apply and very thorough in the counting procedure. An equivalent basis for the comparison of datasets from sediments and water column is accomplished.
10.2307/1484303|Conodont control of pellet formation in the basal Maquoketa of Iowa is illustrated, and the stages of pellet formation are defined. Dominant types found pelletized are simple cones of the genus Drepanodus. Platform, bar, and blade types are also pelletized. Microcrystallinity of the calcium phosphatic sediment composing the pellets, and fine particle-size, are thought to account for the shiny lustre of the pellets and their smooth, even texture, respectively. Evidence on conodont control of pellet formation leads to the further conclusion that growth of the conodont-bearing animal could not have been affected (i.e., retarded) by an influx of calcium phosphate in the Maquoketa sea, since these animals had their demise before that event.
1486131|Ostracodes were recovered from eight Eocene sections of southern Israel; 41 species were identified. Biostratigraphic correlation is with reference to planktic foraminiferal P-zone schemes. Five new taxa include the new species Krithe benjaminii, Schizocythere guerneti, Paijenborchella druckmani, and Echinocythereis aqravensis; Mauritsina jordanica israeliana is distinguished from M. jordanica s.s. Three assemblage zones are recognized: E-1, the Soudanella laciniosa triangulata AZ, Early Eocene; E-2, the Costa capsella AZ, late Early to Middle Eocene; and E-3, the Mauritsina jordanica israeliana AZ, latest Middle to Late Eocene. Issues of provinciality, and disparities in ranges relative to other regions, are raised.
10.2307/1485599|The bizarre Jurassic spumellarian-like nassellarian genus Perispyridium is noteworthy not only for its potential as a biostratigraphic marker, but also because its skeletal morphology reveals the extent to which the nassellarian Bauplan can (and cannot) be modified in response to selection. The Perispyridium skeletal phenotype is unique in several respects from all other nassellarian groups including all members of the family Eptingiidae. On the basis of the distinctive arrangement of skeletal structures, and the lack of obvious skeletal homologies with the other eptingiid species, it is recommended that Perispyridium be regarded as internally monophyletic but provisionally placed within the nassellarian incertae sedis until such time as phylogenetic relationships within the Mesozoic nassellaria are better understood. Similarities between Perispyridium and the Triassic eptingids may be an example of homeomorphy within the Radiolaria. Thirteen new species of Perispyridium are described and illustrated including P. darwini, P. dobzhanskyi, P. elegans, P. gouldi, P. hennigi, P. mayri, P. olsoni, P. pessagnoi, P. robustum, P. schopfi, P. simpsoni, P. slaughteri, and P. triangularium.
10.2307/1484349|Three new genera, Begia, Coxites and Rabanitina, comprising nine new species, are described from the Middle Cretaceous, mostly from deep boreholes near Basra, southern Iraq. Begia resembles Gyroidina but has an internal toothplate and is referred to the family Ceratobuliminidae. Coxites is similar to Begia, but the toothplate is complex. Rabanitina is similar to Begia when immature, but has a terminal involute stage that closely resembles Barkerina Frizzell and Schwartz, 1950, including a complex internal toothplate. Coxites and Rabanitina seem too isolated to be included in the family Ceratobuliminidae, and the new family Barkerinidae is proposed for them. The principles introduced by Hofker (1951a) are used as the key to our understanding of these new genera, although there are a number of objections to accepting the taxonomy as a whole. With certain reservations, the concept of the Dentata can be applied to these genera without modification.
10.2307/1484906|Agglutinated loricae of neritic tintinnids, little known from either ancient or modern sediments, have been found in bottom sediments of two different areas and as fossils in Late Pleistocene sediments. In shelf sediments Stenosemella ventricosa is common off Washington and Oregon, and Tintinnopsis fimbriata is common off northern Siberia and western Alaska. Distribution patterns in shelf sediments of both species appear to reflect large living populations near river mouths and dispersal of loricae by currents. Off the west coast of Alaska, loricae in Chukchi Sea surface sediments have been transported from the Bering Sea by the Bering Strait Current. In Chukchi Sea cores, loricae of T. fimbriata occur in sediments deposited near ancient shore lines of the transgressing sea at the close of the last glaciation.
10.2307/1484823|The availability of the name Hastigerina digitata Rhumbler, 1911, has recently been disputed, an attempt having been made to substitute Hastigerinella eocanica Nuttall, 1928, as type species of the genus Hastigerinella Cushman, 1927. This is refuted, and a neotype for Hastigerina digitata Rhumbler, 1911 = Hastigerinella digitata (Rhumbler) Cushman, is designated in accordance with the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature.
4097103|A comprehensive classification of extant haptophytes is presented, with full citations of all taxa from species to class level within the division Haptophyta. Almost 100 notes discuss aspects of classification and nomenclature, with particular attention being paid to problems related to recognition of life-cycle associations. One new genus Holococcolithophora is described and six species are recombined in it. Appendices list conserved and rejected names, the type species of genera, and basionyms of recombined species.
10.2307/1484158|Bottom samples from shallow to deep water were collected in Santa Monica Bay, California. The distributions of both living and dead foraminifera were determined. The majority of species living in the bay were found to have sharply restricted geographic and bathymetric ranges. Environmental factors such as current, nutrients, salinity, bottom sediments, and especially temperature are believed to control the distribution patterns of the benthonic species in the bay. The paleontological and oceanographic applications of this work are discussed, and four new forms are described.
10.2307/1484780|Several hundred tintinnid specimens have been recovered from the Albian Thermopolis and Nefsy Shales and from the Cenomanian Graneros Shale at localities in Wyoming, South Dakota and Colorado. The specimens consist of crushed, isolated, cuplike loricas which range in length from about 0.09 mm. to 0.30 mm. Five species are referred to modern genera and one is assigned to a new genus, Dicloeopella. The six species, all of them new, are Tintinnopsis ampullula, Tintinnopsis parovalis, Codonella bojiga, Dicloeopella borealis, Coxliella atricollium, and Coxliella coloradoensis. These are the first fossil tintinnids reported from the United States. They are younger than any fossil tintinnids yet recorded with the exception of a Quaternary species from Scandinavia. Most of the tintinnid-bearing samples come from the basal portion of marine sequences, and most contain exclusively arenaceous benthonic foraminifera suggestive of marginal marine or shallow marine environments. Part of the explanation for the ecologic differences between the western interior faunas and the inferred deep-water Mesozoic faunas previously reported from the Mediterranean region may be that the western interior tintinnids all appear to be immigrants from the boreal province, whereas those from the Mediterranean region inhabited the Tethys province.
10.2307/1484607|Four species (three new) of Ostracoda belonging to the family Cytherellidae, collected in the vicinity of Bimini, Bahamas, are described. The influence of water depth, salinity, substrate, and temperature on the distribution of cytherellids is discussed. It is tentatively concluded that cytherellids are restricted to water having salinities above 25 parts per thousand and depths less than 2000 meters.
10.2307/1484877|A method is described for the study of a small object first with a scanning electron microscope and afterwards under a light microscope.
1486227|The Tacipi Formation of Sulawesi was deposited during the late middle Miocene to early Pliocene in a large area of shallow water, marine carbonate production with deeper water sediments deposited to the north. A detailed biostratigraphical study of 580 samples from 58 measured outcrop sections has led to an understanding of sequence stratigraphic and facies relationships of Cenozoic carbonates in Sulawesi, their importance as the product and record of climatic/oceanic conditions and interchange in tropical/subtropical inner shelf environments, and their role as hydrocarbon reservoirs. Fifteen larger benthic foraminifera species are described and illustrated with one newly proposed taxon: Lepidocyclina pillaria. Analysis of the larger benthic foraminifera in relationship to the planktonic foraminifera allows correlation of the larger foraminiferal assemblage zones ("letter stages") of the Far East with the N zones of the Neogene based on planktonic foraminiferal evolution patterns. The co-occurrence and recognition of planktonic foraminifera and larger benthic foraminifera species in the same thin sections is a rare opportunity for correlating the biostratigraphic frameworks based on these two groups and is of regional stratigraphic importance. This has resulted in the refinement of the biostratigraphic ranges of the larger benthic foraminifera Katacyclocypeus and Flosculinella, and enlargement of our knowledge about the Tg and Th "letter stages".
10.2307/1484809|A simple method is described for obtaining orientated sections of smaller foraminifera from slices of indurated limestone using a surgical scalpel and small diamond drill bits.
10.2307/1484114|Six species of Gomphocythere are known from the Jurassic-Cretaceous passage beds in northwestern Germany and England. They are here reduced to two species, with six subspecies. Problems concerning the taxionomy of brackish-water Ostracoda are also discussed.
30135285|A new radiolarian genus and species, Joergensenium rotatile, is described. This species is restricted to recent sediments and plankton samples from the North Atlantic. Its recent distribution in the Norwegian Sea and West Norwegian fjords shows a strong affinity to the neritic province and reaches almost 2% in Hryangerfjord. This species is only known from late Glacial and Holocene sediments in the Nordic seas. This genus shows, however, a patchy stratigraphic distribution with its first occurrence in the south-west Pacific within Paleocene, in the Middle to Late Miocene from the Norwegian Sea, and in the Labrador Sea at the base of biozone NN 21. Two fjords are compared for the general radiolarian distribution, but with special emphasis on the occurrence of J. rotatile in both sediment and plankton.
10.2307/1484693|Worldwide correlations were made with two quite different methods. In the material from 17 samples, the "degree of curvature" of the Lepidocyclinas (see text-figure 1) was measured, and the planktonic foraminifera were determined (by J. A. Postuma). Both methods gave the same results and occasionally the two methods supplemented each other mutually (see text-figure 3). A new parameter, the "degree of curvature", is introduced.
10.2307/1485133|Two new species of planktonic Foramiferida, Globotruncana mexicana and Globotruncanella piramidalis, are described from the latest Maestrichtian Abathomphalus mayaroensis Zone of Mexico. Both species seem to be restricted to this zone and can thus be used for precise biostratigraphic correlation elsewhere.
20627990|This paper reports a diversified fusuline fauna from the Middle Permian (Guadalupian) Xilanta Formation in the Gyanyima area, Burang County, southwestern Tibet, China. Nine genera, Lantschichites, Kahlerina, Nankinella, Yangchienia, Chusenella, Verbeekina, Armenina, Paraverbeekina and Neoschwagerina are recognized. A new species Yangchienia gyanyimaensis n. sp. is established. This fauna indicates a Midian age in terms of the coexistence of Kahlerina, Lantschichites and Neoschwagerina. Paleobiogeographically, the fauna closely resembles that from the Lasaila exotic limestone block of Tibet, both resemble the fusuline assemblages known from the western Cimmerian continents in the Western Tethys Province. However, the absence of Afghanella and Sumatrina in the fauna suggests that the Gyanyima limestone block as well as the Lasaila exotic limestone block, the Batain plain of Oman and the Salt Range of Pakistan, were affected by relatively cool water during the Middle Permian.
10.2307/1484352|Three pelagic species of foraminifera have been studied along a line parallel to the coasts of North and South America. Variations in abundance and size are noted in relation to latitude, depth, salinity, temperature and circulating currents. Miocene samples from Buff Bay, Jamaica, have been used in an attempt to relate the ecology of that time with the findings of this study.
40607111|Diatoms were obtained on three different circumstances, sea-ice, sea-water, and diatom mat samples, at four different locations in the central Arctic Ocean during August and September 2004. One hundred twenty diatom taxa belonging to 38 genera, 14 of which were centric and 22 of which were pennate, were recognized in these samples. Even within the same circumstances, the diatom community exhibits changes through time. The genus Chaetoceros Ehrenberg 1844 (mainly C. sociale Lauder 1864) showed high relative abundance (>90%) in sea water samples collected on 25 August and 7 September, whereas Chaetoceros species were rare or absent in each of the samples collected on 12 and 14 August. In the samples of 12 and 14 August, diatom assemblages showed higher diversity than the samples of 25 August and 7 September. Pennate diatoms such as genera Fragilariopsis Hustedt in Schmidt 1913, Navicula Bory de Saint-Vincent 1822, and Nitzschia Hassall 1845, were common in the samples of 12 and 14 August.
10.2307/1485733| Comparison of the published generic concepts Ascodinium, Ovoidinium, and Craspedodinium led to the redefinition of Ascodinium. Ovoidinium is now considered a junior synonym with all its species transferred to the emended Ascodinium. Hypocystal features present in specimens found in northwestern Mexico and referable to A. diversum are the basis for the following paratabulation formula for the genus: 4, 3a, 7, Xc, 5, 2, Xs (ortho-hexa peridinioid). The type of archeopyle in Craspedodinium must be clarified before its taxonomic position can be established with confidence. 
10.2307/1485585|Lipinellina is proposed as a new name for Rectochernyshinella Lipina 1965, non Rectochernyshinella Lipina 1960, a foraminiferal genus of the family Tournayellidae. The status of Birectochernyshinella Lipina 1965 is discussed, and the genus is shown to be a synonym of Rectochernyshinella Lipina 1960 of the family Palaeospiroplectamminidae.
4097040| An Upper Eocene diagnostic larger foraminiferal assemblage is described and illustrated from carbonates of the upper-most Dammam Formation, on the western side of the Northern Oman Mountains, along the United Arab Emirates and Oman border. This assemblage comprises Fabiania cassis (Oppenheim 1896), Silvestriella tetraedra (Gmbel 1870), Pellatispira madaraszi Hantken 1876, Nummulites fabianii (Prever 1905), N. ptukhiani Kacharava 1969 and N. retiatus (Roveda 1959). The presence of Nummulites ptukhiani and N. fabianii within the same horizon of Pellatispira madaraszi places both species in the Priabonian stage, confirming a Late Eocene age for the uppermost part of the Dammam Formation. The studied carbonates were deposited in an inner shelf environment, which may be related to the eustatic fall of sea level at the end of the Late Eocene. 
10.2307/1485830|The reduction of image-derived morphological data to a suite of characters that can be regarded as homologous is problematic. On the basis of analyses of hypothetical artificial morphologies, it is argued that the principal components of Fourier transforms of radially symmetrical structures are correlated with morphological attributes identified a priori as homologous. Application to greylevel images of Albian coccoliths yields results demonstrating that successful discrimination of genera and species is possible using an automatic retrieval and analysis system.
1486164|The genus Buryella is very important in the southern high-latitude radiolarian biostratigraphy of the Early to early Late Paleocene, with South Pacific radiolarian Zones RP3-5 being defined using members of the genus. The buryellid taxa of DSDP Site 208 and ODP Site 1121 are documented and discussed, and a biostratigraphic problem associated with South Pacific radiolarian Zone RP5 is addressed and rectified. Additionally three new species of Buryella are described (B. helenae, B. petrushevskayae, and B. tridica), and the family Artostrobiidae, genus Buryella, and species B. foremanae are emended. A new taxon tentatively assigned to Spongopyle is also erected (S.? sanfilippoae).
10.2307/1485201|Globotruncana falsocalcarata Kerdany and Abdelsalam is found in the Upper Cretaceous rocks of northern Iraq, restricted to the uppermost part of the Tanjero Formation (upper Campanian-Maastrichtian). The species is one of the most distinctive zonal markers and an excellent index fossil for the upper Maastrichtian. Its morphology, phylogeny, and distribution are discussed.
10.2307/1484372|The economic value of palynology is an accepted fact but its practice is misunderstood by some oil companies. As in other disciplines, palynology has its limitations. These stem from the unsuitability of the method in certain rocks, a lack of knowledge on the part of the palynologists often hired by managements, the inferior equipment in use, and the absence of literature available. Those companies who understand these problems are successfully resolving many pertinent questions. Suggestions are made that will advance the value of palynology to science and industry.
10.2307/1484948|Study of five modern species representing three subfamilies of the Cytheridae indicates that one transverse and one mandibular muscle are attached to the carapace at the single V-shaped, or modified V-shaped, or multiple frontal muscle scar(s) on each valve of cytherid ostracodes. The mode of transverse muscle bifurcation and the position of mandibular muscle attachment account for the difference between the V-shaped trachyleberidine and the multiple hemicytherine frontal scars. In non-trachyleberidine taxa with a large V-shaped or modified V-shaped frontal scar the transverse muscle is not bifurcated. Fusion or lack of fusion of terminal attachment bosses, related to the degree of bifurcation of certain adductor muscles, accounts for the divided or undivided adductor-muscle scars in trachyleberidine and hemicytherine genera. In the taxonomic delineation of the Hemicytherinae from the closely related Trachyleberidinae, the frontal and adductor-muscle scar patterns should be used only in conjunction with other features indicating a hemicytherine grade of organization.
10.2307/1485364|Ten surface samples of Albian to Danian strata from Madagascar have been examined for planktonic foraminifera, calcareous nannoplankton and palynomorphs including dinoflagellates. The stratigraphical results based on these micropaleontologic groups have been compared with data based on megafossils, mainly ammonites. In general, the conclusions are closely similar and the differences do not exceed more than half a stage. Special attention is paid to the relationship of Madagascar to the microfloral provinces established for the mid-Cretaceous. Madagascar may be assigned to the Gondwana paleophytogeographic province, probably close to the northern boundary and transitional to the African-South American province.
10.2307/1484605|Additional evidence to support the numerous observations that the exterior chamber wall of all "calcareous perforate" foraminifera thickens by one lamella for each new chamber is advanced. Hofker's contrary opinions are refuted. Double septa are also discussed.
10.2307/1484582|It is probable that all the planktonic foraminifera in the type Thanetian are derived. They represent reworking of Campanian deposits during the initial phase of the Thanet cycle of deposition and of Campanian and Danian deposits during the deposition of the Reculver Silts, immediately prior to the filling of the Anglo-French-Belgian sedimentary basin with deltaic sediments.
10.2307/1484838|Specimens of Omphalocyclus macroporus (Lamarck) exhibiting in thin section a trilocular, bilocular or unilocular megalospheric embryonic apparatus, instead of the normal quadrilocular apparatus, have been observed in Upper Maestrichtian horizons of southeastern Turkey. The various appearances of the embryonic apparatus are strictly related to the various positions of the thin sections. Distinguishing new varieties on the basis of the different embryonic apparatus views observed is regarded as erroneous.
10.2307/1485679|The morphologic variability of Lacustrinella lacustris (Haman and Marolt) provides a more comprehensive understanding of the ontogeny of this taxon. Lacustrinella lacustris is a unilocular, not multilocular, organism. Multilocular representatives of this species simply represent agglomerations of the unilocular chambers. The number of chambers comprising the test at any time is the most significant variable morphological feature of the taxon, along with concommitant test size variation. The chamber number ranges from 1 to 14. The genus is emended based on these new observations.
10.2307/1484208|The available stratigraphic and foraminiferal evidence from the Upper Cretaceous-Eocene succession of the various parts of the India-Pakistan-Burma region is presented; a synthesis of this evidence shows that there were four main cycles of deposition. Each cycle is shown to have started with a transgression and ended with a regress ion. Evidence of minor local regression is present in some places. The earliest of these cycles ended with the Maestrichtian, and this is taken to indicate the end of the Cretaceous period. The next cycle started with the Danian, which is now placed in the lowermost Tertiary (basal Paleocene), and continued into the Ranikot stage (Paleocene). The third and fourth cycles began with the Laki and the Khirthar stages, respectively, the two cycles together representing the whole of the Eocene.
10.2307/1484950|Thirty-six offshore bottom samples dredged by the R/V Pillsbury Deep-Sea Biological Expedition (1964-1965) from the Gulf of Guinea have been examined for their planktonic foraminiferal content. The stations range in depth from 0 to 3,587 metres. Twenty-two planktonic species and two subspecies were recorded. The fauna is typically tropical with an admixture of a few species tolerant of cold water. The dominant species in order of relative abundance are Globigerinoides ruber, Globigerinoides trilobus, Globoquadrina dutertrei and Globorotalia menardii menardii. Four broad bathymetric biofacies are delineated on the basis of the distribution and abundance of planktonic species.
10.2307/1485247|The primary production of phytoplankton and the distribution of phytoplankton and zooplankton in the ocean are generally governed by physical processes. Under certain circumstances, however, biological factors can also be important. The primary production of phytoplankton in the sea is mainly dependent on two factors, light and nutrients. It is the variability of these factors and of the hydrographic conditions controlling their availability that are responsible for the geographic variations in marine productivity. The complex movements of water in the sea can be separated formally into transport (advection) and mixing processes. Turbulent mixing, both lateral and vertical, is always present, especially in the surface layers of the ocean. Thus, although lateral movements disperse and intermix plankton populations, it is turbulent mixing which generally controls the production of phytoplankton. The relevant literature on the biogeography of plankton is discussed, and examples of the distribution of indicator species, species groups and species communities are given. I believe that only an interdisciplinary approach in both practical and theoretical work will yield an acceptable general theory to explain the influence of oceanographic factors on the distribution of plankton in space and time.
10.2307/1485276|The equatorial layer of Polylepidina Vaughan, 1924 consists of an initial pre-cyclical growth phase, followed by a cyclical arrangement of chambers. Investigation of the pre-cyclical phase of the type species, P. antillea Cushman, indicates that it may have a Unispiral, Bispiral 1, Bispiral 2, Trispiral, or Quadrispiral nepionic arrangement. Such variation does not permit Polylepidina to be satisfactorily placed within existing classifications of the Lepidocyclinidae. The subfamilies Lepidocyclininae Scheffen, 1932 and Helicolepidininae Tan, 1936 are therefore emended, and Polylepidina is placed in the latter, together with 3 other genera that also show a spiral arrangement of equatorial chambers which completely surround the embryon.
1486027|The coralline genus Phymatolithon Foslie 1898 (Corallinaceae, Rhodophyta) is a well-known present-day genus. Owing to the traditional taxonomic characters applied to fossil coralline algae it has, however, not been possible to identify this genus in fossil material until recently. This paper presents the first documentation of a fossil Phymatolithon by applying generic features used in present-day coralline algal taxonomy and discusses its separation from other genera in fossil material. These features are (1) arrangement of basal filaments, (2) occurrence of cell fusions, (3) relative length of subepithallial initials, (4) conceptacle perforation. The stratigraphic distribution of Phymatolithon could be extended from Lower Eocene to Recent. As it is a typical non-tropical genus in present-day environments, designation of Phymatolithon can give valuable indications for palecological reconstructions. The studied material comes from Late Eocene red algal limestones of the Austrian Molasse Zone.
10.2307/1484179|In the last few years our knowledge of fossil Charophyta has rapidly increased. This is particularly due to the interest attached to their fructifications as important stratigraphic markers in Upper Silurian to late Tertiary strata. Data concerning fossil charophytes are scattered in botanical and geological publications. The lack of a comprehensive survey since Groves review (1933) has placed many obstacles in the path of research in this field. The present paper is an attempt to summarize present-day knowledge of fossil charophyte genera with particular reference to nomenclatural status, typification, and synonymy. Brief diagnoses, records of numbers of species, and geologic distribution have been included.
10.2307/1485081|A total of 76 species of spores and pollen and 30 species of dinoflagellate cysts and acritarchs are reported from the clays of five piston cores collected from the submarine outcrop of beds stratigraphically near Seismic Reflector Horizon Beta. These well-preserved assemblages are considered to be of Middle Cretaceous age (Albian and Cenomanian). The number of types and individuals of palynomorphs, the latter ranging from approximately 4,000 to approximately 40,000 per gram of dried sediment, their close quantitative relationship with Middle Cretaceous assemblages from the Atlantic Coastal Plain of the United States, and the inferred paleoecology of acanthomorphitid acritarchs all suggest a source area originally fairly close to the locus of deposition.
10.2307/1484832| Thirty-six species of ostracodes have been found in surface and subsurface samples of the Gatn Formation in the Panama Canal Zone. Distribution and stratigraphic ranges of these species are discussed, and correlation of part of the Gatn Formation with the upper part of the Manzanilla Formation in Trinidad is suggested. 
10.2307/1485792|High and low resolution analyses on Calcareous nannoflora were performed in Tortonian-Messinian sediments of the ODP Site 654 immediately prior to the Salinity crisis. The main changes in the assemblage were compared with variations in the association of keel Globorotaliids and calibrated with the magnetostratigraphic interpretations proposed for this interval. Around 6.8 Ma an increase in Geminilithella rotula over G. jafarii was observed immediately prior to the reduction of sinistral keel Globorotaliids (group 1 of Globorotalia menardii). The FOD of Amaurolithus primus coincide with a coiling change from sinistral to dextral in the unkeeled Globorotalia, around 6.5 Ma, whereas the FOD of Amaurolithus delicatus, approximately coinciding with the Tortonian/Messinian boundary, is synchronous with the entry of conic planoconvex Globorotalia (group of G. miotumida/G. conoidea) into the Mediterranean. The estimated age for this event is 6.43 Ma, which slightly predates the FOD of Reticulofenestra rotaria. The variations in the total abundance of nannoliths in the sediments enabled us to recognize 5 intervals. Nannoliths in interval A were probably affected by taphonomic processes in a shallow water environment. The low abundance, local absence of nannoflora in interval B, may be due to the action of bottom currents winnowing fines. Towards the top of this interval the effect of currents decrease, but the assemblages are different from that of the adjacent Atlantic probably due to a restriction in the communication with the open ocean. This may be the reason for the later occurrence of Eu-discoaster quinqueramus and Eu-discoaster berggrenii in the Mediterranean. Interval C assemblages are of Oceanic affinity showing an asterolith association similar to that of the adjacent Atlantic. On the other hand, strong fluctuations have been observed in interval D, which may be related to changes in salinity, or water stratification, after a probable reduction in the exchange of Atlantic/Mediterranean waters prior to the Salinity crisis. The progressive increase of Dictyococcites antarcticus along the hole, was related to the decreasing temperatures in surface waters from the late Tortonian to the early Messinian.
10.2307/1485090|This paper reports for the first time a rich ostracode assemblage from the Karewa Series (Pleistocene) of Kashmir. Twenty taxa are recorded, including two new species and one new subspecies. A new terminology is suggested for designating lobes and sulci in ostracodes. The paleoecology of the Karewas, based on the evidence of the ostracode fauna, is discussed.
1486012|The studied section of the Fonzaso Formation is located in the Feltrine Alps, Dolomiti Bellunesi (Southern Alps, Italy). Paleogeographically the Feltrine Alps represents a Middle Jurassic slope that connected the Trento Plateau with the adjacent Belluno Trough, on the passive continental margin of the Southern Alps. The Fonzaso Formation is about 100m thick and consists of partially pelagic Middle to Upper Jurassic siliceous limestone and platform-derived calcareous turbidites also occur, particularly in the middle portion of the formation. Two units of red nodular limestone (Rosso Ammonitico Inferiore and Rosso Ammonitico Superiore: R.A.I. and R.A.S., respectively) bracket the Fonzaso Formation. Previously, the formation has been broadly dated on the ages of the under- and over-lying formations; we date it directly for the first time using radiolarian biochronology. The Fonzaso Formation contains a highly diverse and well-preserved radiolarian assemblage which allows for detailed biostratigraphic analysis. The formation ranges from UAZ 6 (middle Bathonian) to UAZ 10 (late Oxfordian-early Kimmeridgian), even though conclusive evidence for UAZ zones 6 and 9 was not found. A sharp facies change and the possible absence of at least the middle part of the Bathonian suggest a hiatus at the R.A.I.-Fonzaso Formation boundary. The transition between the Fonzaso Formation and the overlying R.A.S. appears to be gradational and continuous.
4097044|Deep-water agglutinated Foraminifera (DWAF) are investigated from Miocene sediments recovered from ODP Hole 909C in the Fram Strait, Norwegian-Greenland Sea. We studied 125 samples from Cores 909C-50R to -103R, and recovered over 60 species of DWAF. The faunal succession in Hole 909C is subdivided into three assemblages based on the stratigraphic ranges of characteristic cosmopolitan taxa. These are: (1) a diverse Reticulophragmium amplectens - Reophanus berggreni Assemblage in Cores 909C-100R-2 to -91R-1 (1040.71-952.78mbsf); (2) a Reticulophragmium amplectens Assemblage in Cores 909C-87R-2, to -71R-3 (915.7-762.68mbsf); and (3) a low-diversity Reticulophragmium rotundidorsatum Assemblage in Cores 909C-71R-1 to -55R-1 (759.68-605.52mbsf). The DWAF assemblages are correlated to the standard chronostratigraphy using dinoflagellate cysts and magnetostratigraphy. The stratigraphic ranges of some well-known Paleogene DWAF species extend far into the Miocene at this locality, confirming the hypothesis that the Arctic and northern Norwegian Sea basins served as a refuge for these species long after they disappeared from the North Atlantic stratigraphic record. The taxonomic affinities of the Miocene assemblages from Hole 909C supports the idea that an estuarine circulation pattern has been in place between the Arctic Ocean and Greenland Sea basins since at least the early Miocene. Changes in the benthic foraminiferal morphogroups within the R. rotundidorsatum Assemblage correlate with an increase in total organic carbon, indicating an increase in oceanic productivity in the Fram Strait region during the late Miocene.
10.2307/1485748|Unifissurinella, a new genus of Microproblematica from the late Eocene in France, is described. This genus resembles Bifissurinella from the Oligo-Miocene and possibly belongs to the same group (?Bryozoa).
10.2307/1485543|In order to perform successfully paleoecological, paleoceanographic, or biostratigraphic studies, the taxonomy of the fossil group used must be well known. When benthic foraminifera are used, this requirement may be especially difficult to satisfy. During a recent study (Mead 1982), Recent benthic foraminifera were studied in 62 trigger-core tops from the Maurice Ewing Bank and the Islas Orcadas Rise in the Subantarctic-Antarctic region of the southwest Atlantic. Depths of samples ranged between 1493 and 3464 m. Twenty-seven species and 10 "species groups" of calcareous benthic foraminifera are identified and described here. Most forms are well known from the world's oceans.
10.2307/1486051| The phylogeny, evolutionary trends, and timing of diversification of deep-sea organisms remain largely unknown. The purpose of this paper is to highlight the taxonomy and phylogeny of deep-sea calcareous trochospiral benthic foraminiferal genera which mainly inhabit the top few centimeters of sea floor sediment. This report describes the phylogeny of 19 genera including five new genera and 17 new species, and a new taxonomic classification at the family level. The classification of families and the phylogeny of genera based on morphological intergradation differs fundamentally from previous taxonomic schemes which used radial-granular texture as one of the important categories for suprageneric classification. Two types of generic evolution are recognized: (a) evolution starting from small species (>400 m) and occurring during Aptian and Turonian to Santonian time and (b) that starting from larger species occurring during the Campanian to Paleocene. Low dissolved oxygen conditions may have caused the former type of evolution and high dissolved oxygen states may have led to the latter. General evolutionary trends among the trochospiral group include a decrease in roundness of the peripheral margin, development of a peripheral keel, a distinct increase in pore size, and an increase in test size. The phylogeny exhibits major diversifications in the early Aptian to early Albian (118-110 Ma) and Turonian to early Maastrichtian (91-71 Ma), subsequent to two major mid-Cretaceous anoxic events. No distinct diversification of calcareous trochospiral genera occurred during the latest Cretaceous to Holocene. The timing of major diversifications among deep-sea foraminiferal faunas differs from early Cenozoic diversifications experienced by terrestrial and pelagic faunas. This suggests that different paleoenvironmental causes affected the evolution of deep-sea foraminifera and surface dwelling faunas (mammalia and planktonic foraminifera), over the past 120 m.y. 
10.2307/1485464|To evaluate the effect of quartz versus calcareous sand on foraminiferal densities, the genera Quinqueloculina, Ammonia, Elphidium and Ammobaculites were monitored at Link Port, Florida. Observations were made over four to seven months in each of 1984, 1985, 1986 and 1987. Densities were analyzed for each year by two-way ANOVA's. Each year there was a significant periodicity, approximately synchronous across genera, in both substrates. Out of 16 trials only four indicated a significant difference between sediment type. The results lead to the conclusion that the mineralogy of the sediment is not important in regulating foraminiferal densities at Link Port.
10.2307/1485049|Fifty-six species of ostracodes are reported from surface outcrops of and from boreholes in the La Boca and Culebra Formations in the Las Cascadas and Culebra Reaches of the Panama Canal. Eight new species are described: Paracypris labocana, Cyprideis panamensis, Haplocytheridea woodringi, Cytheridea? ecthyma, Buntonia? stewarti, Loxoconcha ocellata, Cytheropteron stictum, and Cytheropteron malavassii. On the basis of the distribution of ostracodes the La Boca Formation is divided into three biozones, which indicate changing environmental conditions from brackish-water at the bottom through shallow-water marine to open-sea at the top. The shallow-water marine interval contains the tops and bottoms of the ranges of some stratigraphically important ostracodes, which allow this interval to be correlated with the Catapsydrax stainforthi Zone (N6 of Blow, 1969). This interval is not well documented in other places in the Caribbean. The faunas of the Caimito and Culebra Formations are compared with those of the La Boca Formation and are considered to be in part contemporaneous.
1486014|The recent distribution of ancient radiolarian faunas within the northern Pacific Rim does not reflect the initial location of paleoclimatic belts, and paleolatitudinal affinities are speculative. The correlation for typical Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous high-latitude boreal faunas of the Barents-Laptev-Upper Volga Basins with coeval eastern- and western-Pacific faunas is considered. The first appearance of typical Parvicingula Pessagno s.s. in the Bering-Okhotsk Region of Zone 7 and the abundance of Parvicingula in the lower Kimmeridgian ammonite Kitchini Zone (=Buchia concentrica Zone) of the Barents-Laptev-Volga Basin, as well as in Californian Subzone 2, where Buchia concentrica (Sowerby) was found in California and the ammonite Idoceras was collected in Mexico, presents opportunities to correlate these stratigraphic divisions. The first appearance of typical Parvicingula elegans Pessagno and Whalen (within the Buchia mosquensis Zone) in the Kimmeridgian of the Barents-Laptev-Volga Basin allows correlation of the top of Bering-Okhotsk Zone 7 with the top of the lower part of California Subzone 3. The middle Volgian Parvicingula haeckeli Zone (=Panderi Ammonite Zone) probably can be correlated with the upper part of Californian Subzone 3 due to the presence of Parvicingula jonesi Pessagno. The presence of Buchia piochii (Dabb) in the upper Volgian Subditus Zone of northern Russia, associated with Durangites in western North American strata, can be used to correlate the Pseudocrolanium planocephala - Sethocapsa devorata Assemblage-Zone with Californian Zone 4. The correlation of the Bering-Okhotsk and California radiolarian zonations is proposed.
10.2307/1485490|Darwinula stevensoni (Brady and Robertson 1870) is the type species of Darwinula, the ubiquitous living and fossil nonmarine nominate genus of the Darwinulidae and the Darwinulacea. To date, the additional families Darwinuloididae (fossil), Microdarwinulidae (living and fossil), Panxianidae (fossil), and Suchonellidae (fossil) have been referred to the Darwinulacea. A type specimen for D. stevensoni has not been previously designated. In order to stabilize the species, a lectotype is selected from the type series in the Brady collection at The Hancock Museum, Newcastle upon Tyne. The species is redescribed and reillustrated based on the study of the carapace of a paralectotype and also of valves and appendages of specimens from both England and the United States. Living species of Darwinula have a cosmopolitan distribution in fresh and brackish water. Fossil Darwinulacea, documented in the Carboniferous, serve as indicators of continental Paleozoic to Holocene deposits.
10.2307/1485452|Campanian and Maestrichtian foraminifera herein described from the study area include: Gaudryina laevigata Franke, Lagenammina sp., Ammodiscus cretaceus (Reuss), Spiroplectammina semicomplanata (Carsey), S. (Textularia) laevis (Roemer), Praebulimina carseyae (Plummer), P. petroleana Cushman and Hedberg, Marginulinopsis austinana (Cushman), Dentalina catenula Reuss, Stilostomella pseudoscripta (Cushman), Bolivina incrassata Reuss, Osangularia cordieriana (d'Orbigny), Gyroidinoides quadratus (Cushman and Church), G. goudkoffi (Trujillo), Globorotalites spineus (Cushman), Gavelinella henbesti (Plummer), G. velascoensis (Cushman), G. nacatochensis (Cushman), Cibicides beaumontianus (d'Orbigny), Rugoglobigerina rugosa (Plummer), Globotruncana arca (Cushman), G. linneiana (d'Orbigny), G. calcarata (Cushman) and G. contusa (Cushman). Upper Campanian foraminifera include: Rzehakina epigona (Rzehak), Silicosigmoilina californica Cushman and Church, Glomospirella cf. gaultina (Berthelin), Spiroplectammina grzybowskii (Frizzell), Dorothia pupa (Reuss), Gravellina sp., Marssonella trochus (d'Orbigny), Fissurina orbignyana Seguenza, Pseudonodosaria mutabilis Trujillo, Lagena acuticosta Reuss, Lenticulina spp., Pullenia jarvisi Cushman, Globorotalites hiltermanii (Kaever), G. michelinianus (d'Orbigny), G. nitidus (Reuss), Hoeglundina sp., Anomalinoides clementiana (d'Orbigny), Globotruncana hilli Pessagno, G. rosetta (Carsey), Planoglobulina ornatissima (Cushman and Church). The occurrence of the Tethyan planktonic form Globotruncana calcarata may mark the most northerly recorded occurrence of this species in the northeastern Pacific area. The Gulf Islands Cretaceous microfaunas probably represent a mixture of Tethyan, intermediate, and Boreal assemblages.
10.2307/1486203|Co-occuring conodonts, radiolarians, and sponge spicules from the type locality of the Slaven Chert, northern Shoshone Range, Nevada, indicate that the radiolarian and sponge spicule assemblage described herein correlates with the Late rhenana conodont Zone (late Frasnian). The moderately well preserved radiolarians are the first Frasnian-age fauna described from the Western Hemisphere. They include spumellarians, Ceratoikiscum, and Paleoscenidium, and a radiolarian which we have assigned to a new genus, Durahelenifore Boundy-Sanders and Murchey, with its type species, Durahelenifore robustum Boundy-Sanders and Murchey. Sponge spicules include umbellate microscleres of the Subclass Amphidiscophora, Order Hemidiscosa, previously documented only in Pennsylvanian and younger rocks.
10.2307/1484414|Three species are described, Acicularia sp., Boueina pygmaea Pia, and Indopolia feddeni Rao and Vimal, n. sp., from a limestone which is probably from the Cardita beaumonti horizon (Paleocene?).
10.2307/1485193|Marine and brackish-water ostracodes are common in upper Pleistocene post-glacial Champlain Sea deposits of the St. Lawrence Lowlands of Quebec, Ontario, New York, and Vermont. Using modern zoogeographic data and inferred temperature ranges for Champlain Sea ostracode species, bottom water paleotemperatures were estimated for three phases of deposition of this inland sea. At least five Champlain Sea species are today restricted to frigid/subfrigid climatic zones; at least two other species are restricted to cold-temperate zones. The temporal distribution of these and other environmentally diagnostic species in Champlain Sea deposits reveals a significant local climatic change in the Champlain Valley from frigid/subfrigid to cold-temperate marine conditions about 11,000 to 10,600 yr B.P. (years before present). In more northern and western regions of the Champlain Sea, closer to the Laurentide ice margin, frigid to subfrigid conditions persisted for slightly longer. Oceanographic changes in the Champlain Sea are correlated with major deglaciation events recorded in the North Atlantic. The taxonomy of Champlain Sea ostracodes is described to serve as a systematic base for future study of Quaternary North American faunas. Thirty-five species are illustrated in scanning electron photomicrographs.
10.2307/1485584|The centric diatom previously identified as Coscinodiscus lineatus and Coscinodiscus wittianus in Upper Cretaceous and Paleocene-Lower Eocene deposits has been examined in the light and scanning electron microscopes. Its distinctive feature is a single process situated in the central part of the valve. This process is similar to a strutted process but has many more struts and satellite pores. The term "multistrutted process," a new monotypic genus, Thalassiosiropsis, and a new combination, Thalassiosiropsis wittiana, are proposed.
10.2307/1485500|The suggestion that mass extinctions may have been triggered by extraterrestrial events has raised a significant controversy which may not be resolved until it can be shown that the timing of a mass extinction and that of an extraterrestrial event coincide precisely. There are great difficulties associated with the comparison of the record of mass extinctions with that of impact craters because, as Sepkoski and Raup (1986) pointed out, both are dated by totally independent means. There is also a question as to the size required for an impacting object to provoke mass extinction. The Montagnais impact crater is the first impact event which can be directly and precisely correlated to the marine stratigraphic record through biostratigraphic means. Its occurrence during the late early Eocene, between 52.6 and 53.4 Ma, at a time when Cenozoic diversity was at its peak, indicates that no global effect on biologic diversity can be expected from the impact in the ocean of a bolide 1.5 to 3 km in diameter.
10.2307/1485074|For each of six separate sedimentary environments on the shelf of the western approaches to the English Channel, the living foraminiferal assemblages, standing crop, biomass and diversity characteristics are described. The relationships between the living and dead assemblages are discussed with reference to the interpretation of fossil faunas.
3648472| The general tectonic framework of Egypt can be described in simple terms as comprising three units that have controlled the sedimentological history and the structural make up of the country; These are the Arabian-Nubian massif, the stable shelf and the unstable shelf. The stable shelf covers a large part of Egypt surrounding the Arabo-Nubian massif. It reflects relative tectonic stability towards the south. Much of northern Egypt belongs to the unstable shelf that suffered intense rock deformations. Four fault systems oriented at: 55, 70, 80 and 150 represent major transcontinental and regional fracture zones. These originated during different Proterozoic episodes of crustal deformation. Phanerozoic intraplate deformation and related processes of erosion and sedimentation were generally controlled by structural trends which were frequently reactivated along existing fault systems. During the Paleozoic, the 150 fault trend dominated the paleogeographic situation. Magmatic and tectonic activity in Egypt at the end of the Paleozoic continued into the Triassic. Over a kilometer of Nubia Sandstone strata were deposited in southern Egypt from Jurassic to Late Cretaceous or Early Cenozoic. Tectonic and magmatic activity increased again towards the end of the Cretaceous Period. The Cretaceous tectonics were so severe that in many parts of Egypt they account for the present day geomorphology. ENE to E-W master wrench faults control the Cretaceous-related structures all over the country. In the central and southern parts of Egypt the sedimentary units of the Jurassic-Nubian interval are capped by younger formations. The base of the Nubia Sandstone forms swell-like uplifts separated by troughs. Restricted tectonic basins are now characterized by a thick accumulation of Mesozoic-Cenozoic sediments. Old fractures inherited from the basement were used after vertical propagation as shear zones along which the whole sedimentary cover would deform. Geological observations made in southern Egypt support the tectonic origin of the Nile Valley. The most complicated area in the Egyptian course of the Nile is the Qena bend, believed to be the result of rejuvenation of the NE fault system superimposed on NW and N-S trends. 
10.2307/1485854| We have evaluated the planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy of several Gulf of Mexico Eureka boreholes, emphasizing the Miocene depositional history of the northeastern region (De Soto Canyon). The E68-136 borehole (De Soto Canyon; 1826, 557m present depth) provides the most continuous Miocene record, although deposition was punctuated by several short (<2.0 m.y.) hiatuses. The E66-73 borehole (De Soto Canyon; 2802, 854m present depth) provides an uppermost lower to upper Miocene and upper Pleistocene record. E68-151 (north of the Florida Escarpment; 4340, 1323m present depth) provides a discontinuous record of lower, upper middle, and upper upper Miocene sediments. By integrating planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy with nannoplankton biostratigraphy and Sr-isotope stratigraphy, we were able to estimate the ages of the hiatuses associated with six distinct unconformities at E68-136 (23.7-23.2 Ma; 18.0-16.5 Ma; 16.3-15.2 Ma; 14.1-13.6 Ma; 10.4-9.5 Ma, 5.0-1.9 Ma), three at E66-73 (11.5-10.8 Ma, 10.3-9.2 Ma, 6.5-1.7 Ma), and two at E68-151A (19.0-12.6 Ma, 12.5-6.9 Ma). We correlate these unconformities with previously reported unconformities from other deep-sea locations, although their causes (i.e., whether related to sea-level or deep-water changes) remain uncertain. We relate a distinct Pliocene unconformity to intensification of the Loop Current associated with the closure of the Isthmus of Panama. 
3648462|The holotype of Neoeponides duwi (Nakkady 1950), originally described as a variety of Discorbis pseudoscopos Nakkady, is re-described and re-figured. This species appears to have no phylogenetic relationship with D. pseudoscopos. Neoeponides duwi is recorded in Paleocene shelf sediments in the Middle East and, assigned to Eponides pseudoelevatus, in West Africa. In Egypt, N. duwi typically occurs in inner to middle shelf deposits, but it has also been found dominant (up to 60% of the benthic assemblage) in transgressive deposits in deeper parts of the basin. Its distribution pattern, the association with highly variable and occasionally extremely high plankton/benthos ratios (>99.5% plankton) and with TOC-enriched laminated dark sediments, suggests an opportunistic response to limited and/or variable oxygenation at the seafloor.
10.2307/1484708|This work is based on the examination of some 500 samples from four different Miocene sections in the Gulf of Suez region. It introduces and defines seven assemblage zones, five subzones and ten zonules. Through the use of these biostratigraphic units, various correlations amongst the four sections investigated are suggested. Some stratigraphic and morphogenetic conclusions are also included.
10.2307/1485974| The occurrence of living infaunal foraminifera and selective preservation significantly alter the composition of assemblages that accumulate in subsurface marsh sediments of Sapelo Island, Georgia. Rose bengal staining and observations on live foraminifers from surface and subsurface marsh sediments identified live infaunal populations of Arenoparrella mexicana (Kornfeld 1931) and Haplophragmoides wilberti Andersen 1953 to a depth of 30cm below the marsh surface. Other foraminifera are predominantly surface-dwellers, although some (e.g., Ammonia beccarii (Linn 1758), Miliammina fusca (Brady 1870) and Trochammina inflata (Montagu 1808)) also have shallow infaunal occurrences. 
10.2307/1485992|Comparison of radiolarian faunas in Late Neogene sediments from the Peru margin, the Oman margin and from beneath the Somalian gyres allowed definition of an assemblage characteristic of areas of upwelling. We describe the stratigraphic and geographic ranges of 12 previously studied and 10 new or newly described taxa. These forms fall into 3 categories: (1) endemic upwelling (14 species); (2) displaced temperate (3 species); and (3) enhanced tropical (5 species). Not all elements of the assemblage are present, or in like abundances, in each upwelling area studied, but there is sufficient matching to allow identification of the assemblage. Eight long ranging species exhibit diachronous first appearances up to 7 my older in the Oman material than in the Peru material.
10.2307/1485714|Globorotalia truncatulinoides truncatulinoides (d'Orbigny) is recorded in Mediterranean sections for a short interval just prior to the Discoaster brouweri Tan Sin Hok extinction. While this occurrence is time-equivalent to its first evolutionary appearance in oceanic areas, it is recorded in levels that are Late Pliocene (Piacenzian) in age. Furthermore, in the Mediterranean this event is close to the Globorotalia inflata (d'Orbigny) first occurrence, which marks the base of the Upper Pliocene according to Mediterranean scholars, who use a three-fold chronostratigraphic subdivision of the Pliocene. Since Globorotalia truncatulinoides truncatulinoides is widely used in oceanic areas to recognize the base of the Pleistocene, the same time interval (around 2.0 to 1.7 Ma) is ascribed to the upper Pliocene by some Mediterranean scholars and to the Pleistocene by workers in oceanic sediments. The abandonment of the tripartition of the Pliocene generally used in the Mediterranean is suggested, since in this subdivision the "Upper Pliocene" is a short-time interval whose duration is within the accepted error for recognizing the base of the Pleistocene in many areas. Since the Plio/Pleistocene boundary is close to the top of the Olduvai subchron and the Globorotalia truncatulinoides truncatulinoides first evolutionary occurrence is about 0.1 Ma below this subchron, the use of other biostratigraphic events, whenever possible, is recommended for a more precise recognition of this boundary outside the type area.
24413336|The present study reports on the distribution and occurrence of Braarudosphaera bigelowii in the surface sediments of the western part of the South China Sea (SCS), along the coast of Vietnam. This part of the SCS is a known upwelling region, characterized by low salinity conditions due to high annual rainfall and river run-off, confirming the results of earlier studies regarding the occurrence of B. bigelowii in shallow bays, nearshore, low salinity marine waters and upwelling areas. Morphometric analysis of B. bigelowii pentaliths in the western SCS revealed the presence of the 3 morphotypes proposed by Takano et al. (2006) based on the pentalith side lengths from coccospheres encountered in surface water samples. This paper also reports the occurrence of a new B. bigelowii morphotype in the SCS, corresponding to specimens with a pentalith side length of 3.5-4.0m. An attempt to relate the distribution of these morphotypes with temperature and salinity proved to be inconclusive, suggesting the possibility that other factors could be influencing the occurrence of the morphotypes in the study area.
4097053|Monotrabs goricanae n. sp. is a new species belonging to the Tritrabidae family (Spumellaria, Radiolaria). Monotrabs goricanae n. sp. has been discovered in the Middle Jurassic pelagic successions from northwestern Sicily (Favignana Island) and the Southern Alps (Cava Vianini and Coston delle Vette) (Italy). Monotrabs goricanae n. sp. is characterized by having one ray with a tritrabid structure, a bulbous distal part with two stout lateral opposite spines, and a proximal part always incomplete. The external longitudinal beams are nodose and separated by grooves with two rows of rounded pores. Remains of very small spines occur sometimes on the external edge of the bulbous portion and on the external longitudinal beams. Monotrabs goricanae n. sp. is a good stratigraphical marker for the Middle Jurassic time.
10.2307/1484530|An isolated sporangium with spores referable to the cone genus Spencerites is recorded from a Kansas coal ball. The spores are described in both sectional and surficial aspects and are provisionally assigned to Spencerisporites gracilis.
10.2307/1485156|Six distinct benthonic foraminiferal assemblages are recognized in the Weddell Sea on the basis of predominant species, the percentage of calcareous specimens comprising the sample and faunal diversity. The distribution of these faunal facies coincides remarkably with that of major water masses. Depth is also a controlling factor but is often overshadowed by the multibathic calcium carbonate compensation depth (CCD) which results from major differences in water masses formed at the continental shelves through glacial processes. Benthonic foraminifera are believed to be reliable indicators of glacial-marine conditions and may, therefore, enable determination of predominant conditions in areas where continuous observations are not feasible or in paleo-oceanographic studies.
10.2307/1484127|The Crug limestone was deposited during an interval in terrigenous sedimentation, hence the rich conodont fauna. The conodonts are comparable with other roughly contemporaneous Welsh faunas and with the Keisley limestone fauna, which is also, possibly, to some extent Caradocian. Among the fauna described are six new species. One asymmetrical Ozarkodina has only "right" specimens. The status of Prioniodina- and Cordylodus-like genera is discussed.
10.2307/1484466|More than a hundred species of ostracodes are described or listed from the Eocene and Oligocene of Trinidad. One genus and thirty-four species are new, forty-six species have been described previously from the Caribbean and the Gulf Coast. It is shown that the genus Krithe can be used for biostratigraphic zonation.
10.2307/1485547|Details are given for the construction and use of a simple electrically powered device for washing and sieving small samples of living or fossil microorganisms or other particulate matter in the paleontological or biological laboratory.
10.2307/1485254| Oligocene benthonic foraminiferal assemblages from Rockall Bank (Deep Sea Drilling Project Site 117) and Hatton-Rockall Basin (DSDP Site 116), are recorded, compared, and discussed. A small Upper Eocene assemblage at Site 116 is also recorded. Dominant Late Eocene elements include Nuttallides truempyi (Nuttall) and Osangularia sp. There is a marked faunal similarity between the sites in the Oligocene. Dominant elements are Heterolepa mexicana (Nuttall), Siphonina tenuicarinata (Cushman), and S. advena (Cushman), and common accessory species include Planulina renzi Cushman and Stainforth, P. marialana Hadley, Gyroidinoides girardanus (Reuss), Oridorsalis ecuadorensis (Galloway and Morrey), and Cibicidoides trincherasensis (Bermdez). Sporadic but persistent occurrences of stilostomellids, pleurostomellids, and uvigerinids support previous interpretations of a middle bathyal depth of deposition during the late Paleogene at these two sites. Neritic faunal elements characteristic of the Oligocene of northwestern Europe occur in the Upper Oligocene of Hole 117, together with the normal bathyal fauna, and may reflect episodic tectonic movements on the western flank of Rockall Bank. 
10.2307/1484324|Forty-two species of Ostracoda are recorded from the Lizard Springs formation, from Kugler's Bed 3 on Soldado Rock, from the Marac Quarry, and from core samples from deep borings. Thirteen new species or subspecies are described, and one new generic name is proposed. Fifteen species recorded here have previously been described from the United States Gulf Coast or from Central America. The faunas from Soldado Rock, Marac Quarry, and the core samples show similarity to the fauna of the Guasare limestone of Venezuela. On the basis of combined evidence from pelagic foraminifera and Ostracoda, these beds are correlated with the basal Lizard Springs.
10.2307/1484771|The type locality of Globorotalia fohsi is a core sample from a depth of 9,612 feet in H. J. Ellender No. 1 well, as stated by the authors of the species, Cushman and Ellisor. Allegations to the contrary are refuted.
10.2307/1484837|Eighteen species of foraminifera, including four new species, are described from the Inter-trappean beds of the Pangadi area of eastern India. The foraminiferal fauna points to the prevalence of alternating marine and estuarine conditions of deposition. This is also supported by the ostracode fauna. The foraminiferal assemblage indicates an Early Eocene age for these beds.
10.2307/1484159|The first known occurrence of foraminifera in the Upper Carboniferous marine bed near Manendragarh, central India, is reported. Nine species are recorded, including one new species. The fauna is characterized by the exclusive occurrence of arenaceous forms, which show affinity with contemporaneous faunas from the Pennsylvanian of North America.
10.2307/1485600|The population ecology of two related species of Ostracoda in the Zostera (eelgrass) beds was compared. The phytal species Loxoconcha japonica showed remarkable seasonal variation in its life history, and the population density increased explosively in early summer and suddenly decreased in late autumn. These characteristics are closely related to seasonal changes in the Zostera stock. Conversely, the bottom-dwelling species L. uranouchiensis had a population density relatively constant through the year. The main breeding season for this species was from autumn through winter. The differences in population ecology are presented as adaptations to specific habitat conditions. Some ecological features, such as the main breeding season and fecundity, are shown to be preserved in sub-fossil population structure, which will help in paleoecological reconstructions and in the understanding of fossil paleocommunities.
10.2307/1484449|Indurated Upper Cretaceous globigerinal limestones have been studied in randomly oriented thin sections providing sections of numerous specimens of Globotruncana. The ratio between the numbers of sectioned Globotruncana individuals showing one peripheral keel and of those showing two or more such keels is almost constant for any stratigraphic horizon, regardless of facies, within northern Iraq. The ratios vary progressively with age in any vertical sequence, thus providing a rather precise key to stratigraphic position within the age-limits of the formations considered. Detailed observations have been restricted to the Maestrichtian and upper Campanian sediments of northern Iraq. It is possible that the values of the ratios may be of worldwide stratigraphic significance, and also that the progressive change may be continuous through sediments of Cenomanian to Maestrichtian age.
10.2307/1485689|A well-preserved charophyte gyrogonite assemblage consisting of Platychara grambastii, Porochara cf. anluensis, and Porochara oblonga is herein reported from the upper part of the Slippery Rock Formation from the Central Inlier in Jamaica. The assemblage indicates a Maastrichtian age for the upper part of the Slippery Rock Formation. This is the first systematic account of a charophyte gyrogonite assemblage to be published from the Caribbean region.
10.2307/1484502|The extent to which the protoconch of Lepidocyclinas with a nucleoconch of the iso-, nephro- or trybliolepidine type is enclosed by the deuteroconch is called the "grade of enclosure", and is considered to be a marker of geological time.
4097016|Diverse and significant well-preserved radiolarians were obtained from ribbon-bedded chert in an area to the north of Chiang Dao city, Chiang Mai, northern Thailand. The area is mainly composed of an accretionary complex, which is recently considered as a key part of a newly described suture zone in the Southeast Asian region. Devonian radiolarian-bearing cherts are exposed within this area. These cherts contain identical radiolarian faunas, which include nine families and forty-three species belonging to thirteen genera. Among these faunas, Entactinaria are dominant. Three new species, Trilonche chiangdaoensis, Trilonche dihelicis and Trilonche vachardi, are erected and about thirty species, which have never been reported from Thailand, are also present. The Trilonche minax (lower Frasnian) radiolarian assemblage from Australia is recognized in the area. The radiolarian faunas are systematically described and relationships between them and fauna from adjacent radiolarian provinces are discussed. These cherts with their radiolarian faunas are evidence for the presence of a wide paleo-ocean once existed between Shan-Thai and Indochina continental terranes.
10.2307/1484550|In the Oxfordian-age Corallian Beds of southern England, many of the nodosariid species are highly variable in shape. In some instances, the variation of a single species is wide enough to include individuals within the morphological continuum that exhibit the characteristic morphology of two or even three different commonly accepted genera. For example, a population of specimens referable to Lenticulina muensteri (Roemer) from a single rock sample includes individuals showing the characteristics of Lenticulina Lamarck, Marginulinopsis Silvestri, and Planularia Defrance. Studies of populations of Lenticulina tricarinella (Reuss) from the Middle and Upper Jurassic reveal similar transgression of the variation field of a species across the boundaries of accepted genera. Such anomalies arise from the development of the classification of the Nodosariidae largely on the basis of Cenozoic and Recent material, whereas the family was at its peak of numbers and diversity in the Jurassic and Early Cretaceous. Necessary modification of the classification of the family will best be brought about by grouping together species of proven relationship into larger units rather than by defining new genera on the basis of a few key characters.
10.2307/1486106|The San Francisco de Paula section is one of the few that permit direct correlations between siliceous and calcareous microfossil zonal schemes near the Paleocene/Eocene boundary. We discuss these correlations, delineate unconformities in the section and discuss the location of the Paleocene/Eocene boundary.
10.2307/1486087|Bassiounina sanctipauli n. gen. n. sp. (Nummulitidae) together with Nummulites praeatacicus n. sp. are newly described from the upper nummulitic bearing sandy marls from Monastery of St. Paul, Eastern Desert, Egypt. According to Schaub's nummulitic time scale 1981, this interval is assigned to the Early Eocene (Early/Middle Ilerdian), since Nummulites atacicus Leymerie 1846 originally recorded from Mont Cayla (Herault), is a characteristic species of the top part of the Middle Ilerdian. Nummulites sahariensis n. sp. is also described from a parallel stratigraphic section and is given an Early Eocene Age (Early Ilerdian 1/2); this age is confirmed from studies based on planktonic and benthonic foraminifera and matched well with Schaub's nummulitic scale. The sediments were deposited in small basins situated on a structural ramp that inclined gently towards the south.
10.2307/1484862|Egg capsules of Neritina, a prosobranch gastropod common in the marginal lagoons and estuaries of southwestern Nigeria, resemble described species of the foraminifer Hemisphaerammina Loeblich and Tappan, 1957, in shape, size, morphology and test composition. The attention of paleontologists is drawn to this resemblance, and it is suggested that described Recent species of Hemisphaerammina be re-examined, as they might possibly be gastropod capsules.
3648460|We report the occurrence of the oldest known multi-chambered trochospiral, planispiral and planispiral/uniserial foraminifera from the Lower to Middle Cambrian deposits in Nova Scotia (Canada). Morphologically, these forms closely resemble modern marsh foraminifera. If these are in fact similar or the same as present marsh foraminifera, their apparent lack of morphological evolution, and the agglutinated and complex multichambered nature of these foraminifera suggest that: 1) these organisms must have some unique characteristics favoring the development of a successful assemblage that appears to have survived to the present, 2) complex chamber arrangements started to develop before 500 Ma, and 3) either these forms are the ancestors to all multi-chambered foraminifera -including the calcareous foraminifera which are the dominant foraminiferal group today - or there was parallel evolution where these went undetected for 200 m.y. when the next occurrence of these chamber arrangements is reported. Similar foraminifera have been found in Carboniferous and younger deposits where it is clear these were associated with ancient marshes. These fill some of the time gap between the Cambrian forms and modern marsh species.
10.2307/1485225|Senegalinium Jain and Millipied, 1973, a dinoflagellate generic name, has priority over Alterbia Lentin and Williams, 1975. Two species that formerly were attributed to Deflandrea and later to Alterbia are herein transferred to Senegalinium, as S. acuminatum (Cookson and Eisenack), n. comb., and S. ingramii (Cookson and Eisenack), n. comb.
10.2307/1485862| Deep sea Cenozoic paleoceanographic evolution was studied using quantitative analysis of benthic foraminifera from ODP Sites 757 and 758 (Ninetyeast Ridge) and Site 747 (Kerguelen Plateau), on the south-north transect of the Indian Ocean. Bathyal Site 747 records high latitude paleoceanography and Sites 757 and 758 record mid- to low- latitude bathyal and abyssal paleoceanography respectively. Benthic foraminiferal assemblages reflect global paleoceanographic changes, but the faunal changes are not all coeval, due to the different paleodepths and paleolatitudes. At Site 747, Southern Component Water (SCW) developed in the Oligocene and middle Miocene; Northern Component Water (NCW) and SCW developed in the Oligocene and the late Miocene. At bathyal Site 757, the following periods of paleoceanographic change were recognized: early to middle Eocene (52 Ma), late middle Eocene (42 Ma), latest Eocene (38 Ma), early Oligocene (32 Ma), middle Miocene (12 Ma), and late Miocene (8 Ma). At abyssal Site 758, the paleoceanographic changes are complex, with both NCW- and SCW-allied assemblages occurring in the Oligocene and the middle Miocene to Pliocene (33-29, 26-24, 9, 6-4, 3 Ma). Comparison of the benthic foraminiferal assemblages with the modern distribution of foraminiferal species and with oxygen and carbon isotopic data suggests the following paleoecological conditions at Sites 757 and 758: Cold water and high organic matter-exploiting assemblages appeared from the late Miocene to Pleistocene; warm water and lower organic matter-exploiting assemblages occurred from the early Eocene to middle Miocene. Resistant to high carbonate corrosion-type assemblages developed during the Oligocene and from the late Miocene to Pliocene at Site 747. Temperature decrease and changes in the food resource (phytodetritus) level of deep water are important factors for the benthic faunal changes throughout the Cenozoic. Faunal changes at bathyal depths before the middle Miocene occurred during a lower food resource level and those from the middle Miocene onward occurred in an enriched phytodetritus flux in deep water. The modern deep water is formed at 2 Ma in the Indian Ocean at Sites 757 and 758. The cold-water and carbonate corrosion-type assemblages are more dominant at Subantarctic Site 747. 
10.2307/1485321|The taxonomy and distribution of Holocene Ostracoda from a New Jersey estuary are discussed. Thirteen species were identified, and one, Cyprideis shrewsburyensis, is described as new. The other species are: Cushmanidea echolsae (Malkin), Cyprideis sp. cf. C. beaveni Tressler and Smith, Cytherura corensis Grossman, Cytherura forulata Edwards, Cytherura purireticulata Edwards, Cytherura sp. aff. C. elongata Edwards, Cytherura sp. A, Cytherura sp. B, Hulingsina sandersi Puri, Loxoconcha rhomboidea (Fischer), Paradoxostoma sp., and Perissocytheridea sp. The fauna is distinct from any previously reported from eastern North America. The difference is related to the environmental conditions, including water depths, temperature ranges, salinity ranges, and physiography.
10.2307/1484276|Evidence of the stratigraphic value of the fossil remains of an abundant and varied calcareous nannoplankton has been limited by little published data. Description of the species and tabulated distributions in 86 samples from a continuous sequence of Paleocene and Eocene strata of California permit recognition of six distinct biostratigraphic units. Available evidence on their extension as zones elsewhere and relations to type areas of some European stages are presented.
10.2307/1485217|Thirty-five species and subspecies of planktonic foraminifera including one new species, Protentella clavaticamerata Jenkins, are recorded from a cored Lower Miocene sequence from the English Channel Sealab Trial Borehole drilled 110 km. southwest of the Isles of Scilly, and the taxa have been illustrated by scanning electron microscope. The presence of Globigerinoides trilobus trilobus (Reuss) and Globorotalia praescitula Blow coupled with the absence of key older and younger species, present in adjoining areas, places the fauna in the Burdigalian G. trilobus trilobus Zone. A direct comparison is made with dredged samples from the English Channel as well as with the type Aquitanian-Burdigalian faunas.
10.2307/1485767|A detailed qualitative and quantitative investigation of foraminifera from DSDP Site 219 (Arabian Sea) has enabled us to identify a new, distinctive benthic foraminiferal genus, Neopleurostomella, in the Middle Miocene to Early Pliocene deep sea sequences.
10.2307/1485000|The study of phenotypic variation within planktonic foraminifera is enhanced by multivariate statistical analysis. Analysis of intrasample and intersample variation of Globigerina pachyderma in surface sediments of the southwest Pacific Ocean shows that changes in frequency and coiling direction are highly significantly related to latitude, and that sorting is significantly related to both maximum and median diameters. Four latitudinal groupings are clearly defined by principal component analysis.
10.2307/1485325|The use of a slow-setting, glass-clear plastic as an embedding medium provides accurate control over the orientation of a specimen and at the same time permits observation and photographing of morphological structures during sectioning. The technique is especially useful for very small specimens and has been applied successfully to both fossil and Recent foraminifera.
10.2307/1484692|Eleven new species of ostracodes are named and described from the Zebbeus Formation near Le Kef, Tunisia. The samples studied were from the Danian part of the Zebbeus Formation, the Danian age being based on the foraminifers contained in the samples. The ostracode fauna appears to be more closely related to northern European late Maastrichtian faunas than to other previously described African ostracode faunas.
10.2307/1485456|A revised classification is presented for the Foraminiferida, combining the results of our research with various partial or more inclusive reclassifications that have appeared during the past two decades. The total 591 suprageneric taxa used herein for the Order Foraminiferida include 12 suborders, 63 superfamilies, 253 families and 263 subfamilies. New taxa proposed herein are the suborder Robertinina, the families Abadehellidae, Bolivinoididae, Bronnimanniidae, Coleitidae, Dryorhizopsidae, Dusenburyinidae, Earlandinitidae, Eocristellariidae, Globanomalinidae, Globuligerinidae, Globorotalitidae, Hippocrepinellidae, Hospitellidae, Hyperamminoididae, Linderinidae, Lituotubidae, Oridorsalidae, Pachyphloiidae, Palaeospiroplectamminidae, Pannellainidae, Paratikhinellidae, Partisaniidae, Polysaccamminidae, Praebuliminidae, Thomasinellidae, Valvulinellidae and Virgulinellidae, and the subfamilies Ammoastutinae, Ashbrookiinae, Bykoviellinae, Cuneatinae, Cyclopsinellinae, Endostaffellinae, Eohastigerinellinae, Halyphyseminae, Hergottellinae, Koskinobigenerininae, Lingulinopsinae, Louisettitinae, Novalesiinae, Orthoplectinae, Palmerinellinae, Pernerininae, Planctostomatinae, Shepheardellinae, Siphogenerininae, Siphoninoidinae, Textularioidinae and Torresininae. Family group taxa that are changed in rank (new status) herein are the superfamilies Acervulinacea, Coscinophragmatacea, Cyclolinacea, Geinitzinacea, Glabratellacea, Hyperamminacea, Ptychocladiacea, Robuloidacea, Siphoninacea and Squamulinacea, the families Alfredinidae, Bathysiphonidae, Cyclolinidae, Dictyopsellidae, Discamminidae, Discorbinellidae, Dorothiidae, Elhasaellidae, Globigerinitidae, Orbitopsellidae, Pulleniatinidae, Reussellidae, Robuloididae, and Stainforthiidae and the subfamilies Placentulininae and Semitextulariinae. Brief definitions are given herein for all recognized suprageneric taxa within the Foraminiferida. The synonymy listed for these suprageneric taxa includes only those taxa based on included genera. An index to recognized suprageneric taxa is included.
1486152|The systematics and distribution of Microceratina Swanson 1980 are studied. Five species have been referred to this genus: Microceratina quadrata Swanson 1980 (type species), Microceratina foveolata (Colalongo and Pasini 1980) nov. comb., Microceratina poligonia (Colalongo and Pasini 1980), Microceratina pseudoamfibola (Barbeito-Gonzalez 1971) nov. comb. and Microceratina reticulata (Bonaduce, Ciampo and Masoli 1975). With the exceptions of the type species, which have been found in littoral sediments in Southern New Zealand and Southeastern Australia, and of M. poligonia, recovered in two sites of the North Atlantic, the genus Microceratina seems to be mainly distributed in the Mediterranean area, from the Tortonian to Recent.
10.2307/1485626|Detailed biostratigraphic evidence of radiolarians and calcareous nannofossils in the Upper Jurassic to Lower Cretaceous sequences of Shikoku Island, Japan and the Tethyan region along the Breggia River, Switzerland is presented. Nannoflora observed in the nine Shikoku samples are the oldest observed so far from any inland sections along the western Pacific region and are of latest Jurassic to possibly early Berriasian. Thirty-five radiolarian species are identified in this sequence, and six of them are described as new species. The floral and faunal contents of the Shikoku and Breggia sections are similar, and a newly proposed radiolarian zone, Ditrabs sansalvadorensis Zone, is commonly applicable. The estimated age of this zone ranges from the late Tithonian to Valanginian and is based upon the nannoflora of the Sugegadani (Shikoku section) and Maiolica Limestone samples.
10.2307/1484778|The morphology of the genus Discocyclina is discussed and Aktinocyclina is considered to be a synonym of Discocyclina. Eleven species of Discocyclina have been identified from the Upper Eocene of the Garo Hills, Assam, India. Of these, only five have been reported from other Upper Eocene localities in the Indian region. The presence in the Upper Eocene of Assam of several well-known species of Discocyclina described from southern Europe and Indonesia indicates the existence of a marine connection between these regions during the Upper Eocene.
10.2307/1485010|Studies of the morphology and ultrastructure of Globorotalia (Turborotalia) pachyderma (Ehrenberg) support the concept that this species arose from G. (T.) continuosa (Blow) in the uppermost part of Neogene zone 12. This lineage is quite distinct from that leading from G. (T.) globorotaloidea (Colom) to the Neogloboquadrina dutertrei (d'Orbigny) group in the Upper Miocene (N17-N18). Preferential coiling ratios occur almost at the base of the range of G. (T.) pachyderma and are derived from those of its ancestor G. (T.) continuosa. Sinistral populations adjusted to cold polar waters, whereas dextral populations adapted to temperate waters, thereby providing one of the better planktonic indices of paleoceanography for the late Cenozoic. Upper Miocene and Pliocene forms have four to four and one-half chambers in the final whorl; the aperture varies from almost a closed slit to an open arch. In the glacial Pleistocene, additional populations developed with as many as five chambers in the final whorl; other variants show the progressive restriction of the aperture, especially with the development of a highly thickened wall in polar waters. The early stage is that with little thickening ("incompta" of Cifelli), a second stage is that in which some thickening is added ("pseudopachyderma" of Cita, Premoli Silva and Rossi), and finally a third stage is the typical thick-walled form. Wall thickening progressively reduces the depressions between the chambers, until it is very difficult to recognize the individual chambers in extreme cases. This transition occurs as individual specimens settle progressively deeper in the water column. Globorotalia pachyderma belongs to the subgenus Turborotalia, the important and continuous stock of Cenozoic planktonic foraminiferans that gave rise to many lineages of the sharp-edged subgenus Globorotalia. The new subgenera Fohsella, Hirsutella and Menardella are erected for three of these separate lineages.
10.2307/1485627|Emended diagnoses encompassing forms described herein are proposed for the family Palaeoscenidiidae and the subfamily Palaeoscenidiinae. Diagnosis of the family Entactiniidae is emended to include only forms with latticed or spongy shells developed around a central spicule. This emendment permits mutual exclusivity of forms of the Palaeoscenidiidae and the Entactiniidae. Five genera of Palaeoscenidiinae are distinguished by skeletal ray arrangement. One of these, Palaeoscenidium, was illustrated previously in the literature. It is here emended to include only skeletons with four apical and four basal rays. Palaeoscenidium bicorne is reassigned to Palaeoephippium, n. gen. New genera are erected for 1) five-rayed spicules with one apical ray and four basal rays--Palaeopyramidium; 2) six-rayed spicules with two apical rays and four basal rays--Palaeoephippium; 3) six-rayed spicules with three apical rays and three basal rays--Palaeotripus; and 4) ten-rayed spicules with two apical rays and eight basal rays--Palaeodecaradium. Twenty-three new species belonging to the subfamily Palaeoscenidiinae and two new species of the family Entactiniidae are described. The Palaeoscenidiinae are shown to have given rise polyphyletically to the Entactiniidae.
10.2307/1485735|Oligocene to Quaternary benthic, calcareous, unilocular foraminifera have been studied from five DSDP (Deep Sea Drilling Project) holes, a drillhole in Buenos Aires province, Argentina, and three areas of the South Atlantic Ocean. About 5000 specimens have been grouped within 267 taxa. The evolution of these forms has been slow, and occurrences are generally few. Only about 25% of the taxa exhibit a reasonably wide geographic distribution and are of sufficient frequency to be considered potential guide fossils, but at the same time almost all have quite long time ranges. Eighteen taxa have been identified as potentially the most stratigraphically useful forms; however, they cannot be considered particularly valuable guide fossils because their scarcity makes their picking an extremely time-consuming task. In addition, their use permits only separating the larger stratigraphic units, such as systems or series.
10.2307/1484237|Seven trace elements - manganese, titanium, aluminum, magnesium, strontium, copper and nickel -- were examined in the tests of planktonic foraminifera in cores from the Atlantic Ocean. Manganese concentrations appear to be related to geographic location; copper is probably stable in planktonic foraminiferal tests.
10.2307/1484820|Six new species of crustacean coproliths are described from the Lower Cretaceous of Hungary. The specimens, found in petrographic thin-sections of a sedimentary brown iron ore, probably belong to different genera of the Decapoda, but it was impossible to identify any of the remains with known living or fossil species.
10.2307/1484610|The type specimens of 137 species established as new and the specimens of 74 previously established species that were redescribed by G. S. Brady (1880) are deposited in the collections of the British Museum and/or the Hancock Museum (Newcastle). These species are here listed, with indications of the respective depositories.
10.2307/1484872| The abundance and the quality of the preservation of the Radiolaria are determined for 334 sediment samples from core tops in the North Atlantic Ocean between latitudes 11S and 63N. Abundance is measured in terms of number of specimens larger than 44 in diameter per gram of dry bulk sediment. The modern sedimentary distributions of eight radiolarian species are defined and compared with the provinces of planktonic foraminifera. 
10.2307/1485112|A new monotypic palynomorph, Pentapsis, recovered from the Middle Cretaceous of northeastern Peru, is described.
30135289|The new agglutinated foraminiferal genus Rectoprotomarssonella n. gen. is characterized by its high trocho-spiral coiling with multiserial to uniserial chamber arrangement and solid, noncanaliculate wall with calcareous cement. This taxon shows close relationship to the Cretaceous genus Protomars s onella Desai and Banner, from which it differs in possessing a uniserial part. The type species is a stratigraphic indicator in Campanian to Maastrichtian deep-water sediments in the Western Tethys and North Atlantic.
10.2307/1484696|The morphology of the holotype of Globigerina mexicana Cushman, 1925, has been re-examined, and this taxon is shown to be referable to the genus Globigerapsis Bolli, Loeblich and Tappan. The specimens previously referred to "Porticulasphaera mexicana" are here ascribed to the new genus Orbulinoides as O. beckmanni (Saito).
10.2307/1484549|All known charophytes from the Devonian and Lower Mississippian sediments of North America are described, illustrated, and referred to eight species distributed among five genera. Representatives of four of the genera are widely distributed in North America, Europe and Asia; one genus (Eochara) is at present known only from western Canada. A neotype for Moellerina greenei Ulrich is selected, described and illustrated, and the genus Trochiliscus Karpinsky is suppressed as a junior synonym of Moellerina.
10.2307/1485913|A reliable and efficient technique has been developed for the mounting, location and quick re-location of palynological specimens in strew mounts for SEM (scanning electron microscope) and subsequent LM (light microscope) examination. Specimen locations are recorded with reference to a numbered location grid, which has been inked onto a glass coverslip and is visible, both under the SEM and in light. After SEM examination, a permanent LM slide can be made by removing the coverslip from the aluminum stub and inverting it into a non-aqueous mounting medium. Specimens can be quickly re-located under the SEM or the light microscope by referring to grid map records. With this method, both surface (SEM) and internal (LM) features of palynomorphs are readily available for the accurate description and identification of specimens. The resolution of gold coated specimens in LM compares favorably with conventionally mounted specimens.
24413485|Eight formations were recognized in Wadi Watir area, SE Sinai; Malha Formation (Early Cretaceous), Galala Formation (Late Cenomanian), Abu Qada Formation (Early Turonian), Buttum Formation (Early Turonian), Wata Formation (Late Turonian), Matulla Formation (Coniacian-Santonian), Brown Limestone Formation (Late Campanian-Early Maastrichtian) and Sudr Chalk Formation (Early-Middle Maastrichtian). The planktonic foraminifera played the great role in age determination for the referred units, in addition to some benthonic foraminifera. Also, three microfacies types were identified; siliciclastic facies, mixed carbonate  siliciclastic facies and carbonate facies reflecting an oscillation of the Cretaceous sea from shoal to shallow marine and marine environments. The diagenetic processes (cementation, neomorphism, dolomitization, silicification, dissolution and compaction) show the impact of textural and mineralogical changes on the studied rock units, groundwater occurrences and possibilities. Furthermore, two main aquifers are dominant in the study area, Lower Cretaceous sandstones and Cenomanian-Turonian Limestones. The geomorphologic and geologic characteristics controlling the groundwater occurrences were discussed.
10.2307/1484743| Critical reviews are given of the described genera and subgenera of the so-called orbitoid foraminifera and their allied forms. Some three-layered types among the Nummulitidae, the Pellatispiridae, and the Orbitolitidae are also dealt with. These genera and subgenera are placed in seven families and two subfamilies, exclusive of the three families just cited. Juvenile features are considered to play an important rle in classification. A new genus and a new species, Pseudorbitella americana is proposed for a form of the Pseudorbitoididae which is characterized by a sulcoperculine juvenarium. 
4097032|The aim of this study is to date the rich plant deposit recently discovered in the hemipelagic terrigenous-carbonate succession of the Northern Dolomites (Italy), as well as to describe the rich Anisian palynomorph association observed in the studied section. For the palynological analyses the whole studied section was sampled and three different palynomorph assemblages are distinguished within the section. These assemblages were compared with various palynostratigraphic zonations proposed for the Southern Alps and the distribution of the main markers are discussed in relation to other coeval sections in Europe. Thus, the plant horizon can be positioned close to the middle - late Pelsonian boundary. One new genus and species, Braiessporites posenatoi gen. et sp. nov., are described and several other taxa are discussed for the first time in literature, such as Foveosporites sp. 1 and Convolutispora sp. 1. Several spores, including Striatella sp., are reported for the first time from Anisian sediments. Morphological variability of other taxa are discussed such as Jerseyiaspora punctispinosa, Uvaesporites gadensis and Converrucosisporites conferteornatus. The taxonomical position of Todisporites fungosus (Balme 1963) comb. nov. is discussed and a new combination is proposed.
10.2307/1485510|The earliest Miocene strata on the Middle Atlantic Coastal Plain were deposited in two distinct marine transgressions separated by a hiatus in sedimentation of approximately one million years. The older unit (Bed 3A of the Calvert Formation and its correlatives) was deposited in a relatively restricted basin of middle Burdigalian (middle early Miocene) age. The younger unit (Bed 3B of the Calvert Formation and its correlatives) was deposited in a much more widespread basin of late Burdigalian (late early Miocene) age. The older deposit was completely overlapped by the younger deposit. These two beds of substantially differing geologic age are difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish solely by lithostratigraphy. They are, however, readily differentiated on the basis of their distinctive silicoflagellate and diatom assemblages.
10.2307/1484597|Loeblich and Tappan recently (1964) assigned the genus Beella Banner and Blow, 1960, to the subfamily Globigerininae; a re-investigation of the type species of this genus, Globigerina digitata Brady, 1879, shows this to be correct. Consequently, a new generic name is required for those species which have an interiomarginal, umbilical-extraumbilical aperture and not a purely interiomarginal umbilical aperture, but which, like those included in Beella, are trochospirally coiled. Clavatorella, new genus, (type species: Hastigerinella bermudezi Bolli, 1957) is proposed for those trochospiral species which have radially elongate chambers and an aperture which is interiomarginal, umbilical-extraumbilical in position.
4097079|Late Capitanian foraminifers are described from two cores taken by Amoco on the north side of the entrance of Dark Canyon. The Amoco #1 core (400ft) penetrates proximal forereef debris of the Tansill Formation and bottoms in massive Capitan reefal limestone. The Amoco #2 core (468ft) penetrates proximal backreef lagoonal deposits of the upper Yates Formation and the Tansill Formation. Foraminifers are very diverse and abundant in these cores. Based on the fusulinid distribution, the Codonofusiella extensa (upper part of the Yates Formation), Yabeina texana, Paradoxiella pratti and Reichelina lamarensis zones (lower and middle Tansill Formation) are present in the Amoco #2 core. Among small foraminifers, the first appearance of the genera Sengoerina and Crescentia are recorded at the base of the Y. texana Zone and they disappear at the top of the P. pratti Zone. The genus Baisalina appears at the base of the R. lamarensis Zone and disappears at the top of that zone. The Ocotillo Silt Member and upper dolomitized part of the Tansill Formation do not contain foraminifers. The Ocotillo Silt Member is present in the Amoco #2 core at a depth of from 88 to 112ft and, because of its regional dip of approximately six degrees, would possibly project below the base of the Amoco #1 core, thus correlating the Capitan and Tansill formations in the Amoco #1 core with the upper Tansill Formation of the Amoco #2 core. The lower part of the Amoco #1 core (from 110 to 370ft) contains fusulinacean species of the Paraboultonia splendens Zone. The assemblage of small foraminifers is dominated by species of nodosariids and hemigordiopsids. Four new genera and sixteen new species of foraminifers are described from both cores.
10.2307/1485129| A variety of paleoecologic and lithologic evidence indicates that Rockall Bank in the North Atlantic subsided from 0-600 m. over a 5 million year interval of Late Paleocene-Early Eocene time (56 to 51 million years ago). About 70 taxa of benthonic foraminifera are recorded in the early 3-4 m. y. of this subsidence history in a stratigraphic sequence interpreted as representing a subsidence of from 0 to 200 m. Three depth-controlled faunal assemblages are recognized, and comparisons are made with similar faunas recorded in age-equivalent deposits elsewhere in the circum-Atlantic and Mediterranean regions. The lower (inner neritic: 0-10 m.) and middle (middle neritic: 10-100 m.) assemblages are Late Paleocene in age, contain numerous elements of the Midway fauna of the Gulf Coast, and are dominated by nodosariids and polymorphinids. They are distinguished by the presence in the lower (shallower) assemblage of Operculina sp. and Pararotalia tuberculifera and their absence in the middle (deeper) assemblage. The upper assemblage (outer neritic: 100-200 m.) is of Early Eocene age and contains elements of the Lower Eocene 3 faunas of northwestern Europe. 
1486094| The same specimens of Neobiscutum romeinii, Neobiscutum parvulum and Cruciplacolithus primus, with an average size of 2.0 m and deriving from the "type locality" of the Maastrichtian stage at ENCI quarry near Maastricht, The Netherlands, were documented both under the light microscope (LM) and the scanning electron microscope (SEM). The SEM micrographs with magnifications between 20K and 40K allow a precise recognition of all taxonomically relevant data. The LM illustrations, on the other hand, show little specks in most cases which do not always allow a correct classification. The limit of useful and accurate LM analysis is given by coccolith specimens with sizes over 2.5m. It is therefore necessary to use a SEM when researching smaller coccoliths. The variation of small Neobiscutum and Cruciplacolithus species is relatively high and the existing taxonomic classification seems still doubtful. A modified technique for SEM/LM same-specimen-interchange was applied in order to perform succesful microscopy. 
1486183|Rapidly increasing human populations are altering the Earth's environments at unprecedented rates. Major categories of anthropogenic change include increasing input of anthropogenic nutrients to aquatic systems, increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases, and ozone depletion. Foraminifera have recorded countless global change events in the geologic record, ranging from the subtle to mass extinction events. Taxa suspected to have harbored algal endosymbionts, particularly the larger benthic foraminifera and planktonic foraminifera characteristic of warm, shallow surface waters of the pelagic realm, have typically responded dramatically to environmental changes. The purpose of this paper is to explore why these foraminifera should be particularly susceptible to ongoing anthropogenically-induced global change, to examine some of the evidence that they are responding, and to make some predictions as to how their assemblages may respond in the 21st century and beyond. Benthic foraminiferal assemblages are known to be sensitive to coastal nutrification; large, symbiont-bearing foraminifera lose dominance to small, fast-growing herbivorous and detritivorous species when nutrient supply increases in tropical reef-associated environments. Symbiont-bearing benthic foraminifera also appear to be sensitive to increasing intensities of biologically-damaging ultraviolet radiation, exhibiting damage to symbionts, calcification and reproduction, as well as increased susceptibility to infestation and predation. On the other hand, the larger rotaliid and globigerinid taxa, which secrete low-Mg calcite shells, may fare well as atmospheric CO
10.2307/1485177| Nine conodont assemblages are described from the Kopanina, pdol (Upper Silurian), and lower Lochkov (Lower Devonian) Formations at the Porech Quarry, Czechoslovakia. The assemblage Ozarkodina remscheidensis eosteinhornensis (Ziegler) exhibits an evolutionary relationship in the P element from Spathognathodus snajdri Walliser to S. steinhornensis eosteinhornensis Walliser to S. steinhornensis remscheidensis Ziegler. A quantitative analysis of characters (Walliser, 1964) is used to differentiate remscheidensis from eosteinhornensis. S. remscheidensis succeeds eosteinhornensis at Porech Quarry 5.4 to 10 m. above the Silurian-Devonian boundary, but only remscheidensis is present in contemporaneous strata in New York and Nevada. These subspecies, as defined by the Walliser characteristics, are thus geographic variants of each other and cannot be used for time correlations. The assemblage subspecies Ozarkodina remscheidensis snajdri is newly described. 
10.2307/1486049| Benthic foraminiferal assemblages in Holocene sedimentary sequences of 4 boreholes from the Bilbao estuary (Bay of Biscay, northern Spain) have been analyzed. Estuarine indigenous and open-sea exotic foraminifera have been distinguished in order to interpret the environments of deposition (inter/supratidal sand dune and beach, low marsh, brackish intertidal, near-marine intertidal and fresh water) with varying amounts of open-sea influence. Two distinct upward-shallowing sequences, with a variable succession of environments depending on the distance to the estuary entrance, have been identified ( 8000 BP and  3000 BP by comparison with other coastal deposits) and interpreted as showing episodic increase of sea level. 
1486058|Cannosphaeropsis quattrocchiae n. sp., from the Cenozoic of the Colorado Basin, resembles two other species, Cannosphaeropsis utinensis and Cannosphaeropsis passio, and has been confused with the former. However, separation of the three species, based in part on the location of the processes, allows for their use in refining Cenozoic stratigraphy and paleoecology. On present evidence, the last appearance datum of Cannosphaeropsis quattrocchiae appears to be early Miocene, whereas Cannosphaeropsis passio is known only from the mid Miocene. Cannosphaeropsis utinensis, primarily a late Cretaceous species, occurs occasionally in lower Paleocene sediments. Geographically, Cannosphaeropsis utinensis and Cannosphaeropsis passio are known only from the Northern Hemisphere, whereas Cannosphaeropsis quattrocchiae is known only from the Southern Hemisphere.
10.2307/1485501|Favocassidulina indica n. sp. is described from Late Oligocene to Early Pliocene deep sea sequences of the Indian Ocean.
10.2307/1485238|Some of the horizons from cores drilled at Deep Sea Drilling Project, Site 313 of Leg 32 yielded a diverse and extremely well-preserved Late Cretaceous radiolarian fauna in which 150 distinct morphotypes were noted. Approximately one-third of the 78 undescribed forms are considered herein. Twenty-five new species, 13 new genera, and 1 new family are defined; and a brief discussion of the morphologic criteria used to differentiate taxa is presented.
10.2307/1485229|Sixteen stratigraphically important species hitherto included in the Eocene genera Thyrsocyrtis and Theocotyle (with subgenera Theocotyle and Theocotylissa) are re-examined to clarify their morphologic variability and limits, and the new species Thyrsocyrtis lochites is described. The genuslevel classification is here modified by raising Theocotylissa to generic status, and by using the subgenus Pentalacorys within the genus Thyrsocyrtis to segregate the species with large abdominal pores. Hybridization may be the cause of some morphologic features common to both Thyrsocyrtis (T.) rhizodon and Thyrsocyrtis (Pentalacorys) triacantha, through a portion of their stratigraphic range.
10.2307/1484268|Sixty-two species of Ostracoda have been recorded from the Brasso formation of central Trinidad. One genus, ten species, and one subspecies are described as new. The upper part of the Brasso formation is tentatively correlated with beds of the Choctawhatchee stage in Florida.
4499773|In the Thamad area, east central Sinai, two stratigraphic sections are measured and sampled; Gebel El Mishiti and G. El Keeh, in order to determine the nannofossil biostratigrapy of the Paleocene-lower Eocene rocks. Gebel El Mishiti section is considered one of the most complete sections across the K/P boundary in Egypt where all the exposed rocks at G. El Keeh belong to the lower Eocene Egma Formation. A nearly complete sucession of Paleocene nannofossil biozones is recorded from the Esna Formation at G. El Mishiti. They are arranged from base to top as follows: Markalius inversus (NP1), Cruciplacolithus tenuis (NP2), Chiasmolithus danicus (NP3), Ellipsolithus macellus (NP4), Fascicu tympaniformis (NP5), Helio kleinpellii (NP6), Discoaster mohleri (NP7/8) and Discoaster multiradiatus (NP9) zones. The Danian/Selandian boundary is located at the base of Zone NP5 at the level of the first appearance of Fasciculithus taxa. The Selandian/Thanetian boundary can be traced tentatively at the base of the Discoaster mohleri Zone (NP7/8). The Paleocene/Eocene boundary is traced between the NP9a/NP9b subzonal boundary which is marked by the first appearances of Discoaster araneus, Rhomboaster calcitrapa, R. bitrifida and R.cuspis. The Paleocene /Eocene boundary lies within the upper part of the Esna Formation. A very thin layer of conglomeratic chalk with no paleontological break is located between Zone NP9 and NP10. However, a very short nannofossil break is noted within Zone NP10 (subzones NP10b and NP10c are missing) which is overlain by Zone NPI11. The lower part of the latter covers the topmost part of the Esna Formation where its upper part lies within the base of the Egma Formation; therefore, a conformable relationship between the two formations is suggested. At Gebel El Mishiti, the lower Eocene nannofossil biozones NP11, NP12, NP13 and lower/middle Eocene Zone NP14 are recorded. On the other hand, Gebel El Keeh section, which is about 95m thick is only represented by the Discoaster sublodoensis Zone (NP14).
30135286|Seventy-three ostracode species from 38 genera were recovered from the 55 surface sediment samples in Ltzow-Holm Bay, northeastern Antarctica. We investigated bathymetric and geographic distributions of modern benthic ostracode species in the bay and compared this fauna with published modern and fossil ostracode data of Antarctic and southern South American regions. The results show: (1) Four biotopes and three sub-biotopes are recognized based on Q-mode cluster analysis, which suggest distributions of modern ostracodes are mainly controlled by water-mass structure, ice scouring, and light availability. (2) Comparison between the Ltzow-Holm Bay fauna and other ostracode faunas from Antarctica and southern South America shows high endemism and homogeneity of Antarctic ostracode fauna, suggesting in situ evolution of most extant Antarctic species. (3) Most species are endemic to the Antarctica, a few species also inhabit South American waters.
10.2307/1485609|The ontogenetic patterns of skeletal development that may account for variations in morphology of the mature skeleton during evolution of Lamprocyrtis heteroporos to L. nigriniae and L. heteroporos to L. gamphonycha have been determined using scanning electron microscopy. Ontogenetic patterns of development are inferred from examination of mature stages exhibiting features characteristic of rim growth or bridge growth. The characteristic differences in pore size and shape between the cephalo-thoracic segments (round pores with thick rims) and third segment (polygonal pores with thin, bar-like rims) in mature specimens of L. heteroporos are explained by differences in ontogenetic growth patterns. A process of rim growth during deposition of the first two segments produces the nearly circular pores and wide rims in the cephalo-thoracic regions. This is followed by bridge-growth during formation of the third segment producing large, polygonal pores with thin bars. The septal ring at the juncture of the second and third segment is the terminal apertural rim deposited at the orifice of the second segment before bridge growth commences. The gradual shift toward more polygonal pores throughout the skeleton and the loss of the septal ring during evolution toward L. nigriniae is explained by increasing amounts of bridge growth occurring during morphogenesis of the cephalo-thoracic segments. This is further exemplified by the bridge-like buttresses supporting the offset apical spine in L. nigriniae. These analyses of ontogenetic growth patterns combined with classical methods of analyzing mature skeletons of fossil radiolaria may yield significant additional information in elucidating phylogenetic pathways and discriminating among species.
10.2307/1484420|The scattered data on the Miogypsinidae in Algeria are reviewed, and their relationships with the planktonic foraminifera of the Oligo-Miocene are established. The main points of this correlation are found to conform to earlier assumptions established elsewhere. The stratigraphic succession of the miogypsinid species is compared with that in other regions of the western Mediterranean.
10.2307/1484875| Data from an analysis of deep-sea cores from beneath the California Current indicate that five faunal changes occur at or slightly above the lithologic Pleistocene-Holocene boundary off San Francisco and Los Angeles, California, but generally below this boundary near Cedros Island, Baja California. The mean temperature increase at the end of the Pleistocene, based upon the present relationship between sea-surface temperature ranges and their modern planktonic foraminiferal indices, was 5C near Cedros Island, 9C off Los Angeles, and 5C off San Francisco. A period of seasonal warming during the early Wisconsin has been identified off Los Angeles. Warming is indicated by all faunal criteria except the radiolarian number and the coiling direction of Globorotalia (Turborotalia) pachyderma which appear to characterize the southward flowing California Current, whereas the other criteria are more strongly influenced by the northward flowing Davidson Current. 
10.2307/1485831|The study of palynomorph assemblages is often hindered by the poor preservation of specific types of grains. Particularly subject to degradation are bisaccate pollen grains with many specimens showing damage, especially on the sacs. To test if the damage could be caused by bacterial activity, modern pollen grains were added to anaerobic bacteria isolated from produced bitumens and waters of the Cretaceous Mannville Group of central Alberta. It was found that these bacteria damaged the pollen grains, especially the sacs, and produced structures similar to those found on fossil grains recovered from the Clearwater Formation at Cold Lake, Alberta. Fossil palynomorphs therefore appear to have the potential to be used to monitor the activity of bacteria within oil fields.
10.2307/1485164|Approximately fifty radiolarian species, four of them new, and the new genus Tepka are recorded from twenty-five Miocene and Pliocene localities in Italy and Majorca. Their stratigraphic distribution shows similarities to that in tropical Pacific sequences. Stratigraphically restricted diatoms, silicoflagellates and calcareous nannofossils in the same samples provide additional data for the stratigraphic ordering of the samples, and permit correlation of the zonations of the several microfossil groups in the Mediterranean region.
10.2307/1484424|Two genera, one of which is proposed as new, and two new species of plant spores found in a core from Esso Standard's (Libya), Inc. well Atshan No. 1-1, State of Fezzan, Libya, are described. Graptolites dated as "high" Lower Silurian are encountered in the material containing the spores.
10.2307/1484621| Modern tropical planktonic foraminiferal species are abundant and diverse; warm-temperate-zone species are sparse and diverse; and the cool-temperate and polar areas have an extreme abundance of very few species. Keeled Globorotalias are restricted to water temperatures higher than about 170 C., nonkeeled Globorotalias to waters warmer than about 90 C., and no Globorotalias occur in the polar regions. Large heavy tests of planktonic species indicate bathyal environments. Keeled Globorotalias developed in the Paleocene, declined in the Middle Eocene, increased again in the Burdigalian, and continued to dominate into the Recent. Globigerinoides triloba first appeared at the base of the Aquitanian, Orbulina at the base of the Burdigalian, Globorotalia menardii near the top of the Burdigalian, and Sphaeroidinella dehiscens at the base of the Pliocene. These criteria are used to define Cenozoic zonation. Figures and ranges of important Cenozoic planktonic foraminifera are referred to the European geologic time scale combined with absolute chronology. Planktonic zonation for the Cenozoic is considered to have general world-wide uniformity and thus provides a means of recognizing the standard European stages in open marine deeper-water facies of tropical areas of the world. 
4097073|Fosillized solid specimens can be identified as Coptocampylodon lineolatus Elliott 1963 in Middle Eocene clastic deep-sea sediments of Istria. Despite their homogenous composition and cylindrical shape with longitudinal ribs radiating from rounded poles, which are features commonly observed in coprolites, they have commonly been considered as "incertae sedis". Chemical analysis reveals close similarity between the fossilized specimen and the host marl. These characteristics clearly indicate that the fossilized specimens are coprolites of a deposit feeding, and most probably an invertebrate organism.
30135283|Middle-Upper Permian conodont biostratigraphy was examined in a major carbonate section and two auxilliary carbonate sections at Maoershan, Hubei, South China. We recognized ten conodont zones across the Guadalupian-Lopingian boundary (GLB) in these sections consisting of the Jinogondolella shannoni Zone, J. altudaensis Zone, J. xuanhanensis Zone, J. grand Zone, Clarkina postbitterihongshuiensis Zone, C. postbitteripostbitteri Zone, C. dukouensis Zone, C. asymmetricaZone, C. guangyuanensis Zone, and C. transcaucasica Zone in ascending order. This succession corresponds well with the Global Stratotype Section and Point (GSSP) of the GLB at Penglaitan Section, Guangxi, South China. The present biostratigraphic work on Maoershan sections certainly confirmed the conodont zonations through the GLB at the GSSP and also testified the correctness of the GLB demarcation in Maoershan sections. The transition from Jinogondolella-dominated faunas in Guadalupian to Clarkina-dominated faunas in the Lopingian is recognized in Clarkina postbitteri hongshuiensis zone where there is an overlap of Clarkina and Jinogondolella species.
10.2307/1485253| Examination of 200 ditch samples from Linckens Island Well P-46 (lat. 77 45 47.041 N, long. 97 45 26.525 W), Arctic Archipelago, Canada, resulted in the identification of 200 species of foraminifera, most of which are illustrated. Based on various diagnostic species, 12 zones and 15 subzones are defined. These range in age from the Norian Stage (Upper Triassic) to the Valanginian Stage (Lower Cretaceous). This analysis assisted in the recognition of eight rock units which are paleoecologically characterized. A tentative biostratigraphic correlation with Panarctic-Gulf Dumbbells E-49 on Ellef Ringnes Island is presented. 
10.2307/1485884|From a sandstone layer of the basal Nogales Formation (Campanian to Maastrichtian) of Colombia (South America) the new crustacean microcoprolite Palaxius caucaensis is described. It represents the first finding of these microfossils in Cretaceous beds in South America.
4097093|Seven extant and two fossil species within the family Asterolampraceae were studied with light and electron microscopy. The sequence of stages in valve morphogenesis was determined for those species where presumably developing valves were found. Occasionally valves from sibling cells were found still attached to one another, as they had been within the mother frustule during the process of cell division, giving evidence that forming, not eroding valves were being observed. Hollow rays are the most distinctive feature of genera in this family and appear to be formed by the marginal fusion of "tuning fork"-like structures emanating from a central or eccentric annulus. Rimoportulae, formerly termed labiate processes because of their lip-like internal structure, form at the marginal end of the rays where the "tines" of the forks apparently fuse. The structure of cribra, coverings over the loculate areolae, is very different in the species studied and we show the mode of development also varies.
10.2307/1484209|Victoriella "plecte" (Chapman) is synonymous with "Carpenteria" conoidea Rutten. "Rhynchospira" abnormis Hantken also belongs to Victoriella. The Carpenteria rotaliformis species-group indicates relationship of Carpenteria to Victoriella and Eorupertia. These genera, together with the new late Eocene pseudoplanispiral genus Maslinella, make up the Victoriellidae; Hofkerina is excluded. They show bilamellid wall structure, as described by Reiss. The family originated with Eorupertia (Eocene). Victoriella is rare in the late Eocene and widespread in the Oligocene to Aquitanian.
10.2307/1485942| DNA was extracted from seven different morphotypes of Glabratella spp. collected at the French littoral zone of the Mediterranean Sea. A fragment of 400 bp situated at the 5 terminal region of the large subunit ribosomal RNA gene was amplified and sequenced. Two different sequences were obtained grouping respectively three and four of the morphotypes, thus allowing distinction of two species. Each of the species included morphologically different agamont and gamont life cycle generations. The species were identified as Glabratella erecta (Sidebottom) and Glabratella elegantissima (Sidebottom) based on differences in size and form of the agamont test. This is a pilot study of the use of molecular taxonomy in foraminifera. This paper is dedicated to the late Professor Paul Brnnimann (1913-1993), for the enthusiasm and encouragement he always expressed towards our research on molecular evolution and taxonomy of foraminifera. 
40607114|The silicoflagellate taxa obtained in IODP Expedition 302 (ACEX) were identified and counted in order to establish the silicoflagellate biostratigraphy in the central Arctic Ocean. These microfossils in the ACEX samples were preserved in the Lithology Units 1/6 and 2, which are dark silty clay and biosiliceous ooze, respectively. The silicoflagellate skeletons in the ACEX samples are assigned to 56 taxa. Seven taxa were described as new species, which were abundant in Lithology Unit 2. Comparison with several study cases outside the Eocene Arctic Ocean suggested that the silicoflagellate assemblages in ACEX were unique in Lithology Unit 2. The dominance of silicoflagellate taxa varied throughout the lithological section. Based on the cluster analysis by Morishita similarity index C, the silicoflagellate assemblages were divided into nine assemblage groups. The silicoflagellate datum event of the first occurrence of Corbisema hexacantha in the lower part of Lithology Unit 1/6 is regarded. Based on the datum events for silicoflagellate and palynomorphs, the assigned epoch of Lithology Units 1/6 and 2 is the middle Eocene.
10.2307/1484834|The Albian organic microplankton of the Moesic Platform is described for the first time. A total of 22 species of dinoflagellates and acritarchs, some of them accompanied by short taxonomic comments, are reported. Possibilities of stratigraphic utilization of the species and of correlation of similar species from Europe and Australia are pointed out.
10.2307/1485766| Radiolarians were studied in 11 box-cores (142 samples in total, obtained at 3cm intervals) retrieved in the western (160E), central (135W) and eastern (90W) equatorial Pacific. The western and central cores span the last ca. 40,000 years, while the eastern core is estimated to reach approx. 12,000-17,000 years. Time-averaged data show very sharp assemblage composition differences between the three locales. Species dominant at the westernmost sites are indicative of warm, oligotrophic conditions; thanatocoenoses from 135W suggest strong input of California Current radiolarians; while the easternmost core hosts assemblages which point to a significant influence of the Peru Current. Downcore changes in the proportions of these three characteristic groups of species are inconclusive in the westernmost cores. In the central area the steady upcore increase in shells presumably advected from the northeastern Pacific, and the concomitant decrease of warmer-water radiolarians, indicate a growing influence of advection from the California Current. In the easternmost core colder-water indicators decrease from bottom to top, while those indicative of warmer waters increase, suggesting a gradual waning of advection from the Peru Current. It is concluded that, in the central and eastern parts of the equatorial Pacific belt, radiolarian distributional patterns in the sediments and their shifts during the last millennia respond chiefly to environmental conditions at depths in excess of 50m (rather than to sea surface temperature), and to subsurface and deep lateral advection of shells from eastern boundary current areas. 
4097033|During the mid-Pleistocene Transition (MPT), 2 families, 14 genera and 41 species of benthic foraminifera (Extinction Group) declined in abundance (8-12 % of early Pleistocene benthic foraminiferal fauna) and finally disappeared at mid-bathyal depths in the Caribbean Sea (ODP Site 1000A, 916m depth), as part of the global extinction of at least 73 deep-water species at this time. At this site, the final phase of pulsed glacial decline, partial interglacial recoveries (0.8-0.67 Ma), and final extinction (0.58 Ma) was essentially the same as the youngest level so far documented elsewhere (0.57 Ma). Extinction Group specimens had smaller average sizes during periods of decline than during favorable periods with higher abundances. Census counts on different size fractions indicate that this extinction event is best recorded by studies of shells in the
10.2307/1484346|The effect of environment on the distribution of plants is illustrated by a map showing the major types of vegetation on the North American continent. The vegetational units are controlled by climate, but the vegetation also reacts upon the climate. Extensive studies of Tertiary floras in the western United States by W. R. Chaney, D. I. Axelrod, and other authors show that the floras migrated and became more varied in response to climatic changes. These changes in the Tertiary floras are shown by fossil pollen and spores as well as by plant macrofossils.
10.2307/1486039|The dinoflagellate distribution in two Teratan-lower Haumurian (Coniacian-Campanian) sections at Ben More Stream and Kekerengu River (south Marlborough, New Zealand) is documented and discussed, and a new zonation scheme proposed. The Conosphaeridium striatoconum Zone of Wilson (1984) and the Odontochitina porifera Zone of Wilson (1984) are proposed as new Superzones. The C. striatoconum Superzone is subdivided into three new zones: Chlamydophorella ambigua Interval Zone, Cymososphaeridium benmorense Interval Zone and Conosphaeridium abbreviatum Interval Zone. Four Australian dinoflagellate zones are recognized in the sections: Odontochitina porifera Interval Zone of Helby et al. (1987), Isabelidinium cretaceum Zone of Evans (1971), Nelsoniella aceras Zone of Evans (1971) and Satyrodinium haumuriense Zone of Marshall (1990). A correlation of the two sections with international stages based on key dinoflagellates and supported by previous work on inoceramid bivalves dates the sections as middle Coniacian to early Campanian. The Teratan-Piripauan stage boundary can be placed in the uppermost Coniacian and the Piripauan-Haumurian stage boundary in the upper Santonian. Six new dinoflagellate species are present in the sections: Batiacasphaera kekerengensis n. sp., Batiacasphaera rugulata n. sp., Cymososphaeridium benmorense n. sp., Eucladinium kaikourense n. sp., Glaphyrocysta marlboroughensis n. sp. and Kleithriasphaeridium secatum n. sp.
10.2307/1485056|Paleontological and paleomagnetic studies of 59 Antarctic piston cores have revealed the existence during the Brunhes Magnetic Interval of a very shallow (400-meter) calcium carbonate compensation depth in the Ross Sea. Above this depth, foraminiferal faunas of Brunhes age are dominantly calcareous. Calcareous foraminiferal faunas found below 400 meters appear to be entirely relict, mostly of Gauss Magnetic Interval age. Brunhes foraminiferal faunas below 400 meters are largely arenaceous. A widespread disconformity separates Gauss and Brunhes sediments in the Ross Sea. The presence of Globocassidulina crassa rossensis distinguishes calcareous faunas of Brunhes age. A common constituent of Gauss faunas, G. biora, appears to be the ancestor of G. crassa rossensis. Depth zones based on benthic foraminifera of Brunhes age closely resemble those recognized by previous investigators. Five depth assemblages of calcareous benthic foraminifera with upper boundaries at < 400 meters, 650 meters, 900 meters, 1200 meters and 1800 meters can be recognized for Gauss age sediments in the Ross Sea. An increase in abundance of planktonic foraminifera in sediments younger than the Gauss may be the result of increased productivity caused by the more vigorous oceanic circulation associated with cooler climates.
10.2307/1484918|The fossil dinoflagellate genus Omatia Cookson and Eisenack, 1958, is emended, and one new species, Omatia butticula, is described. The species Omatia pisciformis is removed from the genus Omatia and placed in the new genus Herendeenia. These two species were recovered from the Lower Cretaceous Herendeen Limestone and equivalent strata on the Alaska Peninsula.
23250460|Late Carboniferous and early Permian Ostracoda from the Appalachian Basin include nonmarine genera that reveal taxonomically valuable information. Coal and mudrock beds from Pennsylvania and West Virginia yielded well preserved specimens of Paleodarwinula hollandi (Scott 1944), Whipplella cuneiformis Holland 1934, Gutschickia deltoidea (Holland 1934), G. ninevehensis (Holland 1934), and Hildboldtina magnitata (Holland 1934). Previously undocumented adductor muscle scars, anterior spines, and external patterns of reticulation confirm that these nonmarine genera are distinct and suggest potential connections to the Darwinulocopina and Metacopina. Additionally, the stratigraphic range of the nonmarine assemblage highlights the potential biostratigraphic zonation for Carboniferous and Permian deposits in North America.
10.2307/1485286|Seventeen species of planktic foraminifers are identified from the marl beds of the Tuscahoma Sand, Wilcox Group in southwest Alabama. Four have not been reported previously from Alabama. The occurrence of Planorotalites pseudomenardii (Bolli) in the unnamed lower Tuscahoma marls places these beds in the Late Paleocene Planorotalites pseudomenardii Range Zone. The Greggs and Bells Landing Marl Members contain a diverse assemblage of planktic foraminifers including Morozovella velascoensis (Cushman). The presence of M. velascoensis and the absence of P. pseudomenardii put these marls in the latest Paleocene Morozovella velascoensis Interval Zone. The Bashi Marl Member of the Hatchetigbee Formation is retained in the earliest Eocene Morozovella subbotinae Interval Zone. Based on the stratigraphic distribution of planktic foraminifers in southwest Alabama, the Paleocene-Eocene boundary occurs above the top of the Bells Landing Marl Member of the Tuscahoma Sand and probably in the basal part of the Bashi Marl Member of the Hatchetigbee Formation.
10.2307/1485895|Analysis of articulation/disarticulation ratio, size and shape of ostracodes combined with the original grainsize, fabric and pore size of the sediment (a well washed carbonate sand of early Wenlock age) indicates that some of the ostracodes lived interstitially in the sediment.
10.2307/1485632|X-ray diffraction analysis of jaws from representatives of five families of eunicean polychaetes indicates that three different types of mineralization are represented. Aragonite is reported for the first time from species within the families Onuphidae and Eunicidae. Jaws of species in the Lumbrineridae are mineralized with calcite, as are those of Lysarete. Other lysaretids and members of the Arabellidae have jaws which are amorphous to x-rays, as are those of the unrelated glycerids and nereidids. In combination with other morphological characters, the mineralogy of the jaws is a useful taxonomic character within the superfamily Eunicea at the family level. The calcified jaws and those of the nereidids are weakly sclerotized, and may have relatively low fossilization potential. This may explain the relative rarity of polychaete jaws in post-Devonian rocks in contrast to the abundance of jawed polychaetes in the modern oceans.
10.2307/1485080|A study of the foraminiferal content of samples of the shelf sediments off Pentakota on the east coast of India reveals that the outer shelf sediments at depths greater than 90 meters contain an abundant shallow-water warm-water benthonic fauna. A 70-cm. core taken from a depth of about 150 meters in the same area consists of oolitic sediments in the lower 45 cm. and silty clays in the upper 25 cm. The oolitic sediments of the core abound in shallow-water warm-water benthonic fossils. A comparison of the faunas in the core and in the surface sediments of the sea floor is made, and the extent of the relict fauna of the outer shelf sediments is evaluated. After the elimination of the relict elements from population counts, the living population of the sediments of the modern time surface is divided into three depth zones, ranging from 0 to 15 meters, from 15 to 40-45 meters, and greater than 40-45 meters. Sediments and fresh water discharged into the Bay of Bengal by the Godavari River to the south of Pentakota and carried northward along the coast and northeastward into deeper waters off Pentakota are found to inhibit the development of populations within the area of their influence.
30136847|We report twin and triplet forms of Recent benthic foraminifers from the southwestern coasts of Antalya (SW Turkey). Biological influences are possibly the primary cause for abnormal morphologies During foraminifer reproduction, the number of individuals occupying the reproduction cyst, duration of the delay before the breaking of the cyst and the size of the cyst are all likely causes for the formation of twins, triplets and quadruplets. Thus, we assume that twins, triplets and quadruplet test formation in benthic foraminifers in our study area are caused by developmental accidents, and are not necessarily related to physical and chemical pressures from the environment.
10.2307/1484240|Four genera, Praeglobotruncana, Planomalina, Globigerinella, and Biglobigerinella, are shown to be different developmental stages of single biological units. Three of these units can be followed in their development passing through these artificial "genera," the stages having been named as different artificial "species." One unit began and ended in the Albian; a second one began in the Albian and ended in the upper Maestrichtian; and a third one began in the Danian and has not yet fully ended in the Recent. Such artificial genera have no taxonomic value, and appear to be totally invalid.
10.2307/1485293|We have determined Na/Ca, Mg/Ca, Sr/Ca, Al/Ca and Cl/Na atom ratios in about sixty samples of individual species of planktonic foraminifera. Na/Ca and Sr/Ca ratios are constant in different tests of one species, but Mg/Ca ratios show considerable variability. Data indicate that Na and Sr are distributed homogeneously throughout the tests, while Mg is distributed heterogeneously. Na/Ca, Mg/Ca and Sr/Ca ratios of different species from an Upper Pleistocene assemblage from the Tasman Sea covary, with shallow-living species having the highest ratios. Atom ratios of Recent North Atlantic Globigerinoides sacculifer (Brady) and G. ruber (d'Orbigny) samples do not show any clear-cut temperature dependence. It appears that at one location atom ratios increase with temperature or a temperature-related factor, and that over a broad geographical area variables other than temperature affect trace element abundance.
10.2307/1485931|This report will deal with the proposed new radiolarian subfamily Retentactiniinae from the Upper Devonian Gogo Formation, which is exposed in the Canning basin of Western Australia. The subfamily is characterized by a spongy shell and internal spicule with apophyses. It includes 9 genera and 44 species, of which 7 genera, Apophysisphaera, Plenoentactinia, Retentactinia, Retisphaera, Spongosphaera, Duodecimentactinia, Multientactinia and (including new species of Spongentactinia Nazarov 1975 and Provisocyntra Nazarov and Ormiston 1987) 38 species are new.
10.2307/1485311|A taxonomic confusion of the genera Actinomma, Echinomma, Cromyomma, and Cromyechinus exists and a lumping of these genera is suggested, where Actinomma serves as the senior synonym for this revised genus. Actinomma haysi is described as a new species, and the variation in the size of the cortical test seems to define two geographical provinces. The Subtropical Convergence in the South Atlantic seems to be the borderline between two populations of this species, where the size of the test is significantly larger in the population south of the convergence.
10.2307/1485028|In the course of palynological research on Rhaetic-Liassic dark claystones, a previously unknown genus, incertae sedis, was found; in two samples were several examples of the genus, herein namedz Carpatochitinoides, n. gen., with Carpatochitinoides bilinguis, n. sp., as type species. The characteristic form is rosette-shaped, constructed of variously elongate rays, which are composed of a chitinous substance. The type species is described from a study of the structure under the scanning electron microscope.
10.2307/1485734| The diatoms of Arthur Harbor, Antarctica (6446S, 6406W) were studied for 14 months, from December 1971 to January 1973. Phytoplankton standing crop was negligible during the winter, due to lack of sunlight, occasional sea ice cover, and lack of sunlight, occasional sea ice cover, and instability of the water column. Cryophilic diatoms released during the spring melting of sea ice served as an inoculum for later phytoplankton blooms. The temporal distribution of phytoplankton standing crop in Arthur Harbor during the austral summer was trimodal, resulting from disruption of intense vertical stability by offshore winds. Glacial runoff, melting sea ice, and a well-developed thermocline were instrumental in stabilizing the water column during the austral summer. The end of the summer growing season in March and April coincided with vertical mixing and decreasing sunlight intensity and duration. Phytoplankton species diversity (richness) changed little during the year, but species equitability declined noticeably during blooms. Cluster analysis of phytoplankton samples revealed that there were three assemblages: 1) a "seed" assemblage during the winter-spring months, 2) a summer bloom assemblage, and 3) a fall bloom assemblage. The seed assemblage gave rise to the other assemblages through the preferential growth of certain species. This preferential growth was responsible for the observed succession and distinctiveness of the phytoplankton assemblages. Intertidal and shallow subtidal phytomicrobenthos attained an enormous standing crop during the austral summer and contributed many tychopelagic forms to the water column through the year. 
10.2307/1485407|Coralline algae are highly abundant in the Miocene (Tortonian) Tziqlag (official Hebrew transliteration is Ziqlag) Formation as skeletal grains and as crusts in growth position. Twenty-one taxa are described, most of which belong to the crustose coralline group (Melobesioideae). Lithophyllum is the dominant genus in the Tziqlag Formation, Lithoporella and Mesophyllum are fairly abundant, but Archaeolithothamnium and Lithothamnium are relatively rare. The articulated corallines (Corallineae) are represented by the single genus Corallina. The distribution of the various taxa has a paleoenvironmental significance. Notably, Mesophyllum laffittei occurs in the fore-reef area as coarse rhodoliths and free branches.
10.2307/1486120|The palynomorph content of surface samples from a sea-land transect in a small coastal basin was analysed, in order to characterise palynologically the sedimentary subenvironments and vegetation types. These results should provide the basis for the interpretation of further palaeoecological analyses on stratigraphical samples from the same site. The main vegetation types are mangroves, swamps, Cocos plantations and abandoned crops, arranged in a zonal pattern. All the palynomorph types found were recorded and counted, including pollen, fern and allied spores, fungi spores and unknown remains (probably algal material and animal parts). Both general and individual trends of these palynomorphs followed the main vegetation patterns, and both zonal sea-land arrangement of plant communities and their disturbance patterns were reproduced by them. Furthermore, particular types were found to be direct or indirect indicators of given plant zones and local disturbance. Detrended correspondence analysis allowed definition of the sedimentary attraction domains for the involved communities and ordination of both samples and palynomorphs with respect to them. The results are encouraging for palaeoecological studies, since the main key environmental and vegetational patterns are reflected by the palynomorphs of surface sediments. Limitations are also discussed.
10.2307/1484249|On the basis of foraminifera, New Zealand Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary stages are correlated with the international time scale as follows: Haumurian with Maestrichtian; Teurian with Danian; Waipawan with Paleocene; Mangaorapan and Heretaungan with Lower Eocene; Porangan and Bortonian with Middle Eocene; Kaiatan and Runangan with Upper Eocene; Whaingaroan and Duntroonian with Lower Oligocene; Waitakian with Middle Oligocene; Otaian with Upper Oligocene (Chattian); Hutchinsonian and Awamoan with Upper Oligocene or Lower Miocene; Altonian with Lower Miocene (Aquitanian); Clifdenian with upper Aquitanian or Burdigalian; Lillburnian and Waiauan with Middle Miocene; Tongaporutuan and Kapitean with Upper Miocene; Opoitian and Waitotaran with Pliocene. There is as yet no microfaunal evidence for the Pliocene-Pleistocene boundary in New Zealand. Some pelagic foraminifera described by Finlay from New Zealand are refigured, and notes, including descriptions and a proposal of a new species of Paleocene Globigerina are appended.
10.2307/1485209|The large, lobate Campano-Maastrichtian Afrobolivina afra Reyment, a specialized bolivinid with septate camerae, occurs in great abundance in Nigeria. Excellently preserved material from the borehole Gbekebo 2 in western Nigeria provides a valuable insight into the variation in pore size and distribution of this species and also the structure of the septa, which are not simple continuations of the cameral lobes. The following kinds of pores occur, in order of increasing coarseness: (a) very fine pores in the cameral roof, very irregularly distributed; (b) crater pores in the cameral roof, irregularly distributed; (c) coarse pores, occurring mostly in the lobes, some of which are "countersunk", honeycombing the lower halves of the chambers and the lower two-thirds of the cameral lobes. Coarse pores occur rarely in the septa. The coarse pores are more regularly distributed than those of the other two categories.
10.2307/1484934|The population of the planktonic foraminiferal species Globigerinoides ruber from sediments in the northwest Gulf of Mexico changes considerably in character in basinward traverses. One variety of G. ruber may belong to a group of planktonic foraminifera which are allochthonous to the Gulf. Some of the delicate structures of G. ruber which are rare in fossil specimens may imply rapid biologic sedimentation, where they are prevalent in populations from marine sediments.
30135287|Lower Early Cambrian rocks of the Pedroche Formation in the Sierra de Crdoba consist of well-exposed mixed facies with abundant fossil assemblages showing long stratigraphical ranges. These assemblages include diverse Ovetian archaeocyaths, trilobites, small shelly fossils, calcimicrobia, trace fossils, and stromatolites. For the ostracod-like Cambriidae it is the first record from the Iberian Peninsula. Cordubiella pedrochensis n.gen. n.sp. comes from two sections of the lower Pedroche Formation: the Arroyo de Pedroche 1 section, and the Arroyo Pedroche 2 section. The material was collected in the zone of Lemdadella perejoni, of lower Ovetian age. It supplements both biostratigraphic and palaeobiogeographic distribution of the Cambriidae, which may be an important tool for the international correlation in the middle Lower Cambrian.
10.2307/1485392|A new technique is described in which diatom suspensions are deposited by aerosol with a spray pipe onto gelatine film, thus locating the specimens and allowing study under both light microscope and scanning electron microscope. Various methods for relocating specimens during examination in the two microscopes are discussed.
10.2307/1485349|Seventeen predominantly freshwater ostracode species, including 5 new taxa, are recorded from the Lake Flirt Formation (Pleistocene), exposed along the Caloosahatchee River, Florida. Eight sections within a lateral distance of 10 km. and with a thickness ranging up to 1.5 m thick, were measured and sampled every 5 cm. The medial, marly part of each section provided an abundant ostracode fauna. Three species, Cyprideis salebrosa van den Bold, Physocypria denticulata (Daday) and Limmocythere floridensis Keyser, together make up an average of 86% of the ostracode fauna. Cyprideis salebrosa is most common in the lower part of each section and is progressively replaced upward by P. denticulata and L. floridensis. This inverse relationship suggests initial oligohaline conditions grading upward to mesohaline.
10.2307/1485020|Forty-five planktonic foraminiferal species and subspecies are recorded from the Middle Miocene Hut Bay Formation of Little Andaman Island, Bay of Bengal. Most of these are illustrated by scanning electron photomicrographs. The presence of the Globorotalia fohsi lobata- G. fohsi robusta plexus in association with the Globigerina druryi to G. nepenthes lineage in the Hut Bay Formation suggests that it correlates with the upper part of the Globorotalia fohsi lobata to the lower part of the Globorotalia fohsi robusta zones of Bolli (1957). It is also referable to Zone N. 12, to the uppermost part of Zone N. 13, or to the base of Zone N. 14 of Blow (1969), and to the G. fohsi lobata Zone of Jenkins and Orr (1972).
10.2307/1485051|Fifty-three ostracode taxa from the Eocene beds of Rajasthan are described. Sixteen species and two subspecies are new. One species is renamed. The identifications of 21 taxa, previously described from Rajasthan and other areas, and also recorded in this work, are revised and brought up to date.
4499750|Enneadocysta is a biostratigraphically important Paleogene dinoflagellate cyst genus. Its original interpretation as a partiform gonyaulacoid (thus belonging to the gonyaulacalean suborder Cladopyxiineae) was based on the presence of two antapical processes. Another Paleogene genus, Areosphaeridium, is similar, at least superficially, to Enneadocysta, but has a single antapical process, placing it in the sexiform gonyaulacalean suborder Gonyaulacineae. The morphology of a new species of Enneadocysta from offshore eastern Canada, Enneadocysta magna, shows that the two antapical processes of the genus (unlike processes reflecting other plate series) are penitabular, not mesotabular, and indicates that the genus is gonyaulacinean, not cladopyxiinean. This new interpretation, as well as new material from southern Argentina, confirms the generic assignment of the Southern Hemisphere species Enneadocysta dictyostila (emended) and a new species, Enneadocysta brevistila. A new genus and species, Licracysta corymbus, from offshore eastern Canada is intermediate in morphology between Enneadocysta and Cleistosphaeridium and strongly suggests an assignment for all three genera to the gonyaulacinean family Areoligeraceae. The new combination Licracysta? semicirculata is questionably proposed, and the descriptive terms licrate, dolabrate, entire clypeate, ragged clypeate, intratabular, mesotabular, obtabular, contabular and nontabular are either proposed as new or reviewed.
10.2307/1484643|Investigation of well-preserved material from Saudi Arabia shows that the interior labyrinthine passages in the family Pfenderinidae Smout and Sugden, 1962, fall outside of rather than inside of the chamber cavities. The secondary infilling of the labyrinthine passages during the life of the individual, noted by Smout and Sugden as occurring among some members of the Pfenderinidae, is coupled with secondary deposition of shell material within the chamber cavities, and the presence or absence of these joint effects is taken as the basis for recognition of two-new subfamilies, the Pfenderininae and the Kurnubiinae. The formation of subcameral tunnels is discussed, and four new genera and ten new species of the Pfenderinidae are described from the Jurassic of Saudi Arabia.
10.2307/1485189|Albian-Cenomanian foraminiferids are recorded from a tuffaceous sandstone-mudstone unit (Kondaku Tuff and Chim Formation), which is exposed on the northern limb of the Kubor Anticline in the Central Highlands of Papua New Guinea. During the Cretaceous, this region was at the northern edge of the Australian continent. The fauna is dated by planktic species: "Ticinella" cf. primula of the middle and late Albian; Planomalina buxtorfi of the latest Albian to earliest Cenomanian; and Rotalipora aff. greenhornensis and R. aff. deeckei of the Cenomanian. Variation in relative abundance of siliceous textulariines is considered to be largely the result of dissolution of calcareous shells during sediment diagenesis. The original fauna apparently contained diverse textulariine-rotaliine assemblages which reflect warm, open-sea conditions perhaps on the upper continental slope. The benthic species are representative of the Marssonella Association and include many forms widely distributed in both Southern and Northern Hemispheres.
10.2307/1485718|A taxonomic analysis of Imbatodinium with reference to morphologically similar genera has been made. It has been determined that the mechanism of excystment is more complex than supposed hitherto, as a compound archeopyle is developed by the loss of three or four opercular pieces. A revised diagnosis for the genus incorporates this new information. One new species, Imbatodinium fractum, is described and two new combinations, I. pomum (Davey) and I. radiculatum (Davey), are proposed.
10.2307/1485061| The cell distribution and the community structure of coccolithophores in the photic water transect (0-200m.) along the 155 W meridian in the Pacific Ocean from 50 N to 15 S were studied from late August (northern stations) through early October (equatorial stations). Over 90 coccolithophore species were found in this profile. The vertical distribution pattern of cell number per unit volume of water was characteristic for each floral zone. The mapping of the species diversity index revealed a vertical and horizontal diversity structure in the photic profile. The per cent similarity index was computed to compare the specific content within horizontal or vertical suites of depth-levels or station. This index was most useful for the detection of discontinuities in floral assemblages in combination with conventional species-assemblage analysis. Objective biogeographic provinces of coccolithophores in the photic water column along the transect were proposed with the use of the available community values. 
10.2307/1485701|Radiolarians are useful paleoceanographic indicators in the Newport section of the Monterey Formation, Upper Newport Bay, California. The long-term stratigraphic changes (those lasting longer than 100,000 yr) in relative abundances of radiolarian taxa reflect a strong upwelling and temperature signal. Abundance fluctuations on shorter time scales (1000-100,000 yr) are also prominent in this section but more difficult to interpret. Taxa with modern equivalents living in cold, subsurface water increase in relative abundance during the late Miocene and dominate in the early Pliocene. These changes suggest that upwelling of cold, subsurface water increased during the deposition of the Monterey Formation. This paleoceanographic interpretation is consistent with isotopic data and lithologic studies, indicating an intensification of oceanic circulation and biological productivity around the north Pacific rim during the late Miocene.
10.2307/1486136| In the tropical Northeast Indian Ocean, Neogene sediments of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands belong to a deep water marine facies rich in Radiolaria. Within the Nicobar group of islands, moderately rich radiolarian assemblages from Nancowry and Kamorta islands have been studied. One-hundred-twenty species belonging to the Dorcadospyris alata Zone (15-13 Ma) are herein reported and illustrated. This is the first detailed record of Early Middle Miocene radiolarian taxa from land-based sections of Andaman-Nicobar Islands and it is hoped that it will provide a database for comparative studies between the tropical radiolarian faunas of the Pacific and Indian oceans. 
10.2307/1484168|The authors have found that Globigerinelloides algeriana Cushman and ten Dam, described from the Upper Cretaceous, is actually restricted to the Aptian, and shows affinities with Planulina cheniourensis Sigal. So far, this species has been found only in Algeria and in Tunisia.
10.2307/1485215|An attempt is made to describe all the known species of tropical Cenozoic Artostrobiidae. Six genera (one new) are defined and 27 species (four new) are described. Specific and generic relationships are suggested.
10.2307/1485542|One hundred seventeen species of benthic foraminifera are described from 11 surface sediment samples collected from the North Atlantic Ridge southwest of the Azores. Two major assemblages were recognized. The first was confined to a water depth ranging approximately from 500 to 1500 m. This assemblage was dominated by Epistominella exigua, Uvigerina auberiana, Planulina ariminensis and Trifarina bradyi. The deeper assemblage (2400-2800 m) was dominated by Eponides bradyi, Epistominella exigua and Bolivina pseudoplicata. Only one sample is present in the area between these depth zones. The two assemblages are confined to different bottom water masses, the North Atlantic Deep Water and the Antarctic Bottom Water, respectively. Seventy-two species are presented in a systematic catalogue.
10.2307/1485250|A method is presented for easily converting microscope stage coordinates from one microscope to another, when the numerical scales of one or both stage axes increase in opposite directions on the two microscopes.
10.2307/1484210|Four species of a new fossil microspore genus are described. Their resemblance to certain extra-Australian fossil and living microspores is noted.
10.2307/1485641|Eleven filtered surface water samples (10-20 liters) taken in the Caribbean Sea (December 1983) contain palynomorphs of terrestrial and marine origin. Terrestrial sporomorph concentrations range from 1400 to 19,500 grains per 100 liters, consistent with previous studies. These concentrations are primarily correlated with wind and water current patterns (both from approximately east at 5 m/sec and 0.6 m/sec, respectively), and secondarily correlated with distance from land. Results from one sample imply water transport is more important than wind transport. Morphotypes present include Pinus-Podocarpus, Gramineae, Compositae, Palmae, and fungal spores. Less common forms include pteridophyte spores, Rhizophora, plant structures (tracheids, cuticle), and acritarchs.
10.2307/1484803|Planktonic foraminifera collected in coastal waters off southern California were maintained in a healthy condition, floating in their containers with the support of elongate pseudopodia, for periods of up to three months. Simple techniques were used to culture these surprisingly hardy organisms.
10.2307/1484556|A procedure for separating pollen and spores from tar is described. It involves solution of the tar in naphtha, flotation of the dissolved tar on acetic acid and methyl alcohol, and decantation.
10.2307/1485451|The progressive cooling of high latitudes during the Neogene has resulted in a steepening of latitudinal temperature gradients and enhanced provincialization in oceanic plankton. A synthesis of planktonic foraminiferal data from all Atlantic DSDP sites from Legs 1 to 53 was used to monitor changes in biogeographic provinces as a function of changing paleoceanographic conditions for six intervals of time (Early Miocene, Middle Miocene, Late Miocene, Early Pliocene, Late Pliocene and Quaternary). The areal distributions of three different planktonic foraminiferal assemblages, interpreted as representing polar-subpolar, transitional, and tropical-subtropical assemblages, have been determined for each time interval. The most dramatic changes in the latitudinal position of the faunal boundaries occur during the Middle Miocene and Late Pliocene at the time of development of a permanent east Antarctic ice sheet and the initiation of Northern Hemisphere ice sheets. During both of these time periods there are significant equatorward migrations of the cool, high-latitude faunal provinces, and concomitant contractions of the tropical-subtropical province.
1486010|Two new spumellarian radiolarian genera, Mendacastrum and Domuzdagia, are described from the lower Tithonian and lower Pliensbachian respectively. Both have a spherical cortical shell of actinommid type and a spherical or subspherical double medullary shell with the inner medullary shell of hagiastrid s.l. type. The inner medullary shell of Mendacastrum is of dactyliosphaerid or higumastrid s. str. type, whereas that of Domuzdagia is of angulobracchiid type. Since they cannot be assigned to any described Mesozoic pyloniacean families, they are considered as type genera of two new families: Mendacastridae and Domuzdagiidae respectively.
4499784|Foraminiferal assemblages from four stratigraphic sections of the Trieste-Pazin basin in central Istria, Croatia (southwestern Tethyan realm) were investigated to reconstruct paleoenvironmental conditions and to determine the age of these deposits. The following five Middle Eocene planktonic foraminiferal zones were identified from the range and frequency of foraminiferal species: Globigerinatheka kugleri/Morozovella aragonensis Zone (E9), Acarinina topilensis Zone (E10), Morozovelloides lehneri Zone (E 11), Orbulinoides beckmanni Zone (E12), and Morozovelloides crassatus Zone (E13). A data set of benthic foraminifera relative frequency has been subjected to R- and Q-mode cluster analyses to demonstrate the linkage between taxa distribution and paleoenvironmental gradients. Benthic foraminiferal biofacies indicate that the environment evolved from an initially mesotrophic upper bathyal slope setting towards a deeper, more oligotrophic, middle bathyal setting influenced by turbidity currents. The oligotrophy was a result of the deepening processes, and a consequential decrease in organic flux. The documented short-term periods of eutrophic to mesotrophic conditions within the deeper oligotrophic regime might represent a paleoceanographic influence of water-masses from an adjacent basin to the northwest, thus recording its paleogeographic connection with the Trieste-Pazin basin during the Middle Eocene (Lutetian).
10.2307/1484452|Siphogenerinoides bentonstonei, n. sp., the oldest known representative of this genus, is listed from two localities in the Coniacian of central Colombia. It shows primitive characteristics in its small size, near-absence of a raised lip bordering the aperture, and in the development of a triserial stage in the megalospheric form.
10.2307/1484967|New data on the Jurassic genera Ventrolamina Weynschenk, 1950, and Protopeneroplis Weynschenk, 1950, provide additional evidence that the two genera are distinct and belong to different families. The belief of Farinacci (1964) that Ventrolamina is merely a section through the final chambers of Protopeneroplis is refuted.
10.2307/1484517|Thirty genera and 124 species and subspecies of Upper Cretaceous ostracodes collected from 132 localities in Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Georgia are described and illustrated. Two genera, forty-five species, and sixteen subspecies are new.
10.2307/1485582|Rattray described the marine fossil diatom Actinocyclus ingens as having an undulating valve with a concentric elevation around a central depression. Two other valve types are also observed in this species: a flat valve and a different undulate form that has a convex center. Apparently, these valve types may be arranged to form at least five different frustule types, which can be homovalvate or heterovalvate. These frustule types are grouped into three new forms within this species.
1486213| Drying of marine sediment samples is required to determine the number of foraminifers per g as an indication for paleoenvironmental changes. Our results show that oven-drying may lead to alteration of the stable oxygen isotope signal. The  <sup>18</sup>O values of Turborotalita quinqueloba (Natland) from dried samples are as much as 2.8 lighter than their equivalent from samples which were not dried before preparing. Differences in the isotopic composition of Bulimina aculeata (d'Orbigny) were less dramatic (<0.5). The drying as well altered the composition of benthic assemblages, thus oven-drying should be generally avoided. 
10.2307/1485101|The forms described as microfossils of unknown affinity and called Anellotubulata can be produced in vitro by a simple technique. Neither a biological origin of these structures nor any environmental conclusions based on them can be supported.
10.2307/1484660|Hastigerina digitata Rhumbler, 1911, Hastigerinella Cushman, 1927 (type species Hastigerina digitata Rhumbler), and Hastigerinella rhumbleri Galloway, 1933, are shown to be taxonomically valid under the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature.
10.2307/1486205|The total benthic foraminiferal assemblage (living and dead) is analyzed for 95 samples collected in the southern basin of the Venice Lagoon [Chioggia Basin, Italy]. Quantitative results of the identified 48 species are statistically treated by correspondence analysis and Fuzzy c-means cluster analysis to define both the zonal environmental similarities (biotopes) and the faunal similarities (biofacies). In this lagoon basin, the biotopes delineate the area of marine influence, areas of mixed sea/lagoon, and zones of greater human impact that seem less heavily polluted with respect to the other two lagoon basins. The faunal similarities identified distinguish present sea and lagoon influences from the salt marsh assemblage, which are linked to the paleoenvironment. We show through statistical analyses that abundance is not the only factor governing the importance of the different taxa in defining biotopes. The important factor we found out is significance assumed as the ratio between abundance and distribution for both abundant and rare species. Results complete the knowledge on the present environmental condition of the Venice Lagoon and suggest limits of feasible simplifications to better define biotopes. These limits are given by the significant value of each taxon, which is greater, the smaller the equidistribution of the taxon itself.
24413339|Foraminifera are abundant and diverse in the Neogene sedimentary units of south-central Chile (3443S), but their age and depositional paleoenvironment have been points of contention for decades. The marine strata most often referred to the Navidad Formation have been a focal point of study in the region by geoscientists in academia as well as the Chilean oil industry. Most of the foraminiferal assemblages documented in this study are from three sedimentary basins isolated from each other by more than 400km. From north to south, they are (1) the Navidad Formation in the vicinity of the name-bearing town located southwest of Santiago, (2) the Ranquil Formation on the Arauco Peninsula southeast of Concepcon, and (3) the Lacui Formation on and near Chilo Island. Also included in this study are two assemblages from deposits of uncertain affinity in San Sebastin (northeast of the Navidad area and just north of San Antonio), and one from the Santo Domingo Formation in the vicinity of Valdivia (about midway between Arauco and Chilo Island). The 27 localities reported in this study span nearly 1000km of the south-central Chilean margin. Most of the samples are siltstones from coastal bluffs and wave-cut platforms in which bedding is nearly horizontal, but often massive or indistinct. Regional workers have disagreed on which subepochs these units represent. Suggested ages based on macro- and microfossils have ranged from Late Oligocene to Early Pliocene. The planktic foraminifera identified in this study suggest that most, if not all, are Miocene. Excluding the two San Sebastin assemblages, which are slightly younger, one assemblage devoid of planktic foraminifera, and three with only long-ranging planktic foraminifera, all of the remaining 21 concurrent ranges begin or end in the Early Miocene. Nineteen of those ranges are restricted to that subepoch and two range into the early Middle Miocene. Seventeen of 18 localities had an 87Sr/86Sr age ranging into or within the Early Miocene. The exception yielded an isotopic age within the latest Oligocene. The majority of the analytical data presented in this report suggest that most of the assemblages are of late Early Miocene (Burdigalian) age. The most abundant macrofossils in the Navidad, Ranquil, Lacui, and Santo Domingo formations (collectively and informally referred to in this study as the Navidad group) are gastropods typical of neritic habitats, but specimens tend to be widely scattered in the outcrops and they are associated with mixed-depth assemblages of foraminifera. I therefore concluded that there had been significant downslope displacement. The upper depth limits of the deepest-dwelling benthic foraminifera in each assemblage indicate that final deposition occurred at bathyal depths, well below the neritic zone. All of the 358 taxa (336 benthics + 22 planktics) identified in this study are presented systematically and illustrated. New species described are Astacolus novambiguus, Cornuspira libella, Cristellariopsis petersonae, Fissurina ambicarinata, Globocassidulina chileensis, Karreriella biglobatga, Percultazonaria encinasi, Percultazonaria obliquispinata, Pseudolingulina nielseni, and Pseudononion ranquilensis. In addition, I propose one new (substitute) name, Lenticulina neopolita, to resolve a synonymy. The presence of Neogene cosmopolitan deep-water benthic foraminifera in all of the assemblages supports the hypothesis that deep water masses derived from the Antarctic Circumpolar Current have enabled many Neogene deep-water foraminifera to disperse widely in the global ocean. This compendium is a useful guide to identification of Neogene foraminifera in subtropical/temperate regions in and beyond south-central Chile, and it also provides a regional dataset that can be incorporated into future studies on benthic foraminiferal biostratigraphy and biogeography.
10.2307/1484977|Sixty-nine species of planktonic foraminifera are recorded from the Cretaceous of Libya, including two new species and one subspecies. These planktonic foraminifera have provided the basis for a zonation recognized over much of Libya. With the use of this zonation, a chronological series of maps reconstructing the Cretaceous paleogeography has been prepared. The maps also provide information on the depositional and structural evolution of Libya. A marine transgression commenced at the beginning of Cenomanian times and, with only minor fluctuations, continued throughout the Cretaceous into the Early Tertiary. This study does not support the existence of a Late Cretaceous seaway that has sometimes been postulated as extending across southwestern Libya and linking the Mediterranean with the South Atlantic.
10.2307/1485240|Living specimens of Globigerinoides sacculifer (Brady) were subjected to varying degrees of damage in 2 series of experiments. In the first 3-group experiment, one, two or all chambers of the shells were crushed, whereas in the second 3-group experiment, successive chambers were amputated from the shells. The purpose of both sets of experiments was to determine the relative rate of recovery of and mode of shell regeneration by the injured organisms. The great majority in 5 of the 6 groups recovered and continued shell growth by regenerating spines, cementing broken parts, adding new chambers and undergoing gametogenesis. The shell shapes which resulted from the crushed specimens were generally bizarre, whereas the amputated specimens regrew chambers of normal shape. The nucleus in adult G. sacculifer shells appears to be located in the F-3 or earlier chamber. Our experiments indicate that in spite of severe injury to the shell, these tenacious marine protozoans can generally restore their biological functions of calcification, predation, symbiosis with algae, and gametogenesis. In nature, abnormal shells which show evidence of physical damage are most likely caused by predators; thus their frequency reflects a relative predation pressure on planktonic foraminifera.
10.2307/1485699|Radiolarian strewn slides made with Canada balsam tend to deteriorate with age and improper storage. Restoration of valuable slides is a problem because of the risk of damaging or losing type specimens during conventional remelting of the Canada balsam. Slides can be restored safely to a usable state using microwaves as a source of heat.
10.2307/1484195|Three species of the genus Sherbornina Chapman, 1922, are of stratigraphic value in the Lower Tertiary of southeastern Australia. The type species, Sherbornina atkinsoni Chapman, is emended, and two new species are described. The structure of the earlier species suggests that the genus is related to the Elphidiidae. The stratigraphic distribution is discussed. The known range of the genus is from Upper Eocene to Lower Miocene.
4097113|Benthic foraminifera were studied as part of an investigation of the Fortuna Section (Betic Cordillera, Southeastern Spain), undertaken to document a candidate section for the Global Stratotype Section and Point (GSSP) for the base of the Lutetian Stage (Ypresian/Lutetian boundary). Benthic foraminiferal assemblages in this section are mostly dominated by calcareous taxa (~50-96%) and by infaunal morphotypes (~55-88%). The most abundant calcareous taxa are Globobulimina species, Aragonia aragonensis, Cibicidoides species, Osangularia dominicana, and various Lenticulina species. The most common agglutinated species are Clavulinoides angularis, Gaudryina arenata, and Thalmannammina subturbinata. Globobulimina species, A. aragonensis, and C. angularis show strong fluctuations in relative abundances, with a pronounced peak in the relative abundances of Globobulimina species and Aragonia aragonensis, and low species richness across the Ypresian/Lutetian boundary. The occurrence of several peaks in abundance of Globobulimina species suggests that food supply to the benthos fluctuated, and the single peak in abundance of A. aragonensis across the Ypresian/Lutetian boundary might be indicative of a hyperthermal event. Paleodepths inferred from the assemblages range from lower upper bathyal for the lower part of the section to sublitoral for its upper part, and there is no evidence for a sea-level fall at the Ypresian/Lutetian boundary. We selected 82 out of 175 benthic foraminiferal taxa for detailed taxonomic description, based on their relative abundances and/or paleoecological or paleobathymetrical importance.
10.2307/1484536|A new species of miospore, Vittatina africana, is described from the Lower Permian Ecca Series of South Africa. The distribution of the species of Vittatina Luber ex Jansonius (1962) in the Permian deposits of the southern and northern hemispheres is compared, and the retention of the genus in the Infraturma Striatiti is discussed.
10.2307/1485220|Two new genera and 27 new species of acritarchs are described from the late Arenigian (Ordovician) of Morocco. In addition, a number of genera and species of previous authors are discussed and/or illustrated.
10.2307/1484313|Sixteen new genera and forty-three species, of which thirty-one are new, of microplankton are described from western Australian Cretaceous (Albian to Campanian) sediments. The new forms include dinoflagellates, hystrichospheres, and others of uncertain affinity.
10.2307/1484364| Twenty-seven Cenomanian planktonic foraminiferal species are described and some 60 specific names included in their synonymy. These species are from North America, Europe, and an Atlantic core north of the Bahama Islands. Evidence of the planktonic foraminifera suggests a Cenomanian (rather than Turonian) age for the north Texas Eagle Ford group, an Eagle Ford (rather than Woodbine) age of the entire eastern Gulf subsurface Atkinson formation, and a mid to late Cenomanian (rather than Albian or early Cenomanian) age for the "Franciscan" strata at New Almaden, California. The family Rotaliporidae Sigal, 1958, is recognized as distinct from the Globorotaliidae, and has been enlarged to include the subfamilies Hedbergellinae and Rotaliporinae. The Rotaliporidae have a geologic range from Hauterivian to Maestrichtian. The Planomalinidae Bolli, Loeblich and Tappan is recognized as of family rank, having been elevated from subfamily status by Sigal (1958), and the family Schackoinidae Pokorn, 1958, is also recognized as distinct from the Hantkeninidae, and has a geologic range from Aptian to Maestrichtian. The Globorotaliidae and Hantkeninidae thus are of Cenozoic occurrence. 
10.2307/1485130|The Paleocene of Mali is developed along the inner shelf margin of a broad, shallow seaway which extended from Algeria to northern Nigeria. The Paleocene of Libya is developed in a structurally controlled embayment of the Tethys Sea which extended southwards through the Sirte Basin as far as the Chad border (Tibesti Mountains). The foraminiferal assemblages in Mali are dominated by shallow-water cibicidids, rotaliids, Rosalina, nonionids, Elphidiella, and various larger foraminifera, while planktonic foraminifera are rare or absent. The foraminiferal assemblages in Libya are developed in two lithotopes, one similar to that in Mali and containing numerous elements in common, the other, developed in a deeper-water basinal shale environment, containing a "Midway" type of fauna, together with planktonic foraminifera. Vertical and horizontal relationships between benthonic assemblages in the Sirte Basin are shown and paleoenvironmental reconstructions are made at approximately 2-million-year intervals. The Paleocene of Mali was deposited in a broad, shallow shelf sea at water depths probably less than 50 m. The Paleocene of the Sirte Basin of Libya was deposited in a transgressive sequence characterized by basin infilling at maximum depths somewhat in excess of 200 meters.
10.2307/1485015|Five new species of Radiolaria, two spumellarians and three nassellarians, are described from an Eocene deep-sea sediment core from the Norwegian Sea. The vertical distribution of three of these five new species, Spongopyle spiralis, Lophocorys norvegiensis and Theocalyptra tetracantha, define two distinct faunal zones within the Late Eocene.
10.2307/1485242|Reversal in dominance of 2 silicoflagellate species, Dictyocha fibula and Dictyocha aspera, is recorded in the lower part of Magnetic Epoch 7 (Late Miocene) at an age of approximately 7.4 m.y. in equatorial Pacific sediments. During this time, there is an abrupt drop in abundance of D. aspera accompanied by a corresponding increase in abundance of D. fibula.
20627992|Foraminifers from the Permian-Triassic boundary interval in the upper part of the "Bituminous Limestone" Formation of the Komiri section, northwestern Serbia are described and illustrated here for the first time. Four new species of foraminifers are described: Hemigordius komiricensis n. sp., H. smiljkae n. sp., Multidiscus vlasicensis n. sp., and Eomarginulinella serbica n. sp. The genus Eomarginulinella Sosnina 1969 is considered to be a valid genus and reinstated herein. The youngest Late Permian foraminifers are found together with conodonts of the Lower Hindeodus praeparvus Zone, the next to the last of the youngest conodont zones of the Upper Permian. The assemblage of the foraminifers from the upper part of the "Bituminous Limestone" in northwestern Serbia is most similar to coeval foraminiferal assemblages from the upper Changhsingian Belolabinskaya Group of the northwestern Caucasus and from the Nagyvisny Limestone Formation of the Bkk Mountains in northeastern Hungary. It is less similar to coeval foraminiferal assemblages of the Carnic Alps, Central Taurides of Turkey, Transcaucasia and China.
40607117|The Arctic Coring Expedition (ACEX) carried out in 2004 by the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP) afforded us the opportunity to obtain seawater and sea-ice samples at four different times and locations including the North Pole in the central Arctic Ocean. We performed taxonomic and census investigation on extant silicoflagellates in the samples. Of the two silicoflagellate taxa observed in the central Arctic, Distephanus medianoctisol Takahashi et al. sp. nov dominates over 71 % of total silicoflagellates and Distephanus speculum (Ehrenberg) Haeckel 1887 represents only 29% or less. Significantly different silicoflagellate assemblages and skeletal morphology from the Arctic sea-ice laden areas compared to those from open oceans outside of the Arctic were observed. During the summer, silicoflagellates actively grow in the central Arctic Ocean, as evidenced by considerable population densities even compared with those of the middle latitude open oceans. Active growth is supported by the number of observed double skeletons, which are good representation of active cell divisions. Underneath the pack ice, seawater of the central Arctic receives enough sunlight under midnight Sun conditions in summer, due to the presence of ice cracks and water puddles to provide sufficient photosynthetic energy to sustain silicoflagellate populations. The documented percentage occurrences of aberrant silicoflagellates (abnormal forms) are high when compared with those from the pelagic environments. Unusual forms with greater than one apical window (also considered as aberrant) are also noted and they may have been formed due to specific environmental conditions such as low temperature, the presence of sea-ice, and low light intensity (beneath sea-ice with snow accumulation).
4097049|Foraminifera from the Upper Devonian Lennard Shelf reef complexes and overlying Lower Carboniferous beds in the northern Canning Basin of north-western Australia include twenty species that are tournayellids and endothyrids of stratigraphic significance, including, Quasiendothyra kobeitusana, Endothyra lipinae, E. communis, Laxoendothyra parakosvensis struniana, Tuberendothyra tuberculata, Rectoseptaglomospiranella elegantula, Rectoavesnella, Septabrunsiina crassa, S. primaeva and five species of Septatournayella. They provide further biostratigraphic dating of the Lennard Shelf reef complexes and their overlying beds. These north-west Australian microfaunas bear a striking resemblance to microfaunas of the Famennian, and Tournaisian of Russia, Kazakhstan, and south China. A new genus and species Triploshaerina medaensis is established, as well as the new species Nodosinella canningensis and Rectoavesnella lennardi.
10.2307/1484478|Certain Paleozoic oil-bearing rocks--boghead coals or torbanites, and others--derive their oil content from the hydrocarbon-producing alga Botryococcus. The same genus produces fatty sediments in modern brackish and fresh-water lakes. It has seemed likely that the organism was important in the Cenozoic also. The appearance is noted here of a number of recently reported Tertiary records of Botryococcus in India and Australia, and the first American Tertiary record, in the organic silt overlying the Brandon lignite, Vermont, is described. Botryococcus microfossils from the Warlands Creek locality, Australia, are very closely comparable to those from Brandon.
10.2307/1486140|Costabuntonia, a new ostracode genus of Buntoniinae is proposed for the species previously described as Protobuntonia hartmanni Jain 1978 from the Inter-trappean beds of Kateru, Rajahmundry, east coast of India. The genus also occurs in the Paleocene beds of Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Pakistan and Early Miocene beds of Gujarat and Kerala.
10.2307/1485409|Benthonic foraminifera were obtained from samples representing the upper few centimeters of the substratum throughout the estuarine and offshore regions of the Russian River, Sonoma County, northern California. Cluster analysis in the Q-mode separated the samples into three large, areally recognizable groups: an offshore group containing species typically marine; a group from the main channel of the estuary containing marine species carried into the estuary; a group from a minor, shallow channel that is dominated by a few species. In the upper reaches of the estuary, only thecamoebians were present. No indigenous or characteristically estuarine foraminiferal fauna has developed within the Russian River estuary. Estuarine samples taken during the winter did not contain foraminifera, due to high river discharge. The salt-water wedge is attenuated, producing a fresh-water environment throughout the estuary. The higher rates of discharge move the river bed seaward as tractive and suspended sediments, which prevents a resident fauna from becoming established.
10.2307/1485092|A new specimen stub for the Cambridge scanning electron microscope has been designed to allow oriented views of microfossils and to facilitate preparation of stereopairs. The design and operation of the new stub and its advantages over the normal stub are discussed.
10.2307/1485319|Study of the tribe Cyprideidini has been shown to be of potential stratigraphic value for correlating brackish-water sediments of the Neogene. Forty-nine species of the genera Cyprideis, Neocyprideis, Vetustocytheridea, Hemicyprideis, and "Cytheridea" are discussed. Three new species are described: Cyprideis caribeensis, Vetustocytheridea aguirrensis, and V. bristowi; two other new species of Cyprideis are mentioned but not named. Nine species of Cyprideis show promise for regional use as zonal markers: Cyprideis sp. aff. C. ovata (Mincher) (Lower to lower Middle Miocene), C. pascagoulaensis (Mincher) (Middle Miocene to Lower Pliocene), C. stephensoni Sandberg (Middle Miocene), C. locketti (Stephenson) (Middle to Upper Miocene), C. subquadraregularis (Brady) (Upper Miocene to Upper Pliocene), C. portusprospectuensis van den Bold (Lower? Pleistocene), and C. salebrosa van den Bold, C. similis (Brady), and C. bensoni Sandberg (Upper Pliocene to Recent). Species of Hemicyprideis, Vetustocytheridea, Neocyprideis, and "Cytheridea" seem to be largely provincial in distribution. Variations in punctation and nodosity in the species of Cyprideis, Hemicyprideis, and Vetustocytheridea are related to environmental conditions.
10.2307/1485166|An assemblage of six described species of Chitinozoa has been recovered from one of five sections sampled in the Wapsipinicon Formation of Iowa. Chitinozoa have not been reported previously from this formation, and they are restricted to a lithofacies of biomicrite with carbonaceous laminae.
24413306|Lithologic and foraminiferal analysis from the western part of the VallesSan Luis Potos platform reflect a sea-level rise suggesting that the platform was drowned at the Cenomanian-Turonian boundary interval. Benthic and planktic foraminiferal content of the succession was identified to establish the transition from the shallow-water carbonate sedimentation with abundant larger benthic foraminifera, algae, rudists and other molluscs, corals, echinoderms, worms changing to hemipelagic-pelagic sediments containing calcispheres and opportunistic foraminifers (r-strategists), such as whitenellids, hedbergellids, heterohelicids and elongated chambered forms, as well as radiolarians. The El Abra Limestone is dated as the middle-late Cenomanian age (Pseudolituonella reicheli Assemblage Zone) and was deposited on a warm shallow-marine rimmed platform. Peloidal-bioclastic packstone-grainstone is the dominant texture of these rocks. Lithological variations determined by the high detrital influx were followed by a major transgression when wackestone and marly limestone of the lower part of the Soyatal Formation were deposited. The transition to deeper open marine environments is dated as latest Cenomanian/earliest Turonian represented by the Whiteinella archaeocretacea Partial Taxon Range Zone and coincides with a global sea-level rise and the Oceanic Anoxic Event 2 (OAE 2). Deeper overlying deposits of the Helvetoglobotruncana helvetica Total Range Zone (early/middle Turonian) are characterized in the study area by the occurrence of the keeled forms (k strategists). The Cenomanian/Turonian boundary is placed within the Whiteinella archaeocretacea Partial Range Zone in absence of ammonite markers. When the Valles-San Luis Potos platform was flooded, the carbonate factory was stressed due to the trophic resource modifications. Production of a larger amount of nutrients led to the extinction of the k-strategist benthic foraminifera; only small benthic foraminifera survived for a short period of time in the newly established mesotrophic conditions. High productivity continued and in the eutrophic episode the calcispheres, r-opportunists, intermediate taxa and the planktic foraminifera with elongate chambers proliferated. Later, complete drowning enabled the recovery of oligotrophic conditions with the occurrence of k-strategist keeled planktic taxa.
10.2307/1485369|The Calvert and Choptank Formations exposed along the west shore of Chesapeake Bay in Maryland have been correlated with strata of early and middle Miocene age. The stratigraphic ranges of marine diatom marker species indicate a distinct diatom sequence in the deposits. A few diatoms that mark deep-sea Miocene deposits are found sparingly in these shallow neritic assemblages. Seven diatom zones based on well-recognized events in the diatom biostratigraphy are proposed for the mid-Atlantic region of the eastern United States. A suggested correlation of these zones is made with some of the deep-sea diatom zonations in the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean basins.
10.2307/1484768|Seasonal differences in the abundance and distribution of the benthic foraminifers of the estuary at Christchurch Harbour, England, are shown to be related primarily to changes of chlorinity and temperature. Four ecological groups of species have been distinguished: group 1, stenohaline marine; group 2, slightly euryhaline; group 3, moderately euryhaline; and group 4, truly euryhaline. The assemblages of Christchurch Harbour have been compared with those described from similar environments in Texas and Brazil.
10.2307/1484667|Studies of many geographically widely separated stratigraphical sections covering the Late Miocene to Recent interval have allowed the origin and evolution of species referable to the genus Pulleniatina to be traced. The evolutionary sequence Pulleniatina primalis, n. sp., P. obliquiloculata praecursor, n. subsp., P. obliquiloculata obliquiloculata and P. obliquiloculata finalis, n. subsp., is shown to be useful in biostratigraphy. Pulleniatina spectabilis is recognised as forming a separate evolutionary line from P. primalis and as having a short range in the Pliocene of the Indo-Pacific province. Pulleniatina seems to originate from Globorotalia (Turborotalia) acostaensis Blow, 1959, and the holotype of this form is re-illustrated. Globigerina inflata d'Orbigny, 1839, is shown to be unrelated to Pulleniatina obliquiloculata (s. l.), and a neotype for the former taxon is now proposed. The meaning of streptospiral coiling is examined. The new monotypic genus Rotaliatinopsis is proposed to accommodate "?Pulleniatina semi-involuta" Germeraad, 1946, which is unrelated to the Globigerinacea.
10.2307/1484234|Formational names of rock units of the Lower Tertiary Libya Group in Egypt are introduced. The planktonic foraminifera of the Thebes Formation, Libya Group from the type locality at Luxor, Egypt are described and illustrated. The planktonic foraminifera found in the underlying Esna Shale are described. The Esna Shale in Luxor, having a fauna of sharply keeled Globorotalia species, is considered to be of upper Paleocene (Landenian) age. The overlying Thebes Formation contains a planktonic fauna of smoother and more compressed types: Globorotalia thebaica, n. sp., G. imitata Subbotina and G. planoconica Subbotina. The Thebes Formation is believed to represent the open sea facies of the Egyptian lower Eocene (Ypresian).
10.2307/1484859|The Recent foraminifera in the ice-covered seas of the Canadian Arctic were found to be distributed in two bathymetric zones with their common boundary at about the 200-metre isobath. The information was used to support a theory of a regional lowering of sea level during the Holocene. The rate of sedimentation during the past 8000 years is indicated to be 4.4 cm. per 1000 years.
10.2307/1485301|Diatomaceous sediments in outcrops of the Miocene Hawthorn Formation at Dawsons Landing in South Carolina and at Berrys Landing in Georgia, have yielded a total of 111 marine diatom taxa. Varving of the diatomaceous clay suggests that the diatoms were deposited in a restricted basin or lagoonal area that had oxygen-deficient bottom waters. The Middle Miocene diatom assemblage of the Hawthorn is correlative with that of approximately the upper half of Miocene Lithologic Unit 16 of the Choptank Formation in the Chesapeake Bay region of Maryland and with the Serravallian Stage.
10.2307/1486071| A new genus and species of foraminifera is described from the Maastrichtian of the Glky (Ordu) region of Turkey. It is named Sirelina orduensis n. gen., n. sp. The test of the genus has a microgranular calcereous structure and chevron canal systems are visible. In the early stage, chambers have a coiled milioline structure; however, they are trochospiral in the juvenile stage and uniserial in the adult stage. In the adult stage, lateral orbital chamber are developed. The aperture is cribrate in shape. It may easily be distinguished from the other similar genera by its test structure and coiling system. 
24413484|The detailed micropaleontological analysis carried out on four offshore Oligocene (Tineh Formation) Nile Delta successions revealed the identification of 44 foraminiferal species and subspecies. Nine benthic and two planktonic zones are identified. The established benthic zonation has been chronostratigraphically calibrated with those based on the planktonic foraminiferal ones. This sequence is assigned to the Oligocene (Chattian), and possibly extends to the upper part of Rupelian. A remarkable feature of this Oligocene succession is the almost complete absence of planktonic foraminifera in its major lower part, a situation that caused a difficulty of subdividing it into smaller units. The environmental interpretation for the Oligocene succession implies deposition under a background of persistent subsidence with remarkable paucity or complete absence of any calcareous fauna, probably related to deposition in carbon dioxide-rich marine conditions hostile to the precipitation of any calcareous material and caused by volcanic activity, lowered temperature or situation under the lysocline or carbonate-compensation depth.
10.2307/1484707|The Turonian type section (Upper Cretaceous of the Paris Basin near Tours), as defined by Lecointre in accordance with d'Orbigny's original concept, is briefly described to indicate the stratigraphic position of the samples studied. Foraminifera occur in the lower part of the section exclusively; fifteen species, two of them new, are discussed and illustrated. A new genus, Orostella, is erected. Relatively abundant specimens of Hedbergella in the planktonic assemblage, together with Orostella turonica, n. sp., and Gavelinopsis tourainensis, n. sp., appear to be the most useful criteria for microfaunal correlation with the type Turonian.
10.2307/1484883|The difference between a foraminiferal assemblage associated with Caribbean reef patches and one associated with fine sediment in a protected low-energy environment is seen on a local scale in two adjacent small bays shallower than 25 m. These bays are on the leeward side of St. Lucia, an island in the principal volcanic arc of the Lesser Antilles. Choc Bay is an open embayment, commonly having a sandy substrate, and with an extensive coral growth. Castries Bay has a somewhat constricted mouth, is slightly less saline, and commonly has a muddy or sandy-mud substrate. The total foraminiferal assemblage consists of 138 species in Choc and 112 in Castries, of which 94 are common to both areas. There are only 21 species in Choc and 13 in Castries of which the frequency at any station exceeds 5% of the total. Measures of species diversity, for both total and living assemblages, are more variable in Choc than in Castries. Quinqueloculina lamarckiana d'Orbigny and Ammonia tepida (Cushman) are the most common dominant species in Choc and Castries, respectively. The typical "reef-tract" species of Choc are absent from, or are extremely rare in, Castries. The agglutinated group forms a minor constituent of the assemblage in both bays. The proportion of porcelaneous tests matches that of hyaline tests in Choc but is much less in Castries. Miliolids comprise the most abundant family in both bays. The Soritidae, Amphisteginidae, Discorbidae, and Siphoninidae are much more abundant in Choc Bay; the Rotaliinae, Bolivinitidae, and Nonionidae, in Castries Bay. Comparable biofacies are known to be developed on regional scales in other areas of the Caribbean Sea.
10.2307/1484395|Taurocusporites, a new form genus of trilete spores from the Lower Cretaceous of Maryland, is established with T. segmentatus, n. sp., as its type species. Three previously described species, Chomotriletes reduncus, C. triangularis and C. auristriatus, all of Bolkhovitina, are assigned to the new genus. Taurocusporites reduncus (Bolkhovitina), n. comb., which occurs in the Maryland assemblage with T. segmentatus, n. sp., is discussed and illustrated. Chomotriletes (Naumova) ex Naumova is emended to include only alete spores.
4097088| Benthic foraminifers collected in different regions of the high Antarctic (Weddell Sea, Mawson Sea, Davis Sea and some other locations in East Antarctic) on the shelf and upper part of the bathyal zone (2 - 2315m) were analyzed to determine regularities in their distribution. Most samples contained living organisms. The composition of the foraminiferal assemblages is influenced by many factors of water characteristics such as temperature, salinity, nutrient composition, availability of carbonate and variations in CCD, presence of near-bottom flows. The changes of water masses at different depths or mixing of the different water masses are clearly seen in the changes of the foraminiferal species composition. In some cases the local variations of water characteristics, seasonality and ice melting are also responsible for the foraminiferal distribution. Two faunas were identified: those of the shelf associated with the cold-water masses (-1 to 1.9) and the upper slope with warmer water (-0.5), the majority of the characteristic forms being circumantarctic. Species abundance displays two maximums at depths of 180-300m and 1500-2300m. At depths to 500, and even to 700m, both arenaceous and calcareous forms, especially miliolids, are abundant. Below this boundary some living calcareous forms were also found, though arenaceous ones were dominant. The presence of calcareous foraminifers at the majority of the stations in our material may be explained by the higher resistance of living calcareous forms to carbonate dissolution comparing the empty tests, dissolving more rapidly. The overall pattern of these our data and of data from previous studies allows to draw some general conclusions with regard to the Antarctic foraminiferal fauna: a high degree of endemism which, for the shelf depths of 2 - 50m, sometimes reaches 80%; the gigantism of many species; a wide range of vertical distribution of many species; introduction of deep water species of other oceans onto the shelf and the upper part of the bathyal zone; often high species diversity and high quantity abundance of many species in the community; abundance of circumantarctic species, often with a great number of species belonging to a single genus; the abundance (often predominance) of agglutinated forms compared to calcareous ones. Some taxonomic notes and morphological observations are given, as well as comparisons of some closely related Arctic and Antarctic forms. 
10.2307/1485640|Homeotypic specimens of Canepaia brasiliensis Boltovskoy 1961 (type species of Canepaia), from the Brazilian Shelf, show the chamber arrangement to be biserial and rectilinear. Internal structures in the form of incomplete parallel vertical plates seem to be present. For the monotypic genus Canepaia the new textulariine subfamily the Canepaiinae is proposed.
10.2307/1484320|The genus Truncorotalia Cushman and Bermudez may have developed from the genus Globorotalites. The genotype, Rotalina truncatulinoides d'Orbigny, shows different development of the umbilical cavity, from an open to a totally closed cavity, in specimens from different localities. Thus, it is possible that several fossil species of Globorotalia with a flat dorsal side and a more or less closed umbilicus belong to the genus Truncorotalia. In that case, a closely related series of forms ranges from the uppermost Maestrichtian (or Danian) up to the Recent. The new genus Conorotalites Kaever is synonymous with Globorotalites.
4097054| Existing schemes for the palynozonation of the Namurian deposits in western Europe require updating to reflect improvements in both independent biostratigraphical calibration and species distribution data. New biozonation proposals are presented which include the accurate positioning of all biozonal boundaries and the establishment of new sub-biozonal units within the Pendleian - Alportian sections. The base of the renamed Cingulizonates cf capistratus - Bellispores nitidus (CN) Biozone is placed within the late Brigantian and a new unit, the C. cf. capistratus (Cc) Sub-Biozone, with an upper boundary coincident with the Visan - Namurian Stage boundary is proposed. The Pendleian part of the revised CN Biozone is established as the Verrucosisporites morulatus (Vm) Sub-Biozone. Additional data from the Lycospora subtriquetra - Kraeuselisporites ornatus (SO) Biozone, in the interval adjacent to the proposed Mid - Carboniferous Boundary, permits the establishment of L. subtriquetra - Apiculatisporis variocorneus (SV)Sub-Biozone in the upper part of the Arnsbergian Stage and the L. subtriquetra - Cirratriradites rarus (SR) Sub-Biozone which occupies the Chokierian and most of the Alportian stages. The base of the Crassispora kosankei - Grumosisporites varioreticulatus (KV) Biozone is repositioned into the upper part of the Alportian Stage. Comparable assemblages described from the Silesian Coal Basins of Poland are discussed and correlations between the palynozonations of both areas are suggested. 
10.2307/1484790|In an investigation of plant microfossils from the Raritan Formation of New Jersey, U. S. A., two new genera and thirty-six new species are described. The climate during Raritan time ranged from subtropical to temperate. The age of the Raritan Formation is considered to be the earliest Late Cretaceaus. The presence of marine microfossils suggests a shallow-water marine environment for this formation.
10.2307/1484864|The examination of 196 specimens of the Miocene foraminifer Pavonitina styriaca Schubert, type species of Pavonitina Schubert, 1914, shows that the initial chambers are biserial as described by Schubert, not triserial as argued by Loeblich and Tappan (1964). Consequently, this genus belongs in the family Textulariidae, subfamily Tawitawiinae. Pavonitinidae Loeblich and Tappan, 1961, should be replaced by Pfenderinidae Smout and Sugden, 1962.
30136849|We studied a total of 24 genera and 41 species of modern benthic foraminifers with colored shells from 49 samples collected from the Gkeada region, southwestern Bozcaada, eastern Mitilini in the northeast Aegean Sea and from different points along the shores of southwest Antalya. <tex-math>$d_{(104)}$</tex-math> reflection and <tex-math>$MgCO_{3}$</tex-math> content of shell calcite vary between 2.979-3.035  and 0.33-19.00 mole%, respectively. Mg/Ca and Sr/Ca ratios of whole shells range between 2.95-51.51 and 1.45-10.44 [mmol/mol]. These values are normalized to maximum and minimum concentrations in chemical analyses from whole shells and shell surfaces in colored and colorless foraminifers. Enrichments in metallic elements seem to be related to absorption depending on qualitative and quantitative measurements of shell structures, although variations are also related to mineralogical composition of shells. Hypothetically ions transferred with hot waters from active faults on the sea-floor and/or the ions transported with cold water runoff from land may cause abnormal enrichment of some metals within foraminifer shells and/or secondary metabolic enrichment of foraminifer shells during life.
10.2307/1484193|Silicoflagellates from twenty samples of the Calvert formation (Miocene) of Maryland were investigated morphologically, taxonomically, and stratigraphically. A brief history of the group, and the classification of fossil forms following Deflandre are included. Three genera with six species and seven varieties, six of which may prove to be new with further investigation, are described. A redefinition of existing species and an investigation of various sedimentary rock types containing these fossils are necessary before the true stratigraphic value of the silicoflagellates can be determined.
10.2307/1485261|A method for separating acid-insoluble microfossils from unwanted organic debris utilizes the presence of cavities in such microfossils (dinoflagellates, acritarchs, spores and pollen). Residues produced by standard palynological preparation techniques are suspended in alcohol, and the microfossils absorb a sufficient amount of the alcohol to reduce their average density and settling rates relative to that of organic debris.
10.2307/1485218| The monotypic genus Riveroinella was erected by Bermdez and Seiglie in 1967 as belonging to the family Ceratobuliminidae, a group of benthonic foraminifera characteristically having an aragonitic shell. Examination of its type species, R. martinezpicoi, reveals that the genus Riveroinella is a junior synonym of the planktonic foraminiferal genus Cassigerinella Pokorn, 1955, not only because R. martinezpicoi has an enrolled biserial coil in the last whorl, but also because the shell of R. martinezpicoi is calcitic, not aragonitic as claimed in the original description. A detailed morphologic examination of the type species of the genus Cassigerinella, C. chipolensis (Cushman and Ponton), was made with the use of a scanning electron microscope (SEM), because some authors have assigned this species to the benthonic foraminiferal family Cassidulinidae in the belief that C. chipolensis has an internal tooth plate. Our SEM examination indicates that Cassigerinella possesses no tooth plate, but instead a distinct rimlike protruding apertural flange. Therefore, the genus is herein retained in the planktonic foraminiferal family Hantkeninidae. 
10.2307/1485427|A 24-m core of brown pelagic clay yielded ichthyoliths indicating probably continuous sedimentation from Late Cretaceous to Late Neogene. The pre-Pliocene rate of sediment accumulation appears to have remained almost constant at about 0.2-0.3 m/million years (m.y.). In the samples from near the boundary between Eocene and Paleocene, ichthyoliths are almost an order of magnitude more concentrated in the sediments than at the top and bottom of the section. The core provides a reference section with which shorter sequences of ichthyoliths from the northern Pacific can be compared and correlated.
1486132|Data on 103 species and subspecies of ostracoda from Maastrichtian to lower Eocene localities in North Africa, West Africa, and the Middle East were analyzed using correspondence analysis to interpret marine paleobiogeography in this wide area of the world during the time in question. Two main biogeographical provinces, the South Tethyan Province (STP) and the West African Province (WAP), were connected during this entire period through the Trans-Saharan Seaway. In addition, a third grouping was distinguished that combines species from both provinces, but with more similarity to the STP. R-mode cluster analysis based on the Jaccard coefficient of similarity demonstrated the distinctness of the first two provinces, and indicated that the third grouping represents an overlap of the Garra Type (GAT) and the Afro-Tethyan Type (ATT) of Bassiouni and Luger (1990). The study confirms the stability of ostracod habitats in this region. There was essentially no turnover across the K/T and Paleocene/Eocene boundaries, and faunal changes came about almost entirely due to lateral migration of certain genera. Statistical analysis of the available data shows that the most common genera are: Buntonia, Cytherella, Leguminocythereis, Bythocypris, Mauritsina, Ordoniya and Paracypris.
10.2307/1485417| Investigations of the radiolarian stratigraphy of drilled sequences of open-ocean Cenozoic sediments are commonly based on examination of several tens of thousands of specimens in samples separated by intervals representing about 40,000 to 400,000 years. Only about 10% of the specimens in the assemblages are used for stratigraphic interpretations. We have studied the Middle to Late Miocene parts of seven sequences obtained in the Pacific Ocean by the Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP), in order to estimate the amount of uncertainty involved in radiolarian correlations, and to identify the principal factors limiting stratigraphic resolution within the sequences and correlation between them. Factors investigated include the precision with which taxa are delimited, the possibility of further subdividing evolutionary lineages, the amount of effort spent in examining each slide, the preservation of the assemblages, spacing of samples, core recovery and disturbance, and biogeographic effects. The range of uncertainty in correlating between tropical sequences seems usually of the order of 0.4 million years (m.y.) to 1 m.y., and between the New Zealand and Californian regions it may be three times as great. We conclude that radiolarian stratigraphy might most effectively be refined by utilizing an increased proportion of the taxa in the assemblages, by improving our understanding of the paleobiology of the communities of organisms represented in the assemblages, and perhaps by further subdividing some evolutionary lineages. For the purposes of this study we have estimated relative abundances of species in logarithmic increments (<0.01%, 0.01-0.1%, 0.1-1%, 1-10%, and >10%), and these quantitative estimations have proven indispensable to the task. For more detailed stratigraphic investigations it is desirable to have more precise estimations of abundances, which can be used also for evaluating paleoecological effects. 
10.2307/1484804|In anticipation of a condensed standard description of the Nummulites species in general, this article proposes a more extensive use of the graphic presentation of essential diagnostic features of the equatorial section of the microspheric generation. The comprehensive graph in question consists of four curves: 1) the well-known winding curve (connecting the radii of the successive whorls), which roughly reflects the opening step of the spire; 2) the file of the numbers of chambers per whorl on the same scale of whorls; 3) the height of the chamber lumen; and 4) this same height plus the thickness of the spiral cord or lamina. The latter two curves, representing an analysis of the spiral step, confine an irregular ribbon which delineates the thickness of the spiral cord or lamina over the whole spire. The combination of four curves over the same abscissa unveils certain breaks and trends in the course of the spire (or the course of the specimen's life) which hitherto remained unrecorded. The principal break, occurs between the fifth and tenth whorls. The comprehensive graph also appears to be a useful means for judging the closeness of the relationship between nominal species and may help to clear up certain systematic questions, such as questions of doubtful synonymy.
4499755|A detailed micropalaeontological study of the Mishrif Formation in the Buzurgan, Fauqui and Abu Guirab oil fields in Iraq has provided a new species of the genus Carinoconus Cherchi and Schroeder 1982. Carinoconus iraqiensis n. sp. is formally described from on-shore cored sediments of south-east Iraq, where it occurs in Middle to Late Cenomanian platform deposits. This new species is roughly half the size of C. casterasi (Bilotte et al. 1973), the only representative of genus Carinoconus described to date. Carinoconus iraqiensis n. sp. is the first representative of the genus Carinoconus ever found in the Middle East region.
23250633|Ostracodes are among the most useful groups of fossils for applications in paleogeography and plate tectonics, mainly because of their provincial distributions. Analyses by many workers of the distributions of some groups of ostracodes, typically cytherocopine taxa at the generic level, demonstrate that shallow marine ostracode faunas may differ markedly in coeval deposits, even within short geographic distances. These analyses indicate that many shallow marine taxa are unable to cross deep water barriers. An intimate relationship exists, therefore, between plate tectonics and biological evolution. This relationship can reveal clues not only about evolving plate tectonic configurations, but also about the phylogenetic relationships among taxa and the resulting taxonomy. This study focuses on Late Cretaceous shallow marine ostracode genera. Whereas many of these genera are restricted paleogeographically, several, for example Brachycythere, Veenia, Curfsina, Mosaeleberis and Aysegulina (known formerly as Limburgina; see zdikmen (2010)) among others, are reported to occur on widely separated continents in spite of widely recognized faunal barriers. Brachycythere and Curfsina have been described from such widely separate localities as North America, Europe, India and Australia; yet despite their external similarity, the muscle scar patterns from each geographic region show systematic differences. Although soft parts are rarely preserved, the muscle scar pattern is determined by the configuration of the soft part morphology and is thus of great phylogenetic and taxonomic value. These geographic and phylogenetic patterns indicate at least two possibilities: either there was convergent evolution of the exterior morphology or the exterior morphology is a plesiomorphic state, whereas the muscle scar patterns are apomorphic. In either case, recognition of these clades as discrete taxa contributes to their usefulness in paleogeographic and plate tectonic studies.
41410985|The taxonomic reevaluation of the TuronianConiacian planktic foraminifer Huberella Georgescu 2007 shows that it consists of three species: H. praehuberi Georgescu 2007, H. huberi Georgescu 2007 and H. yucatanensisnew species. Huberella accommodates a branched lineage, which evolved from the biserial species Planoheterohelix postmoremani Georgescu and Huber 2009. This lineage led to the first development of the backward chamber extensions in the Cretaceous heterohelicids. Huberella huberi is a latest Turonian species which became extinct at the Turonian/Coniacian boundary and can be used in refining the Cretaceous planktic foraminiferal biostratigraphical framework.
10.2307/1485182|Veracruz-Anton Lizardo reefs comprise the southernmost complex of patch reefs in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico and provide a link between the Yucatan carbonate platform on the east and the two isolated, more northerly bioherms at Tampico, Mexico (Isla de Lobos) and off Galveston, Texas (Flower Garden Banks). Maps of environmental data (depth, salinity, pH, temperature, Eh and dissolved oxygen) from 33 sampling stations on these reefs provide data for the study of the controls of distribution of the common ostracode species. Seventeen species occur with total (live + dead) relative abundances greater than or equal to 1%. Cluster analysis (R-mode) of these 17 reveals two major clusters at the "15" phenon level. One cluster contains the three dominant species of the reefs (L. tricornatum, L. cf. L. postdorsoalata, Morkhovenia inconspicua) as well as Quadracythere producta. The other cluster contains "Haplocytheridea" cf. "H." bradyi (11th-ranked) and the other less dominant species. Within the first cluster, L. tricornatum biofacies dominates the Veracruz reef group and L. cf. L. postdorsoalata biofacies is most prevalent on the Anton Lizardo complex. Fifteen additional rare (less than 1% of total population) but easily recognized species also occur, and these are illustrated and discussed.
10.2307/1484766|Limestones belonging to the Cenomanian Odukpani Formation are exposed in southeastern Nigeria, and in them a new species of foraminifer, Trocholina odukpaniensis, as well as fragments of algae and mollusk shells, are preserved as calcite casts. Revision of published material necessitates a new diagnosis of the genus.
10.2307/1484986|A simple technique for the temporary mounting of microfossils in water is described. This facilitates the production of high-quality photomicrographs for publication. Once photographed, the microfossils may be removed from the temporary water mount and placed in a permanent mount. Good results have been achieved for both dinoflagellate cysts and foraminifers.
10.2307/1485660|The Paleocene Subbotina pseudobulloides lineage is shown to evolve gradually through the intermediate species Planorotalites compressa and Planorotalites ehrenbergi to Planorotalites pseudomenardii and Planorotalites troelseni. The latter two forms are found to be endmembers in a morphological continuum, and the transitional ancestry of the lineage is found to contain no statistically definable cladogenetic event. Rates of evolution calculated for the lineage on the basis of different variables are slow and relatively invariant when compared to other foraminiferal lineages. Planorotalites pseudomenardii was compared to its Neogene "homeomorph", Globorotalia margaritae and found to be readily distinguished by discriminant analysis, and biometric evidence suggests that G. margaritae is derived from G. scitula.
10.2307/1484881|The tantalising problem of the earliest trilete spores of probable land plant origin has yet to be resolved, but the present study of North African material illustrates an extraordinary diversity of post-Llandoverian to pre-Downtonian trilete spores as yet unequalled in any previously published work. At the same time, the correspondence between North African and European, especially type Downtonian, spore assemblages gives one confidence in the use of these fossils as stratigraphical indices. Palynofacies variations were also examined in the light of previous work, but it is believed that definitive conclusions must await more detailed work than has hitherto been published. Fifty spore forms are recorded, of which four are regarded as new species. In addition, twelve forms are comparable to existing genera and species of spores, and 24 other forms are present but are insufficient numerically to be proposed as new.
3648446|A foraminiferal assemblage comprising Nummulites longilocula n. sp., Globigerina dinodensis n. sp., Turborotalia sp. A, Chiloguembelina aff. C. cubensis, Nonionella cf. N. wemmelensis and Nonionella aff. N. pauciloba has been recovered from a stratigraphic interval between the last occurrence of Turborotalia cerroazulensis s. l. and the first occurrence of Cassigerinella chipolensis in an apparently continuous sequence of calcareous sediments exposed near Dinod village in Cambay Basin, Gujarat, India. The assemblage also includes sparingly occurring Nummulites retiatus, radiate Nummulites spp., discoidal Pellatispira spp., calcareous nannofossils and radiolaria; furthermore, the assemblage is found to be occupying a stratigraphic position between the last appearance of Discocyclina and the first appearance of Nummulites fichteli. Planktonic foraminiferal zones P17-P18 have been clearly demarcated in the sequence, and the new assemblage clearly denotes a distinctive passage from the older zone to the younger; thus a provisional P17-P18 transition Zone with an age range of latest Eocene to earliest Oligocene is assigned to it. The distinctive features and the new foraminiferal species of this assemblage, seemingly in contrast with the standard zonal boundary character, are described, and their bearing on the nature of the Eocene-Oligocene boundary in the Cambay Basin sequence is discussed. The assemblage, with its new foraminiferal data, lends further credence to several analogous records of foraminiferal transition found in similar passage beds occurring elsewhere.
10.2307/1485126| This paper describes the ostracode assemblage of the lower beds of the upper member of the Jagel Formation, exposed in the Fortn General Roca area of Ro Negro Province, Argentina. The beds belong to the Lower Jagelian Substage. As there is sedimentary continuity between the ostracode-bearing layers and the overlying strata belonging to the Upper Jagelian Substage (middle Maastrichtian), the Lower Jagelian Substage can be tentatively correlated with the type European Lower Maastrichtian Substage. 
10.2307/1485315|Radiolarians extracted from formations underlying the ophiolite nappe in the Argolis Peninsula (Peloponnesus, Greece) are correlated with radiolarians dated by co-occurring fossils from Romania and Sicily. Consequently, the cherts are of Oxfordian to Kimmeridgian and the clastic sequence of Kimmeridgian/Tithonian age. The earliest emplacement of nappes (ophiolites and distal continental margin elements) in the southern Pelagonian realm thus began in the Kimmeridgian/Tithonian. Highly diversified assemblages of three- and four-armed spumellarians, commonly assigned to the Hagiastridae Riedel, show 2 groups of entirely different internal structures: One group (cf. text-fig. 3A) has a test composed of concentric lattice shells and rays with continuous longitudinal canals: Hagiastridae Riedel, emended. The other group (cf. text-fig. 3B) has a central area and rays with uniform spongy meshwork: Patulibracchiidae Pessagno, emended. The morphology of the hagiastrids described compares to actinommiid spumellarians which leads to their inclusion with the Actinommacea Haeckel, emended Kozur and Mostler. Subfamilies, based on the disposition of internal (canals) and external skeletal elements, are established. Observations in Early and Middle Jurassic material showed the evolutionary differentiation of the hagiastrids, reflected by evolving ray cross sections. This confirms the phylogenetic nature of the proposed classification. The systematics of previously described hagiastrids and patulibracchiids are revised, based on observations of topotypic material. Thirteen new species, 9 new genera and 4 new subfamilies are introduced.
10.2307/1486068| A morphometric approach has been used, for both plankton and surface sediment samples, to map the size distribution of the polycystine radiolarian Hexacontium pachydermum Jrgensen in two western Norwegian fjords, Sognefjord and Hardangerfjord. We have recognized that H. pachydermum, as defined by Jrgensen (1900), has two morphotypes which occupy two different size clusters. These clusters do not overlap and we have suggested, therefore, that they represent two different species, the smaller of the two is the original H. pachydermum, while the larger morphotype is described as H. gigantheum n. sp. A new form, H. hostile forma A is also described. 
10.2307/1484238|Only bedded limestones and marls and bioherms of sponges are to be found in the deposits of the northern border of Oxfordian Tethys. Among the 132 species of foraminifera occurring here, 31 are characteristic of the bedded facies, and 14 of the sponge environment. These are restricted to the direct neighborhood of the sponge bioherms. Moreover, the carbonate content has some influence on the microfauna. These facts indicate the scarcity of bottom currents.
10.2307/1485893| Seven lower Pliocene sediment samples from Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Hole 642B on the outer Vring Plateau were analyzed in order to test the reproducibility of Moore's random settling method in quantitative diatom analysis. The results indicate that the absolute abundance of diatom valves per gram dry sediment are obtained within an error of 5% at the 95% confidence level after a count of 400 valves. The results also indicate that relative abundance percentages for abundant species (approximately 20% of the total assemblage) are determined with a maximum error of 3.5%, whereas relative abundance percentages for less abundant species are determined with a maximum error of 1.5%. Species having relative abundances of approximately two percent or less may be overlooked. This study demonstrates that absolute abundance data are required in order to understand the cause of change in the relative abundance. 
10.2307/1485248|A comprehensive study of the foraminiferal assemblage from Jurassic rocks of Kutch, western India has been made. A section comprising the Patcham, Chari, and Katrol "series" was studied in detail. The first two of these units contain rich foraminiferal faunas, and the third is barren. The assemblage includes six new species from among the Ammodiscacea and Lituolacea, and four from among the Miliolacea and Nodosariacea. The family Nodosariidae dominates the assemblage. Some species are reported for the first time from the Indian subcontinent. Intraspecific variation and dimorphism are dealt with for a number of forms. The fossiliferous "series" are dated tentatively as Callovian to Oxfordian, and the paleoecology of the Kutch Jurassic is discussed.
10.2307/1485361|Diatoms from the type section of the Luisian Stage in central California correlate with the lowermost part of the Denticulopsis lauta Zone through the lower part of subzone "a" of the Denticulopsis hustedtii-D. lauta Zone and are early Middle Miocene in age (about 16.0 to 14.0 Ma). Rocks assigned to the Luisian Stage by benthic foraminifers elsewhere in California exhibit little diachroneity in terms of diatom biostratigraphy; however, detailed studies of boundaries have not been done. Planktic diatoms dominate the assemblages, although an increase in benthic and tychopelagic diatoms in the overlying Hames Member of the Monterey Formation probably reflects shoaling. A cooling trend is suggested by diatom assemblages in the upper part of the section and is most marked near the top of the type Luisian. This cooling trend is supported by data elsewhere in the Pacific Basin as well as by both megafossil and microfossil studies in California. One hundred four diatom taxa are documented, and one new species, Coscinodiscus volutus Baldauf, is described.
10.2307/1484656|The stratigraphic importance of many mid-Tertiary species of the foraminiferal genera Siphogenerina and Uvigerina has been obscured by stratigraphic complexities, nomenclatorial confusion such as synonyms and misidentifications, misunderstandings concerning phylogenetic relationships, and a paucity of reliable stratigraphic data. Some important species intervals are discussed and plotted on a correlation diagram and range chart for eastern Venezuela, California, and the Gulf Coast region. Although the treatment here is basically biostratigraphic, some taxonomic difficulties are discussed for future consideration. Two new species of Uvigerina are described.
10.2307/1485693|The morphology of Bicornifera lagaaiji Keij 1977 is described on the basis of scanning electron microscopical examination of specimens obtained from the Oligocene Byram Marl at its type locality in Mississippi. Particular attention is given to the internal structure of this problematic microfossil, the results of which support and elaborate on the views of Lindenberg (1965). Randomly distributed borings on the test of Bicornifera, probably attributable to marine organisms such as gastropods, fungi, sponges and vasiglobuline foraminifers, suggest that it may have lived in a sessile mode above the sea floor.
4097027|Micrite nodules are the only source of Radiolaria within the upper Tithonian to Aptian (Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous) interval of Great Valley Supergroup (GVS), California Coast Ranges. Radiolaria recovered from GVS micrite nodules are either calcified or pyritized. This paper describes a method of extracting well preserved calcified radiolaria from micrites utilizing acetic acid. The same method resulted in the extraction of well preserved Upper Cretaceous planktonic foraminifera from indurated micrite within the Khoy ophiolitic complex of northwestern Iran; from micrite in the Green Horn Formation, Pueblo Colorado; from indurated chalk in the Austin Chalk, Dallas Texas, and from indurated micrite in Albian Duck Creek Formation of Texas. The preservation of extracted radiolaria and planktonic foraminifera from the indurated micrites and chalk is excellent and is often comparable to that found in most DSDP/ODP samples. Assumedly the clay content of the rock, and the chemical homogeneity of the calcified test are the principal reasons for differential solution of the acetic acid.
10.2307/1484791|There is a two-layered primary wall in Lamarckina, Hoeglundina, and several other members of the Robertinidae and Epistominidae. It thus seems probable that all members of the Robertinacea are bilamellar. A continuation of the inner lining over the septal face resembles the rotaliid structure very closely. Stomatorbina is a calcitic, primarily granular monolamellid with thick, radial secondary accretion. It does not belong in the Robertinacea and may be related to Valvalabamina.
4499751|We describe two new species of coccolithophores from the deep photic zone, and a new morphostructural type of coccolith, or cedrilith. These are among the smallest coccospheres and coccoliths, and are assignable to the newly described genus Solisphaera once its description is emended. Following taxonomic revision, we propose that the morphology of its coccosphere and morphostructure of its coccoliths constitute an additional, striking example of morphologic convergence in the coccolithophorids.
20627971|Adercotryma glomeratum is one of the most geographically and bathymetrically widespread species of Recent deep-sea benthic foraminifera, but the evolutionary history of this distinct agglutinated species is poorly known. In addition to one or two Recent species probably closely related to A. glomeratum, the Eocene-Oligocene species Adercotryma agterbergi has been described, but we suggest that this species be assigned to the genus Ammogloborotalia. A very rare, unnamed species has been described from the Campanian in the western Pacific Ocean, and it has been speculated that the genus originated at about that time in the western Pacific, possibly from the ancestor Ammogloborotalia gyroidinaeformis. We describe the Maastrichtian occurrence of a previously unknown species, which we named Adercotryma kuhnti. This species occurs in the Maastrichtian Abathomphalus mayaroensis planktonic foraminiferal Zone, Micula prinsii nannofossil zone CC26, in the lower bathyal to abyssal ODP Site 1210 (ODP Leg 198, Shatsky Rise, northwest Pacific Ocean), where it constitutes up to 14.7% of the benthic foraminiferal assemblages. We looked for the species in coeval material from many locations in and around the Atlantic Ocean, and DSDP Site 465 in the Pacific (Hess Rise), but did not find it. The occurrence as a geographically restricted species agrees with speculation of a Cretaceous origin of the genus in the western Pacific, and evolution as a deep-sea species rather than migration from shallow waters.
10.2307/1485025|Cenomanian calcareous nannofossils from the Del Rio Clay of Texas were subjected to dissolution in a laboratory apparatus in order to study solution-induced changes in the appearance of individuals and in the preserved assemblage. Nannofossils were extracted at one-hour intervals ranging from zero to five hours of exposure to carbon dioxide, and samples were prepared for examination with the petrographic and scanning electron microscopes. An alteration in the morphology of individuals was observed but not quantified because the variation in appearance of a taxon from one specimen to another within a sample was nearly as great as the variation between consecutive samples. Calculations of the abundances of the 19 numerically dominant taxa relative to the taxon most resistant to solution, Watznaueria barnesae, demonstrated that a change in the assemblage occurred as dissolution proceeded.
10.2307/1485278|Species of organic-walled microphytoplankton obtained from a well core of the Eden Shale (Upper Ordovician) of Wayne County, Indiana show a reciprocally fluctuating pattern of abundance. Two phytoplankton communities can be identified: the Baltisphaeridium dasos Community, consisting of 2 species, and the Axisphaeridium cylindratum-Dicommopalla macadamii Community, consisting of 9 species. Three additional species appear to be eurytopic. The 2 communities alternate in dominance according to position in the core, while the abundances of the eurytopic taxa fluctuate independently. A model is proposed in which changing water mass boundaries produce these fluctuations. An alternative model that assumes random sampling of seasonal changes in phytoplankton abundance cannot be excluded with the limited data available. Although speculations about possible causes for the proposed water mass fluctuations are not attempted, it is possible the ancient water masses might be mappable using microphytoplankton, and it is important to biostratigraphic work to recognize such patterns.
4097051|Quantitative analysis of benthic foraminifers from three continuously-cored boreholes (130m deep) at different distances from the Adriatic coast and focused within two marine intervals (0-30m and 100-120m depth) that on the basis of AMS
4097086|Seventy-nine fossil ostracode species were identified in 40 of 80 samples from 15 sites of the Lower Miocene Mizunami and Iwamura Groups (ca. 18 Ma), eastern Setouchi Province, central Japan. Six ostracode associations and seven biofacies were discriminated, mainly on the basis of R-mode and Q-mode cluster analyses, respectively. Species that lived in the innermost part of enclosed brackish bay habitats became extinct and their Recent related species are absent. Most Miocene species of the genera Schizocythere, Cornucoquimba and Loxoconcha inhabited similar environments to related living species. They lived in nearshore sand and silty sand bottoms with Zostera beds under the influence of subtropical-water currents as inferred from fossil molluscan assemblages. Pseudoaurila species, which are extinct, are estimated to have been dominant on seagrass or algae during the late Early to early Middle Miocene, but after that, they were replaced by diverse Aurila and Loxoconcha species. Species of the genera Palmenella, Kotoracythere, Acanthocythereis, Robertsonites, Celtia, Elofsonella and Laperousecythere are nearly identical morphologically to cryophilic or circumpolar species living in cold water masses of northern high-latitude seas or lower sublittoral to bathyal zones in the Sea of Japan. They occur in Miocene sediments, however, in association with subtropical to mild-temperate, upper to middle sublittoral molluscan species. Ancestors of Recent cold-water species have thus inhabited Japan since at least the Early Miocene. They expanded their habitats southward according with global cooling in chron C5Dr interval (late Early Miocene) correlated with the the oxygen isotope maximum period (the base of the Zone Mi 1b; ca. 18 Ma). Eleven new species are described. This study presents the earliest Miocene record of ostracodes in and around Japan and contributes to inferences on the origin, phylogeny and speciation of Recent ostracodes living in high-latitude seas in the Northern Hemisphere.
10.2307/1484608|In 1953 Bowen established the genus Trachyleberidea, naming Cythereis prestwichiana Jones and Sherborn as the type species. The specimens on which he based this genus were not, in fact, Cythereis prestwichiana but Cythereis aranea Jones and Sherborn. This paper is an attempt to clarify the confusion that has arisen between these two species.
10.2307/1484483|X-ray and spectrographic analyses of a number of species of Recent and Pleistocene pelagic foraminifera from Caribbean, Atlantic and Pacific deep-sea cores indicate that the tests are made of virtually pure calcite, with only about 0.11% of strontium.
4097106| A morphometric study of Coccolithus pelagicus s. l. coccoliths was performed on 98 samples from a long sediment core recovered off the Portuguese margin (MD95-2040) and 29 more surface samples from an extensive area of the North Atlantic. The core allowed following in detail morphometric changes of this species through the last two glacial cycles while surface samples were used to analyse biogeographic distribution of the morphotypes. The main purpose of the present work is to identify and characterize the existence of distinct morphotypes of the species Coccolithus pelagicus s.l. and test the presence of its two extant subspecies (C. pelagicus pelagicus and C. pelagicus braarudii) in the studied area. For each sample maximum placolith diameters of one hundred randomly selected specimens were tabulated into 1m morphons. The behaviour of these morphons, characterized by R-mode Factor Analysis, allows defining morphotypes as groups of highly correlated morphons. Surface sample data set showed the existence of three morphotypes: a small (7-10m), an intermediate (11-13m), and a large morphotype (15-16m). The factor scores distribution shows that at present day, the smallest morphotype mainly occurs above 60N, the intermediate is predominant in the West coast of Iberia, whereas the largest one tends to occur in areas surrounding the Azores region. Data from MD95-2040 also allowed the identification of three morphotypes: a small (6-9m), an intermediate (10-13m) and a large (14-15m) morphotype. The small morphotype shows significant similarities to the records of the two independent proxies for the periodic influence of cold waters off Iberia, the abundances of left-coiling N. pachyderma and ice-rafted detritus (IRD). These confirm its positive response to subpolar influxes off western Iberia, its direct relationship to C. pelagicus pelagicus and thus its future use as a proxy for cold waters. The intermediate morphotype is related to C. pelagicus braarudii and to the upwelling conditions off Iberia while the predominance of a larger morphotype (here described as C. pelagicus azorinus) in the Azores region may allow its future use as a proxy of the influence of the Azores current in Eastern North Atlantic. 
10.2307/1485476|This is a taxonomic study of a late Ordovician radiolarian assemblage found in a calcareous concretion from Eureka County, Nevada. Included are the earliest unquestionable descriptions of species in the family Palaeoscenidiidae. Eleven different forms are described including two new genera, Palaeosphaera and Palaeotrifidus, and seven new species, Entactinia? spongia, Palaeoephippium octaramosum, Palaeosphaera micra, Palaeotrifidus ballator, Palaeotrifidus imbifurcus, Palaeotripus sexabrachiatus and Secuicollacta stelligera.
10.2307/1485070|Weikkoella Summerson, 1958, described from the Columbus Limestone of central Ohio as an arenaceous foraminiferal genus, is based on siliceous steinkerns of the oospores of charophyte gyrogonites referable to Moellerina greenei Ulrich, 1886. M. greenei is found in the Middle Devonian Columbus Limestone of Ohio in the E zone, F zone, G zone and H zone of Stauffer (1909). In southern Indiana and northwestern Kentucky, the Brevispirifer gregarius Zone of the definitely Onondagan portion of the Middle Devonian Jeffersonville Limestone and the new M. greenei Zone coincide, but in Ohio M. greenei ranges higher than B. gregarius, which does not occur in the H zone. The orientation of the gyrogonites of Moellerina greenei is reinterpreted on the basis of definitive apical and basal structures as determined by a study of the oogonia of modern charophytes.
10.2307/1485219|On the basis of recently acquired data, the fossil dinoflagellate genus Stephanelytron Sarjeant, 1961, is emended and designated as the type for the new family Stephanelytraceae. Revised descriptions are provided for S. caytonense Sarjeant, S. redcliffense Sarjeant, and S. scarbughense Sarjeant; a new species, S. tabulophorum, is proposed. The genus, known only from localities in the northern hemisphere extending from western Europe to western North America, ranges from Middle Jurassic (middle Callovian) to Upper Jurassic (lower Kimmeridgian).
10.2307/1484698|Bolli's planktonic foraminiferal zonation is applied to the Miocene and Oligocene portions of the Carmen-Zambrano section in northern Colombia.
10.2307/1484492| This paper traces in detail the evolution of the genus Orbulina d'Orbigny from a species of Globigerinoides similar to Globigerinoides triloba. Two independent lines of evolution are discussed, the first leading to Orbulina universa, and the second to "Orbulina" bilobata. The latter species is removed to a new genus, Biorbulina, and two new species of Globigerinoides are proposed. The stratigraphic range of Orbulina in Trinidad and in Falcn, Venezuela, is discussed, and a preliminary correlation of the Oligo-Miocene sediments of the two areas is given. 
10.2307/1485652|Transmission and scanning electron microscopy have revealed the three-dimensional ultrastructure of the muscle attachment to the cuticle of the adductor and frontal scars in ostracodes. Each muscle fiber is connected to the cuticle by an epidermal cell, which has a specialized portion with a junctional interdigitation of the basal cell membrane, a thick cluster of microtubules, and numerous conical hemidesmosomes at the apical cell membrane. The ultrastructure indicates that the tension of muscular contraction is transmitted through this portion to the muscle scar. A filamentous network, which takes the form of a pan, characterizes the cuticle of the muscle scar. The number of muscle fibers connected to one muscle scar, varies from one to four. Increase in the number of scars in variants is explained by the participation of extra epidermal cells in the muscle attachment. Because each scar represents a specialized portion of the epidermal cell, the muscle scars are germane to the discussion of ostracode phylogeny at cell level.
10.2307/1484911|Metallographic coating techniques are applied to the study of nannofossils. By varying the thickness of metal coatings, there is an apparent change in the refractive index of these calcite microfossils. Alteration of the refractive index makes them easily visible in the bright field of any microscope and reduces the need for the use of electron microscopes. A method is also described to permit repeated transfer from the light microscope to the scanning electron microscope.
10.2307/1486048| Early to late Miocene (24-8 Ma) benthic foraminiferal faunas (>63m) were studied from lower bathyal through abyssal sites (ODP Site 707, 1552m; DSDP Site 237, 1623m; ODP Site 709, 3040m and ODP Site 710, 3824m) in the Somali Basin of the NW Indian Ocean in order to establish paleoecological controls on diversity patterns. Species diversity was recorded in terms of the  index and information function, H(S), which show very similar trends. Although diversity values fluctuated during the Miocene they generally remained fairly high and were higher than those of the modern ocean at equivalent water depths. The highest values occur at the shallowest site (707) and the lowest values occur at the deepest site (710). Dissolution at the latter site may account for the lower diversity values. Comparisons between the  values of the Somali Basin and other areas based on published records suggest that during the Miocene the diversity of the deep-sea environment was generally similar to the Pacific Ocean but higher than the Atlantic and Southern oceans. This indicates that there were significant diversity differences between ocean basins. Comparisons between different size-fractions reveal that  indices are higher in the >63m size-fraction compared with >125m and >149m size-fractions. The lowest overall diversities are associated with the high abundance of smooth-walled bolivinids which occurs between 19.5 and 16.5 Ma at the three shallower sites. Other variations cannot be correlated between sites and are, therefore, interpreted as reflecting local changes in the nature of the deep-sea environment, e.g. changes in productivity or organic matter fluxes. 
10.2307/1484892|Blebs of asphalt and platelike structures containing conodont assemblages identified as Lochriea sp. occur in the Late Mississippian Heath Shale of Montana. Associated with the blebs is a reticulate "skin" pattern. The structures are interpreted as belonging to an animal the head of which was, at least in part, composed of cartilaginous material, and was covered, at least in part, by a reticulated skin.
24413333|A new suprageneric classification of the Foraminifera is here presented based on fundamentally new concepts of their evolution and classification. The predominant significance is given to the shell morphology as the most conservative feature, while the wall composition and shell wall ultrastructure are considered as having important but nevertheless subordinate meaning. Foraminifera are regarded as a phylum that includes five classes: Astrorhizata Saidova 1981, Spirillinata Mikhalevich 1992, Miliolata Saidova 1981, Nodosariata Mikhalevich 1992 and Rotaliata Mikhalevich 1980. Each of the five classes unite forms that can be characterized by a complex of common features of their shell morphology reflecting the building plan of the organism (number of chambers, their form, the predominant mode of coiling, position and character of the aperture and its inner structures, the presence or absence of additional apertures, the presence or absence of integrative systems and their peculiarities, and some other features  all of them having evolutionary significance). Each of these classes represents independent and well-outlined phyletic lines. Some characters of the cell structure and nuclear apparatus are also used as taxonomic features of some higher-ranking taxa where the accumulated data permit. Isomorphic agglutinated forms differing from their calacareous analogues in their shell wall composition are separated as subclasses within the appropriate classes: the subclasses Ammodiscana Mikhalevich 1980, Miliamminana Mikhalevich 1980, Hormosinana Mikhalevich 1992, Textulariana Mikhalevich 1980 within the Spirillinata, Miliolata, Nodosariata and Rotaliata correspondingly (the latter also includes two calcareous subclasses  the Rotaliana Mikhalevich 1980 and Globigerinana Mikhalevich 1980). Within the class Astrorhizata, subclasses with organic (Lagynana Mikhalevich 1980) and agglutinated (Astrorhizana Saidova 1981) shell walls are included. In total, the phylum Foraminifera embraces 73 orders, 27 suborders, 98 superfamilies, 499 families and 368 subfamilies among which 2 orders (Cymbaloporida, Cassigerinellida), one suborder Duostominina, two families (Cymbaloporettidae, Haynesinidae), and two subfamilies (Cushmanellinae and Tristixinae) are described as new. The composition of the classes and subclasses is also partially revised. The largest changes were made within the classes Spirillinata, Miliolata and Nodosariata: thus the Fusulinids were included into the Miliolata, the Chapmaninids - into the Spirillinata, the Stilostomellids, Pleurostomellids and Paleozoic Nodosariids  into the Nodosariata. The former suborder Textulariina (= Textulariacea Ehrenberg 1838 sensu lata Loeblich and Tappan 1987) was shown to be heterogenous and its representatives are split out into several subclasses of the different classes according to their shell morphology. The composition of the subclasses is here given up to the family level; most of the subclasses need further revision at the family and generic level. Under the new approach the morphologically similar agglutinated and calcareous shells within each class could be regarded as closely related rather than convergent forms. The rise and development of the classes took place independently and in parallel in each of the phylogenetic lines examined.
1486091|Researchers generally use only one type of plant or animal to study a particular marsh. Consequently, it has been impossible to directly compare zonations obtained using different groups between sites. To facilitate such comparison, cluster analysis of foraminiferal, diatom, and macrophyte data collected in transects from a tidal marsh at Zeballos, northwestern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, was carried out. These analyses yielded three, six, and four mostly elevation-controlled assemblage zones, respectively. Physical parameters such as salinity and oxygen concentration affect the various taxa differently, resulting in significantly different assemblage boundaries between groups. A composite analysis of all groups yielded an assemblage zonation very similar to that obtained with the macrophytes alone. Although fewer assemblage zones were resolved with the composite analysis than with the diatom data alone, fewer sample misclassifications resulted in more precise elevation determinations. A second composite analysis using only foraminiferal and diatom data, which is more useful to paleo-sea level researchers, also gave four elevation controlled assemblage zones, although assemblage zone elevational boundaries differed slightly from those obtained with data from all groups. Our results will permit researchers working on diatoms, foraminifera or macrophytes to calibrate their zonations thus making it easier for workers in different fields to compare their results.
10.2307/1485145|The wall structure of the megaspores of Azolla barbata Snead and A. distincta Snead, as seen with the scanning electron microscope and under the light microscope, is described. Massulae are attached to the megaspores of both species. A new species of Salvinia, S. spinata, is described. Coiled glochidia occur in massulae of A. barbata, anchor-shaped glochidia in those of A. distincta. All specimens are of Late Cretaceous age and come from the Hell Creek Formation of Montana.
24413297|Palynological analysis is reported here for the first time from glacial and postglacial deposits of the lower-middle section of the Guandacol Formation at the Huaco area, central Paganzo Basin, Argentina. Forty-nine spore species are assigned to twenty-seven genera and twenty-one pollen species are assigned to ten genera, however few acritarchs were identified. Biostratigraphic ranges of species suggest an age no older than late Serpukhovian for the section studied. This age is also supported by radiometric data that indicate an early Bashkirian age at the top of the Guandacol Formation. The palynofloras consist mostly of endemic spore species, and provide new evidence for delimiting the Subzone A of the Raistrickia densa-Convolutispora muriornata Biozone in Argentina. Close correlation is suggested with palynological associations belonging to the widespread glaciation occurred during the Serpukhovian-early Bashkirian in South America and Australia.
10.2307/1485650|Structural elements of the type species of Bolivina, B. plicata d'Orbigny, are compared and contrasted with those of Afrobolivina afra Reyment. The cameral folds of Bolivina (which are not retral processes s.s.) are integral parts of the external wall of the test; they are perforated with the same kind of pores as occur in the outer wall. The septa of Afrobolivina are imperforate; they are, anatomically, outgrowths of the outer layer of the chamber-floors and have the same general structure as that in the toothplate. The septa cut the external wall to unite with imperforate ornamental features on the surface of the test.
10.2307/1485991| We present a detailed Cenozoic biostratigraphy for Paleogene bathyal and Neogene neritic strata, north of 55 in the central North Sea, and offshore mid-Norway, using both foraminifera and dinoflagellate cysts. Construction of the zonations was assisted by the quantitative stratigraphic methods RASC and STRATCOR. Eight Paleogene and four Neogene interval zones of benthic and some planktonic foraminifera are defined. These zones involve the average last occurrence of 64 taxa present in a minimum of 7 of 33 wells studied. Eighteen geographically rare, but stratigraphically important foraminifers and dinoflagellate cysts were inserted as "unique events". Thirteen Paleogene dinoflagellate cyst interval and peak zones are defined that are interrelated with the foraminiferal zonation. The Paleocene-Eocene boundary is assigned at the top of dinoflagellate cyst zone T2c (Apectodinium augustum LO), immediately above the upper limit of the Reticulophragmium paupera Zone. The Coscinodiscus Zone and dinoflagellate cyst zone T3A (acme of Deflandea oebisfeldensis) are earliest Eocene in age. Uppermost Eocene strate may be largely missing in the central North Sea, as is part or all of the Upper Miocene. 
10.2307/1485977|Sediment grab samples from a series of depth transects were collected at 112 locations on the continental margin of Portugal. The benthic microfauna is rich and diverse; 248 species in 107 genera were observed. Distributions of the more frequent benthic species were further examined. Twenty-four species of planktonic foraminifera were identified. All the data have been treated by a descriptive multivariate analysis (correspondence analysis). The major oceanographic feature is seasonal upwelling, which decreases the planktonic-benthic ratio and permits the introduction of cold water species, both benthic and planktonic. The distribution of benthic and planktonic species depends on the depth and more exactly on factors related to it: temperature and its seasonal variations, salinity and sediment facies. Three benthic distributional patterns have been related to the grain size of the sediment. We can distinguish sand-dwellers, species tolerant towards muddy sediment, species tolerant towards muddy sand and species living indifferently in sand and mud.
3648468| Cocoarota orali, a new foraminifer species, is described from the Upper Maastrichtian and Upper Danian levels of Niksar (Tokat); from the Upper Danian levels of Glky (Ordu) and Tecer (Sivas); from the Thanetian level in the Grlevik Mountain (Sivas), Elazi and Safranbolu (Karabk); from the Cuisian-Lower Lutetian levels of Andrn (Kahramanmara) regions, all in Turkey. The new species is characterized by its test shape, two layered wall and hexagonal ornamentation. It is provisionally assigned within Cocoarota genus because of its test shape, coiling and other structural features, but differs from other species in Cocoarota by its two layered wall. 
10.2307/1484922| Study of uppermost Visan and Namurian species of Albaillella Deflandre and Namurian species of Ceratoikiscum Deflandre confirms an earlier suggestion that the two genera are closely related. The argument rests upon similarities between the fundamental skeletal geometries of the two taxa and most importantly upon the constant angular relationship between diagonal structures and the single straight rod of the skeletal frame which is common to both genera. Consequently, both Ceratoikiscum and Holoeciscus Foreman are assigned to the suborder Albaillellaria, which must now be regarded as ranging from Silurian to Namurian rather than as being confined to the Carboniferous. 
10.2307/1484795|An efficient apparatus for hydrofluoric acid macerations, consisting of a Teflon beaker, a magnetic hot-plate stirrer, and a reflux condenser, is described and figured.
10.2307/1484793|The approximate environmental conditions prevailing during the formation of some fifteen biostratigraphic units recently introduced by the author are described from four Miocene sections in the Gulf of Suez region. The age of these subdivisions is discussed, and the Burdigalian and Vindobonian Stages are definitely recognized.
40607080|A new gondolellid conodont species, Jinogondolellapalmata, is described from the lower part of the Bell Canyon Formation in the Apache Mountains of West Texas. This new species and J. aserrata represent two different lineages that evolved from J. nankingensis in the lower and middle Wordian of the Middle Permian. This species has been found in several sections in the Guadalupe Mountains and in Oman.
10.2307/1485868|The systematics and the distribution of the genus Cytheropteron Sars 1866 is studied in the Plio-Pleistocene Section of Monte San Nicola. Fifteen taxa have been identified, 7 of which are described as new: Cytheropteron (Aversovalva) denticulatum, C. fraudulentum, C. omega, C. (A.) pinarense gillesi, C. scalprum, C. sulcifer, C. vanharteni.
10.2307/1485418|New statistical techniques are applied to Cenomanian-Turonian ostracods from boreholes drilled in bituminous shales in the Tarfaya Province, southern Morocco. The morphological characters used in the quantitative analysis are both continuous (measurements on the dimensions of the carapace) and discontinuous (the nature and presence of ornamental attributes). Two new species of Veenia (Nigeria) and two of Oertliella? are described. An interesting evolutionary situation in the lateral ornament of these ostracods is discussed. Although the example used here is statistically simple, the universality of the methods is emphasized and they should prove to be beneficial in increasing the usefulness of micropaleontological analysis in detailed correlations between boreholes. Ostracods have been employed here but the procedures can be as well applied to foraminifers.
1486156|Names of zoological taxa are governed by a set of laws, the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature or ICZN. In contrast to taxonomy, where decisions are based on interpretations, the laws of nomenclature are explicit and must be obeyed. One of the consequences, as discussed herein, is that paranomenclature, that reflects parataxonomic classifications based on parts of organisms independently of other parts, is not recognized under the ICZN and thus cannot be applied to formally diagnosed taxa. In the case of jawed polychaete annelids, parataxonomic treatments of the jaw elements as well as ICZN-governed naming of the reconstructed apparatus has divided their fossil record into separate but biologically overlapping groups of element-based and apparatus-based taxa. The independent treatment of groups created in this way has the potential for much confusion, if their names are used in formal systematics. Other recommendations of ICZN for effective diagnosis and illustration should also be considered in proposing names within groups such as this, where paranomenclature has been customary in the past.
10.2307/1484409|The problematic microfossils Globochaete alpina Lombard and Eothrix alpina Lombard? are recorded from Portlandian limestones (Upper Jurassic) of Cuba. The new genera Favreina and Lombardia are introduced for other enigmatic forms from Upper Jurassic beds. Ten species of Nannoconus, which have proved useful in zoning Lower Cretaceous limestones in Cuba, are recognized. Their nomenclature and morphology are discussed in detail.
10.2307/1485817|The acritarch genus Veryhachium has a simple morphology exhibiting only a restricted degree of variation. Nevertheless, over 65 species have been assigned to the genus, a number certainly excessive. To rectify this situation, the criteria used to describe species attributed to this genus are listed and their importance is assessed. Two subgenera, Veryhachium subgenus Veryhachium and Veryhachium subgenus Tetraveryhachium, are distinguished, containing three- and four-spined forms respectively. Only 34 species of Veryhachium are retained, making the genus of greater utility in biostratigraphy and paleoecology. Eight emendations to specific diagnoses are proposed. Veryhachium cruciatum (Wetzel 1933) Lejeune-Carpentier 1981 and Veryhachium liujingense Gao 1978 are transferred tentatively to Multiplicisphaeridium and Veryhachium vesiculospinum Eiserhardt 1992 to Dorsennidium.
3648467|The skeletal structure of Prunopyle antarctica Dreyer is examined and redescribed on the basis of new observations from sediment samples from the Antarctic Ocean. Various forms of the species are illustrated.
10.2307/1484385|A new spore genus, Pteroretis, is instituted and a new species of Acanthotriletes is described in a study of small spores of upper Chester age in the Texas-Oklahoma Panhandle. Both spores are stratigraphically important.
10.2307/1485643| Analysis of 18 surface sediment samples from between 1 and 64S, along approx. 180E, yielded 195 Recent radiolarian taxa. Clustering of the species and the samples, and further examination of the distribution patterns of radiolarian abundances, allowed definition of five climatic zones (tropical to antarctic) and several species groups and isolated species with variable degrees of selective loading on the five areas. Specific diversities were highest in the Tropical Zone, and a secondary peak occurred at the northern edge of the Transition Zone; the latter area was barren of endemic and, probably, also of characteristic taxa. A zonation of the transect, based on a family and suborder level radiolarian census, was similar to the one based on the species, suggesting that the distribution of these higher-level categories is meaningful in ecological terms. 
10.2307/1485022|Carbonate strata of Miocene age, sampled from outcrops along the coast of Lebanon, were found to contain a large number of marine calcareous algae. These fossils are, almost exclusively, representatives of the red algae (Rhodophyceae). Species identified from these strata are included in the subfamilies Melobesioideae and Corallinoideae of the family Corallinaceae. One algal species of the family Dasycladaceae has been identified. Stratigraphic correlations with Lower and Middle Miocene strata and shallow-water paleoecological interpretations have been drawn.
10.2307/1484118|A method of treating fossil ostracode carapaces, causing them to open and release fragments of the chitinous integument, is described.
10.2307/1484718| Significant new vistas are opened up in micropaleontology by the advent of the scanning electron microscope. This instrument accepts whole microfossils and images them with extreme depth of field over a range of magnifications from 15 to over 50,000. The greatly increased potential for observation of detail of specimen surface topography will significantly affect our understanding of morphology, as well as phylogenetic, biostratigraphic, and paleoecological interpretations based on morphological data. Furthermore, the vexing problem of scientific illustration is at last provided with an elegant means of solution. 
10.2307/1485744|The primary types of the new species proposed by Redmond (1964) are rephotographed and discussed; their descriptions are emended. They represent the Late Jurassic/Early Cretaceous Loftusiacea considered by Aramco (in 1964) to be useful biostratigraphically; many are now known to be significant throughout much of the Middle East. The valid taxa are now to be referred to as Alveosepta (Redmondellina) powersi (Redmond) (type species of the new subgenus Redmondellina), Bramkampella arabica Redmond, Everticyclammina hensoni Redmond, E. contorta Redmond and Pseudocyclammina vasconica Maync subsp. cyclindrica Redmond. E. elegans and E. eccentrica are junior synonyms of E. kelleri (Henson), and P. sulaiyana is considered to be a junior synonym of P. lituus (Yokoyama) sensu stricto.
10.2307/1485882|This study deals with the temporal variations in four infaunal foraminiferal taxa sampled monthly over a 25-month period (February 1991 - February 1993 inclusive) from the lower intertidal zone on the east coast of Bahrain, Arabian Gulf. Standing crop, relative abundance and changes in species diversity and annual production of tests were measured for Ammonia beccarii, Elphidium advenum, Brizalina pacifica and Nonion sp.. Additionally, the greatest diameter of each individual of A. beccarii was measured to determine monthly size changes and periods of reproduction. An attempt was made, through the use of replicate sampling, to determine homogeneity or patchiness (similarity) in species distributions and abundance patterns. Major changes are noted in species diversity and abundance between July and August 1992. The standing crop of the whole assemblage and of A. beccarii doubled, that of E. advenum increased three to four times and, for B. pacifica and Nonion sp., the increase varied between 30 and 100 times. Overall, standing crop varied from 1-118 per 10cm<sup>3</sup> and annual production of tests ranged from 2 to 2550 per 10cm<sup>3</sup>. A. beccarii is thought to reproduce throughout the year. Species diversity is characteristically low in this hypersaline habitat. Whereas the living assemblage is dominated by infaunal taxa, the dead assemblage is composed largely of transported epiphytic taxa, so the two are very different.
10.2307/1484777| Sixty-seven species and four subspecies of ostracodes are described or listed from the middle Tertiary Isabela-San Sebastin section in northwestern Puerto Rico. Twelve species and two subspecies are new. The ostracodes suggest correlation of the San Sebastin Formation with the combined Vicksburg Group and Chickasawhay Formation in the Gulf Coast Oligocene, of the Lares Formation with the Paynes Hammock and Anahuac Formations of the Lower Miocene, and of the Cibao Formation with the Chipola Formation of Florida. 
10.2307/1484751|Fifty-seven species of Radiolaria, fifty-five of them new, distributed among eleven genera, eight of them new, are described from three calcareous concretions of the Upper Devonian Huron member of the Ohio shale. Of these, forty-five are spumelline forms and two are interpreted as primitive cyrtellarians. Five species are doubtfully assigned to the Paleozoic family Albaillellidae Deflandre, 1952, and five are classed incertae sedis. This material, because of its unusually fine preservation, partially elucidates the ancestry of later Radiolaria.
10.2307/1485562|Fine structure in diatom symbionts of larger foraminifera indicates an exclusive relationship of host and symbiont species regardless of water depth, location, or season. In Amphistegina lobifera, A. lessonii, and A. bicirculata, the cell ultrastructure of the symbionts examined in situ uniformly corresponds to that of the diatom Fragilaria shiloi, which is one of the algal species that recently was extracted from these hosts and identified by J. J. Lee and his colleagues after frustules developed in culture. The symbionts in Amphistegina papillosa are larger than F. shiloi but have a similar pyrenoid ultrastructure (simple internal pyrenoid). The symbiont in Heterostegina depressa, however, is characterized by invaginated pyrenoids. Although not yet identified, it is certainly not the same as either of the two diatom species that supposedly have been isolated from this host, i.e., Nitzschia panduriformis, from Red Sea specimens, which has simple internal pyrenoids or N. valdestriata, from Hawaiian specimens, which has compound internal pyrenoids. Thus, morphological studies of symbionts in situ indicate a higher specificity of the foraminiferal-algal associations than investigation of material isolated from hosts.
10.2307/1484981|External morphologies of Globorotalia miozea miozea (New Zealand), G. praemenardii (Trinidad and New Zealand), and G. scitula praescitula (Trinidad) are evaluated biometrically for phylogenetic affinity. Gross test shapes and growth patterns are similar, but chamber profiles (axial view) in G. miozea miozea are more inflated, partly owing to heavy encrustation, than in G. praemenardii. Interrelationships derived from a 12-variate study do not support placement of G. miozea miozea and G. praemenardii in separate lineages. A model in which they are considered, respectively, as bathypelagic and epipelagic populations of a single lineage is proposed.
10.2307/1485473|Agglutinated foraminifers of Upper Cretaceous pelagic limestones were studied from two road-sections near Gubbio (Italian Apennines) which are famous biostratigraphic and magnetostratigraphic standard sections for the Tethyan Upper Cretaceous, and from a section near Ronda (Penibetic Zone, southern Spain). HCl residues of the reddish "Scaglia Rossa" or "Capas Rojas" facies (Coniacian-Paleocene) of both sections consist almost completely of agglutinated foraminifers. In comparison with the "flysch-type" assemblages and the agglutinated assemblages of the abyssal variegated clays of the North Atlantic Ocean, the bathyal foraminiferal assemblages of the Western Mediterrenean pelagic limestones show strong similarities. Many of the species, described in this paper, are found also in flysch-type assemblages of the Alpine-Carpathian and Maghrebidian orogenic belts as well as in the variegated clays of the North Atlantic Plantagenet Formation. A study of the stratigraphic distribution of these forms from the Turonian to Lower Paleocene led to the following results: 1) a lower part of the sequence (from the Cenomanian / Turonian boundary to Lower Coniacian in the Gubbio sections and to Middle / Upper Turonian in the Penibetic section) is almost devoid of agglutinants. A few samples contain indeterminable "tubes" and Ammodiscus-Glomospira morphotypes. Radiolarians and silicified planktonic foraminifera occur frequently in the HCl residues; 2) a characteristic assemblage of agglutinated foraminifera appears in the Coniacian and Santonian. This assemblage is delineated by Haplophragmium problematicum and Uvigerinammina jankoi. This change in biofacies is similar to observations carried out at Sites 603 and 641 in the North Atlantic; 3) a distinct change in the faunal composition is observed in the Lower Campanian. The following association is characterized by the frequent occurrence of Spiroplectammina. Haplophragmium problematicum and Uvigerinammina jankoi are absent in these assemblages. Praecystammina cf. globigerinaeformis and Recurvoides spp. become common elements of the fauna. In the upper part of this second agglutinated assemblage (Upper Campanian G. calcarata Zone to Maastrichtian) the species Rzehakina epigona, Spiroplectammina israelskyi, Spiroplectammina cf. spectabilis, and Remesella varians occur; 4) the K/T-boundary does not show an important taxonomic turnover in agglutinated foraminifers, but a sudden decrease in abundance and drastic quantitative change in the composition of the assemblages was detected in the Gubbio sections.
10.2307/1484469|A study of spores and pollen in nonmarine sediments of Cretaceous age from Maryland and Delaware indicates that these deposits range from Lower Cretaceous to lowermost Upper Cretaceous. Twenty-two species of spores and pollen are described, eleven of which are new.
10.2307/1485181|Diatoms are the most abundant microfossils in seafloor sediments of the northern North Pacific area, but confusion over taxonomy has impaired their use in biostratigraphy and paleoecology. Analysis of more than 200 surface sediment samples reveals several distinct diatom assemblages which appear to be related to environmental regimes. Referring to original diagnoses, these assemblages can be sorted into 36 species, of which one, Delphineis kippae, is new.
4097028|Two methods for retrieving foraminifera from strongly lithified carbonates (Amine-O and cold-disaggregation with acetic acid) were tested on the same sample of Oxfordian spongiolithic limestone (Prebetic Zone, SE Spain) and compared with thin section analysis. Differences between the methods concern: 1) weight of sieved residues after disaggregation; 2) foraminifera/gram ratio; 3) preservation features of the tests; 4) foraminiferal assemblage compositions. The results obtained allow us to conclude that accurate paleoecological and taxonomical analysis of indurated carbonates requires the combined use of thin sections and disaggegration treatment of the samples.
10.2307/1484300|The genus Nummoloculina is revised to include miliolids with a quinqueloculine embryonic stage followed by a planispiral stage, and in which there is an apertural tooth. Nummoloculina heimi Bonet is emended, and Planispirina schlumbergeri Sidebottom, 1904, and Planispirina striata Sidebottom, 1904, are transferred into Nummoloculina. The contribution of miliolids to the porosity of Cretaceous oolitic limestones is discussed.
10.2307/1484672|A new system of generic classification is proposed for the Orosphaeridae, a radiolarian family apparently restricted to the Cenozoic. Orodapis, Oropagis, Oropelex, and Orostaurus are described as new genera, and Orodendrum Haeckel and Oroscena Haeckel are redefined. Most of the taxa considered here (six genera and seven species) have stratigraphic ranges of only one or two epochs, and it is concluded that the family is potentially useful stratigraphically, especially in sparsely fossiliferous pelagic sediment sequences.
10.2307/1484439| An abundant and highly varied spore florule present in coal of lowermost Mississippian age is described and illustrated. The assemblage consists of nineteen genera and fifty species, of which four genera, thirty species and fourteen types (of which only one or two specimens were found) are proposed as new. Simple, almost smooth, trilete spores of the genus Punctatisporites Potoni and Kremp, 1954, largely predominate, reaching 68 per cent in one sample. The presence of several types that possess a thick perispore is significant. The aspect of the spore florule is more Devonian than Carboniferous, and this florule resembles florules reported from Upper Devonian strata, particularly of the U.S.S.R. A continuation of the Upper Devonian flora into the lower portion of the Lower Carboniferous, as observed in the megaflora, is therefore also indicated by the microflora. 
10.2307/1485165|Twenty-one localities in northern Italy have been correlated by means of planktonic foraminifera. They occur in the G. opima (N2=P21) to G. insueta zones (N7-8), and in the G. acostaensis (N16) and "G. dutertrei" (N17) zones. Correlation of many of the localities with the radiolarian C. virginis Zone (Sanfilippo et al., 1973) suggests that this zone extends relatively lower (to at least the upper part of the N2 Zone) in Italy.
20627984|Urnummulites schaubi n. gen. n. sp., is a rotaliid formainifera. It is found for the first time in the Late Paleocene toe of slope sediments of a carbonate platform Stratigraphic section D6, Bir Dakhl, Southern Galala, Eastern Desert, Egypt. The form is believed to be the ancestor of Nummulites. It is distinguished from Kathina by having asymmetrical polar pustules on both sides. The pustule is only well pronounced ventrally, where it possesses perforations (punctuation) and is lacking the umbilical pillar found in Kathina. In the involute ventral side the test possesses "alar" prolongations. s. str., while these prolongations are lacking dorsally. The form also recalls Laffitteina (a Maastrichtian genus) but it lacks the double septa and the ramifying interseptal canals. Urnummulites differs from all the representatives of Rotaliidae by the presence of the septal filaments. The form is believed to be the ancestor of Nummulites.
1486150|A new genus of limnic ostracode, Sinuocythere n. gen., belonging to the family Limnocytheridae, subfamily Timiriaseviinae, and three new species, Sinuocythere subsinuosa n. sp., Sinuocythere pedrogaensis n. sp. and Sinuocythere candeeirosensis n. sp. are described. This genus belongs to the Timiriasevia-Metacypris group, which first appeared at the end of the Triassic and began to diversify during the Middle Jurassic. It differs from other members of the group by its elongate subovate carapace, slightly compressed posterior margin, and its sinuous and posteriorly upturned dorsal margin. All the known species of this genus have a stratigraphical distribution limited to the Middle and early Upper Jurassic (Bathonian-Oxfordian) of the southern Tethyan realm (Tunisia, Morocco and Portugal). Sinuocythere has a typical euryhaline behavior, contrasting with the salinity tolerance of living and fossil species of the genera Metacypris and Vecticypris, which are essentially limnic-oligohaline.
1486165|Analysis of Paleocene benthic foraminifers of El Sheikh Fadl - Ras Gharib traverse, Egyptian Eastern Desert, reveals the presence of Gavelinella danica Total Range Zone, which is subdivided into four benthic foraminiferal assemblage subzones and correlated with the associated planktic foraminiferal zonations. However, the eugubina Zone is characterized by Cibicidoides pseudoacutus -- Spiroplectinella dentata Subzone, in addition to Cibicidoides alleni, C. susanaensis, Anomalinoides welleri, and Gaudryina pyramidata, developed in a middle to upper bathyal environment with relatively well -- oxygenated conditions. The pseudobulloides - pseudomenardii (base) Zones show mainly a Velasco - type faunas, with the Angulogavelinella avnimelechi -- Nuttallides truempyi Subzone, together with Gavelinella beccariiformis, Cibicidoides alleni, Anomalinoides welleri, and Coryphostoma midwayensis. Microfauna indicates a gradual deepening to bathyal and deeper environments. The third assemblage follows the pseudomenardii (top) and velascoensis (base) Zones, and is typical of continental shelf (middle to outer neritic) conditions, i. e. Midway - type faunas, with the Hoeglundina scalaris -- Lenticulina midwayensis Subzone. Alabamina midwayensis, Anomalinoides midwayensis, and Cibicidodes succedens are encountered in this assemblage subzone. The topmost part of the succession (velascoensis Zone), is equated with the Loxostomoides applinae Subzone, and displays an inner neritic to littoral assemblage, dominated by Valvulineria aegyptiaca, V. scrobiculata, Osangularia plummerae, Bulimina gr. trigonalis, and Bathysiphon paleocenicus. A shallowing environment prevailed during latest Paleocene times, accompanied by oxygen deficient conditions.
40607082|The red, ammonoid-bearing limestones at Rustaq and Wadi Wasit contain Jinogondolella aserrata, the index species for the type Wordian. It occurs with an abundant smooth Mesogondolella fauna and an advanced Waagenoceras ammonoid fauna. In the Rustaq section, two species of Mesogondolella are present in both lower and upper red, ammonoid-bearing limestones with M. siciliensis dominating the lower beds and M. omanensis (new species) dominating the upper beds. The same two Mesogondolella species occur in the single, ammonoid-bearing limestone unit at the Wadi Wasit section, where there are additional conodont species including M. bitten. The faunas at Wadi Wasit section and the upper red, ammonoid-bearing limestone at the Rustaq section contain Stepanovites? festivus which is indicative of the Wordian-Capitanian boundary interval. Capitanian Jinogondolella altudaensis appears in the rocks above the ammonoid-bearing limestone at the Wadi Wasit section.
10.2307/1485922|The lowest common occurrence (LCO) of the planktonic foraminifera Globanomalina luxorensis marks the level of the latest Paleocene global benthic extinction event (BEE) and associated negative 
10.2307/1484940|This paper describes and illustrates 80 species of Holocene Ostracoda from nearshore localities in the Pacific Ocean along the coasts of the United States, Mexico and Nicaragua. Sixteen of the species are new. The four new genera are Acuminocythere, Palmoconcha, Lucasocythere, and Perspicytherois. Of the species studied by the writers herein and previously, nine are restricted in known distribution to the Pacific coast of the United States north of Point Conception, California, while 43 are restricted to the Pacific coast of the United States south of Point Conception, California, and to those of Mexico and Central America. Six of the species recorded from the bay at San Juan del Sur, Nicaragua, have not been found elsewhere. The northern assemblage shows a slight relationship with North Atlantic and northwestern Pacific ostracodes. The southern assemblage shows clearer relationships with ostracodes from the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean region, including forms as old as the Miocene and possibly the Oligocene. The distinction between the two assemblages is probably caused by coastal water temperatures that are controlled by the cool California Current on the north and the North Pacific Current on the south.
10.2307/1484468|Twenty-seven species of marine Ostracoda from British Lower Cretaceous rocks are figured and described. The new subgenus Acrocythere is defined, together with three new species, two new subspecies and one new name to replace a homonym. Eight species are left under nomenclatura aperta. Comparisons are made with Hauterivian and Barremian ostracode faunas of northern Europe.
10.2307/1484873|The diversity of planktonic foraminifera in sediments increases with increase in depth of water and with decrease in latitude. If the area of study is restricted, depth will be the controlling factor and can be calculated approximately from diversity. Isospecies contours based on samples from 55 wells were used to map the relative depths existing at the time of the deposition of the Upper Cretaceous sediments of an area of about 40,000 square miles in east Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas. Comparison of these contours showing depth with the planktonic/benthonic ratio contours of Stehli and Creath showing the paths of currents in the same region reveals many similarities and indicates that the principal Upper Cretaceous currents tended to occur in areas of deeper water.
10.2307/1485951|The two known species of the genus Eoconuloides Cole and Bermudez are recorded and described for the first time from Eocene strata of the Indian subcontinent. Hitherto, the genus Eoconuloides represented by Eoconuloides parvulus (Cushman) and E. wellsi Cole and Bermudez was believed to be restricted to the Caribbean region. The presence of E. parvulus in the Jaisalmer basin and E. wellsi in the Bikaner basin of Rajasthan, northwestern India, is significant, as it negates the endemism of these larger foraminiferal species within the American province. The age determination of the Eocene rocks of Rajasthan was based on the ranges and assemblages of planktonic foraminifers and the presence and distribution of larger foraminifera. In Rajasthan, the first appearance datum of E. parvulus and E. wellsi is approximately three to four million years later than the Caribbean region. The paleobiogeographic implication of the occurrence of Eoconuloides in the Caribbean and northwestern India is discussed and localities where Eoconuloides may be found in the future are indicated.
10.2307/1486083|Investigation of three-segmented theoperids through successive stratigraphic levels in Antarctic Paleogene sediment sequences, and a tropical reference section, resulted in recognition of four groups characterized by different cephalic structures taxonomically treated as the new genera, Aphetocyrtis and Clinorhabdus, the new subgenus Lophocyrtis (Apoplanius), and the previously described subgenus Lophocyrtis (Lophocyrtis). All four lineages are represented in Middle Eocene sediments from the Antarctic. The Antarctic representatives of the tropical Lophocyrtis (Lophocyrtis) lineage become extinct at the end of the Middle Eocene. The diversity of the two new genera, restricted to the Antarctic, is at a peak in the Oligocene interval, coincident with the major cooling event reported during this interval. Most of the new species are endemic to the Antarctic, and only three have been sporadically found in rare abundance in tropical areas. One geographic invasion from the tropics to the Antarctic is documented. The following ten new taxa are described: Aphetocyrtis gnomabax, A. catalexis, A. rossi, Lophocyrtis (Apoplanius) nomas, L. (A.) keraspera, L. (A.) klydus, Lophocyrtis (Lophocyrtis) jacchia hapsis, Lophocyrtis (Lophocyrtis?) zeira, Clinorhabdus anantomus and C. ocymora. Species whose definitions have been emended herein are: Lophocyrtis (Apoplanius) aspera, Lophocyrtis (Lophocyrtis) jacchia jacchia, L. (L.?) barbadense, L. (L.?) semipolita, Clinorhabdus longithorax and C. robusta.
10.2307/1485012|The author agrees with Haake and Lutze in considering Elphidium clavatum Cushman and Elphidium selseyense (Heron-Allen and Earland) to be conspecific and in using the name Elphidium excavatum (Terquem) for this highly variable species. He believes, however, that certain varieties, or forms, of this species are associated with certain environments, and for this reason he considers it of importance to distinguish these forms taxonomically. The following names are suggested for these forms and the forms are described: Elphidium excavatum (Terquem) forma clavata Cushman, mainly arctic, E. excavatum (Terquem) forma alba, new name, mainly subarctic-boreal, E. excavatum (Terquem) forma selseyensis (Heron-Allen and Earland), mainly boreal, and E. excavatum (Terquem) forma lidoensis Cushman, mainly Lusitanian.
10.2307/1485144| Planktonic foraminifera of lower to middle Turonian age from three wells in the Carnarvon Basin, Western Australia, show a clearly Tethyan character. The fauna includes Praeglobotruncana stephani stephani (Gandolfi) and allied forms, Praeglobotruncana hagni Scheibnerov, Praeglobotruncana cf. P. imbricata (Mornod), Praeglobotruncana helvetica (Bolli), Hedbergella paradubia (Sigal), Hedbergella hoelzli (Hagn and Zeil), and also the benthonic species Lingulogavelinella turonica (Butt). Detailed scanning electron microscope studies show that no true double keel is developed on P. stephani stephani and related forms. The generic position of the species paradubia and hoelzli is discussed. Because of their perforate periphery and apertural characteristics they are placed in the genus Hedbergella. Upper Cretaceous faunas of the Mediterranean (Alpine, Carpathian and adjacent areas) are compared with those from India, Australia and New Zealand, and the faunal affinities of these areas in Cretaceous time are demonstrated. It is considered that the Upper Cretaceous deposits of the Carnarvon and Perth Basins, Western Australia, were deposited in an epicontinental sea similar, for instance, to that on the Northern African Table, and that the fauna was more influenced by temperature and proximity of open sea than by depth. 
10.2307/1485013|A microfossil assemblage from the Mackenzie delta area, arctic Canada, is described. Twenty-one species are reported, including two new species, Cyclammina arctica and Cyclammina borealis. The microfauna has similarities with Pacific faunas of early Tertiary age. The assemblage seems to indicate an open-marine, cold-water environment.
30135298|Abundant and diverse polycystine radiolarian faunas from ODP Leg 181, Site 1123 (0-1.2 Ma at ~21 kyr resolution) and Site 1124 (0-0.6 Ma, ~5 kyr resolution, with a disconformity between 0.42-0.22 Ma) have been used to infer Pleistocene-Holocene paleoceanographic changes north of the Subtropical Front (STF), offshore eastern New Zealand, southwest Pacific. The abundance of warm-water taxa relative to cool-water taxa was used to determine a radiolarian paleo-temperature index, the Subtropical (ST) Index. ST Index variations show strong covariance with benthic foraminifera oxygen isotope records from Site 1123 and exhibit similar patterns through Glacial-Interglacial (G-I) cycles of marine isotope stages (MIS)15-1. At Site 1123, warm-water taxa peak in abundance during Interglacials (reaching ~8% of the total fauna). Within Glacials cool-water taxa increase to ~15% (MIS2) of the fauna. Changes in radiolarian assemblages at Site 1124 indicate similar but much better resolved trends through MIS15-12 and 7-1. Pronounced increases in warm-water taxa occur at the onset of Interglacials (reaching ~15% of the fauna), whereas the abundance of cool-water taxa increases in Glacials peaking in MIS2 (~17% of the fauna). Overall warmer conditions at Site 1124 during the last 600 kyrs indicate sustained influence of the subtropical, warm East Cape Current (ECC). During Interglacials radiolarian assemblages suggest an increase in marine productivity at both sites which might be due to predominance of micronutrient-rich Subtropical Water. At Site 1123, an increased abundance of deep-dwelling taxa in MIS 13 and 9 suggests enhanced vertical mixing. During Glacials, reduced vigour of ECC flow combined with northward expansion of cool, micronutrient-poor Subantarctic Water occurs. Only at Site 1123 there is evidence of a longitudinal shift of the STF, reaching as far north as 41S.
4499754|Four new species of deep-water agglutinated benthic foraminifera are described from the Oligocene and Miocene of the Congo Fan, offshore Angola. Scherochorella congoensis n.sp., Paratrochamminoides gorayskiformis n.sp., Haplophragmoides nauticus n.sp. and Portatrochammina profunda n.sp. all occur in deep-sea turbiditic shales and sands from the distal section of the Congo Fan.
1486017| A rich assemblage of upper Paleocene radiolarians has been extracted from siliceous mudstones that locally form the matrix of the Yamdrok mlange in southern Tibet. Faunas include Bekoma campechensis, Lychnocanoma? costata, Orbula comitata, Orbula ducalis, Clathrocycloma parcum, Amphisphaera macrosphaera, Phormocyrtis turgida, Spongurus? regularis, and Dictyocephalus middouri, and correspond to the Bekoma campechensis Zone. This is the first discovery of upper Paleocene radiolarians from Tibet and provides a maximum age constraint on the timing of formation of the Yamdrok mlange, a unit postulated to have developed during collision of the northern margin of India with an intra-oceanic island arc system within Tethys. 
10.2307/1484194|This study concerns the quantitative and qualitative micropaleontology of the Oldsmar limestone. Five new species and two new varieties of previously known species are described. Biostratigraphic zones established by Applin and Applin are revealed by counts of fossils occurring in well cuttings. The probable environment of deposition of the Oldsmar limestone is indicated by a comparison of lithologic and paleontologic data with similar data on Recent sediments.
10.2307/1485608|The biostratigraphic utility of Permo-Carboniferous Ostracoda in Central and North-Central Texas is demonstrated by the establishment of six new interval-zones: the Bairdia whitesidei, Kegelites dattonensis, Bairdiacypris acetalata, Waylandella spinosa, Cryptobairdia forakerensis, and Kindella aff. K. fissiloba zones. All of these zones have good or adequate reliability in offshore, very shallow marine, and (except K. fissiloba) deltaic paleoenvironments. The species defining and characterizing these zones have good to high scores on a proposed Index of Biostratigraphic Utility, which measures vertical stratigraphic range, facies independence, biostratigraphic constancy, and ease of recognition of the species. Stratigraphic ranges and position on an independently derived coenocline are presented for 226 species.
10.2307/1485388|Four types of seed fern miospores are examined morphologically and ultrastructurally to determine the probable mode of gamete release. Miospores from Crossotheca (Lyginopteridaceae) are ultrastructurally like many fern spores with regard to spore wall complexity and suture organization. Miospores from Codonotheca and Dolerotheca (Medullosaceae) are both of the Monoletes type, but show important differences in suture ornamentation, sexine ultrastructure and distal grain organization. Suture ultrastructure in both Monoletes types is like that observed in Crossotheca miospores, and suggests germination was proximal. Miospores from Parasporotheca (Medullosaceae) are of the Parasporites type and share basic ultrastructural features with Monoletes including suture organization. Distinctive features of Parasporites grains include an elaborate surface ornamentation, air sacs, and a small, oval, inflated region on the distal surface. The ultrastructure of the oval area suggests it represents a third saccus. The organization of the nexine appears to be the most reliable feature to indicate the germination exit. All four miospores lack distal specializations resembling apertures and possess a proximal suture which ultrastructurally compares favorably with the suture of homosporous fern spores. For these reasons the miospores described here appear to have germinated proximally and therefore qualify as prepollen.
40959488|Based on morphological and molecular characteristics, we describe a new genus and species of monothalamous agglutinated foraminifera, Capsamminapatelliformis, that occurs mainly at bathyal (1000-3400m) water depths in the Nazar Canyon off Portugal. The test is strongly flattened, up to 500m or more in maximum dimension, and 30-80m thick. It lacks obvious apertures, and is typically composed of 2-3 large, plate-like grains of mica that form the upper and lower surface of the test; these are separated by fine-grained, white agglutinated material ('mortar') forming a ring around the cell body. The cytoplasm, visible through the mica plates, is whitish in colour with few obvious inclusions. Analysis of a fragment of the SSUrDNA gene indicates that C. patelliformis belongs in a clade branching with Crithionina delacai, C. granum and an undetermined crithioninid species. However, the divergences between the new species and these Crithionina species range from 20% to 21%, and are therefore too high to classify it in the same genus. We also transfer a previously described species, Psammosphaera bowmanni Heron-Allen and Earland 1912, to Capsammina based on its use of mica flakes in test construction. Other monothalamous agglutinated foraminifera, including Psammosphera spp., are phylogenetically distant from Capsammina. The new species occupies a shallow infaunal microhabitat, living mainly in the top 0.5cm of sediment.
10.2307/1485593|During the 1981 cruise of the R/V Mikhail Somov, we examined the radiolarian population inhabiting Antarctic waters in late winter/early spring (October-November). Samples were collected with plankton tows at stations at the ice edge as well as hundreds of kilometers south of the ice edge. Concentrations of polycystine and phaeodarian Radiolaria in this unique data set are low, with abundances comparable to those reported from some less productive open-ocean regions. Polycystine Radiolaria occur in highest concentrations in the upper 100 m of the water column at the ice edge and beneath the sea ice. At the sea-ice stations, intermediate tows (100-200 m) contain the highest abundances of Phaeodaria. Spongotrochus glacialis is the most abundant polycystine present in shallow (0-100 m) and intermediate (100-200 m) tows, with Spongurus pylomaticus and Spongotrochus glacialis occurring in higher concentrations in deep tows (1000-2000 m) than any other polycystine radiolarian. In all the shallow and intermediate tows taken within the sea ice, the most abundant Phaeodaria present is Challengeron bicorne. At the ice edge, Protocystis harstoni replaces C. bicorne as the most commonly found phaeodarian.
10.2307/1485042|Benthonic faunas containing representatives of the genus Lingulogavelinella occur in samples from the Bellfield bore hole drilled near Bourke, New South Wales. Lingulogavelinella frankei (Bykova), which indicates a Cenomanian age for the highest part of the marine Cretaceous section of the Great Artesian Basin, is redescribed. Scanning electron microscope study reveals that the tonguelike "lips" covering the dorsal aperture in Lingulogavelinella are perforate extensions of the chamber wall. Involution of the test is constant at the specific level. The different species of Lingulogavelinella are good index markers useful for correlating Albian to Turonian beds containing globotruncanids with beds in which lower temperatures during deposition prevented the occurrence of these stratigraphically important planktonics.
10.2307/1485027|Chilostomellina fimbriata Cushman has been recovered from Late Miocene rocks in the central North Sea Basin. This is the oldest known fossil record of this species to date. It is interpreted as a cold-water indicator based on its Recent distribution.
10.2307/1485957|As part of a preliminary study on growth and evolution of Holocene reefs from northern New Caledonia and Chesterfield Islands (S.W. Pacific), micropalaeontological investigations on ostracod contents were carried out. The cored material from reef-flat and back-reef zones is composed of skeletal deposits. Bioclastic sands sediments from various reef environments contain ostracod-rich assemblages. Modern associations from the back- reef and lagoonal areas were also analyzed, to serve as ecological analogues. Fifty-three species have been recognized, most of them already known from other areas of the Pacific and Indian Oceans. Using statistical methods, two (paleo)environmental zones can be distinguished: a)lagoonal to back-reef slope, b)inner to outer reef flat zone. In every respect, each zone is characterized by distinctive ostracod assemblages. Autecological data available on Recent living taxa suggest some paleoecological preferences of Holocene assemblages in similar areas. Ostracod assemblages are highly diverse in modern lagoons, the main taxa belonging to Cytheracea (dominant) and Bairdiacea with a few Cypridacea; they are quite diverse in the Recent and Holocene inner reef slopes and poorly represented within the reef flat zone, probably in response to variations in physico-chemical conditions, especially wave-energy. Considerations about relationships between composition of ostracod assemblages through time and previous data on sea-level changes are discussed.
4097089|Morphological characters of twelve Recent species of Nodosariinae (Foraminifera) are revised, using a large number of specimens collected in the North Atlantic. The species are assigned to four genera: Dentalina Risso 1826, Laevidentalina Loeblich and Tappan 1986, Nodosaria Lamarck 1812, and Pseudonodosaria Boomgaart 1949. One new species, Nodosaria haliensis is described. Previously unknown variation in the lamination pattern of the Nodosariinae test wall is described and some new terms are proposed to describe that variation. We continue to use the term monolamellar for septa made of a single layer, but use the term polylamellar, for septa made of two or more layers. The term plesio-polylamellar is proposed for forms with septa made of several layers, and which form secondary lamellae that envelope only some of the previous chambers. The term poly-monolamellar is replaced with a new term, orthopolylamellar. We also discovered that only some, but not all of the primary layers in polylamellar septa continued to form secondary lamellae; this is referred to as a partial origin of secondary laminations. This is different from the well-known pattern in which all of the primary layers of a plesio-polylamellar septum continue and form what we refer to as a complete origin of secondary lamellae. We discovered that the lamellar structure of L. frobisherensis is somewhat variable even within the same specimen. The initial chambers are always ortho-monolamellar, but in later chambers the structure becomes plesio-monolamellar or even plesio-polylamellar, and the secondary lamellae can be either a partial or complete continuation of the primary lamellae of the septa. Species of Nodosaria are found to be atelo-lamellar, Laevidentalina are ortho-lamellar or plesio-lamellar and Dentalina and Pseudonodosaria are ortho-lamellar.
1486025|Moderately well-preserved late Late Silurian (Ludlowian to Pridolian) to early Middle Devonian (Eifelian) radiolarians were recovered from clastic rock sequences in the Kuzuryu Lake district of the Hida Gaien Belt, Fukui Prefecture, central Japan. These radiolarians are identical to the faunas of the following four assemblages: Zadrappolus yoshikiensis (Late Silurian; Ludlowian to Pridolian), Pseudospongoprunum sagittatum (latest Silurian; Pridolian), Zadrappolus sp. aff. Z. spinosus (latest Silurian to earliest Devonian; Pridolian to Lochkovian) and Pactarentinia holdsworthi (Early to Middle Devonian; Emsian to Eifelian) Assemblages. These radiolarian faunas from the Hida Gaien Belt are correlative with those of the Kurosegawa Belt (Outer Belt of southwest Japan). Silurian radiolarian faunas from the Hida Gaien and Kurosegawa Belts are similar to those from West Junggar in westernmost China. The Early and Middle Devonian radiolarian faunas in Japan are different from those in eastern Australia in that the Japanese faunas characteristically contain "shelled Palaeoscenidiidae". Thus, based on radiolarian faunal similarity, Silurian and Devonian radiolarian-bearing rock sequences in Japan are inferred to have accumulated in the sea nearer to the Sino-Korean Continent than to eastern Australia in the low latitude of Gondwana. Radiolarians of 26 species belonging to 13 genera were systematically investigated. Ten new species are described: Palaeoscenidium simplum, Palaeoscenidium hakogasensis, Palaeoscenidium fragilis, Deflantrica furutanii, Pactarentinia intermedia, Pactarentinia igoi, Tlecerina isensis, Ceratoikiscum izumiensis, Palaeopyramidium ramosum and Palaeoumbraculum hidense.
10.2307/1484722| Palynological studies of Silurian and Devonian sediments of the Maranho Basin, northern Brazil, show that the geologic column there can be divided into palynological zones which can be recognized in other geological basins. Two new genera (Veliferites and Evittia) and four new species of Acritarcha are described, and twelve species of the subgroup Netromorphitae are revised. 
10.2307/1484657|The Miocene algal flora from northern Iraq includes sixteen species assigned to eight genera. They belong to the widespread flora known from the Mediterranean, Red Sea, and tropical Pacific regions. One species, Mesophyllum iraqense, is described as new.
10.2307/1484651|In the Neogene to Recent sediments of Sarawak, Brunei and Sabah, species of the genus Cytherelloidea Alexander, 1929, form a regular component of the ostracode assemblages. Fifteen species were found, of which ten are new.
10.2307/1485838|Calcareous nannofossils and dinocysts date the base of the Clayton Formation in south-central Alabama as Danian in age. The first occurrences of Biantholithus sparsus, Cruciplacolithus primus, Senoniasphaera inornata, Danea californica and Membranilarnacia tenella in the basal sands at Mussel Creek indicate that the Cretaceous-Tertiary (KT) boundary lies virtually at the disconformity (type 1 sequence boundary) which separates the Clayton Formation from the underlying Prairie Bluff Chalk. The presence of the latest Maestrichtian Micula prinsii nannofossil zone in the uppermost 30-50cm of the Prairie Bluff unit closely constrains the hiatus to within several hundred thousand years. In the Braggs roadcut, the base of the Micula prinsii zone lies well within the one-meter thick magnetically unstable interval below polarity Chron C29R. This boundary indicates that the unstable interval is equivalent in age to the earlier part of this chron. In the section from southeastern Georgia, Cretaceous nannofossil taxa disappear below the KT boundary in a shallowing upward sequence of progradation to nearshore environments. Dinoflagellate taxa are potentially valuable for distinguishing third-order cycles of coastal onlap. Species are fewest in lowstand deposits directly above the KT boundary, and then increase rapidly in number in the shelf facies transgressive tract. They then decrease in number systematically from the upper part of the transgressive tract into the next prograding highstand tract. This pattern of dinoflagellate diversity is calibrated from the sequence stratigraphy of the early Danian Pine Barren member of the Clayton Formation, and correlates with third-order cycles published for the late Campanian, early Maestrichtian and late Maestrichtian as well. Dinoflagellate species of Cretaceous origin flourished in the early Danian, at a time when the calcareous-shelled biota was still impoverished by extinction.
10.2307/1485880|Radiolaria of the Family Parvicingulidae Pessagno (Suborder Nassellaria) are described from the lower member of the Taman Formation, east-central Mexico and from volcanopelagic strata overlying the Stanley Mountain remnant of the Coast Range ophiolite in the southern Coast Ranges of California. One new genus and twenty-one new species are documented. In addition, radiolarian assemblages from eighteen limestone, chert and siliceous mudstone samples from Stanley Mountain have been analyzed quantitatively to evaluate middle Oxfordian to upper Tithonian trends in the Family Parvicingulidae and the Family Pantanelliidae. Results show (1) confirmation of a previously observed increase in abundance and diversity of parvicingulids in younger strata; (2) fluctuations in pantanelliid abundance and diversity with maximum abundance occurring within the parvicingulid-dominated part of the succession; and (3) a significant influence of rock type and/or processing techniques on the composition of radiolarian thanatocoenoses. As proposed by the Pessagno and Blome radiolarian paleogeographic model, Parvicingula and Praeparvicingula are useful indicators of mid- to high-latitude deposition during the Upper Jurassic. Ristola holds true to the model as a lower-latitude indicator, but the Family Pantanelliidae, also believed to be indicative of low- to mid-latitudes, varies significantly in abundance, diversity and distribution within the Tethyan Realm and Southern Boreal Province. Such variability indicates that its presence is controlled largely by taphonomic processes and the paleoceanographic regime.
10.2307/1485795| This study concerns the development of a twin-form due to the delay of the breakage of reproductive cysts during the schizogony in Discocyclina cf. seunesi Douvill found in the Paleocene sequence of NW Anatolia (Izmit, Turkey). 
10.2307/1485058|Upper Cretaceous and Paleogene strata exposed along the Gaj River and its tributaries between the Parh and Kirthar Ranges were the subject of a biostratigraphical study based primarily on planktonic foraminifera. Two hundred and nineteen samples were examined. The beds in this portion of the Axial Ranges are nearly all of deep-water origin and differ from those known from other areas in Sind. The Cretaceous-Tertiary contact falls in an unbroken sequence of deep-water shale, and an explanation for the changeover in life forms at this boundary is given. A correlation is made with other sections in Pakistan, in Trinidad, and in north-western Europe.
10.2307/1485310|This report deals with the Upper Jurassic (upper Kimmeridgian to upper Tithonian) Radiolaria and radiolarian biostratigraphy of the California Coast Ranges. A detailed system of zonation has been developed and applied to interpreting the stratigraphy of (1) the Franciscan complex, (2) ophiolites and associated pelagic sedimentary strata beneath the Great Valley sequence, and (3) the Great Valley sequence. Where possible, this system of zonation has been integrated with megafossil zonation (Buchia zonation). Three new families, eight new genera, and 35 new species are described.
1486026|In the lower part of the widespread Middle Triassic turbidite succession in southern Guizhou and northern Guangxi (South China), a bed of radiolarian-bearing muddy chert intercalated with the dominant mudstone and thin-layered sandstone suite has yielded a Triassocampe deweveri-Pseudostylosphaera compacta radiolarian assemblage at Ziyun, Guizhou. Twelve genera and twenty-five species of Nassellaria and seven genera and ten species of Spumellaria are recognized in this radiolarian assemblage, two species of which are new. This radiolarian assemblage can be compared with the Triassocampe deweveri assemblage, the Pseudostylosphaera compacta and Emiluvia (?) cochleata assemblage, and the Eptingium manfredi(?) assemblage of Japan. This discovery confirms the assignment of the turbidite succession to the Anisian-Ladinian, and also indicates that an open, deep-sea environment was present during the Middle Triassic in South China.
10.2307/1484551|The range of variation of the microspores of five species of the Paleozoic lycopod cone Lepidostrobus is reported. Size is fairly constant but, for some features, variation exists which, if observed in dispersed spores, might be interpreted as specific differences. Structure of the microspores was determined in part by sectioning. At this time, none of the cone microspores were found unequivocally referable to any species of Lycospora.
10.2307/1484970|Eoeponidella Wickenden, 1949, is recognized as a valid genus, with Eoeponidella linki as the type species fixed by original designation. Asterellina Anderson, 1963, is determined to be a junior synonym of Eoeponidella Wickenden, 1949. The type species of Asterellina Anderson, 1963, Pninaella? pulchella Parker, 1952, is transferred to Eoeponidella Wickenden, 1949, not to Heterolepa Franzenau, 1884.
10.2307/1484408| The stratigraphic occurrences of Paleozoic small-spore form genera in North America and Eurasia are discussed and compared. The system of classification proposed by Potoni and Kremp is used, although it is not acceptable in its entirety. The authors agree that a morphographic system, separate from botanical considerations, must be used for the practical application of these fossils to stratigraphic problems. Geological range charts are presented for small-spore genera (including three unpublished forms) recognized in North American rocks. An appendix includes the portion of the system of classification used by Potoni and Kremp that pertains to small spores, the European and Asian ranges of these genera, and critical comments by the authors. 
24413316|A first report on the Neogene diatoms from the deep Hole Central-1 drilled on the Chukchi shelf of the Bering Sea is presented. The studied interval (609.5-623.5 meters below the sea floor) contains more than 70 diatom taxa in core samples collected from tuffaceous-diatomite sequence. The diatom flora is dominated by marine neritic-planktic and sublittoral taxa which implies deposition in productive shallow water environments. The occurrence of biostratigraphically-significant marine taxa Pyxidicula zabelinae, Cosmiodiscus insignis, and Ikebea tenuis indicate a Late Miocene age with a range of about 7.9 to 5.5 Ma.
10.2307/1485127| The seasonal distribution of both living and total foraminiferal populations in the Suddagedda River estuary on the east coast of India is presented. A total of 40 species of foraminifera was identified from the estuary, among which 11 species were never found alive there. Ammobaculites exiguus (Cushman and Brnnimann) and Miliammina fusca (Brady) var. among the agglutinated forms, and Ammonia beccarii (Linn), A. tepida (Cushman), Elphidium discoidale (d'Orbigny), E. incertum (Williamson), E. simplex Cushman, Globigerina sp., Quinqueloculina lata Terquem, Q. subcuneata Cushman and Q. seminulum (Linn) among the calcareous forms have abundant occurrence in the estuary. Population distribution of the abundant species is discussed in relation to the sediment texture and its organic matter content, and to the salinity, temperature and dissolved oxygen of bottom waters. The populations are normally larger in the middle section of the estuary than in the upper and lower sections. The populations of the different species tend to be largest in the coldest month (December) with the exception of E. simplex, which contrastingly multiplies in the hottest month (May). Where the channel meanders, populations tend to be larger on the slip-off slope, while the faunal diversity is more impressive in deeper waters. 
10.2307/1484835|Twenty-nine Miocene planktonic foraminifera are listed from subsurface sediments of the coastal plain of the State of Rio Grande do Sul, southern Brazil. A tentative correlation with the boundary of the Globigerinatella insueta and Globorotalia fohsi barisanensis Zones in the Caribbean sequence is proposed. Important for the stratigraphical comparison is the Globigerinoides bisphericus - Orbulina suturalis evolutionary lineage corresponding to the world-wide Orbulina surface.
40983742|A recently discovered deposit of Late Cretaceous diatoms on Devon Island contains exceptionally well-preserved siliceous microfossils. Two diatom taxa from this deposit, previously identified as belonging to the genera Actinodictyon and Lepidodiscus, were examined with light and scanning electron microscopy. The present study revealed that these two taxa belong to the genus Lepidodiscus. Both were found to display an extremely complex structure of their radially and concentrically undulate valves, involving porous canals, hyaline areas and an external network of thick costae locally thickened to form tubercles. Different number of alternating depressed and elevated sectors located in the marginal zone of the valve, and different structures associated with the external openings of marginal rimoportulae were found to be a sufficient basis for erecting a new species, Lepidodiscus annamariae sp. nov. The excellent preservation of the Devon Island material also allowed for a documentation of the structure of the girdle, composed of multiple open bands.
4499783|Biostratigraphically important dinoflagellate, acritarch, and pollen events calibrated by planktonic foraminifers and calcareous nannoplankton are here documented for the first time in the Rupelian sediments of the Mus Basin, Eastern Anatolia. The LAD of Ascostomocystis potane in coincidence with the FAD of Globorotalia opima opima in the "late" Rupelian, the FAD of Wetzeliella gochtii in the "middle" Rupelian, the LAD of Wetzeliella gochtii in the "latest" Rupelian, and the FADs of Compositae (tubuliflorae type), Monoporopollenites gramineoides and Umbelliferae at the base of Rupelian should be of particular importance for regional correlations. In addition to the Rupelian acritarch Ascostomocystis potane, diverse dinoflagellate cysts such as Achillodinium biformoides, Wetzeliella gochtii, Membranophoridium aspinatum, Distatodinium biffii, Enneaedocysta pectiniformis complex, Deflandrea spp., Glaphyrocysta group, and terrestrial palynomorphs including Compositae (tubuliflorae type), Slowakipollenites hipophieoides, Mediocolpopollis compactus Monoporopollenites gramineoides, Umbelliferae, Periporopollenites multiporatus, Ephedripites sp., Cicatricosisporites sp., Lusatisporites perinatus, Cingulatisporites spp. and Saxosporis sp. comprise the main palynological elements of the Rupelian deposits. Combined information from all three disciplines (terrestrial/marine palynomorphs and sedimentary organic matter, nannoplankton, and foraminifers) suggests that Rupelian sedimentation in the studied sections was characterized by an initial fresh water phase and continued with deposition in shallow to deep marine environments. Although the marine Eocene-Oligocene transition has not been observed in the studied sections, the presence of transitional marine Upper Eocene and Lower Oligocene successions in the northern regions (Cat, SW of Erzurum) as documented by Sancay (2005) suggests that the boundary between the Upper Eocene and Lower Oligocene sediments could have been comformable in some localities of the Mus Basin. However, this argument still needs to be tested where the appropriate lithologies, with recoverable microfossils, are present in the transitional interval in the basin.
10.2307/1485579|The radiolarian succession from stratotypic sections for the Gzhelian Stage of the Late Carboniferous and the Asselian, Sakmarian and Artinskian stages of the Permian of the Southern Urals are described, as are the successions from the stratotype area for the Leonardian and Guadalupian stages of West Texas. The radiolarian ranges in the subject interval of the Southern Urals are used to identify twelve successive associations, whereas four radiolarian associations, one previously treated as a zone by other authors, are discriminated from the West Texas Leonardian and Guadalupian stages. We propose a broad correlation of the Bone Springs Formation with the Sakmarian to Artinskian interval of the Urals based on present knowledge of radiolarian ranges. Newly described taxa include ten new genera, forty-four new species, and one new subspecies.
10.2307/1485088|The specific composition, numerical abundance, size relationships, biomass and diversity relationships of the living foraminifers of Buzzards Bay are described and compared with those of hypersaline, normal marine, and hyposaline lagoons and estuaries from other parts of the world
10.2307/1485687|Isolated specimens and thin sections of planktonic microfossils, mainly nannoconids, calpionellids and foraminifera, are utilized to establish diagnostic biohorizons within the Cretaceous succession of the Gulf of Mexico region. Several measured sections along the Gulf of Mexico region serve as the basis for 29 biozones, which are defined and correlated with other zonal units established in other regions. The proposed biozones may be integrated with the chronostratigraphy of the Cretaceous System as established by the Cretaceous International Colloquia. In the proposed biozonation, the Cretaceous System is regarded as the interval between the biohorizon marked by the first evolutionary appearance of Calpionella elliptica and the biohorizon defined by the first occurrence of Globigerina eugubina.
10.2307/1485508|Surface sediment samples collected from the continental shelf between Tillamook Head (northern Oregon) and Juan de Fuca Canyon (northern Washington) yielded 106 benthic foraminiferal species. Assemblages are numerically dominated by agglutinated specimens, with calcareous specimens limited primarily to the outer shelf. Species diversity values generally increase with water depth and distance from shore. A cluster analysis routine, used to assess between-station faunal similarity, delineated five major faunal associations, each with a distinctive taxonomic composition and a distributional range having clearly defined sedimentologic and bathymetric limits. Each major association is named for its most diagnostic taxon: the Eggerella advena, Spiroplectammina biformis, Recurvoides turbinatus, Assorted-Species and Uvigerina juncea associations, which characterize a shoreward sandy facies, a midshelf silt deposit north of the Columbia River, midshelf sands south of the Columbia River, outer shelf sands, and shelf-edge mixed modal sands, respectively.
10.2307/1484101|The sporomorphae described in this paper correspond to the definition of Tasmanites given by Schopf, Wilson and Bentall. This contribution attempts to promote a better understanding of their nature and to reduce the nonmenclatorial confusion arising from the Brazilian samples sent to Dawson by Hartt and by Derby. A study of topotype material has convinced the author that the microfossils called Tasmanites are not a constellation of reproductive particles or spores, but represent a group of micro-organisms deserving systematic independence. A family of fossil algae, Tasmanaceae (incertae sedis), is here proposed for them.
10.2307/1484612|A species of Microrhabdulus, distinguished by evenly spaced cycles of subrhomboidal nodes, is described from Campanian chalk deposits at Folx-les-Caves, Belgium.
10.2307/1485494|The surface topography of a microfossil viewed from above can be determined by measuring the distortion of a set of straight, parallel shadows cast onto it from a known, oblique angle. This is a simple means of making a large number of measurements in the third dimension of micro- (and larger) fossils.
10.2307/1484756| Cheikella scholiosa, n. g., n. sp., from the Pliocene? of northwest Hejaz is described and illustrated, and Telekia, new name, is substituted for Kochia Hjjas, 1894, (not Frech, 1891). Both genera are fresh-water ostracodes of the family Cyprididae. 
3648463|Swadelina n. gen. is erected to comprise a short-ranging clade of late Desmoinesian (middle Pennsylvanian) idiognathodontid conodonts characterized by Pa elements with a deep medial trough, extensive anterior ornamentation, and an extremely short carina. The Pb elements have a small, relatively indistinct cusp, and dissimilar development of the anterior and posterior processes. Swadelina (Sw.) probably evolved through paedomorphosis from an untroughed Idiognathodus ancestor well before the appearance of similarly troughed Streptognathodus Pa elements in the Missourian (late Pennsylvanian). We currently recognize Sw. nodocarinata (Jones 1941) and Sw. neoshoensis n. sp. as component species. Swadelina occurs in both North America and Eurasia with a limited range, in strata that are otherwise characterized by pronounced provincialism. With further study of international occurrences, a species of Swadelina may provide for the definition and correlation of an appropriate GSSP stage/series boundary between the middle and upper parts of the Pennsylvanian Subsystem.
10.2307/1486084|Strata comprising most of the upper Paleocene in eastern North America are divided into two new pollen zones, the Carya and Platycarya platycaryoides Interval Zones. Pollen data have proven to be important for correlations between Alabama-western Georgia and eastern Mississippi and between the eastern Gulf Coast and Virginia. Migration of tropical plant taxa from the Caribbean to the Gulf Coast began at least 4 m.y. before the end of the Paleocene. The Terminal Paleocene Extinction Event, accompanied by a distinct pulse of plant immigration from Europe, began several hundred thousand years before the end of the Paleocene.
10.2307/1484400|A method for the isolation of spores from coal by wet oxidation with perchloric and periodic acids is described.
10.2307/1485778|The stratigraphic section at Lakes Entrance accumulated on a narrow platform in a neritic environment, close to the interaction of the East Australian Current and the West Wind Drift. The biostratigraphic succession of planktonic foraminiferal events first presented by D. G. Jenkins in 1960 has been slightly revised and correlated with the integrated Miocene geochronology. To extend biostratigraphy to ecostratigraphy, we have revised the systematics and nomenclature of the planktonic taxa and profiled the faunal succession in sixteen assemblages falling into three groups. 1, From the later middle Miocene to late Miocene occurred assemblages XI to XVI, typified by the collapse of woodi/bulloides ratio and resurgence of spinose species, as well as a comeback by the cancellate and globorotaliid forms. 2, Assemblages IX to X range from the latest early Miocene to early middle Miocene (upper N7 to N10 equivalents), with greatest amplitudes in fluctuation in species diversity and other metrics. 3, The early Miocene contained assemblages I to VIII, in which a rising woodi/bulloides ratio was accompanied by abundant microperforates but decline in spinose and cancellate species and in the planktonic/benthic ratio. At the second order of 10<sup>7</sup> years' scale, the Exxon sealevel curve rises sporadically through the early Miocene and falls sporadically to its lowest level in the late Miocene, broadly congruent with the pelagic oxygen isotopes, which indicate an early Miocene rise and a major decline into the late middle Miocene. At the third order and 10<sup>6</sup> years' scale, there may be promise of synchrony between the Mi glacial cycles and the marginal sequences. It is noteworthy that, at Lakes Entrance, there are about ten putatively global sequence boundaries and ten Mi glaciations spanning the time in which fifteen neritic faunal assemblages were recognized. Spikes in the woodi/bulloides ratio fit between the Mi glaciations and fall in the vicinity of maximum flooding surfaces. However, they fit lows, not highs, in planktonic diversity and planktonic/benthic ratios, suggesting intensified estuarine-type runoff as the control in this neritic setting. The perturbation in all measures increased in the 1.5 m.y. spanning assemblages IX and X straddling the early/middle Miocene boundary. At this time of peak warming and transgression, of stratification of pelagic water and planktonic communities, and bunching of third-order sequences, the biosphere was at its most sensitive and volatile and most responsive to perturbations (which led the big drops in climate and sealevel).
3648474| The Global Standard Stratotype-section (GSSP) for the Paleocene/Eocene (P/E) boundary has been selected in the Dababiya Quarry, near Luxor, at the base of a lithostratigraphic unit where the base of the so-called Carbon Isotope Excursion (CIE) is recorded. The Dababiya Quarry offers remarkable three-dimensional exposures of the Upper Paleocene-Lower Eocene succession in the Nile Valley which comprises the Tarawan Chalk, the Esna Shale and the Thebes Limestone. The horizon that constitutes the P/E GSSP is located in the lower part of the Esna Shale Formation. This formation, remarkably thick (~130m) at Dababiya, is largely of homogenous gray shales. Its lower part includes, however, a thin lithostratigraphic unit in a typical succession of five characteristic beds that can be followed throughout Upper Egypt, and at the base of which the GSSP is defined. We formally describe this unit as the Dababiya Quarry Beds at the same time as we subdivide the Esna Shale Formation into three formal lithostratigraphic units. The Dababiya Quarry Beds constitute the lower part of Unit Esna 2. While we place emphasis on the description of the lithology, mineralogy, carbon isotope stratigraphy and paleontology of the Dababiya Beds, we provide a mineralogic and biostratigraphic framework for the whole exposure of Esna Shale at Dababiya that constitutes essentially a complete record from the base of calcareous nannofossil Zone NP9 to Zone NP11 and planktonic foraminiferal Zone P4 to P8. The carbon isotopic excursion, measured on organic matter is ~3m thick and has an amplitude of ~4. The planktonic foraminiferal excursion taxa are sporadic and the distinct Discoaster araneus-Rhomboaster spp. association is persistent throughout the CIE-interval. 
10.2307/1484169|Coccoliths are classified into three major groups based upon the nature and arrangement of the skeletal elements as revealed by the electron microscope. It is believed that further study by this method will necessitate revisions in the taxonomy and nomenclature of the coccolithophorids. A list of recent publications on these organisms is given.
10.2307/1485257|The wall structure of Cibicides floridanus (Cushman) from mud lumps of the Mississippi River Delta was studied with a light microscope under polarized light and with a scanning electron microscope (SEM). Under polarized light the septal wall shows a granulate extinction pattern, whereas SEM studies reveal that it has a compound structure, consisting of three layers: (1) a thick outer layer with surface-parallel structure in which the c-axis is parallel to the test surface; (2) an agglutinated layer probably composed of quartz grains; and (3) a thin layer with intermediate structure in which the c-axes are not strictly perpendicular to the test wall surface. The wall structure in Cibicides floridanus differs from the compound structure previously described in Cibicides lobatulus (Walker and Jacob) (Bellemo, 1974b) by having a third, agglutinated layer. Furthermore, the outer layer is considerably thicker than the inner. The taxonomic importance of the wall structure in the juvenile test of the calcareous foraminifera is discussed.
10.2307/1484164|Calcareous algal floras are listed from the Permian of northern Iraq, the Upper Jurassic of Qatar (Persian Gulf), the Lower and Upper Cretaceous, Paleocene and Middle Eocene of northeastern Iraq, and the Paleocene and Middle Eocene of southwestern Iraq. These calcareous algae are discussed in connexion with their distribution elsewhere. New species of Ovulites, Clypeina, Cymopolia and Trinocladus are described from the Paleocene of northeastern Iraq.
10.2307/1485397|Thirty-four species of diatoms and four species of silicoflagellates have been identified in the Late Paleocene flora of the Indian Ocean. The assemblage is dominated by species of three diatom genera, viz., Hemiaulus Ehrenberg, Stephanopyxis Ehrenberg, and Trinacria Heiberg, which comprise more than 90% of the total number of diatoms, and by two species of silicoflagellates, Dictyocha triacantha triacantha Ehrenberg and D. triacantha hastata Lemmermann, which make up 64 per cent of their total number. The Indian Ocean flora most greatly resembles the Paleocene flora of the eastern slopes of the Ural Mountains, this resemblance being displayed in the rather similar species composition of both floras and the presence in both of common dominant species.
10.2307/1485552| The Midwayan Stage of the eastern United States is divided into three new pollen zones, the Pseudoplicapollis serena, Tricolpites asper and Caryapollenites prodromus interval zones, which can be correlated among composite sections for the northern Mississippi Embayment, eastern Gulf Coast, southern Atlantic Coastal Plain and middle Atlantic Coastal Plain, except where missing by unconformity. Pollen data support the presence of an unconformity between the Rhems and Williamsburg Formations of South Carolina. The base of the Aquia Formation of Virginia and Maryland is slightly younger than the top of the Naheola Formation of Alabama. The Midwayan-Sabinian stage boundary is probably of late NP5 age and is probably only slightly younger than the important range base of Carya <29m pollen. 
4499777|We describe 47 new species of Nodosariid small foraminifers from the upper part of the Cisuralian through Lopingian (Dzhigdalinian, Omolonian, Gizhigian and Kolymian regional stages) in the Permian of the Omolon massif, northeastern Siberia, Russia as follows: Nodosariidae (Protonodosaria-2 species, Nodosaria-21 species, Pseudonodosaria-1 species, Rectoglandulina-12 species); Dentalinidae (Dentalina-1 spe Geinitzinidae (genus Howchinella-9 species and Omoloniella, n. gen, with type species O. russiensis). The generic affinity of the species Nodosaria vaskovskyi (A. Miklukho-Maklay 1948) has been changed and also a new description of this species is given. The genus Rectoglandulina Loeblich and Tappan 1955 is considered to be a valid genus and is reinstated herein. The diagnosis of the genus Protonodosaria is emended.
10.2307/1484440|One hundred fifty-eight approximately equal-volume samples of Recent sediments from Matagorda Bay, Texas, and adjacent areas yielded sixty-nine species of foraminifera, the more common of which are illustrated by stereophotomicrographs. The utility of statistical methods in faunal analysis is shown. Statistical studies indicate that probably twelve significantly different foraminiferal facies exist in the area. There is general agreement between the foraminiferal facies pattern and the physiographic and oceanographic features. The more important ecologic factors determining the foraminiferal distribution are probably salinity, organic content of the sediments, intensity of turbulence, and biologic competition.
10.2307/1484767|Approximately 600 specimens of arenaceous foraminifera have been recovered from insoluble residues of limestones from the Lower Triassic Thaynes Formation in southeastern Idaho and western Wyoming. Most of the ten species, four of which are new, belong to genera which are far-ranging in age. This is the second reported occurrence of foraminifera from the Lower Triassic in the Western Hemisphere.
10.2307/1485674|Deep-sea (bathyal-abyssal) benthic foraminifera provide a potential supplement to planktonic biostratigraphy. Benthic foraminifera are more resistant to dissolution and are often found in upper bathyal, lower abyssal, and higher latitude sediments which contain impoverished planktonic faunas. The biostratigraphic utility of benthic foraminifera was previously limited by poor understanding of their taxonomy and paleobathymetric distributions. During the past ten years, study of deep-sea benthic foraminifera from Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) and industry wells has provided an improved taxonomic base and empirical observations of age-depth distributions. Building on this data base, we establish 14 bathyal and 12 abyssal zones for the Cenozoic deep sea. Biostratigraphic resolution is higher in the abyssal realm during the Paleogene (9 abyssal versus 6 bathyal zones) and higher in the bathyal realm during the Neogene (3 abyssal versus 8 bathyal zones). During periods of accelerated taxonomic turnover (e.g., in the middle Miocene bathyal zone), deep-sea benthic foraminifera yield fairly refined zonations; in contrast, slow taxonomic turnover occurred during the Paleocene in the bathyal and abyssal realms and in the late Neogene in the abyssal realm, yielding few biostratigraphic subdivisions.
10.2307/1485565|The paleoclimatic and paleoceanographic history of the Middle and Late Miocene marginal eastern North Pacific has been studied in a north-to-south transect encompassing DSDP Site 173, the Newport Beach surface section, and DSDP Site 470, based on quantitative diatom and planktic foraminiferal analyses. Fourteen cold and 12 warm events that show close agreement with other microfossil studies as well as oxygen isotope records from low-latitude Pacific sites have been identified. Hiatuses are recognized at 7 to 6.5 Ma, 9.8 to 8.5 Ma, and 12 to 11 Ma at the three reference localities, and they correspond to widely recognized deep-sea hiatuses in the World Ocean.
10.2307/1484429|The Paleozoic lycopodiaceous spore genus Spencerisporites is recorded from an American locality. The taxonomy of Spencerisporites radiatus (Ibrahim) Chaloner is discussed and its synonymy listed. A description is presented of representatives of the species from the upper Morrow of the Texas-Oklahoma Panhandle.
10.2307/1484594|The study of some 500 surface samples from the Miocene of the Gulf of Suez region resulted in the recognition of some 300 foraminiferal species, of which approximately 200 belong to the superfamilies Astrorhizoidea, Lituoloidea, Milioloidea, Nodosarioidea and Buliminoidea. Their systematics is here presented, including the introduction of seven new species, two new subspecies and a new specific name.
10.2307/1484581|Three species of Discocyclina (s. s.), Discocyclina (D.) javana (Verbeek), D. (D.) omphalus (Fritsch) and D. (D.) pygmaea Henrici, originally described from Indonesia, are recorded from the Middle-Upper Eocene beds of the Garo Hills, Assam, eastern India. These three species are represented by abundant well-preserved material which permits a thorough study of the variations of their external as well as internal characters. D. (D.) javana and D. (D.) pygmaea are recorded for the first time from the Indian region.
10.2307/1486123|Based on internal structure, a new family of entactinarian radiolarians, the Kungalariidae, is described with three new genera and four species: Kungalaria newcombi, Cachecreekaria californiensis, Transylvanaria devaensis, and T. hattorii. Members of this family have an eccentric internal, nassellarian-type initial spicule with bar MB, rays A, V, L, I, and spine Ax; a medullary shell built above the plane of lateral rays as in the cephalis of many nassellarians; and a spherical to subspherical cortical shell around the medullary shell. This new family is part of a group of Triassic entactinarians structurally intermediate between Entactinaria, or spicule-bearing Spumellaria, and Nassellaria. The new genera and species described occur in the Rhaetian of Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia, Aalenian to early-mid Bajocian of central Japan, Cenomanian of California, and Coniacian of Romania.
10.2307/1486042|The micropaleontology of clayey layers within halite and kainite bodies in the Salt Member of the Lower Evaporitic Complex, in the Messinian (uppermost Miocene) Gessoso-Solfifera Formation, has been studied in samples taken from Racalmuto and Realmonte salt mines on the southern coast of Sicily. Rich paleobiological associations have been observed of (on the whole) well preserved foraminifers, nannoplankton, dinoflagellate cysts and pollen grains. The integrated analyses point to several normal-marine influxes that interrupted the formation of the evaporite deposits. The greatest influx of marine water (in probable correspondence with high relative sea level) occurred during the deposition of the earliest Unit C. Based on these data, a time-scale of the Salt Member deposition may be proposed for the first time, placing the salt deposition between isotope stages TG20 and TG22, in the interval 5. 72 to 5. 75 Ma. The micropaleontology indicates that salt deposition took place under warm and dry conditions characteristic of tropical to subtropical climates, and that there was no significant climatic change associated with the Salinity Crisis.
10.2307/1485947|Northern Hemisphere specimens of Areosphaeridium diktyoplokus (Klumpp 1953) Eaton 1971, the type of Areosphaeridium Eaton 1971, and Eatonicysta ursulae (Morgenroth 1966) Stover and Evitt 1968, the type species of Eatonicysta Stover and Evitt 1978, have a gonyaulacalean sexiform tabulation pattern. Other Northern Hemisphere species of Areosphaeridium, such as Areosphaeridium arcuatum Eaton 1971, have a gonyaulacalean partiform tabulation pattern and are more closely akin to Southern Hemisphere specimens of Areosphaeridium diktyoplokus. Accordingly, we emend the diagnosis of Areosphaeridium and Eatonicysta and propose the genus Enneadocysta for those species formerly included in Areosphaeridium but with a partiform tabulation pattern. The genus Cooksonidium is proposed for forms with a sexiform tabulation pattern and both simple intratabular processes and process complexes. The morphologic reinterpretations have resulted in some revisions to the morphogenetic series defined by Eaton (1971). The stratigraphic and geographic ranges of the four genera are distinctive. Areosphaeridium and Eatonicysta have been recorded only from the Eocene of the Northern Hemisphere. Cooksonidium is restricted to the Late Eocene of the Southern Hemisphere. Enneadocysta has a confirmed Mid Eocene to Early Oligocene range and occurs in both hemispheres. We erect the following new species: Eatonicysta sequestra, Enneadocysta deconinckii, Enneadocysta harrisii, Enneadocysta robusta and Enneadocysta partridgei. Eatonicysta ursulae subsp. furensis is raised to the rank of species as Eatonicysta furensis.
10.2307/1485104|A compact minisampler, designed to collect a constant volume of sediment, is described.
10.2307/1485507| Six foraminiferal biofacies from the marshes and tidal flats of the Fraser Delta, British Columbia vary in faunal makeup according to differences in elevation, salinity and organic content of surficial sediments. Based on the distribution of these biofacies, the marsh may be divided into two major faunal zones: a High Marsh Zone [>0.8m above mean sea level (a.m.s.l.)], and a Low Marsh Zone (0.0 to 0.8m a.m.s.l.). The fauna from the High Marsh Zone includes the Jadammina macrescens Biofacies, indicative of low salinity, and the Jadammina macrescens/Trochammina inflata Biofacies, indicative of higher salinity. The Low Marsh Zone is characterized by the Ammonia beccarii Biofacies. A Higher Low Marsh Zone (+0.5 to +0.8m a.m.s.l.) is characterized by the presence of the Cribroelphidium gunteri Biofacies, whereas a Lower Low Marsh Zone (0.0 to +0.5m a.m.s.l.) is delineated by the Miliammina fusca Biofacies. The Trochammina pacifica Biofacies, as well as the Miliammina fusca Biofacies, occur outside the marshes in tidal flats vegetated by Zostera marina (eel grass). The Trochammina pacifica Biofacies may have developed in response to the high organic content of some sediments. 
10.2307/1484523|Nineteen species of cheilostome bryozoans are herein described or listed from the McBean formation of the northeastern Georgia coastal plain. Of these, eight are described as new, and eight are redescribed. The McBean fauna shows greatest resemblance to the Castle Hayne bryozoans (upper Eocene) of North Carolina, which include six of the McBean species. The McBean is probably older than the Castle Hayne, but not as old as middle Eocene.
10.2307/1484920|A study of the planktonic foraminifera that occur in the valley of St. Ann's Great River has yielded results that change previously assigned ages for some of the beds in this inlier. The Inoceramus beds range from late Coniacian to late Santonian. The base of the Campanian is at the base of the conglomerate below the Barrettia limestone. At least the upper part of the New Ground Conglomerate is Eocene in age.
10.2307/1485014|About 80 surface and subsurface samples taken from Ewekoro limestone quarry in southwestern Nigeria and from Akinside borehole, approximately 10 miles south of the quarry, were examined for foraminiferal evidence bearing on the nature and vertical extent of the Ewekoro Limestone and the ages of the superjacent and subjacent beds. A detailed bed-to-bed sampling of the section exposed at Ewekoro was carried out. Altogether, about 78 species of benthonic and planktonic foraminifera were identified. Although some ostracodes and foraminifera had previously been studied in this area, investigation revealed the presence of certain additional foraminiferal species which either had not been previously recorded or had been misidentified. The undoubtedly Lower Eocene age of the shelly limestone commonly referred to as the Ewekoro "Formation" is substantiated by the presence of important index foraminiferal species, including Bolivina ottaensis Reyment, Globorotalia subbotinae Morozova and Pseudohastigerina wilcoxensis (Cushman and Ponton). The biostratigraphical units established in the area are correlated with equivalent units elsewhere in the Western State. A critical analysis is presented of recent investigations on the biostratigraphy of the Abeokuta area. Detailed lithostratigraphical data in the form of charts and cross sections are presented to reveal the variability within the different units. Data reported herein have led to the unmistakable conclusion that the deposition of the entire sequence referred in this paper to the Imo Formation occurred in a relatively shallow marine environment that succeeded that of the deposition of the Abeokuta Formation. The shelly limestone, hitherto assigned a formational status, is considered to be a member of the Imo Formation.
10.2307/1485190| Stratigraphy based upon size change in the diatom Coscinodiscus nodulifer A. Schmidt is presented for Late Quaternary sediments of the equatorial Pacific. The size difference is expressed as a simple ratio of <60/>60 m. Correlation with oxygen isotope curves in the same sediment cores demonstrates that highest ratio values (maximum small forms) occur in Oxygen Isotope Stage 2 (18,000 yr B.P.), while the lowest ratio values (maximum large forms) occur in Oxygen Isotope Sub-stage 5e (125,000 yr B.P.). The use of this stratigraphy will permit us to greatly extend our data base for 18K and 125K age sediments. 
10.2307/1485932|A succession of benthic foraminiferal assemblages, defined through cluster analysis and characterized by high percent frequency of select members of the Pacific Deep and Bottom Water fauna, is recorded for the Pliocene to Holocene section of the Ontong Java Plateau. These data confirm an early Pliocene migration of Nuttallides umbonifera, an AABW-associated species, onto the surface of the plateau, as reported by Hermelin in 1989, and suggest enhanced production of bottom water between about 4.1 and 4.7 Ma. Uvigerina percent representation generally follows the trend in total organic carbon and in benthic foraminiferal abundance. The assemblage dominated by Uvigerina is recurrent in two parts of the mid- to upper Pliocene section that might be comparable to the deep oxygen minimum environment presently in place on the upper surface of the plateau. High percentages of Uvigerina in the Pleistocene section are overshadowed by the dominant species, Alabaminella weddellensis and Pseudoparrella exigua, opportunistic species that have been associated with phytodetritus. Alabaminella weddellensis, a small species, increases dramatically after the Pliocene/Pleistocene boundary. This diagnostic species has been overlooked in previous studies of the plateau's strata in which the very fine sand fraction was not inspected.
24413334|A systematic study was carried out on the relatively rich and abundant Paleocene to late Oligocene radiolarian fauna from DSDP Site 329 (Leg 36), located on the Falkland Plateau. Among the 78 taxa identified in the studied interval, a new species (Siphocampe ewingensis n. sp.) and a new combination (Eucyrtidium amygdala (Shilov 1995) n. comb. are proprosed. The high-latitude radiolarian interval zones Eucyrtidium antiquum, Lychnocanoma conica and Clinorhabdus robusta, Oligocene in age, were identified in the upper part of the interval. The lowermost studied sample, within core 33, was assigned to an interval of high-latitude radiolarian zones (RP2-RP5; Paleocene in age), mainly due to the co-occurrence of Amphisphaera kina and Protoxiphotractus wilsoni. These biostratigraphic results improve resolution in the early and late Oligocene, which was previously undifferentiated as Oligocene, based on calcareous nannofossil biostratigraphy.
10.2307/1484347|Foraminiferal and larger invertebrate faunas inhabiting the northern and central coastal zone of the Argentine shelf are impoverished. Plankton is sparsely developed near the shore in these same areas. Spectrographic analysis of shells from the impoverished areas reveals lead, in addition to other trace elements. It is absent in the southern area, where the faunas are normal. The evidence seems to indicate that impoverishment may be due to traces of lead, probably brought into these areas by streams arising in the Andes.
10.2307/1484691| In surface sediments of the southwest Pacific Ocean, the planktonic foraminifer Globigerina pachyderma (Ehrenberg) is represented by three major groups making up an apparently continuous cline. South of 54 S, the species is represented by dominantly sinistral, 4-chambered (umbilical view), thick-shelled forms. This group grades northwards into an intermediate group dominated by sinistral, 4-chambered to 5-chambered, thinner-shelled forms extending northwards to 47-49 S. North of these latitudes, a third group is dominated by 4-chambered, dextral, thinner-shelled forms. The southern group is characteristic of antarctic waters, the intermediate group of subantarctic waters, and the northern group of subtropical and northernmost subantarctic waters. 
3648482|Because Upper Egypt (stable shelf, pre-rift) contains some of the most expanded and continuous stratigraphic records of the biologic and chemical changes across the P-E transition, the P/E Boundary Working Group have conducted over the course of the last four years a series of integrated studies on this anomalous interval. These studies have led to the recognition of several bio- and chemostratigraphic events that can serve to denote the P/E boundary and to correlate upper Paleocene-lower Eocene stratigraphic successions that were deposited at different bathymetries in the southern Nile Valley. The main bioevents that occur within this stratigraphic interval (that spans from the upper Tarawan Limestone to the basal Thebes Limestone, and ecompasses the entire Esna Shale Formation) are identified and correlated in terms of pre-CIE-Interval, CIE-Interval and post-CIE-Interval. Faunal patterns and mechanism of faunal changes as well as paleoecologic inferences from these changes are described and discussed for the warming episode associated with the CIE-interval as well as for the intervals immediately preceding and following it. Stratigraphic correlations of upper Paleocene-lower Eocene sections in the southern Nile Valley are correlated based on the most prominent events. The biostratigraphy of the Tarawan Chalk and Esna Shale are correlated with the Integrated Magnetobiostratigraphic scale of Berggren et al. (1995). The vertical (stratigraphic) and lateral (geographic) changes in biota and depositional environments and their facies variants are examined over ~300 km from the vicinity of Qena (in the north) to Wadi Abu Ghurra in the southwestern Nile Valley.
10.2307/1485442|A new genus and species of foraminifer, Tentilenticulina latens, is described from the Coralline Oolite Formation, Middle to Upper Oxfordian (Upper Jurassic) of North Yorkshire. Beginning life as a normal, free-living, symmetrical lenticuline it later settled within sheltered pores in coral bioherms and similar niches to become asymmetric and irregular with spherical to tubular chambers. Its importance lies in the ability to inhabit pores within the bioherms, often varying the shape of the chambers to do so. The niche has no other fossil inhabitant recorded in these rocks.
10.2307/1484279|One hundred and twenty bottom samples were collected from 24 stations surrounding the Orange County ocean sewer outfall. Two zones of depth distribution were determined; an intertidal zone from 0 to 20 feet and an upper sublittoral zone from 20 to 78 feet. The manner in which the effects produced by the outfall influence the foraminifera is discussed.
10.2307/1485378| The cytology of Amphisorus hemprichii Ehrenberg, a larger foraminifera with dinoflagellate endosymbionts, is similar but not identical to that of Sorites marginalis (Lamarck). Fewer algae are found in the proloculum, embryonic chambers, and outer chambers than in the intermediate chambers where they occupy 80% of the chamber volume. Food vacuoles are common throughout the animals, but are concentrated more heavily in the outer chambers. Empty diatom frustules in the cytoplasm confirm experimental observations on feeding. Many zooxanthellae were dividing. All specimens examined were multi-nucleate and heterokaryotic. The spherical frustule-less diatom endosymbionts in Amphistegina lobifera are concentrated along the upper surfaces of the outer chambers. Individual diatoms closest to the surface fit into cuplike vaults (pore rims) in the inner surfaces of the chamber walls. Digestive vacuoles containing diatoms with frustules are found on the opposite surfaces of the cell, those closest to the substrate. Their abundance suggests active feeding. A single large nucleus was within a chamber of the first whorl. Heterostegina depressa d'Orbigny also harbors frustule-less diatom endosymbionts. The algae are uniformly distributed throughout their host and tend to be more fusiform in outer chambers. Food vacuoles were not observed. The single nucleus was also located within the first whorl. 
10.2307/1485663| In 1905, Rufus M. Bagg, Jr., described an assemblage of foraminifers from an outcrop sample of the Sandholdt Member of the Monterey Formation collected along Graves Creek, San Luis Obispo County, California. The Graves Creek section has since been referred to often in the regional literature, and has become an important reference section for the Miocene of California and the Salinas Basin in particular. However, microfossils from the Graves Creek section have never been documented in detail. We recovered 187 species/subspecies of Foraminifera, 11 species of Ostracoda, and 24 species of calcareous nannoplankton from 19 samples. Nearly half of the foraminiferal species are new and 31 of them and Kleinpella, n. gen., are described herein. Many of the previously described species require significant extensions of their published biostratigraphic ranges. The benthic foraminiferal succession is representative of the provincial Saucesian to Luisian stages. Planktic foraminifera represent lower Miocene zones N6 to N8, and the calcareous nannofossils indicate zones CN2 to CN4. Strontium isotope ratios reveal that the sampled section dates from 17.850.10 Ma to 16.10.1 Ma, which implies that the Luisian assemblages are coeval with the upper part of the Relizian stratotype. Paleobathymetrically mixed faunal associations and sedimentary patterns indicate that the strata were deposited as turbidites at water depths between 1500 and 2000 meters. Species indicative of low-oxygen conditions are present in most of the assemblages, indicating that an oxygen-mimimum zone persisted in the Salinas Basin during the early and middle Miocene. 
20627974|Indurated calcareous rocks often offer opportunities to date and examine local palaeoenvironmental conditions from the analysis of included microfossils. While most microfossils provide valuable biostratigraphic information through thin section analysis alone, diagnostic and palaeoenvironmental information typically require free specimen observations. A range of extraction techniques are well documented for the commonly encountered robust microfossils (foraminiferas, ostracods), but a method is still missing for the delicate calcareous groups. This paper presents a method for extracting calpionellids from highly indurated calcareous rocks. This method is based on the use of chlorhexidine and benzalkonium chloride. These compounds form complexes with the matrix of calcareous material and render it soluble. The technique is easy, quick, economical, and produces reliable results. Importantly, for the first time it allows the observation of the delicate external morphology of calpionellid specimens using a scanning electron microscope (SEM). This may prove to be helpful in better defining the taxonomic position of this group of organisms and might also be useful in determining their palaeoecological affinities. This technique might also prove applicable for other delicate groups.
10.2307/1486201|Radiolarian faunas from seven localities of the well known Late Eocene Oamaru Diatomite were studied. All samples contained well preserved Radiolaria, generally of common or greater abundance, along with numerous sponge spicules and diatoms. Radiolarian faunal composition confirms a Late Eocene age for the Oamaru Diatomite. The Radiolaria are documented, with 24 new species described and three new genera erected. The new species are Tricorporisphaera bibula, Zealithapium oamaru (Actinommidae), Plectodiscus runanganus (Porodiscidae), Plannapus hornibrooki, P. mauricei, Spirocyrtis greeni (Artostrobiidae), Botryocella pauciperforata (Cannobotryidae), Carpocanopsis ballisticum (Carpocaniidae), Verutotholus doigi, V. edwardsi, V. mackayi (Neosciadiocapsidae), Lithomelissa lautouri, Velicucullus fragilis (Plagoniidae), Lamprocyclas particollis (Pterocorythidae), Artophormis fluminafauces, Eucyrtidium ventriosum, Eurystomoskevos cauleti, Lophocyrtis (L.) haywardi, Lychnocanium alma, L. waiareka, L. waitaki, Pterosyringium hamata, Sethochytris cavipodis and Thyrsocyrtis (T.?) pinguisicoides (Theoperidae). The new genera are Tricorporisphaera, Zealithapium (Actinommidae), and Verutotholus (Neosciadiocapsidae). Emendations are proposed to the family Neosciadiocapsidae and the genus Eurystomoskevos, and Pterosyringium is raised from subgeneric to generic level.
10.2307/1485174|The present paper provides the first detailed account of the microplankton assemblages associated with the rich bituminous shale, the Kimmeridge Blackstone. Forty-nine taxa of dinoflagellate cysts and 13 of acritarchs are recorded; two genera and eight species are regarded as new and an emendation of one genus is proposed. There are brief remarks on previously described Upper Jurassic assemblages. One result of this study is the new insight given on the origin of the Kimmeridge Oil Shale, which is seen to be essentially a marine deposit, owing its unique character to an abundant supply of swamp-generated organic matter.
10.2307/1484467|Seven new species of microfossils from the Buildwas Shales (Wenlockian) of England are described. They are grouped with the hystrichospheres and assigned to two new genera, Deunffia and Domasia. Veryhachium monacanthum Deunff is transferred to Deunffia.
10.2307/1484802|Radiometric data and phylogenetic analysis of Cretaceous planktonic foraminifera suggest that the Cretaceous be divided into three epochs rather than two. Primitive globigerines occur in the Lower Cretaceous, single-keeled Rotalipora faunas characterize the Middle Cretaceous, and single-keeled and double-keeled Globotruncana faunas typify the Upper Cretaceous. Keels arose in three independent generic lines of development in the Upper Cretaceous. Long-ranging tropical species are restricted to very short stratigraphic ranges toward the tropical boundaries defined by Globotruncana-Rotalipora lines.
10.2307/1484553|Investigation of Cretaceous radiolarian assemblages from North America, the West Indies, Europe, Australia, and the East Indies has shown the necessity of emending the definition of Artostrobium, and of erecting the new genus Amphipyndax.
10.2307/1485421|In the upper Maastrichtian of northeastern Turkey a new foraminifer has been found which shows similarities to Lepidorbitoididae and Orbitoididae in various characters. This form is named here Dizerina anatolica Meric, n. gen., n. sp.
10.2307/1485336|Cleaned Pliocene diatoms from Pacific deep-sea sediments were exposed to natural sea water in a laboratory experiment to study diagenetic alterations of diatom assemblages. After 200 hours of exposure to sea water most diatom valves showed noticeable dissolution effects. A smaller group of diatoms showed silica overgrowth, which apparently was initiated around the areolae of the valve surfaces. There is thus experimental evidence for the simultaneous occurrence of silica dissolution and overgrowth in diatom diagenesis.
10.2307/1484598|A small dredge for collecting microorganisms in Recent sediment in shallow and relatively inaccessible areas is designed on the principle of an oceanographic pipe dredge. It is small enough to be easily carried and can be thrown up to distances of 120 feet by a method similar to that used in throwing the Patagonian bolas.
1486011|Protunuma quadriperforatus n. sp. is a tricyrtid Protunuma Ichikawa and Yao (Radiolaria, Nassellariina) characterized by a large subspherical abdomen with well-developed tetragonal frames on the external surface. Phylogenetically, it represents an advanced morphotype of Protunuma, but the external ornamentation with distinctive tetragonal frames resembles some contemporaneous species of other genera, i.e. Striatojaponocapsa conexa (Matsuoka) and Tricolocapsa tetragona Matsuoka. Protunuma quadriperforatus n. sp. occurs in latest Bajocian -- early Bathonian to middle Bathonian low-latitude assemblages from the Mediterranean region and Japan.
10.2307/1485665|Skeletal morphology is used to determine species in almost all radiolaria, and in many cases relatively fine differences between morphotypes are used to distinguish between species. While many radiolaria have been described from very few specimens we have little knowledge of variability of radiolaria because we have been able to study few known biological populations of a species. This problem has been addressed by examining the variation occurring within colonies of collosphaerid radiolaria, and comparing it to that occurring between colonies of the same and other species. As far as we know the cells within such colonies are genetically identical and therefore intra-colony variation must be caused by other than species-level phenomena. Both quantitative and qualitative features were considered in a detailed study of a total of 2922 skeletons in 44 colonies representing 12 species. The results of this analysis have revealed substantial variation in both quantitative and qualitative features, both between and within colonies of a species. Furthermore, typically 1-5% and sometimes even 10-20% of the individuals in a colony possess some structures which are absent in the majority of individuals of the species. The structures which are characteristic for one species, typically occurred at a low rate in another. No smooth transition between species was seen provided that one considered the whole suite of diagnostic morphological features and not just a single character. Caution is strongly urged in uncertain species assignments and it is asserted that it is absolutely impossible to erect new species on the basis of a few specimens which are non-identical, or on the appearance of a single feature.
10.2307/1485531|Ocular sinuses were studied in some Cenozoic species of the ostracode genus Echinocythereis. Internal molds indicate that the sinus is elongate and stalklike. The distal portion is expanded, with a central or offset concavity and anterior and posterior convexities. The topography is the complement of the inner surface of the eyespot. The right sinus is the larger in a carapace; it has only one major opening, the ocular pit, whereas the left sinus has an additional hole formed by the anterior hinge socket. Interspecific variation is seen in the shapes of the ocular sinuses. Such variation is useful in taxonomic applications.
10.2307/1485128|A rare intact fossil coccolithophore belonging to the extant species Braarudosphaera bigelowi was discovered in samples collected from the Middle Eocene Lisbon Formation of Little Stave Creek, southwestern Alabama. SEM-based studies on pentaliths of the B. bigelowi coccosphere reveal interesting structural and morphological features not previously observed with either the light microscope or the transmission electron microscope. Ecologic factors that prevailed at the time of deposition contributed greatly toward the preservation of the rare fossil coccosphere.
10.2307/1484285|In this paper, 128 species of foraminifera and twelve species of holothuroid sclerites from Jurassic rocks out-crapping at Gebel Maghara, northern Sinai, are described and illustrated. Thirty-five species and two genera of foraminifera, and five holothuroid sclerites, are believed to be new. Sponge spicules from the Kimmeridgian are also illustrated but are not described. This study is primarily paleontological, but the stratigraphic value of these fossils is discussed, and the results of microfacies analyses of a number of indurated rocks in the succession are presented.
10.2307/1485121|Spores of the Paleozoic sphenophyllalean cone Bowmanites dawsoni are described. Morphological and structural features are determined by utilizing the combined information from light microscopy and transmission and scanning electron microscopy.
10.2307/1485306|Frequency distributions of planktonic foraminifera from 140 trigger core-tops in the Gulf of Mexico generally reflect major oceanographic features. The distribution of Globigerinoides sacculifer outlines the Loop Current in the eastern Gulf and Globigerinoides ruber maxima marks salinity extremes, whereas the distributions of Pulleniatina obliquiloculata, Globorotalia truncatulinoides and Globigerinita glutinata parallel winter isotherms in the Gulf. Q-mode factor analysis was used to extract 5 assemblages from 23 species and compare their distributions in the Gulf to those of the well-studied Atlantic Ocean. The 5 assemblages are interpreted as: 1) subtropical, dominated by G. ruber; 2) temperate, composed of Globorotalia inflata, Globigerina falconensis, Globorotalia truncatulinoides, Globigerina bulloides and Neogloboguadrina dutertrei; 3) dissolution-resistant, consisting of Globorotalia menardii, Pulleniatina obliquiloculata and N. dutertrei; 4) equatorial, composed of G. sacculifer and P. obliquiloculata; and 5) subpolar, consisting of N. dutertrei, G. inflata, Neogloboguadrina pachyderma and G. bulloides. The modern distributions of these assemblages have been used to develop 4 transfer functions from which the winter and summer temperatures and salinities for the Late Quaternary have been estimated.
1486092|A latest Permian radiolarian fauna is described from a chert-clastic sequence exposed at Khao Wang Chik, Klaeng, eastern Thailand. This fauna was recovered from a continuous siliceous sequence comprised of white to light gray siliceous shale, dark gray bedded chert, and dark gray siliceous shale. The fauna is composed of Neoalbaillella optima, Albaillella levis, A. triangularis, Entactinia itsukaichiensis, Triaenosphaera minuta, Ishigaum trifustis, Nazarovella inflata, Triplanospongos musashiensis, Copicyntra akikawaensis and others. These radiolarians represent the latest Permian Neoalbaillella optima Assemblage reported from Japan, Russian Far East, Philippines, south and southwestern China, and northern Thailand. The radiolarian-bearing sequence was probably deposited in the deep, pelagic environment of the Paleotethys Ocean. An overlying coarse-grained clastic sequence reflects an abrupt change in local depositional environment, possibly caused by the narrowing of the Paleotethys Ocean in Early Triassic time. Twenty-eight radiolarian species belonging to 15 genera are systematically investigated. One new genus, Klaengspongus, and four new species, Triaenosphaera longispina, Ishigaum klaengensis, Pseudospongoprunum? fontainei, and Klaengspongus spinosus are described.
10.2307/1484569|Eight genera and nine species of foraminifera are recorded from the Lower Mississippian Coldwater shale of Michigan. The most abundant species is the Osagian Hyperammina kentuckyensis, and most of the Coldwater is also considered to be Osagian. The genus Ceratammina is recognized outside the Devonian system for the first time. The Coldwater sediments were deposited in relatively cool waters. Depth of water was probably greater in Branch, Hillsdale and southern Huron Counties than in northern Huron County.
10.2307/1484931|Morphologic and taxonomic rates of evolution within some groups of Cenozoic planktonic foraminifera have been calculated. Taxonomic rates of evolution vary from a low of 0.11 species per million years in the genus Orbulina to 1.44 species per million years in the Neogene globorotaliids. The rate of change in the total fauna (rate of origination minus rate of extinction) shows negative values in the Late Eocene and Early Oligocene and in the Late Miocene to Pleistocene, reflecting, in all likelihood, two crises which the planktonic foraminifera experienced during the Cenozoic. Taxonomic frequency data are plotted against a paleotemperature curve for the Middle Eocene-Pleistocene interval (Devereux, 1967). Some striking similarities are seen, and possible relationships are discussed.
10.2307/1484455|Relatively few studies of Mesozoic or Tertiary fossil spores and pollen have been reported. This paucity of information is a handicap to the stratigraphic paleontologist, because these microfossils often can be used for correlating deposits that lack other diagnostic fossils. Extensive studies of these microfossils are needed if they are to become useful correlation tools. Forty-six spore and pollen types and two other organic microfossils, including a hystrichospherid, are described from the Eocene Potreritos and Las Flores formations in the Maracaibo Basin of Venezuela.
10.2307/1484852|Lunatriella spinifera, n. gen., n. sp., a small heterohelicid foraminifer of inferred planktonic habit, is characterized by irregularly uniserial late chambers which commonly bear single spinelike projections, and by distinctive troughlike flanges extending below the aperture. An associated small species referred with some reservation to Heterohelix pulchra (Brotzen) is believed to be its immediate ancestor. L. spinifera occurs in strata of early Turonian age belonging to the upper part of the Greenhorn Formation and the lower part of the Carlile Shale. It is represented by about 200 specimens from six localities in South Dakota, Kansas and Colorado.
10.2307/1485379|An isolated megasporangium with in situ megaspores assigned to Valvisporites auritus (Zerndt) Bhardwaj has been collected from the Anna Shale Member, Carbondale Formation (middle Pennsylvanian), of southern Illinois. The specimen is preserved by authigenic cementation that allows the enclosed megaspores to remain uncompressed. The isolated megasporangium is assigned to Lepidocystis Lesquereux, emend. Wood, a genus established for disarticulated reproductive organs of lycopsid affinity. The specimen is most closely related to Lepidocystis truncatus Lesquereux (=Polysporia mirabilis Newberry), but is not assigned to this taxon, because 4 different reproductive strobili have been described in which megaspores assignable to V. auritus were produced. Valvisporites contains numerous species based upon differences in megaspore diameter, radial "ear" development and cingulum development. Examination of intact lycopsid fructifications demonstrates that when populations of megaspores are examined, characters used to separate species are invalid. The megaspore wall is composed of an anastomosing stratified pattern of sporopollenin rods similar to the structure reported for other extinct and extant heterosporous lycopods. It appears that lycopsid megaspores have retained a distinct organization throughout geologic time. Although there appear to be variants to the basic pattern, the primary organization of an ektexine composed of stratified anastomosing sporopollenin rods appears consistent. The ultrastructural organization of V. auritus adds additional evidence to the theory that lycopsid megaspores have remained basically unchanged in ektexine organization from the Carboniferous to the present.
10.2307/1485172|Four taxa are regarded as dimorphic clinodemes, the over-all distributions of which constitute two cosmopolitan or semicosmopolitan populations. Lophospyris Haeckel and Phormospyris Haeckel are emended to accommodate these taxa, which are interpreted as "parental" species producing five "hybrid" morphs. Three of these hybrids display structures that are clearly intermediate between those of the parental species. Two other taxa are questionably interpreted as backcrosses. Two taxa, Lophospyris cheni Goll and Phormospyris stabilis capoi Goll, are described as a new species and a new subspecies, respectively.
10.2307/1484592|An examination is made of some hypotheses involved when the time-stratigraphic ranges of planktonic foraminifera are used for intercontinental correlation of Tertiary marine rocks. An order of reliability as time indices is suggested for the various kinds of events observed in the Tertiary history of this group. The assumptions regarding the origin, homoeomorphy and dispersal of new species of planktonic foraminifera are discussed. Correlation of the already established local time-stratigraphic units is also discussed. Geographic distribution maps of eight relatively short-ranging Tertiary species and subspecies are given to illustrate their probable distribution in latitudinal belts. An active exchange of topotype material is advocated to permit the exact identification of species and subspecies which is necessary for accurate correlation.
10.2307/1485759|Based on the occurrence of Early Eocene planktonic foraminifera in the lower part of the Umm er Radhuma Formation, and the estimates of sedimentation rates for the area, the Dammam Formation, which has customarily been assigned to the Early-Middle or Middle Eocene, is reassigned to Middle-Late Eocene age.
30135273|A total 104 specimens of equal or unequal conjoined skeletons of actinommid radiolarians, where 2 or 3 individuals are conjoined, were recovered from Holocene and Pleistocene sediments in the Japan Sea. Several combinations of ontogenetic stages are observed in the conjoined actinommid skeletons. For example, juvenile actinommids with one or two concentric spheres may be fused to adult three or four sphere actinommids in different combinations. Actinomma leptoderma with 3 concentric spheres can also conjoin with other actinommids possessing four spheres such as Actinomma boreale, Sphaeropyle langii and Prunopyle antarctica. This suggests that these species are closely related and capable of cytoplasmic fusion during stages of skeletal deposition. The species with conjoined skeletons are at present placed in three different genera, but our new results suggest that they should belong in one genus. The conjoinment of actinommid skeletons is thought to be a result of successive skeletal growth through "bridge-growth" and "rim-growth" patterns. The different combinations of skeletal conjoinment stages strongly support asexual reproduction by binary fission. Our observation also suggests that the actinommids can reproduce at the juvenile stage (one or two skeletal spheres developed), not only at the adult stage (three or more skeletal spheres developed). Frequent occurrence of the conjoined forms in the Japan Sea might be related to its habitat in well oxygenated, cold, deep-water with higher nutrient supplies from the surface.
4499780|A simple and time efficient technique to illustrate specimens is described and demonstrated with Paleogene radiolarians. This method produces Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) and composite focal depth Transmitted Light Microscope (TLM) images for single radiolarian specimens. We propose the use of this technique to clarify radiolarian taxonomy. This technique has distinct advantages over previously published time consuming techniques that can also require toxic materials.
10.2307/1485440|The radiolarian subfamily Artiscinae in deep-sea sediments of the equatorial Pacific consists of both an ancestral lineage that has persisted from the Early Miocene to the Recent and a descendant lineage that originated, probably by allopatric speciation, in the Middle Miocene and became extinct at the end of the Miocene. Measurements of shell dimensions were made on samples of both lineages throughout their stratigraphic ranges. For almost all of the measured dimensions, morphologic rates of change increased in the ancestral lineage following the establishment of sympatry with the descendant lineage. Rates of change were consistently higher in the descendant lineage than in the ancestral lineage during sympatry. Differential rates of phyletic change exhibited by the 2 lineages resulted in significant divergence between them, which may be interpreted as possible character displacement at the lowest level of macroevolution.
10.2307/1485463|The pantanelliid subfamily Vallupinae Pessagno and MacLeod reached its acme of development during the late Tithonian. Two new genera (Neovallupus and Supervallupus) and seven new species are described from the upper Tithonian portion of the Taman Formation, east-central Mexico; new species are Bivallupus oppositus, B. primigenus, Neovallupus dumitricai, N. modestus, Protovallupus excellens, Supervallupus haeckeli, and Vallupus laxus. In addition, the definition of the subfamily Vallupinae is emended. Many taxa belonging to the Vallupinae are short-ranging, distinctive, and cosmopolitan--occurring in both Boreal and Tethyan strata. Vallupinid taxa have proven to be useful in developing a meaningful radiolarian zonation for the upper Tithonian of North America.
3648443|Results are presented of a quantitative biostratigraphic study of the calcareous nannofossils from the upper Miocene Metochia section (Gavdos Island, Greece) located in the eastern Mediterranean. The study allows the completion of the calcareous nannofossil Zonal Scheme for the Mediterranean Neogene. Parts of the scheme have already been proposed earlier for the Pliocene-Pleistocene (Rio et al. 1990b) and for the latest Oligocene to early late Miocene (Fornaciari and Rio 1996, Fornaciari et al. 1996). The Metochia section proved to be a suitable section for high-resolution biostratigraphic studies. It has a detailed planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy and a robust chronology based on the astronomical calibration of the sedimentary cycles (Krijgsman et al. 1995, Hilgen et al. 1995). Age estimates for the nannofossil biohorizons recognized in the section were obtained through direct correlation to this astrochronology. Five out of seventeen biohorizons were selected for biostratigraphic purposes and to define the (sub)zonal boundaries. They are (in stratigraphic order): LO (Last Occurrence) of Discoaster hamatus Martini and Bramlette 1963, equivalent to the base of Subzone MNN10a, dated at 9.53 Ma; FCO (First Consistent Continuous Occurrence) of Discoaster pentaradiatus (Tan 1927) Bramlette and Riedel 1954, equivalent to the base of Subzone MNN10b, at 9.37 Ma; PB (Paracme Beginning) of Reticulofenestra pseudoumbilicus (Gartner 1967) Gartner 1969, equivalent to the base of Zone MNN11a, at 8.76 Ma; FO (First Occurrence) of Amaurolithus spp. (A. primus (Bukry and Percival 1971) Gartner and Bukry 1975), equivalent to the base of Subzone MNN11b, at 7.42 Ma, and FO of Nicklithus amplificus (Bukry and Percival 1971) Raffi Backman and Rio 1998, equivalent to the base of Subzone MNN11c, at 6.69 Ma. We compared our biochronology with data available from other Mediterranean sections (Sprovieri et al. 1996, Negri et al. 1999, Negri and Villa 2000, Bonomo 2001), and with the nannofossil biochronology from low-latitude oceanic reference sections (Raffi et al. 1995, Backman and Raffi 1997). Our results evidence differences and similarities: some of the recently proposed events in the Tortonian-Messinian (e.g., FO and FCO of Reticulofenestra rotaria Theodoridis 1984, FO of Amaurolitus delicatus Gartner and Bukry 1975) proved not to be reliable and do not improve the biostratigraphic resolution by calcareous nannofossils in the time interval under consideration. On the other hand, the five selected biohorizons can easily be reproduced elsewhere in the Mediterranean, and are considered useful for correlations to the extra-Mediterranean realm.
10.2307/1484479| Methods employed for routine laboratory culture of foraminifera are described and some preliminary experiments concerning the effects of food, temperature and salinity upon the population growth are discussed. Populations of Rotaliella heterocaryotica Grell have been found to eat dead flagellate cells (Chlamydomonas) and living diatoms (Nitzchia). Populations of Rotaliella sp. do not appear to utilize dead Chlamydomonas and will die unless living Nitzchia or its equivalent is provided. Temperatures of 14.5 C. result in a lower rate of growth for Rotaliella heterocaryotica and Rotaliella sp. than do room temperatures of 22.2 C. and 24.5 C. Data from salinity experiments on Rotaliella heterocaryotica suggest the following: There is no significant population growth at salinities less than approximately 25; population growth occurs at salinities above 25 with the optimal salinity apparently between 26 and 30; no consistent population growth occurs at salinities above approximately 37. 
10.2307/1484506|A description of the method used in detecting the amino acids in the shell cement of alcohol-preserved arenaceous foraminifera.
10.2307/1484706|Examination of thirty-two Cretaceous assemblages from France and the Netherlands reveals 1) the types of coccoliths and associated nannofossils in rocks representing each geologic stage from the Neocomian to the Campanian, 2) the many morphologic features possessed by these microfossils, and 3) the stratigraphic distribution of the various genera and species. The assemblages contain sixty-nine distinctive forms, of which forty-four are reported as new. The new taxa are described; all forms are illustrated and recorded stratigraphically. Generic names proposed here are Clinorhabdus, Eprolithus, Rucinolithus, Radiolithus and Tranolithus.
10.2307/1484528|The stratigraphic value of some foraminifera occurring in the Lower Cretaceous rocks of northwestern Germany and the Speeton Clay of Yorkshire, England is discussed. A range table is given and broad biostratigraphic subdivisions of the Lower Cretaceous of northwestern Germany based on the distribution of foraminifera are recognized at Speeton.
10.2307/1485764|Two zones, Bekoma campechensis and B. bidartensis Zones, were recognized and three new subzones, Peritiviator (?) dumitricai, Orbula discipulus and Stylotrochus nitidus-Pterocodon (?) poculum Subzones are newly defined based on the Paleocene samples from DSDP Site 384. A new genus and 35 new taxa are described herein.
4097102|Despite the immense ecological, biogeochemical and paleontological/paleoecological importance of living and fossil coccolithophores, fundamental gaps exist in the biological knowledge of this group of marine protists. The traditional approach of examining the morphology of their beautiful skeletons to study their ecology and evolution has important limitations. Simple questions, such as: When did the coccolithophores first appear? How many species exist in the contemporary ocean, and existed in past oceans? What are the phylogenetic links between these species and between the lineages to which they belong? What is their life-cycle, and are they autotrophic or heterotrophic organisms? Are still poorly understood due to a paucity of information on their genotypic and phenotypic (other than the coccoliths) characters? Analysis of mutations within the DNA of coccolithophores using population genetics, phylogenetic, and genomic approaches may help to answer these questions. Here we synthesize the first conclusions resulting from the still very limited number of molecular studies on coccolithophores and emphasize some of the most important questions that have consequently arisen. We finally propose new approaches using combined optic and genetic techniques to explore the ecology and evolution of coccolithophores at the boundary between molecular biology, oceanography, and paleontology.
4499786|The co-occurrence of the small agglutinated, conical fossils Volborthella and Salterella is documented from the Lower Cambrian Tokammane Formation of Ny Friesland, Spitsbergen. Microstructural investigations of well-preserved Volborthella tenuis Schmidt (1888), collected from the fine-grained Topiggane Shale, indicate the presence of an organic cementing matrix that may have extended around the edges of the test to form an outer organic sheath. This is clearly distinct from the carbonate cements observed in specimens of Salterella maccullochi (Murchison 1859), supporting the taxonomic validity of Volborthella and Salterella. The occurrence of both these forms in this succession may indicate a biogeographic link between the Laurentian province, where both Salterella and Volborthella are found, and the Baltic and East European Platform, where only Volborthella is reported to occur. The exclusive presence of Volborthella in the older siliciclastic Topiggane Shale Member and Salterella in the younger carbonates of the Ditlovtoppen Dolomite provides both a testable age-relation between these two forms and suggests that there may be a significant facies control on their distribution. These organisms are significant in the early history of agglutinated skeletons, especially in their use of both organic and carbonate cements significantly earlier than other Paleozoic agglutinating organisms, such as the foraminifera.
10.2307/1485458| Sediments from several Deep Sea Drilling Project sites and numerous surface samples were studied to determine the characteristics of radiolarian populations diagnostic of Campanian biogeographic zones and representative of different depths of deposition. Faunal composition showed three basic types of variation in response to the environment: (1) morphotypes present, (2) diversity, and (3) abundance. Few species of Radiolaria were ubiquitous. Of the 146 morphotypes studied, only members of the Dictyomitra multicostata and Protostichocapsa stocki groups occurred in all samples. Most forms were restricted to low and intermediate latitudes, but species of Prunobrachium were present only at high latitudes. Shallow and deep-water deposits contained a high percentage of nassellarians, while assemblages of intermediate depth were characterized by a predominance of spumellarians. Diversity varied directly with depth and inversely with latitude. Neritic assemblages were commonly dominated by only two or three morphotypes, which comprised from 60 to 90% of the population. Diversity indices for neritic populations determined on the Fisher scale ( = 1-20) showed values of  less than 3. In contrast,  values characteristic of deeper water assemblages ranged from 9 to 20. Although abundance is influenced by localized productivity and sedimentation rates, numbers of Radiolaria tended to increase with depth in any given depositional basin. 
10.2307/1485435| Benthic foraminifera have been quantitatively analyzed between 33 and 39S latitude in the Peru-Chile Trench area at a depth of 135 to 4500 m underlying 5 distinct water masses: the Peru-Chile Current, the Countercurrent, Antarctic Intermediate Water, Deep Water, and Antarctic Bottom Water. A total of 251 species were identified with common forms grouped into outer shelf (< 150 m), upper bathyal (150-500 m), upper middle bathyal (500-1500 m), lower middle bathyal (1500-2000 m), lower bathyal (2000-4000 m), and abyssal (> 4000 m) biofacies. Faunal distributions were compared with water mass properties, including temperature, salinity, and oxygen, as well as nitrate, phosphate and silicon content. High numbers of displaced specimens ranging from 30% of upper bathyal assemblages to 80% of middle and lower bathyal assemblages mask in situ faunal trends. However, use of upper depth limits and adjusted faunal parameters demonstrate that lowest species diversities and specimen abundance correlate with a shallow oxygen minimum zone at 150-400 m where dissolved oxygen values are less than 1 ml/1. The most dramatic faunal change across the entire shelf-edge-to-abyssal gradient occurs at the base of this low oxygen parcel between 400 and 500 m, where 35 species have their shallowest or deepest occurrences. Low diversity and abundances also characterize a deep oxygen-minimum zone at 900-1700 m. Alternately, highest species diversities and abundances are found at depths shallower than 150 m and at 400-900 m correlating with surface and intermediate oxygen maxima and associated salinity minima. A sharp increase in the relative abundance and diversity of agglutinated species at about 3500 m correlates with the calcium carbonate lysocline. 
10.2307/1484779|Sixty-nine miospore taxa are reported from a Pennsylvanian cavern deposit enclosed within the Middle Devonian Callaway Limestone. Four species, Lophotriletes cursus, Lophotriletes trilobus, Pustulatisporites vegrandis, and Ahrensisporites subtilis, are new. The assemblage is interpreted to indicate a probable Desmoinesian (lower Cygnian) age for the deposit. Spores of the Lycopsida are quantitatively dominant and those of the Filicineae, Gymnospermae and Sphenopsida are present in smaller numbers.
30136846|The benthic foraminifer Amphisorus hemprichii Ehrenberg is widely distributed in the Indo-Pacific. However, submarine surveys revealed large populations of A. hemprichii along the southwestern coasts of Antalya, Turkey, between Kalkan and Kekova. It is also present in the Red Sea which suggests that this species recently experienced Lessepsian migration. It inhabits mostly rocky substrate between 8-18 m water depth, but is also found epiphytically on Posidonia oceanica (Linn) Delile and Halophila stipulacea (Forsskl) Ascherson. We found rich populations of this species with individuals as large as 1cm in diameter in Ka and Kekova. This indicates that environmental conditions are suitable to promote the survival of this species along the southwestern coasts of Turkey.
10.2307/1485737|The formation of a saclike chamber in individuals of Globigerinoides sacculifer in a laboratory culture signals impending gametogenesis. The earliest phase of gametogenesis starts with gradual shortening of the spines at midday and complete shedding of spines toward midnight. Concurrently, the symbiotic dinoflagellates are lysed and most likely digested and their remains expelled by their foraminiferal host. Fine structure evidence shows the initiation of nuclear division and development of large vacuoles within the cytoplasm. From midnight to 0700, continued nuclear division and expansion of the vacuoles and lacunae between the nucleated masses of cytoplasm cause the cytoplasm to fill the saclike chamber and cytoplasmic bulges to emerge from the shell's apertures. Gamete release occurs usually between 0900 and 1600, peaking at 1200 and 1300. The synchronous developmental sequence of gametogenesis in G. sacculifer may be of adaptive significance for greater potential fertilization in these holoplanktonic organisms.
10.2307/1484736|The lithological and microfaunal facies of the Upper Cretaceous in the southern part of the Eastern Carpathians are discussed. The characteristics of the sedimentation basin, which included high turbidity and turbulence and rapid deposition, as well as rapid fluctuation of sea level, had a strong influence on the microfaunal association. Description and illustration of four new species (Haplophragmoides herbichi, Parafissurina lageniformis, Pleurostomella dacica, Pleurostomella pseudocurta) and two new subspecies (Fissurina orbignyana inornata, Fissurina orbignyana bicornis) are also presented, along with lists of the successive foraminiferal assemblages.
10.2307/1484891|The composition of the living and dead populations of foraminifers of Vineyard Sound, Massachusetts, the shelf off Long Island, New York, and the shelf off Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, have been compared. Vineyard Sound is a region of fast tidal currents, and most of the benthic foraminifers cling to the substrate. Diversity and biomass are generally low. The continental shelf off Long Island is a lower energy cold-water environment. The living foraminifers show affinities to those of Arctic assemblages. Diversity is low, and biomass is moderate. The continental shelf off Cape Hatteras is the site of a large horizontal temperature gradient with cooler Virginian coastal water to the north and warmer Carolinian coastal water to the south. The foraminifers show the effects of this physical change both in the species composition and in the variable diversity, standing crop and biomass values. In each case the living populations differ markedly from the dead.
10.2307/1485395|Seventeen new forms of ichthyoliths (microscopic toothlike and scalelike structures of uncertain affinity) are recorded from 31 samples of pelagic sedimentary rocks ranging in age from Jurassic to Late Cretaceous. A procedure recently developed to describe and discriminate Cenozoic ichthyoliths has proved adequate to accommodate these older forms, which show promise of being useful for stratigraphic correlation of Mesozoic rocks.
4097026|This study reports twin and triplet forms of Recent benthic foraminifera from the eastern Aegean Sea. We discuss new insights into the causes of abnormal morphologies, including possible anthropogenic influences. The twin and triplet forms, their morphologies and environmental characteristics are described with a view to aiding interpretation of the Recent and ancient palaeoenvironmental record.
10.2307/1485647|A hardened Canada balsam is a useful embedding medium, since it can be dissolved by xylene, for observation of the inner structure of microfossils with the scanning electron microscope. Preparation of the Canada balsam-xylene method and its advantages over previously presented techniques are described.
10.2307/1485629|A group of microfossils is described from Middle Cretaceous (Aptian) sediments of Brazil considered to have formed in a brackish-water, possibly deltaic environment. The microfossils have the form of oblate spheroids with reticulate surfaces interrupted by two bands of elongate fields and with a distinct, circular operculum; the name Mystheria oleopotrix, n. gen., n. sp., is proposed for them. Their affinity cannot be determined with precision, but it appears likely that they are insect eggs.
10.2307/1485782|From the lowermost Danian, Biantholithus sparsus zone, the new calcareous nannofossil species Braarudosphaera pentagonica n.sp. is described. It is composed of 12 pentaliths, each built of five segments with a pentagonal outline. All sutures between the pentaliths are zigzag shaped. Proximal and distal faces (plate 2, figs. 3, 4) are of the same pentalith, illustriations obtained by the new "turn over technique" introduced by Mai 1995.
10.2307/1484432|Faulty explanations of coordinate conversion procedure have obscured the fact that a reference point in any location on a microscope slide permits cited coordinates to be quickly converted arithmetically despite vagaries of microscope-stage scale construction.
10.2307/1484140|A study was made of the foraminifera, diatoms, and radiolaria in bottom samples from the Gulf of California. Seventeen separate foraminiferal faunas are recognized, spanning the range from paralic facies to a depth of more than 3000 meters. Planktonic and benthonic foraminifera are more abundant than diatoms and radiolaria in sediments of the continental shelf and in the upper bathyal zone; radiolaria and diatoms are most abundant in sediments of the basin bottoms; radiolaria are relatively most abundant in the deepest basins at the south end of the Gulf. Sill depths appear to control the dominant distribution patterns of the basin assemblages.
41410972|A new genus Pessagnoites is described from the Austin Chalk of Northeast Texas. This taxon is included in the Marginotruncanidae and is characterized by possessing an extraumbilical-non umbilical in position primary aperture and sutural supplementary apertures both on the spiral and umbilical sides of the test. Pessagnoites n. gen. marks the base of the lowermost Coniacian (Superzone UK4, Zone 4B) in Texas. Its co-occurrence with Cremnocreamus deformis erectus herein suggests its placement as a primary marker taxon marking the base of the Coniacian worldwide.
10.2307/1484236|Acid residues from limestone obtained from a single locality in eastern Nevada have yielded five lagenid species of Triassic foraminifera. The specimens are silicified and are present in over 600 feet of section. The fauna is associated with Lower Triassic conodonts and occurs about 1000 feet above the Lower Triassic (Scythic) ammonoid guide, Meekoceras.
10.2307/1484876|Thin sections prepared for light and electron microscopy by a compound embedding technique permit observation of organic material of the mineralized walls of fossil foraminifera and cytological detail within and outside the shell of fixed living specimens. Embedded individuals are transected with a razor, and a sectionable, faithful, plastic reproduction of the original test is polymerized within the shell mold formed by acid dissolution of the calcareous components of the shell wall.
10.2307/1484165|A new microfaunal diagram is described, which permits the quantitative composition of microfaunas to be presented in a very compact form. Percentages of planktonic and benthonic individuals, and individual percentages for planktonic genera and species, can be plotted in a single diagram. Examples showing the possibility of using such a diagram for ecologic and correlation purposes are given. Conclusions as to the wide range of application of this method are discussed.
10.2307/1485283|Deception Island, South Shetland Islands, Antarctica, was the site of volcanic eruptions in 1967, 1969 and 1970. These eruptions decimated much of the benthos in the island's caldera (Port Foster) and on its outer slopes. To study the effects on the foraminiferal fauna, approximately 250 bottom samples were collected during 5 successive austral summers following the last eruption. The mud substrate in Port Foster supports a low-diversity fauna dominated by Miliammina arenacea, Stainforthia fusiformis, Nonionella bradii, and Trochammina malovensis. Tongues of gravel and sand extend into Port Foster from the sites of recent eruptions. The island's coarse-grained outer slope has a more diverse fauna characterized by the Globocassidulina crassa plexus, Cribrostomoides jeffreysii, Rotaliammina ochracea, Trochammina malovensis, Rosalina globularis, Pseudoparrella exigua, Trifarina angulosa, and Cibicides lobatulus. Volcanic ashfall distributions and current transport in Port Foster delineate a transitional outer-bay subfacies where species associations and diversity of assemblages are intermediate between those of the inner-bay and outer-slope faunas. Turbidity and substratum grain-size are major controlling factors of foraminiferal distributions in the post-eruption environment. In the years following the eruptions, the foraminiferal fauna repopulated the devastated areas patchily and at different rates. Changes in the proportions of calcareous species suggest that volcanic activity may have affected the faunal composition in post-eruptive stages, although differential reproductive rates, faunal succession, a normal condition of dominance by agglutinated species, or selective dissolution of CaCO<sub>3</sub> tests cannot be excluded as possibilities for the redundant alterations.
10.2307/1485857| The benthic foraminiferal faunas from the Pliocene and Pleistocene sections of ODP Hole 625B (889m depth), drilled in the DeSoto Canyon area of the northeast Gulf of Mexico were examined from samples representing climatic maxima and minima according to the Joyce et al. (1990)  <sup>18</sup>O record. The Pliocene and Pleistocene sections of four Eureka boreholes, two from the eastern Gulf of Mexico (E66-83A, 769m; E68-139, 1852m) and two from the western Gulf of Mexico (E66-40D, 776m; E67-116A, 1229m) were examined in less detail. The fossil faunas from these cores resemble closely those of the present-day Gulf of Mexico. The benthic faunas of the early Pliocene (about 5 Ma to 2.4 Ma) of all cores were very uniform. The respective fossil faunas are usually closer in composition to modern faunas that are deeper than the present coring sites. Faunal composition changed sharply at 2.4 Ma in the "interglacial" series of samples from Hole 625B, the time of the onset of Northern Hemisphere glaciations: several species that are indicative of very high biological productivity and/or moderate oxygen deficiency (e.g., Bulimina aculeata, Bulimina mexicana, Bulimina exilis) flooded the samples. This fauna occurs in three pulses during the late Pliocene and Pleistocene "interglacial" sample series: from 2.4 to 1.9Ma, from 1.3 to 0.7 Ma, and from 0.4 Ma to the present. The intervening sections exhibit faunas that are essentially similar to the early Pliocene associations. An equivalent change in the faunas of the "glacial" series of samples from Hole 625B occurred 0.8 m.y. later, from about 1.6 Ma to 1.2 Ma in the early Pleistocene, persisting until about 0.4 Ma. The faunas of the Eureka boreholes closely follow the faunal evolution in Hole 625B. Discrepancies between faunal compositions of 625B and approximately coeval Eureka samples occur particularly in late Pliocene and Pleistocene intervals. These discrepancies originate from the chance recovery of Eureka samples -- they may represent intermediate climatic stages. Samples from Hole 625B were analyzed in three size fractions: 74 to 125m, 125 to 150m, and > 150m. The effect of different size fraction upon faunal composition is slight between the 125 to 150m and the > 150m fraction. However, the contrast between the faunas of the fine fraction (74 to 125m) and the coarse fraction (> 125m) is drastic. Exclusively small species belong primarily to the genera of Bolivina and Eponides, which are often indicators of very high biological productivity and/or oxygen deficiency. 
10.2307/1485885|Siliceous wall plates of two species of Parmales are present in varying abundance in the surficial and downcore sediments of Prydz Bay, East Antarctica. These organisms have a dramatically higher abundance and greater species diversity in polar and sub-polar environments than is seen in temperate and tropical waters. Based on our finding of abundant and well-preserved walls of these organisms in Antarctic sediments, we suggest that they represent a useful biofacies and paleoenvironmental marker for deposition from cold water, and a potentially new biostratigraphic tool.
10.2307/1484353|The genus Globorotalia is reviewed and redefined on the basis of the structure of its species. Remarks are also made on the structure of Globotruncana and Globigerina. The interrelationships of all three are discussed.
24413308|The correlation between the fusulinid-based Tethyan and the conodont-based international timescales of the Permian System has become one of the most disputed issues among the Permian community during the past two decades. In this paper, we document a conodont fauna consisting of four species including Sweetognathus guizhouensis, Pseudohindeodus augustus, Hindeodus permicus and a new genus Meiognathus pustulus from the lower part of a large exotic limestone block at Hatahoko in the Nyukawa area, Gifu Prefecture, central Japan, which all suggest a Kungurian age. The Kungurian age indicated by the conodonts is consistent with the age of the associated brachiopods, but conflicts with the Murgabian age indicated by the associated fusulinids including Cancellina nipponica, Neoschwagerina simplex, Neofusulinella praecursor etc. This co-occurrence of Kungurian conodonts and Murgabian fusulinids in central Japan suggests that previously unrecognized temporal distributions of some key fusulinid or conodont elements need to be clarified and that the intensively-disputed correlation problem between the Kungurian containing the Murgabian fusulinids at the Luodian section in Guizhou, South China with the strata containing the ammonoid Waagenoceras in Oman and Sicily was caused by artificial conodont taxonomic discrepancies. The Luodian section in South China could serve as a key reference section for the correlation of the Kungurian Stage (late Early Permian) between the Tethyan and international timescales.
4499785|Free specimens of small foraminifers are not commonly reported from Permian strata. A foraminiferal fauna with free tests accompanied by abundant radiolarians has been discovered from uppermost Permian, upper Changhsingian strata in the Liuqiao Section, southwestern Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, South China. SEM microphotography and thin sections of free specimens were both used for the study of external and internal morphological features. In most cases the wall structure is not preserved because of recrystallization, however, most species could be identified based on test morphology. Twenty species (six new) of fourteen genera (one new) have been identified. The new genus and new species are: Dalongella n. gen., Dalongellafusiformis n. gen. n. sp., Glomospirella? mamilla n. sp., Glomospirella? curva n. sp., Hemigordius? yini n. sp., Geinitzinita changhsingensis n. sp. and Pseudolangella costata n. sp. The composition of this fauna is quite different from similar age small foraminiferal faunas reported from South China. Furthermore, the presence of radiolarians and cool-water brachiopods probably implies that the fauna is from a deep-water environment.
40607068|An Upper Cretaceous spore-pollen and dinoflagellate zonation in two deep wells (AG-5 and AG-13) of the Abu Gharadig oil field, Northwestern Desert, Egypt is presented. Six pollen and spores zones equivalent to five dinoflagellate and phytoplankton zones are defined for the Cenomanian-Santonian Bahariya and Abu Roash formations. One new pollen species, Integritetraditesfoveolatus sp.nov., is described from the middle to late Cenomanian strata. The Cenomanian-Turonian boundary is defined for the first time in Egypt using stable carbon and oxygen isotopes ( C and O), where a positive carbon excursion is detected in organic rich shale of the basal Abu Roash "F" Member. During the Cenomanian, Egypt was part of the mid-Cretaceous "African-South American" Province (ASA), characterized by dominance of Classopollis, Araucariacites, eleter-bearing and Afropollis pollen assemblage in an arid to semi-arid warm climate. The marine/terrestrial palynomorph ratio increased upward from the Cenomanian to Santonian related to a global sea level rise. The Cenomanian siliciclastics of the Bahariya Formation and the basal Abu Roash G and F members were deposited in a shallow marine, inner shelf environment. The Middle part of the Abu Roash Formation (E member: Turonian) is a shallow water, middle shelf deposit, while the upper part of the Abu Roash Formation (A, B, C and D members: Coniacian-Santonian) are open marine, outer shelf deposits.
10.2307/1485747|Well-preserved and abundant radiolarians having a coiled internal skeleton were recovered from an Upper Permian chert block embedded in the Unazawa Formation located in Kashiwara, Itsukaichi Town, Tokyo Prefecture, central Japan. This unusual species of Radiolaria is characterized by its more complicated streptospiral shell compared with those species of Radiolaria with simple spirals along one coiling axis. In the present study, the authors propose the new Family Grandetorturiidae in the Suborder Spumellaria Ehrenberg and describe one new genus and species, Grandetortura nipponica Sashida and Tonishi.
10.2307/1484351|Radiolaria recently found in shale of the Franciscan group (Jurassic and Cretaceous) in California are somewhat better preserved than those previously found in cherts of this group. Seven forms are described, figured, and identified generically.
10.2307/1485959|A combination of high resolution sampling and reevaluation of the "extinction" of the Pleistocene radiolarian, Stylatractus universus Hays, has resulted in precise placement of the .425 Ma datum at 24.8-24.4 mbsf in the siliceous sediment section recovered by ODP from Kerguelen Plateau Site 745. This reevaluation reconciles earlier differences between diatom and radiolarian stratigraphies of the Brunhes section of the sediments.
10.2307/1484477| A resum of the work that has been done on holothurian sclerites is presented, and their morphology is described. A new system of classification is proposed. The stratigraphic relationships and paleoecology of holothurian sclerites are also discussed. 
10.2307/1484895|The tripylean Radiolaria Protocystis harstoni, P. xiphodon, Cadium melo, C. bullatum, n. sp., Euphysetta nathorstii and Porospathis holostoma have been recovered from surface as well as subsurface samples in sediment cores from the Norwegian Sea. Previous records of their occurrence are almost exclusively from plankton samples. Frequent occurrences in numerous cores suggest that tripylean Radiolaria may occur widely in deep-sea sediments.
1486155| Radiolarian concentration and faunal composition are compared between pairs of dried and wet sub-samples from 24 samples in sediment cores from the Japan Sea, in order to evaluate the alteration of radiolarian assemblages during the sample-drying process. Radiolarian shell count is reduced by nearly half after oven drying at 50C as well as at ambient room temperature. In contrast, the shell count is unchanged by freeze drying. The reduction in radiolarian test count is probably caused by contraction and consolidation of the sediment. The reduction in shell count is species-specific and results from the capacity of the shell to resist crushing owing to sediment contraction. Faunal composition definitely is altered by the drying process, especially in assemblages dominated by fragile species. The original faunal composition can be reconstructed from the observed faunal composition in dried material, based on the shell-strength of major species in a sample. 
10.2307/1484890|A new genus of Ostracoda is described from the Caribbean Tertiary. Two species are recognised, Messinella guanajayensis from the Oligocene of Cuba and Messinella jamaicensis from the Upper Miocene-Pleistocene of Jamaica.
10.2307/1485855|The Eureka coreholes constitute the primary source for understanding the Neogene stratigraphic record of the northern continental slope of the Gulf of Mexico. A detailed calcareous nannofossil stratigraphy is established for five Eureka coreholes from the De Soto Canyon area (northeastern Gulf of Mexico) and of two coreholes from the Texas-Louisiana shelf. It is complemented by detailed stratigraphies for three additional coreholes from previously published studies. Integration of the calcareous nannofossil, planktonic foraminiferal and strontium isotope stratigraphies for the De Soto Canyon coreholes leads to a comprehensive allostratigraphic interpretation. I identify seven main allostratigraphic units, AsU1 to AsU7, which vary considerably in thickness and zonal extent between coreholes. I correlate these seven allostratigraphic units with the seven Neogene seismic sequences that Mitchum (1978) differentiated on the West Florida Slope. Seismic surfaces F to A correspond to the unconformities that bound the allostratigraphic units. Of particular interest is the nature of the middle Miocene allostratigraphic Unit AsU3, which results from massive reworking and slumping believed to have occurred mainly during Biochron NN9.
3648440| A new Orbitoidal foraminiferal genus Lakadongia (type species Lakadongia indica, n. gen., n. sp.) is described from the Thanetian Lakadong Limestone of Meghalaya, NE India, following a critical review of the previous works on the Paleocene (Thanetian) Orbitoidal foraminifera such as Lepidorbitoides tibetica Douvill, Lepidocyclina (Polylepidina) punjabensis Davies, Orbitosiphon praepunjabensis Adams and Setia primitiva Ferrndez-Caadell. Lakadongia, gen. nov. is characterized by the presence of low trochospiral, quadriserial nepionts and the duplication of equatorial chamber layers in the equatorial layer. Lakadongia indica, n. gen., n. sp. is associated with Orbitosiphon tibetica (Douvill), and both species are assigned to one new family, the Orbitosiphonidae. 
4097099|The use of coccolithophores as proxies for past environmental conditions in the Arabian Sea is critically evaluated based on a number of recent studies. We investigated coccolithophores in terms of their production in the photic zone, their transformation to settling assemblages, their accumulation on the seafloor, and their final burial in the sediments. The living coccolithophore communities reflect local oceanographic conditions and seem to be more dependent on mixed layer depth and nutrient availability than on temperature and/or salinity changes. We found a strong seasonality in coccolithophore fluxes corresponding to the seasonal monsoonal development. Several species showed specific annual trends, however, the annual cycles of the majority of living species are not preserved and only a smoothed signal with gradual intraannual changes characterize the settling assemblages. In the surface sediments the distribution of species and species groups reflect the environmental parameters of the overlying water masses and may be successfully used to improve paleoclimatic reconstructions. Even though sediments in the Arabian Sea are annually laminated within an expanded oxygen minimum zone, no seasonal signal is preserved due to the event-like deposition of light laminae. However, interannual variability can be studied with a unique resolution. Differences in the species compositions of living coccolithophore communities, settling, and sediment assemblages result from taxonomical and preservational factors. Interpretation of variations of species compositions and abundances in the fossil record are further complicated by evolutionary shifts and events and changing environmental conditions (e.g. fluctuation of sedimentation rate). Despite all limitations and constraints, it is shown that the fossil coccolithophore core records bear great potentials to successfully monitor and reconstruct paleoenvironmental changes.
10.2307/1484626|The megaspore generic name Arcellites Miner, 1935, has priority over Pyrobolospora Hughes, 1955; and Arcellites crillensis Schemel, 1950, reported from Iowa, is synonymous with A. disciformis Miner, 1935, described from Greenland. Several hundred specimens of Cretaceous age from the western interior of the United States provide the basis for an emended description of the genus Arcellites and the species A. disciformis. To date, this species has been found only in Greenland and the United States; in Europe and Australia several other species of this genus are present. The genus Arcellites appears to be restricted to the Lower Cretaceous and the lowermost part of the Upper Cretaceous.
10.2307/1485059|A new rapid method of discriminating between quinqueloculine and triloculine tests by measuring the angles between successive chamber planes in apertural view is discussed. On using this method, if is found that Trillina Munier-Chalmas. 1882, is synonymous with Quinqueloculina d'Orbigny, 1826, that Trilocularena Loeblich and Tappan, 1955, is synonymous with Miliammina Heron-Allen and Earland, 1930, and that over 70% of all species placed in Triloculina are quinqueloculine.
10.2307/1484794|Foraminifera survive in the Hudson River estuary only in salinities greater than 5 parts per thousand. Miliammina and Ammomarginulina were the only genera able to tolerate salinities near the 5 0/00 minimum. At low salinities Ammonia and Trochammina were observed in the chitinous state. The foraminifera were associated mainly with clayey silt muds which had pH's near 7, positive Eh's and cation exchange capacities in the order of 30 to 40 milliequivalents per hundred grams. The sediments containing the foraminifera were highly unsaturated with the common metallic cations that are usually important in nutrition.
10.2307/1484145|Diatoms and associated acid-insoluble microscopic forms from the Recent sediments of the fresh-water tanks and the mangrove swamps of the Bengal Delta are described and illustrated.
10.2307/1485891|The section near Cuevas del Almanzora in the Vera Basin, southeastern Spain, was proposed by Montenat et al. (1976) to be a parastratotype for the Messinian Stage. They believed that this section represented a much sought after continuous marine record of the terminal Miocene in the Mediterranean, which joined the Tortonian with the Pliocene and such provided evidence to refute the general desiccation hypothesis of for the Messinian Salinity Crisis. The discovery of a marine section representing this interval on the Atlantic side of Morocco near Rabat, the Bou Regreg section, has revealed that an important biostratigraphic marker, thought to be Pliocene at Cuevas, first appears here in the latest Miocene. Even though parastratotypes are informal reference standards, the Cuevas section can only be considered as a tentative reference section when its base is better defined. The marker of the lower boundary of the Messinian, the Mediterranean FOD of Globorotalia conomiozea (6.4 Ma), now must be inferred by the presence of this species with Gl. mediterranea. The Cuevas section represents only about two thirds of the rest of the Messinian and is not a continuous marine record on into the Pliocene. The presence of the so-called "Pliocene," marked by the Globorotalia margaritae Zone, contains an early evolutionary stage of development of Gl. margaritae, now known from studies in Morocco to have existed from the middle of subchron 5N1 at about 5.6 Ma to 5.3 Ma. The section ends in a positive polarity interval which we interpret to be Subchron 5N1. This combined evidence indicated that the record in the section ended more than 0.4 m. y. before the beginning of the Pliocene. Correlations are made with the Andalusian stratotype at Carmona and with Site 654 in the Tyrhennian Sea. The Cuevas section cannot be considered proof of a continuous Atlantic connection through the desiccation phase of the Messinian Salinity Crisis. The presence of a zone of autochthonous caspi-brackish ostracodes and charophytes, although of no particular stratigraphic importance, cannot be part of continuous marine section.
24413482|Sixty- three bottom sediment samples were collected from the Burullus Lagoon with the purpose of determining the distribution pattern of the palynomorphs and microfauna, the relationship between dominant species and different environmental variables, and environmentally assessing pollution impacts following construction of a major motorway (the International Highway Project). Salinity played an important role in the distribution pattern of the living biocoenose, while temperature, dissolved oxygen and organic carbon have had a negligible effect. The biodiversity of the Burullus Lagoon is threatened by dilution of the marine water with freshwater entering the basin from irrigation canals. The high content of iron, as well as drainage water from agricultural activities, could have polluted the southern fringe of the lagoon. Heavy metal concentrations in the basin's eastern sector could also have a fatal effect on biodiversity. The opportunity is taken to make mitigation recommendations concerning on-going environmental impacts in the lagoon.
10.2307/1485657|This paper presents a detailed taxonomic analysis of cycladophorid radiolarians from Neogene high-latitude sediments of the Antarctic, North Pacific, and North Atlantic. The definition of the genus Cycladophora is emended to include many species previously assigned to Clathrocyclas and Theocalyptra, and Diplocyclas is formally synonymized with Cycladophora. Descriptions, full page plates, and extensive measurements are provided for each species and subspecies. Several new taxonomic names are introduced, including: Cycladophora cosma (n. sp.), C. cosma cosma (n. subsp.), C. cosma irregularis (n. subsp.), C. robusta (n. sp.), C. conica (n. sp.), C. bicornis bicornis (n. subsp.), C. bicornis klingi (n. subsp.), C. bicornis amphora (n. subsp.), C. bicornis helios (n. subsp.), C. rosetta (n. sp.), C. cabrilloensis cabrilloensis (n. subsp.), C. cabrilloensis subhumerus (n. subsp.), C. cabrilloensis borea (n. subsp.), and C. campanula. Cycladophora spongothorax (Chen) is given specific rank, C. regipileus (Chen) is reduced to subspecific rank (as C. golli regipileus, n. comb.), and C. pliocenica is introduced as a replacement name for Clathrocylas bicornis (Hays).
10.2307/1484858|A rich assemblage of calcareous nannofossils from the type Shubuta Clay, Upper Eocene of Mississippi, includes two previously undescribed species, Bramletteius serraculoides and Hayella situliformis, each of which is here described as the type of a new genus.
4097035|The recently discovered Tilovica breccias in Central Dalmatia are of submarine origin and assigned to a Paleocene age by means of smaller benthic and planktonic foraminifera found either in pelagic interbeds or in the matrix. The breccias define a "trough" produced by Cretaceous tectonics and submerged by the global sea-level rise. This provides a new insight into the evolution of the External Dinarides (Croatia) and suggests a new paleogeographic interpretation of the region.
10.2307/1486202|This paper documents the discovery of phytoliths (siliceous plant fossils) from late Devonian, Permian and Triassic Beacon Supergroup strata at Mts. Crean and Feather in the Transantarctic Mountains, Antarctica. The five phytolith forms documented here are among the oldest phytoliths reported to date. The period when these phytoliths were deposited represents the time when Gondwanan land plants were evolving into present day vegetation patterns. The phytoliths identified in this study have the potential to trace Beacon Supergroup sediments and also to provide phytogeographical information documenting plant taxa that once grew on the Antarctic craton.
10.2307/1485358|A major faunal change occurred at the end of the Eocene in the deep Labrador Sea (DSDP Site 112). Predominantly agglutinated Eocene benthic foraminiferal assemblages are replaced by an Oligocene calcareous assemblage. This replacement correlates with similar changes in the Canadian margin and the North Sea where the exit of agglutinated foraminifera is associated with a change in depositional environment. In Site 112, however, lithology, percent carbonate, and percent organic carbon are relatively constant across the faunal change. Thus, at least in the deep sea, these properties may not be critical to the development of predominantly agglutinated assemblages. We infer that certain hydrographic properties (low oxygen, high CO
10.2307/1485774|Six foraminiferal biofacies are defined for three tidal marshes on the central Gulf Coast of Texas. The Aransas River estuary and Port Bay marshes each contain four biofacies which occupy distinct elevational zones. Zonal definition at the Mustang Island marsh is less distinct due to the dominance of one biofacies. Analysis of core samples from the Port Bay marsh site enables reconstruction of Late Holocene sea levels and sedimentation rates. The resulting relative sea level curve contains evidence of a Late Holocene stillstand or highstand and shows that Late Holocene sea level rise continued to the present at this location.
10.2307/1484752|Foraminiferal distribution within the Bering Sea is related to the physiography of the adjacent land mass, to sea floor topography, sediment type and oceanography. Deltaic, transitional, inner shelf, central shelf, outer shelf and upper bathyal biotopes are recognized. Arenaceous foraminifera are extremely abundant throughout the region, whereas porcelaneous types are very rare. Few planktonic forms occur and these are at the deeper stations. Water mass is of prime importance to the distribution of foraminifera in the Bering Sea. A few tests of Elphidium oregonense are covered with a thin arenaceous layer over the normal calcareous test. The new generic name Asterellina is proposed.
10.2307/1484609|A new species of Ostracoda, Cytherelloidea praecipua, exhibits an unusual development of tooth and socket in the dorsal margin. Similar structures have been observed in other species of the same genus.
10.2307/1485203| Plant microfossils from the Middle Chester Series of western Kentucky resemble Visan-age assemblages of the British Carboniferous. Didymosporites scotti and Rotaspora crenulata are prominent in the assemblage, and their morphology is considered in detail. 
10.2307/1485717|Dinoflagellate cysts and acritarchs occur in Eocene to Pleistocene sediments from DSDP sites in the Bering Sea and northern North Pacific and are particularly common in Upper Miocene to Pleistocene strata. Two new genera (Filisphaera, Gelatia) and ten species of dinoflagellate cysts, and two new genera (Beringiella, Halodinium) and three new species of acritarchs are erected. Eight concurrent-range-zones based on dinoflagellate cysts and acritarchs are proposed for the Eocene to Pleistocene and are calibrated with high latitude diatom and silicoflagellate-ebridian zonations in the Upper Miocene to Pleistocene. Age justification for the Eocene-Oligocene zones is based primarily on correlation with dinoflagellate cyst zones from other areas. Upper Miocene to Recent dinoflagellate assemblages are dominated by protoperidiniacean cysts which became abundant in the Bering Sea and northern North Pacific at the same time as diatoms because of major changes in oceanic circulation and sedimentation in the Late Miocene. A modern relationship is established between high productivity of diatoms and protoperidiniacean dinoflagellates and areas rich in dissolved nutrients, both in high latitudes and in upwelling regions. This probably results from the nonphotosynthetic nature of living protoperidiniacean dinoflagellates, which utilize dissolved nutrients and commonly become abundant immediately following the spring diatom bloom. Diatom and protoperidiniacean abundance may therefore be an indicator of ancient areas of nutrient-rich waters and high phytoplankton productivity, of relevance both to paleo-oceanographic reconstructions and to petroleum exploration.
10.2307/1485396| Several genera and species are in the literature for morphologically similar algal cysts which should be assigned to Pseudoschizaea Thiergart and Frantz ex R. Potoni. Numerous specimens of these cysts were recovered from Pleistocene deposits in Alabama and provided an opportunity to re-examine their morphology and to comment to their nomenclature. 
10.2307/1485892| The surface of a newly described remaneicid foraminifer, Abyssotherma pacifica, contains agglutinated particles of obsidian. Beneath the umbilical surface of the test of the foraminifer is a loosely aggregated detrital mat through which large pseudopodal trunks emerge. The obsidian flakes were removed from the surface of the test by immersion of the foraminifera in HF for 12-18 hours. This permitted microtoming and further study by light and electron microscopy. The test has an electron dense inner organic lining approximately 0.5m thick which is overlain by a mesh of organic cement fibrils surrounding the obsidian particles. New chambers are added by accretion without decomposition of previous walls. Bacteria and unrecognizable materials were found in vacuoles which were presumably digestive vacuoles. Although we were searching for possible endosymbiotic chemolithotrophic bacteria, we found no evidence of the phenomenon due to the vent community context. The question was not completely resolved because the cell fine structure was not well-preserved by the fixation methods used during field collection. 
10.2307/1484765|Ten species of Radiolaria, six of them new, are described from Quaternary sediments of the eastern tropical Pacific. Their distributions in Recent sediments from 26 localities are shown to correspond to near-surface current patterns, and complementary patterns are shown for some well-known tropical species. Distributions to depth in five cores are presented. Foraminiferal studies indicate that each of these cores contains a horizon representing the last glacial stage. Changes in the radiolarian assemblage are recognized, but they are not always consistent with the foraminiferal biostratigraphy.
10.2307/1484280|The Indiana paper coal contains plant microfossils identifiable as Bicoloria Horst and Torispora Balme. The sporangium Bicoloria consists of an outer layer of Torispora and an interior mass of membraneous spores. The sporangia, when found in clusters, are attached to each other at their pointed ends and are therefore thought to have been pendant. The name Bicoloria is restricted to intact sporangia, and the name Torispora is retained for isolated, dispersed spores. The range of Torispora securis is extended downward to include the upper Pottsville strata of Indiana (Westphalian B).
10.2307/1484996|Scanning electron microscopy of freeze-dried specimens of living Amphistegina shows, in addition to pseudopodia originating from the aperture, other pseudopodia closely connected with the pores. These latter pseudopodia seem to form by the coalescence of still finer pseudopodia, each with a diameter corresponding with that of one of the perforations in the sieve-plates.
10.2307/1484699|Three types of problematic siliceous microfossils from Late Precambrian (Keweenawan) rocks at White Pine, Michigan, are described and illustrated.
1486003|Previous radiolarian zonations for the Late Cretaceous and Paleocene of Japan are reviewed in terms of species identifications and age determinations. With adoption of a consistent identification scheme, a remarkably uniform succession of radiolarian assemblages is evident throughout Southwest Japan. Sufficient species range into higher northern latitudes (Hokkaido, eastern Russia) to permit the establishment of a single radiolarian zonation for the Northwest Pacific. The new zonation consists of six Late Cretaceous and two Paleocene interval zones: Theocampe urna zone (Tu, Coniacian), Dictyomitra koslovae zone (Dk, Santonian to early Campanian), Amphipyndax tylotus zone (At, late Campanian), Pseudotheocampe abschnitta zone (Pa, early Maastrichtian), Clathrocyclas gravis zone (Cg, mid-Maastrichtian), Lithostrobus wero zone (Lw, early Paleocene), Buryella foremanae zone (Bf, mid-Paleocene). Zone Dk may be subdivided into Santonian and early Campanian subzones based on the first appearances of Archaeospongoprunum hueyi gr., Protoxiphotractis perplexus and Lithocampe wharanui. Previous workers' recognition of an Amphipyndax pseudoconulus or A. enesseffi assemblage in Japan is found to be erroneous. Careful examination of illustrations of the A. pseudoconulus-tylotus complex reveals that A. pseudoconulus s.s. (= A. enesseffi of Foreman 1966) is very rare in Japan and restricted to the late Campanian, its first appearance coinciding with that of A. tylotus.
10.2307/1485239| The origin and evolution of the genus Globigerinoides has been studied in a lower Miocene sequence of the northwest Pacific (DSDP Site 292) using closely spaced samples averaging approximately 1 sample every 12,000 years. This study has revealed that the Globigerinoides group evolved from the Globigerina woodi stock in 2 major evolutionary lineages originating from Globigerina woodi and Globigerina connecta. Globigerina woodi evolved into Globigerinoides by developing a small supplementary aperture; these forms are here described as the new species Globigerinoides parawoodi. The following direct evolutionary sequence can be observed: Globigerina woodi  Globigerinoides parawoodi  G. subquadratus  G. altiaperturus. The lineage originating from Globigerina connecta evolved into two branches: 1) Globigerina connecta  Globigerinoides trilobus immaturus  G. trilobus trilobus, and 2) Globigerina connecta  Globigerinoides trilobus bullatus  Globigerinoides sacculifer. There appears to have been an earlier evolution of Globigerinoides (G. primordius) arising from Globigerina praebulloides. However, this lineage appears to have died out with the extinction of G. primordius. 
10.2307/1485612|Thirteen benthic foraminiferal species from Cenozoic sediments of the Canadian Atlantic margin have been assigned new names, based on close examination and comparison of published descriptions, illustrations and where possible, type material. New names are proposed for species of Alabamina, Cibicidoides, Lenticulina, Nodosaria, Plectofrondicularia, Quadrimorphina and Uvigerina. Some of these species are important local stratigraphic markers, others consistently occur in certain types of foraminiferal assemblages. In particular, species of Nodosaria, Plectofrondicularia and Quadrimorphina are usually seen in assemblages composed of primarily agglutinated taxa. Several Lenticulina species often appear together, dominating a common Neogene foraminiferal facies.
10.2307/1485322|Albian-Turonian sediments rich in Calcispaerulidae occur in western Israel in relatively narrow belts between the Cretaceous platform and continental slope. Pithonella ovalis (Kaufmann) and Pithonella sp. are frequent and were studied by scanning electron microscope techniques. The test of P. ovalis is two-layered, the inner layer being composed of alternating tiers of anvil-shaped crystal elements of low-magnesium calcite with their c-axis normal to the test surface, aligned in a longitudinal pattern and producing also a reticulate surface ornamentation; and the outer layer being composed of elongated, low-magnesium calcite crystals varying in size, with the c-axis normal to the test surface. An interspace between the two layers was probably originally occupied by organic material, as were the interspaces between the anvil-shaped crystal elements. The latter interspaces produce, under the light microscope, a concentric and radial pattern of discontinuous dark lines. X-ray analysis, comparison with the tests of associated planktonic foraminiferids in the same sample, as well as mineralogic petrographic considerations indicate that the test of Pithonella was originally built of low-magnesium calcite. Pithonella sp. has also a two-layered test, the inner layer being composed of flat crystal elements forming a honeycomb pattern, opening into the test cavity. The distribution of Pithonella in relation to the environments of deposition recognized may indicate that the calcareous bodies referred to as Pithonella were free-floating, detached parts (oogonia?) of a benthonic alga.
30130910|This study concerns the species composition and seasonality of extant coccolithophore communities in Eastern Mediterranean coastal environments and investigates their significance as environmental indicators. Water samples were collected during six one-day cruises carried out between 2001 and 2004, in two separate marine ecosystems (Gulfs of Korthi and Kastro, southeastern coast of Andros Island). High species diversities (65 species of heterococcolithophores and 45 species of holococcolithophores), associated with the dominant K-selected taxa, Rhabdosphaeraceae, and holococcolithophores, were recorded during summer whereas low diversities coupled with maximum concentration of cells and the predominance of r-selected species (Emiliania huxleyi) were observed during late autumn-early spring. The coccolithophores of the upper photic zone have been grouped into four distinct communities (Emiliania huxleyi group, Palusphaera vandelii group, Rhabdosphaera clavigera group and Helladosphaera cornifera group). A taxonomic study of the modern coccolithophores of Aegean Sea is presented. Several combination coccospheres of Algirosphaera robusta with Sphaerocalyptra quadridentata have been well documented, therefore their synonymy is proposed and the remaining species of Sphaerocalyptra have been transferred to the genus Holococcolithophora. One more holococcolith-heterococcolith association between Corisphaera sp. type A, Zygosphaera bannockii, Zygosphaera amoena and Syracosphaera bannockii is presented, recombining all taxa into Syracosphaera amoena comb. nov. A new species, Holococcolithophora kastriensis sp. nov. is described.
10.2307/1485155|Two cores (V24-58 and RC11-209) from the east-central Pacific were examined in an attempt to establish an evolutionary lineage for the strateigraphically important collosphaerid radiolarian Buccinosphaera invaginata Haeckel. This species apparantly evolved from a form herein designated Collosphaera sp. A via a series of morphologic changes ultimately leading to the test invaginations characteristic of the genus Buccinosphaera. The transition is dated at about 210,000 years B.P. Recognition of this speciation solves the stratigraphic problems caused by the scarcity and poor preservation of B. invaginata.
10.2307/1485545|Two new species of albaillellid radiolarians, Albaillella foremanae and Pseudoalbaillella cona, have been recovered in the Permian Bone Spring Limestone of the Delaware Basin of West Texas. Preservation of the radiolarians is exquisite. Internal skeletal structures are sufficiently preserved to verify that Parafollicucullus was derived from Albaillella, but was not directly in the Albaillella to Pseudoalbaillella to Follicucullus lineage. The presence of Pseudoalbaillella in the Bone Spring is compatible with the postulated Pseudoalbaillella Assemblage Zone of Late Morrowan to Leonardian age.
10.2307/1484694| A sequence of Carboniferous foraminiferal faunas is recorded from the Bonaparte Gulf Basin, northwestern Australia. Zonal assemblages have been recognised from probable lower or middle Tournaisian, upper Tournaisian, upper Visan and lowermost Namurian. Distinctive lower and middle Visan foraminiferal faunas are not known. The foraminiferal faunas show a strong Tethyan influence and closely resemble those recorded from southeast Asia. This conclusion is of particular palaeogeographic importance, as it suggests free migration through the seas between Gondwana and Laurasia. 
10.2307/1484369|Two new genera and five new species of ostracodes are described from the Middle Ordovician Bromide formation of Oklahoma. Distinctive dimorphism in these forms is also discussed.
10.2307/1484697|Pollen-sized "microforaminifera" were produced from "normal-sized" calcareous foraminifera of the species Ammonia limnetes (Todd and Bronnimann) by the differential destruction of the test with 5% HCl.
10.2307/1485894|Students of micropaleontology need to be aware of the dangers to their specimens inherent in some preparation techniques. This article summarizes much of the published work on the damage caused to calcareous, phosphatic and siliceous material, both fossil and Recent, during mechanical and chemical processing in the laboratory, and includes the unpublished results of my own work. It stresses the importance of keeping records of procedures but does not attempt to explain the chemical reactions that must occur. Subject matter is arranged alphabetically under the headings "Mechanical and Chemical Methods and Miscellaneous Items".
10.2307/1485711|Ichthyoliths are applied for stratigraphic interpretation of unfossiliferous and unreliably dated parts of sediment sequences obtained from Deep Sea Drilling Project Sites 250, 256, 257, 259, 287, 290, 367, 382 and 385. Preliminary to these interpretations, a firmer basis is established for correlation of ichthyolith ranges with Tertiary calcareous nannofossil zones. Based on new evidence, ichthyolith assemblages change significantly at or near the Maestrichtian/Paleocene boundary, not within the Paleocene as previously interpreted. This permits the placement of this boundary in the SE Indian Ocean DSDP Site 256 and North Atlantic Site 367. At SW Indian Ocean Site 250, Eocene/Oligocene sediments are estimated to have accumulated at 2-3 m/Ma, whereas the overlying Miocene and Pliocene sediments accumulated at 25 m/Ma. At western North Pacific Site 290, the rate of accumulation of post-Oligocene sediments is approximately 1.5 m/Ma rather than the 2.2 m/Ma estimated by the original investigators. Ichthyoliths indicate that Early and Middle Miocene strata at SW Pacific Site 287 are missing or greatly compressed. A pronounced disconformity, representing the Late Paleocene and the entire Eocene, is recognized at Site 382 in the New England Seamount Chain.
10.2307/1485682|This report deals with the Parvivaccidae, n. fam. and a revision of the Xiphostylidae Haeckel. Both of these spumellarian families are unique in that they possess cortical shells consisting of two distinct fused layers of latticed meshwork. Three new genera and twenty-nine new species are described from the Xiphostylidae Haeckel. Emended definitions are presented for Triactoma Ruest, Tripocyclia Haeckel, and Xiphostylus Haeckel. Two new genera and two new species are described under the Parvivaccidae. Only Jurassic xiphostylid and parvivaccid taxa are figured herein. Range, occurrence, and relative abundance of the more important taxa are shown in the text-figures.
10.2307/1485030|A new picking tray for micropaleontology has been designed which facilitates preparation of a wide range of micropaleontology slides as well as specimen stubs for the scanning electron microscope. The design and method of use of the new tray are discussed.
3648477|We describe the upper Paleocene-lower Eocene planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy at Qreiya (southeastern exposure of Gebel Abu Had), about 50km ENE of Qena, Egypt. The ~54m thick section spans the Tarawan Chalk (~8.6m thick; Zone P4a+b) and the Esna Shale (~45m thick; Zones P4c-P7, partim). The Tarawan/Esna contact is paraconformable, and coincident with the NP8/NP9 and P4a+b/P4c zonal boundaries. The Esna Shale is subdivided into units, and the Dababiya Quarry Beds (=CIE-interval) lie at the base of Unit Esna 2, whereas Unit Esna 3 is much reduced in thickness owing to an unconformity that separates Zones P6/P7 cutting out ~40+m of the upper Esna Shale. The Esna Shale/Thebes Limestone contact is probably also unconformable inasmuch as it lies within Zone P7, whereas at Dababiya it lies within Zone P8. The ~2.4m thick CIE-interval is located in the lower part of the Esna Shale, 7.2m above the top of the Tarawan Chalk and is divided into three distinct lithic components as at Dababiya. Quantitative analysis of the planktonic foraminifera spanning the interval from 2.6m below, through, and to 1m above the CIE, has revealed significant assemblage change patterns and enabled precise inter-locality correlation with the Dababiya Quarry and Owaina sections.
10.2307/1485651|A known mixture of three sizes of polystyrene microspheres was used to examine the random settling method and the traditional pipetting method of strewn slide preparation. Conventions for counting fragments of microfossils were evaluated also. Results indicate that slides prepared by the pipetting technique yield erroneous data, whereas the random settling technique produces an accurate sample of the original material. Furthermore, counting fragments of particles can bias results toward the larger particles.
10.2307/1485832|A rapid and easy settling technique designed to estimate quantitative abundances of calcareous nannofossils is described. Compared with other methods, the time spent in weighing and other time-consuming steps are compensated by the possibility of standardizing and producing large series of samples at the same time. Formulas for the calculation of absolute abundances and accumulation rates are presented. A test in which the examination of several samples where the amount of sediment as well as other parameters have been changed demonstrates a random distribution of nannoliths across the slide. Variations in the calculated accumulation rates were minimal, suggesting high reliability.
10.2307/1485401| Fifteen species, one of which is new, of the genera Hedbergella Brnnimann and Brown, 1958, Loeblichella Pessagno, 1967, Abathomphalus Bolli, Loeblich, and Tappan, 1957, Globotruncanella Reiss, 1957, emend. Pessagno, 1967, and Rugoglobigerina Brnnimann, 1952, are discussed. The definition of the genus Loeblichella Pessagno is emended to include the meridionally arranged rugosity character which was observed on L. hessi (Pessagno) and L. carteri, n. sp. Based on apertural and umbilical characters the validity of the general Hedbergella, Globotruncanella, and Rugoglobigerina is questioned. The planktonic foraminiferal species concerned are discussed in detail and their evolutionary relationships, morphology, and geographic and stratigraphic distribution are investigated. The genera concerned are reported from the upper Campanian-Maastrichtian Shiranish and Tanjero Formations of northern Iraq. The genera Abathomphalus, Globotruncanella, Hedbergella, and Loeblichella were found to be rare in the sections studied; however, some of the species were found to be relatively abundant and confined to certain stratigraphic horizons. The genus Rugoglobigerina is abundant, and some species were observed in short stratigraphic intervals throughout the successions concerned. 
10.2307/1485758|Sea squirts, or Ascidians, are common Urochordates in many marine environments. They are solitary or form small colonies attached to the sea floor and frequently contain small aragonitic spicules (normally less than 0.1 mm in size), embedded in their tests. These spicules should be common as fossils; yet there are very few fossil records of ascidians or their spicules. These spicules are distinctive and should only rarely be confused with those of sponges or other organisms. Recognizing fossil ascidian spicules is the only way in which their evolution can be objectively worked out, and is the only way their place in Chordate evolution can be evaluated.
10.2307/1485275|Pseudomphalocyclus blumenthali, a new orbitoid taxon, is described from the upper Maastrichtian of Bolkar Mountain in the Taurus range of southern Turkey.
10.2307/1484865|In the Upper Cretaceous foraminifer Racemiguembelina fructicosa (Egger), a microreticulation extending into the pores and continuous with sieve plates was discovered with the scanning electron microscope.
10.2307/1485617|A Permo-Triassic succession about 1400 m thick was palynologically studied from the Makhtesh Qatan 2 well, northern Negev, southern Israel. Nine palynozones (all assemblage zones) were defined in an interval that begins in the Lower Permian and terminates in the Upper Triassic (Carnian). The uppermost Triassic section is truncated and the Liassic Mishhor Formation unconformably overlies the Mohilla Formation of Carnian age. Ninety-two species of sixty-two genera were defined. The Permian and Lower Triassic assemblages are similar to those reported from equivalent sections in Gondwanian localities while the Upper Triassic assemblages show greater similarity to those reported from Laurasia. Results of this study serve to extend the informal palynozonation proposed by Cousminer for the Triassic subsurface rocks of central and northern Israel to the section sampled in the Makhtesh Qatan 2 well, southern Israel.
10.2307/1484622|The Mississippian Northview Formation of southwestern Missouri contains abundant arenaceous foraminifera, consisting of fifteen identifiable species (six new) and three unidentifiable species, belonging to ten genera. The contained foraminifera and the absence of the definitive Osagian species Hyperammina kentuckyensis (present in the overlying Pierson Formation) indicate a late Kinderhookian age for the Northview Formation. It is suggested that the Northview and Hannibal are largely contemporaneous shale-siltstone facies of the Compton-Sedalia-Chouteau limestones.
10.2307/1485601|A collection of 485 radiolarian Stylodictya-type shells from 17 surface sediment samples from the equatorial to Antarctic western Pacific Ocean was studied. Comparison of conventional taxonomic criteria used for the identification of the closely related taxa Stylodictya multispina (= S. validispina), S. aculeata, Porodiscus spp. and Stylochlamydium asteriscus with the results of an objective numerical analysis of 11 two-state and quantitative characters suggest that S. multispina and Porodiscus spp. are members of the same taxonomic unit which decreases in abundance from the equator to the Antarctic. S. asteriscus (predominantly warm-water) and S. aculeata (predominantly cold-water) are the other two members of this species group. Morphologic differences between these morphotypes are investigated and defined.
10.2307/1484737|The organic test of the foraminifer Allogromia laticollare Arnold is thought to consist mainly of acid mucopolysaccharides, lipids, and low levels of proteins. The structure of the test differs from that reported in previously published studies of the organic portions of calcareous and arenaceous tests. The absence of high levels of iron and the presence of nucleic acids within the test are noted. A region of mitochondrial concentration is found in the cytoplasm directly beneath the test.
10.2307/1485419|Calcareous nannofossils have been established as a fundamental means by which biostratigraphic correlation of Cenozoic marine sediment can be made. They are commonly present in cool-water areas and are especially diverse and consistently present in warm-water areas. The characteristic rapid evolution, abundance, and solution resistance of certain distinctive genera such as Discoaster and Sphenolithus permit the recognition of up to 56 Cenozoic zonal units in tropical areas. Diminishing diversity and generally shallower calcite-compensation depths reduce the resolution of the zonation in nontropical areas, most notably during the Neogene. Ocean-circulation patterns and plate-tectonic motions affect the geographic limits of nannofossil zonation.
10.2307/1485812|The Hull University Collection of Ostracoda is now in The Natural History Museum, London and a type and figured computerized catalog has been prepared. The sources of this type and figured material are listed in a Bibliography.
10.2307/1485844| Planktonic foraminifers from Coastal Plain deposits in southeastern Virginia provide biochronologic control and paleoceanographic information for the lectostratotype of the Yorktown Formation and type localities of its four members. Faunas recovered from six localities are consistent with faunas reported from the Yorktown in North Carolina and Yorktown correlatives (Duplin and Raysor Formations) from Georgia to North Carolina and support an age assignment between 3.0 and 4.0 Ma. Quantitative estimates of surface temperature based upon the planktonic foraminifer assemblages indicate winter conditions 3 to 5C warmer than today and summer conditions essentially equivalent to today during Yorktown deposition. 
10.2307/1486138|From the shallow region off the central west coast of India, 21 samples of surface sediments (ranging in depth from 22 to 52m) along with two sediment cores of 4.80m and 4.00m (surface/subsurface) have been analyzed for foraminiferal composition and diversity. A total of 177 species have been identified and illustrated by scanning electron photo micrographs. Seventy-two genera, 47 families, 26 super families and 5 sub orders are represented. In order to have insight into paleoclimatic changes in this region, quantitative spatial distribution data was generated for morpho-groups (angular-asymmetrical and rounded-symmetrical). The distribution revealed less abundance of angular-asymmetrical forms at the river mouth thus indicating an inverse relationship of angular-asymmetrical morpho-groups with river discharge (low salinity water). The reverse is true for rounded-symmetrical forms. The down core profiles of these parameters revealed major wet periods at around 3200 years BP and 1000 AD separated by a dry spell at around 2000 years BP. Our inference is in agreement with the climatic conditions reported elsewhere in the world.
10.2307/1485294|Six morphological characters are recorded for each of 180 specimens of the species Florilus boueanus (d'Orbigny, 1846) from five different stratigraphic units of the "Neogene" of northern Belgium. The results of a principal component analysis, as well as those of a Rubin cluster analysis, point to the existence of two divergent main trends manifesting themselves more and more clearly as the tests increase in size with time. The authors propose the distinction of three varieties expressing three relevant groups of specimens within one highly variable species. The "dingdeni" and the "janiformis" varieties can be related to the first, the "houthaleni" variety to the second main trend of the multivariate analysis.
10.2307/1484170|Wide distribution of Globotruncanas in the Upper Cretaceous of Tunisia shows that most of the previously described species are present and often directly linked by intermediate specimens. They have been used extensively for biostratigraphic purposes. Three new subspecies are described and synonymies are presented.
10.2307/1485875|Analysis of upper Miocene open bay fine sandy marls from the Windmill Point beds in Maryland yielded moderately diverse dinocyst assemblages dominated by a single quinqueform species. The new species, Geonettia clineae gen. et sp. nov., is characterized by a resting cyst having fields that all routinely dissociate, revealing a tabulation most similar to fossil Eocladopyxis peniculata Morgenroth 1966 and living Pyrodinium bahamense Plate 1906. Sufficient differences exist in the ventral epitabulation, style of excystment and the wall structure, to warrant separation at the generic level. Geonettia clineae has a known stratigraphic range from upper middle Miocene through upper upper Miocene in the western north Atlantic. Facies analysis and abundance patterns indicate that Geonettia clineae thrived in mesotrophic open embayments having low sediment influx. Species of Eocladopyxis Morgenroth 1966, Geonettia gen. nov., Homotryblium Davey and Williams 1966 and Pyrodinium Plate 1906, often occur as dominants in moderate to low diversity dinocyst assemblages, typically in unstable coastal environments. This trend suggests an opportunistic, bloom-forming, r-selected ecology for these pyrodinioid genera.
10.2307/1484848|Eighteen species and subspecies of the genus Costa are recorded from the Upper Cenozoic (Oligocene-Recent) of the Caribbean region. Five of them are described for the first time. Five morphological groups within the genus are recognized, each group occupying its own faunal subprovince and only rarely occurring outside of it. Group 1 is the Costa variabilocostata group of northern South America; group 2 the Costa? santacrucensis group occurring in northern South America until the Pliocene, then shifting to the Antilles; group 3 the Costa barrocoloradensis group of Central America; group 4 the Costa maquayensis group of the Antilles; group 5 the Costa? kugleri group of northern South America and Central America. No species of Costa are known at present from the Neogene of the Gulf Coast, while in Cuba no species have been found in deposits younger than Middle Miocene.
4097092|Four new species of Ostracoda belonging to the tribe Thalassocypridini are described from anchialine cave pools of the Loyalty Islands of New Caledonia: Dolerocypria iliffei n. sp., Paracypria uberis n. sp., Mungava woutersi n. sp., and Mungava xariessa n. sp. Detailed anatomical comparisons with 36 established species test the soundness of the emerging generic classification of thalassocypridines. Mangalocypria and Mungava are well-defined genera with exclusive, key diagnostic traits. Dolerocypria, Paracypria and Thalassocypria are somewhat less coherent. The essential qualities of Pontoparta and Parapontoparta remain elusive because of the heterogeneity of species referred to those nominal genera. Emended diagnoses are offered for the tribe Thalassocypridini and for the genera Dolerocypria, Paracypria, and Mungava.
10.2307/1484407|Taxonomy and ecology, biostratigraphy and ecology, and biostratigraphy and taxonomy of the foraminifera are closely related fields. It is shown, with reference to examples and to modern work on other groups of fossils, that an approach to any one of these fields which does not take into account their interrelations is not in agreement with modern standards.
1486214|A new species of Laffitteina (foraminifera) is described from the Maasrichtian of the Tecer (Central Anatolia-Sivas). It is named as Laffitteina turcica n.sp. It differs from the other Laffitteina species by its low lenticular test shape and overall dimensions.
10.2307/1484253|The holothurian genus Achistrum is subdivided, on the basis of the terminal loop, into the subgenus Achistrum sensu stricto and three new subgenera, Spinrum, Cancellrum, and Aduncrum. Their relationships are discussed.
10.2307/1484978|Hollow nodes on the valve surface of Cyprideis torosa (Jones) and many other ostracode species are usually referred to in the literature as a "phenotypic feature", which, in the case of C. torosa, is linked with low salinity. The study of large populations of this species from different fossil and Recent environments showed a surprisingly stable pattern in the position of these nodes, suggesting genetic control. The increasing proportion of noded forms in low-salinity environments is explained by natural selection favoring noded individuals, a process known as transient genetic polymorphism. In limnic milieus balanced polymorphism develops, i.e., both smooth and noded forms are present, although the balance is in favor of noded forms. No explanation can be offered at present as to the selective value of a noded valve surface in lowered salinity, but it is likely that some linked physiological factor exists. The same type of selection and polymorphism may exist in many other brackish-limnic ostracode species which show variable noding.
24413317|We present a biostratigraphic and biochronologic study of calcareous nannofossils of middle Eocene - early Oligocene age recovered during IODP Expedition 320, at Hole U1333C in the equatorial Pacific Ocean. The study succession encompasses nannofossil Zones NP16NP21 (equivalent to CP13CP16) and Chrons C20rC12r (middle Eocene-early Oligocene). The distribution patterns of calcareous nannofossil taxa are studied by means of relative abundance and semiquantitative counts with the final aim to test the reliability of biohorizons used in the Paleogene standard biozonations (Martini 1971; Okada and Bukry 1980) and check alternative bioevents included in a more recent mid-latitudes biostratigraphic scheme (Fornaciari et al. 2010). Calibration ages are estimated based on the ranges of the biozones relative to a detailed magnetostratigraphy constructed for the site. Of particular biostratigraphic significance, our study shows that the Top of Sphenolithus furcatolithoides, the Base of common and continuous occurrence (Bc) of Dictyococcites bisectus and the total range of Sphenolithus obtusus can be used to better constrain the middle Eocene interval. The studied sediments cover the crucial time period that followed maximum Cenozoic warmth and led up to the initial major glaciation on Antarctica, including two important climatic events, the Middle Eocene Climatic Optimum (MECO), a transient episode of global warming during a long-term cooling trend, and the Oi-1 event. The peculiar regime in sedimentation observed in the equatorial Pacific, which roughly consists of alternating phases of Carbonate Accumulation Events (CAE) and crashes in carbonate content, are correlated with increases and decreases in calcareous nannofossil abundances. A more detailed comparison indicates that the MECO corresponds to an interval with very low carbonate in between CAE3 and CAE4. This event is correlative with the Top of S. furcatolithoides, the Bc of D. bisectus and a prominent increase in the relative abundance of heavy calcified nannofossils (e.g., discoasters).
10.2307/1485105|Notorotalia powelli Finlay, a foraminifer from New Zealand Middle Miocene sediments, is redescribed and compared with other members of the Notorotalia spinosa group of species.
10.2307/1484726|Sujkowskiella enigmatica Hay, Mohler and Wade, like Rhabdosphaera? semiformis Bramlette and Sullivan, appears to be a longitudinally split half of the coccolithophore Zygrhablithus bijugatus (Deflandre).
10.2307/1484764|Electron microscope, phase contrast, and dark-field illumination analyses of various Globigerinacea indicate that septal walls of specimens in both axial and horizontal sections are microgranular hyaline in character. The primary outer wall of Cretaceous Globigerinacea is microgranular hyaline, whereas Cenozoic Globigerinacea may have outer walls which are entirely microgranular hyaline, both radial hyaline and microgranular hyaline, or, rarely, entirely radial hyaline. Mesopelagic forms of Globorotalia truncatulinoides (d'Orbigny), for example, possess an outer wall divided into 1) a radial hyaline "calcite crust" composed of euhedral calcite prisms oriented with their C-axes normal to the surface of the test and 2) an inner laminated layer composed of heterogeneous microgranules of hyaline calcite.
1486016|Lower Carboniferous radiolarian fauna is described from a sandstone-chert sequence exposed at Saba Yoi-Kabang (Kabang), southernmost part of peninsular Thailand. This fauna was recovered from a thinly-bedded black chert intercalated in thickly bedded sandstone. The fauna is composed of Albaillella deflandrei, Archocyrtium tinnulum, Pylentonema antiqua, Stigmosphaerostylus variospina, Triaenosphaera sicarius, Astroentactinia biaciculata, Astroentactinia mirousi and other taxa. These radiolarians represent the upper Tournaisian (Lower Carboniferous) Albaillella indensis Assemblage reported from central Pyrenees, France, southwestern China, peninsular Malaysia, and eastern Australia. The radiolarian-bearing sequence was probably deposited in a pelagic or hemipelagic environment within the Paleotethys Ocean in Early Carboniferous time. Twenty-three radiolarian species belonging to 13 genera including four unidentified genera are investigated.
10.2307/1484695|Three new species of Cytherelloidea from Tanzania are described. The various ribbing patterns in many species of the genus are shown to be based on one simple spiral pattern. Variations in this pattern allow differentiation between species but also show the affinities of different species. The use of species of Cytherelloidea as index fossils can be refined on the basis of the recognition of the underlying simple pattern, together with the direction and degree of departure from it.
10.2307/1484717|The scanning electron microscope reveals with a clarity heretofore unattainable details of surficial microtexture and structure in planktonic foraminifera. Due to the greater depth of focus resolution, surfaces of complex topography (e. g., inflated chambers, protruding spines) remain in focus.
10.2307/1485965|A technique for preparing quantitative slides from soft marine sediments is described. This technique can be applied to radiolarians and other coarse sediment particles. The preparation procedure comprises four steps: freeze drying, chemical treatment, wet sieving of the bulk sediment, and sedimentation of the dry coarse fraction. Formulas which refer to three general cases of calculating radiolarian or other particle frequencies are included.
10.2307/1486072|This is the first study of internal ocular shell structures of Cretaceous ostracodes. Internal molds from eight species of four genera from Santonian, Campanian, and Maastrichtian strata revealed a stalked ocular sinus constricted along its length and distally inflated. The latter part has anterior and posterior lobes and a subcentral concavity. These Cretaceous trachyleberids have ocular shell structures similar to Cenozoic taxa and it is presumed they functioned similarly. However, each taxon has a diagnostic ocular sinus and an inner surface of the eye tubercle that distinguishes each from all other forms examined.
10.2307/1485865|This paper focuses on the taxonomic study of a Jurassic radiolarian assemblage from Busuanga Island, North Palawan Block, Philippines. Fifty-six species and twenty-five genera are discussed herein. Nine new species are described. The assemblage contains many diagnostic multicyrtid nassellarians including the genera Praeparvicingula, Hsuum and Elodium. Assemblages containing similar taxa are also known from central and southwest Japan. Comparisons between Busuanga assemblage and Japanese assemblages are discussed herein. The age of the studied assemblage is interpreted to be early Middle Jurassic (early Aalenian). The presence of common Praeparvicingula and abundant pantanellids in red ribbon cherts indicates that this fauna is a Northern Tethyan or Southern Tethyan assemblage.
10.2307/1484365| A reinterpretation of the morphology of Nannoceratopsis Deflandre 1938 is based on a study of many specimens of N. deflandrei Evitt n. sp. from the Lower Jurassic (Lias ) of Denmark -- the first dinoflagellate to be described from the Lower Jurassic. Nannoceratopsis is morphologically similar to Recent Dinophysiales, a group of dinoflagellates without a previously reported fossil record. The extreme infraspecific variability of the new species is analysed. Discovery of N. pellucida Deflandre, the type species, in the Upper Jurassic of Utah provides the first record of the genus in North America. 
10.2307/1485726|A quantitative analysis is presented of benthic foraminifera from 25 samples of the Miocene and Pliocene section of DSDP Site 116 (eastern margin of the Hatton-Rockall Basin in the northeast Atlantic). Taxonomic turnover was gradual; however, abundance changes (dominance) were dramatic. During the early Middle Miocene, a major abundance change occurred to an assemblage dominated by modern taxa. This change can be associated with major stable isotopic changes documented at this time, and suggests a benthic foraminiferal response to a major reorganization of oceanic circulation. The causes of subsequent assemblage dominance fluctuations are more ambiguous; an increase in the Uvigerina fauna in the Early Pliocene may be associated with more negative  <sup>13</sup>C values and a decreased contrast in  <sup>13</sup>C between the Atlantic and Pacific, the latter possibly indicative of reduced circulation in this part of the Atlantic.
40959485|We studied living (Rose Bengal stained) benthic foraminiferal faunas of four replicate cores sampled at a 550m deep station in the Bay of Biscay in May 2004. After combining our new data with those collected by Fontanier et al. (2003) at the same station between October 1997 and April 2000, we performed statistical analyses (Detrended Correspondence Analysis) to assess the extent of spatial variability in comparison to temporal variability in our dataset. Replicate cores taken from a single multi-corer deployment and from two deployments were compared so that we could gain insight into spatial variability both at a micro-(less than lm apart) and meso-scale (around 100m apart). The statistical analyses suggest that the scale of spatial variability is similar to that of temporal variability. Only the most prominent features of temporal variability (i.e. responses to major bloom events) can be recognised. Especially the species Uvigerina peregrina, and to a smaller extent Cibicidoides pachydermus and Siphogenerina columellaris, appear to respond to bulk phytodetritus deposits following surface water primary production maxima. Uvigerina peregrina showed only elevated densities in autumn 1997 and spring 2004, but not in the samples from spring 1999 and 2000. We suggest that these differences could be explained by a difference in the composition of the phytoplankton exported to the seafloor.
10.2307/1484257|The design, construction and use of a precision grinder for foraminifera and other small fossils are described. The electric micro-grinder, with its mechanical specimen feed and automatic cooling system, rests on the microscope stage, permitting one to watch the progress of the operation continually and to control it with great accuracy.
3648451|Stratigraphic ranges of foraminiferal assemblages of the Miocene-Pliocene boundary sections in the Niigata oil-fields region of northeastern Japan are described, and their paleoceanographic implications are discussed on the basis of modern foraminiferal ecology and additional geochemical data from the Rock-Eval analysis. Q-mode cluster analysis grouped five benthic foraminiferal associations named by their dominant taxa: the Guppyella miocenica-Cribrostomoides subglobosus, Karrerulina coniformis-C. subglobosus, Recurvoidella spadix-Cyclammina pseudopusilla, C. pseudopusilla-Uvigerina yabei, and Martinottiella communis associations. Paleoenvironmental implications of each association and their Stratigraphic distributions show that the bottom water in the Japan Sea generally changed as follows. 1) In the Late Miocene, bottom waters were depleted in oxygen, cold, and nearly undersaturated with calcium carbonate, conditions consistent with weak communication of seawater between the Japan Sea and the Pacific Ocean. 2) In contrast, Pliocene bottom waters were oxic, occasionally warm and saturated with CaCO
10.2307/1484808|Three major faunal provinces of planktonic foraminifera were recognized along two North Atlantic crossings during the summer of 1962. The subarctic assemblage consisted of Globigerina pachyderma, G. bulloides, and G. quinqueloba; the transitional (temperate) fauna was characterized by Globorotalia inflata and mixtures of subarctic and subtropical species; and the subtropical fauna was composed of 16 species, typified by Globigerinoides ruber, G. sacculifer, and Globigerinella aequilateralis. Relative and absolute abundances for each species are mapped and some ecologic relationships are described.
10.2307/1485429|Middle and Late Eocene deposits assigned to the El Mereir, El Fashn and Qarara Formations, middle Egypt, yielded 26 species of marine Ostracoda of which the following are new: Loxoconcha pseudopunctatella, Schizocythere fadlensis, Digmocythere omarai, Bythocypris? mereirensis, Anticythereis saidi, A. seylingi, Costa bassiounii and C. nilensis. Smaller and larger foraminifera indicate a late Lutetian age for the El Fashn and Qarara rock-units, whereas the El Mereir Formation appears to be Late Eocene in age.
10.2307/1485690|In southwestern Alabama, the Paleocene consists of over 1400 ft of marginal marine and marine terrigenous sediments. The vertical change in planktic foraminiferal distribution in the Paleocene strata permits their assignment to an established world-wide zonation. Paleocene biostratigraphic Subbotina pseudobulloides and S. trinidadensis Interval Zones are represented in the Clayton Formation. Most of the Porters Creek clay is contained in the Paleocene Morozovella uncinata Interval Zone. Matthews Landing Marl Member of the Porters Creek Formation rests within the Paleocene M. angulata Interval Zone. Paleocene M. pusilla pusilla Interval Zone is most likely present in the Coal Bluff Marl Member of the Naheola Formation. "Ostrea thirsae beds" and Grampian Hills Member of the Nanafalia Formation, as well as the lower Tuscahoma Sand, are contained within the Paleocene Planorotalites pseudomenardii Range Zone. Middle and upper parts of the Tuscahoma Sand are assigned to the Paleocene M. velascoensis Interval Zone. The Bashi Marl Member of the Hatchetigbee Formation is retained in the Eocene M. subbotinae Interval Zone. The Paleocene-Eocene boundary is near the base of the Bashi Marl Member of the Hatchetigbee Formation.
10.2307/1485009|The amino acid composition of the tests of 16 species of planktonic foraminifera, isolated from deep-sea sediment core tops, varies in a systematic manner which parallels morphology. Seventeen amino acids were quantified with the total amino acid content in the calcified tissue ranging from 0.02 to 0.04% by weight. Analyses of two extinct Early Miocene species indicate that this taxonomic character can be used to establish phylogenetic affinities among species living at least 18 m.y. B.P. The amino acid patterns also suggest that protozoans and metazoan invertebrates have a common calcification mechanism.
10.2307/1485198|Eighty-nine species and varieties of diatoms ranging in age from Early Miocene through Pleistocene are identified from DSDP Site 66 in the central equatorial Pacific. The stratigraphic ranges of the various species at Site 66 compare favorably with ranges of the same species in the eastern equatorial Pacific. Equatorial and tropical-subtropical diatom complexes are established which indicate that water temperatures during the Miocene at Site 66 were slightly cooler than at present. During Pliocene and Pleistocene time, water temperatures were similar to those at present in the central equatorial Pacific.
10.2307/1485982|The distribution patterns of selected calcareous nannofossils were investigated by means of quantitative methods in the middle Miocene stratigraphic record of the Mediterranean region. Our goal was to test the reliability of the biohorizons used in various zonations. The biostratigraphic reliability has been evaluated by considering the mode of occurrence of the biohorizons and by their potential of correlation among distant and various facies sections. Most biohorizons used in the standard zonations are of limited utility in the region, because some marker species are missing (Catinaster coalitus, Catinaster calyculus) or poorly represented (Discoaster kugleri). By utilizing distinct changes in the distribution pattern of forms common in the region, like first common and continuous occurrence (FCO), last common and continuous occurrence (LCO), absence (paracme) intervals, besides classical first occurrence (FO) and last occurrence (LO) datums, at least 12-13 biohorizons can be consistently correlated among the considered sections. On the basis of these, we established a set of ten regional biostratigraphic zones and subzones, which can be recognized in various facies sediments. The average time resolution of the proposed zonal system is about 1 m.y., which can be substantially improved by integrating calcareous nannofossil and planktonic foraminifer biostratigraphies. The study of the stratotype sections of the Langhian and Serravallian stages, indicates that the boundary between the two units is approximated by the LO of Sphenolithus heteromorphus, and is not associated with the FO of Discoaster kugleri as assumed previously. The base of the Langhian (lower Miocene/middle Miocene boundary) does not correspond to a calcareous nannofossil zonal boundary; it occurs in the upper part of Zone NN4 (CN3). The state of the Serravallian-Tortonian boundary (middle Miocene/upper Miocene boundary) is discussed. The proposal of defining the boundary by the FO of Neogloboquadrina acostaensis is supported. This biohorizon occurs close to the LO of Helicosphaera walbersdorfensis in the Mediterranean region and close to the FO of Catinaster coalitus in many oceanic areas.
10.2307/1486066|Six assemblages resulting from Q-mode cluster analysis of 27 arcellacean taxa in thirty-nine sediment-water interface samples collected from two small lakes heavily polluted by mine tailings near the town of Cobalt, northeastern Ontario, Canada, correlated well with various distinct polluted and remediated environments. Results of R-mode cluster analysis indicated that arcellacean strains within the same species often discriminate between environments, thus utilization of infraspecific categories increases resolution when studying lake microenvironments, pollutants, and rates of lake remediation. Results of this study suggest that successful lake remediation in these and similarly polluted lakes is best achieved by leaving the tailings undisturbed to be buried naturally, or to speed the process by addition of an allochthonous sediment cap.
10.2307/1484720|A foraminiferal fauna of fifty species was extracted from the Brora Argillaceous and Brora Arenaceous Series of northern Scotland. Nodosariids, especially Lenticulina muensteri (Roemer), strongly predominate at most horizons, but three samples yielded faunas in which little but arenaceous foraminifera occur. The Brora assemblage is similar to faunas known from the English Oxford Clay and Corallian Beds, and in North America it is most closely comparable to the fauna of the Lower Vanguard Formation of the western interior region.
10.2307/1484658|Selection and proper execution of the best-suited maceration method are key factors in palynological studies. Household bleach, HNO<sub>3</sub>, and KOH used in successive steps, with application of moderate heat and vigorous agitation during each step, successfully macerate some bituminous coals in less than an hour. Permanent slides can be made quickly and easily by adding a drop of prepared mounting medium to a smear of dried residue.
10.2307/1485232|A new isolation and extracting method results in cleaner pollen specimens for the SEM. Pollen residues in an ethanol and glycerine mixture are initially spread on a glass slide. Desired pollen are removed from the residue by capillarity and aspirated on another glass slide. Grains are transferred to small filter membrane-squares on the SEM stub with a microdissection probe. Pollen grains are placed near the edges of the filter membrane, which reduces search time in the SEM. Three or four filter membrane squares on one stub will hold up to fifty specimens.
10.2307/1485938|The Pliocene-Pleistocene boundary of the Androussa section is indicated by the last occurrence of Discoaster brouweri and D. triradiatus, the presence of Calcidiscus macintyrei, and the first appearance of Gephyrocapsa caribbeanica (NN19a). Hyalinea balthica is an important index fossil in the lower Pleistocene deposits of the Elea section where it appears together with Gephyrocapsa oceanica and other small Gephyrocapsa spp. (NN19b). A transitional form between the upper Pliocene foraminifera species Globorotalia bononiensis and G. inflata is recognized based on statistical analysis of apertural development. In this transitional form, apertural length is a reliable indicator of evolutionary closeness to G. inflata rather than G. bononiensis.
1486057|A previous study on calcareous nannofossils of the K/T boundary section exposed in the Geulhemmerberg cave, The Netherlands, revealed two coccosphere-rich horizons with about 35 different coccolithophorid species. In the subsequent investigation of an airshaft section above this interval, an additional horizon with numerous intact coccospheres was discovered. Among the 32 coccolithophorid species from this upper horizon, three are new: Cruciplacolithus filigranus n. sp., Prinsius scissuratus n. sp. and Prinsius simplex n. sp. The airshaft horizon is furthermore marked by a bloom of Braarudosphaera bigelowii (Gran and Braarud) Deflandre 1947, and Cyclagelosphaera rotaclypeata Bukry 1969. Due to the presence of Futyania petalosa (Ellis and Lohmann) Varol 1989 and Prinsius dimorphosus (Perch-Nielsen) Perch-Nielsen 1971 as the youngest biostratigraphical markers, this horizon can be assigned to the lower Paleocene upper Zone NP1, Biantholithus sparsus Zone. The simultaneous occurrence of several Cretaceous and Paleocene taxa can be explained either by reworking of Cretaceous material or by survivorship of Cretaceous coccolithophorid species.
30130907|The Jebilet Massif, located in the southern part of the Moroccan Western Meseta, includes a sequence known as the Sarhlef Series, which comprises mostly black shales with subordinate volcanic rocks and hosts several massive sulfide deposits. Hitherto, the Sarhlef Series has received only scant biostratigraphic attention. Accordingly, a detailed palynological analysis of the shaly Sarhlef strata that embrace the massive sulfide deposit of Draa Sfar, ca. 20km north of Marrakech, is presented herein. The palynoflora consists predominantly of moderately well preserved miospores, together with quantitatively subordinate marine palynomorphs (acritarchs, prasinophyte phycomata) and scolecodonts. The miospore content, documented systematically herein, comprises 19 genera including 29 species, five of which (Cristatisporites mixtus, Densosporites dissonus, Indotriradites immutabilis, Vallatisporites extensivus and Endoculeospora marrakechensis) are newly established. The Sarhlef miospore assemblage closely resembles those reported from late Visan-early Serpukhovian strata elsewhere in North Africa and adjacent regions. Some similarities are also evident with Western Gondwanan assemblages (viz., from the Parnaba, Solimes and Amazonas basins of northern Brazil). The palynological data, in conjunction with published faunal evidence accrued from the overlying lithostratigraphic unit, demonstrate that the age of the black shales of the Sarhlef Series hosting the Draa Sfar sulfide deposit can be constrained to the late Visan (Asbian); this, moreover, is corroborated by radiometric determinations from associated volcanic rocks.
10.2307/1485303|Sixteen diatom datum levels from the Middle and Late Pliocene of the central Pacific are ranked and related to the paleomagnetic reversal record and the oxygen isotope record. The datum levels and their positions relative to the paleomagnetic record are as follows: (1) first appearance of Thalassiosira convexa in the upper part of the Gilbert; (2) disappearance of T. convexa in the lower part of the Gauss; (3) recurrence of T. convexa in the Mammoth Event of the Gauss; (4) first appearance of Rhizosolenia praebergonii in the normal event between the Mammoth and Kaena Events; (5) last appearance of Nitzschia jouseae in the upper part of the Gauss; (6) first appearance of R. praebergonii var. robusta in the lower part of the Matuyama; (7) recurrence of Coscinodiscus nodulifer var. cyclopus in the lower part of the Matuyama; (8 and 9) last appearance of T. convexa and T. convexa var. aspinosa in the lower part of the Matuyama; (10) last appearance of C. nodulifer var. cyclopus; (11) change in dominance between R. praebergonii and R. praebergonii var. robusta below the Olduvai Event; (12) recurrence of C. nodulifer var. cyclopus just below the Olduvai Event; (13) final occurrence of C. nodulifer var. cyclopus just below the Olduvai Event; (14) final occurrence of R. praebergonii in the lower part of the Olduvai; (15) first occurrence of Pseudoeunotia doliolus in the mid-part of the Olduvai Event; (16) final occurrence of R. praebergonii var. robusta just above the Olduvai Event. When these data are related to the oxygen isotope record it becomes apparent that climatic fluctuations are an important arbiter of diatom first and last appearances. A new variety, Rhizosolenia praebergonii var. robusta, is named.
10.2307/1484371|A technique in the preparation of scolecodonts for study under the microscope is described. Possible application of this technique in the study of other microfossils is indicated.
10.2307/1484292|Sporomorph assemblages found in the Keuper section of the borehole Swierczyna no. 1 were examined. Their stratigraphic positions and relationships to climatic conditions are discussed. Nine new forms are described.
1486055| The Miocene species diversity of deep-sea benthic foraminifera (expressed as  index, information function H[S], and Sanders' rarefaction values) at DSDP Sites 214 (1671 m) and 216 (2262 m), and ODP Site 758 (2923 m) in the northeastern Indian Ocean was overall higher than the modern diversity, but with major variations. The  and H(S) values were relatively low at the shallowest Site 214, medium at intermediate-depth Site 216, and highest at the deepest Site 758. Across the Oligocene/Miocene boundary, when the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC) might have originated, diversity dropped at Sites 214 and 758. All diversity parameters decreased for a short time at about 17 Ma at all sites (more prominent at Site 216), at which time production of Northern Component Water (NCW) may have peaked. At shallow Site 214 and deep Site 758, the  and Sanders' values show an abrupt decrease at about 12.5 Ma, a time of major expansion of the East Antarctic Ice Sheet (EAIS) and increased production of Antarctic Bottom Water (AABW), Northern Component Water (NCW) and Indonesian Intermediate Water (IIW). These decreases in diversity are not seen in the records of Site 216. In the latest Miocene (about 7.15 to 6.5 Ma) the  and Sanders' values at Sites 214 and 758 decreased further, during the Chron-6 global carbon shift and the Indo-Pacific biogenic bloom in productivity. The H(S) values also show a decrease in this interval at Sites 214 and 758. We suggest that deep-ocean circulation played a significant role in shaping the long-term diversity trends in the northeastern Indian Ocean. Productivity, which might in turn have been influenced by the circulation changes, dominantly affected the diversity in the latest Miocene. 
10.2307/1484910|Surface microstructure of the type species of three silicoflagellate genera has been examined with a scanning electron microscope. Corbisema geometrica has a convex apical plate with basal accessory spines on the lateral rods. The apical surface of Vallacerta hortoni possesses a scalelike reticulate pattern that is distinctly different from that of Vallacerta siderea, which shows a simple reticulate network. Rocella gemma has a characteristic pore or pores at its center and oval depressions on the margin of the abapical side.
41410987|An alternative bleaching method to process highly oxidized palynofacies, characterized by undeterminable dark-hued palynomorphs is described. This procedure has been found useful in obtaining palynomorphs sufficiently translucent for transmitted light microscopic examination. It is performed after the main standard stages of palynological processing procedures and is based on controlled lengthy bleaching by sodium hypochlorite (NaOC1, common household bleach). This method promotes the use of a mild medium which is less dangerous than the oxidants commonly used for bleaching. It is a safe method for both laboratory operators and the environment since it can be performed out of a fume cupboard using low concentrations of NaOC1 solution. Compared to other bleaching methods, it is inexpensive, simple, relatively quick and adaptable. The goal of this study is to improve the value of palynomorphs as relative age indices in continental-paralic successions, typically characterized by strongly oxidized palynofacies and frequently barren of other fossils.
23250517|The Chickahominy Formation is the initial postimpact deposit in the 85km-diameter Chesapeake Bay impact crater, which is centered under the town of Cape Charles, Virginia, USA. The formation comprises dominantly microfossil-rich, silty, marine clay, which accumulated during the final 1.6myr of late Eocene time. At cored sites, the Chickahominy Formation is 16.8-93.7m thick, and fills a series of small troughs and subbasins, which subdivide the larger Chickahominy basin. Nine coreholes drilled through the Chickahominy Formation (five inside the crater, two near the crater margin, and two 3km outside the crater) record the stratigraphic and paleoecologic succession of 301 indigenous species of benthic foraminifera, as well as associated planktonic foraminifera and bolboformids. Two hundred twenty of these benthic species are described herein, and illustrated with scanning electron photomicrographs. The Chickahominy Formation can be categorized as a single benthic foraminiferal biozone (Cibicidoides pippeni Biozone), subdivided into five subzones, in stratigraphic order from bottom to top: Bulimina jacksonensis Subzone; Lagenoglandulina virginiana Subzone; Uvigerina dumblei Subzone; Bolivina tectiformis Subzone, and; Siphonina jacksonensis Subzone. Two planktonic datums and four benthic datums provide a biochronostratigraphic framework in which to estimate the duration and temporal distribution patterns of discrete microfossil assemblages. A paleoseral succession from pioneer to equilibrium paleocommunities reflects the temporal and spatial evolution from early unstable benthic paleoenvironments to later stable benthic paleoenvironments. Initial reoccupation of the newly formed crater basin is marked by a dramatic immigration of 32 indigenous species, which replaced the sparse, entirely reworked (allochthonous) foraminiferal assemblages of a preceding inhospitable dead zone. At all nine core sites, attainment of benthic paleoenvironmental equilibrium (29-190kyr postimpact) is signaled by a notable reduction in the number of new immigrant species arriving in the Chickahominy basin. In addition, at five sites inside the crater, early unstable benthic paleoenvironments can be differentiated from later stable benthic paleoenvironments by the presence of an agglutinated Psammosiphonella biofacies in basal Chickahominy strata and a shift from short-term to long-term benthic foraminiferal generic dominance facies. Restriction of the dead zone and Psammosiphonella biofacies to intracrater sites indicates unusual benthic paleoenvironmental conditions (warm, saline bottomwater and porewater) derived from the impact, which lasted as long as 350kyr postimpact at one site. Absence of key planktonic foraminiferal and Bolboforma species in early Chickahominy sediments indicates that detrimental effects of the impact also disturbed the upper oceanic water column for at least 80-100kyr postimpact. Nine genera (Bolivina, Uvigerina, Gyroidinoides, Globocassidulina, Angulogerina, Nuttallides, Cibicidina, Caucasina, Epistominella) and two generic groups (buliminids, stilostomellids) are the most abundant taxa among 17 generic dominance facies that characterize Chickahominy core sites. Most dominant taxa were epifaunal or shallow infaunal opportunists, which thrived under conditions of oxygen depletion (dysoxia) and high organic flux rates. After an average of 73kyr of stressed, rapidly fluctuating paleoenvironments, which were destabilized by after-effects of the impact, most of the cored Chickahominy subbasins maintained stable, nutrient-rich, low-oxygen bottom waters and interstitial microhabitats for the remaining 1.3myr of late Eocene time.
24413478|Hanschaubiana new genus with the type species Assilina nili De La Harpe 1883 is described and photographed and its systematic position revised. The species was established by De La Harpe in 1883 and assigned to the genus Assilina from an outcrop of the Early Eocene Thebes Formation at Gebel Deir, near Esna in the Nile Valley. The form belongs to the family Nummulitidae, but it is neither an Assilina nor an Operculina, because it possesses transverse trabecules and does not have alar prolongations. The population consists of 3 morphic forms: agamonts (B Form) and gamonts (A Form), the A-form includes two subgroups: A1 generation, which represents small megalospheric tests, and A2 generation whose test sizes are comparable with the juvenile B-form but with large proloculus and they are also megalospheric tests. Such variation in the A-form is evidence for a three-phase life cycle (trimorphism) that includes: agamonts (B- trimorphic form), gamonts (A1 trimorphic Form), and gamonts (A2 trimorphic Form). A differential diagnosis between the new taxon and allied taxa is provided. The new taxon is found associated with Nummulites subramondi De La Harpe 1883, (also topotype) in its type locality.
10.2307/1485773|Thirty-five Trissocyclid species, two of them new, are recorded from six different land-based stratigraphic sections belonging to Stichocorys wolffii and Calocycletta costata Zones. Stratigraphic distribution of each species is given. Nine events (all first appearances) have been recognized. While seven events are in conformity, morphotypic bottom of Liriospyris elevata and Liriospyris ovalis are found earlier than those recorded so far.
10.2307/1484504|A standardized technique is described for the observation of the wall structure of whole specimens, crushed fragments and thin sections of foraminifera immersed in xylene under polarized light, and for the optical distinction of radial hyaline from granular calcareous test walls.
10.2307/1485963|Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM), a technique newly applied to the study of fossil Radiolaria, offers the radiolarist clear views of single optical planes of specimens, unhindered by many of the optical effects of conventional light microscopy, while obviating the need to section or break specimens. Resulting images are of a clarity unsurpassed by conventional light microscopy and, as they are saved on computer, are easily viewed, manipulated, enhanced, measured and converted to hard copy. Used in conjunction with common radiolarian study methods CLSM is a powerful tool for gaining additional information with relatively little extra effort.
10.2307/1484735| Orbitolinopsis cuvillieri Moullade and O. elongata Dieni, Massari and Moullade occur in the Barremian of the Villny Mountains of southern Hungary. These foraminifera were found at Mount Harsny and in Drill Hole No. 1 at Beremend. 
4097008|Specimens of a new soritid foraminifer were collected from Bird Island, of the Lizard Island Group, Great Barrier Reef, Australia. Differences in aperture arrangement, shape, and number, and in internal test morphology are reported which distinguish the Bird Island specimens from previously described soritines. The analysis supports the establishment of a new species that we name Amphisorus sauronesensis. Molecular systematic comparison suggests that the new species is closest to Amphisorus hemprichii (Ehrenberg 1839) and supports the placement of the new species in the genus Amphisorus (Quoy and Gaimard 1830). Cytological investigations indicate the presence of symbiotic dinoflagellates throughout A. sauronesensis sp. nov., with the highest concentration of symbionts located in the intermediate chambers.
10.2307/1484422|Plant microfossils from roof shale and shale-parting strata of the Kootenay coal-bearing formation of southeastern British Columbia are described and illustrated. The microfossils are affiliated as follows: Two fungi, one bryophyte, three lycopsids, twelve ferns, eleven gymnosperms, two angiosperms, and fourteen with uncertain botanical relationships. Techniques of maceration, mounting, and photomicrography are discussed. The microflora is related to the macroflora from the same formation, and compared briefly with similar microfloras from Europe and the U.S.S.R. The comparison suggests a closer age relationship to the Upper Jurassic than to the Lower Cretaceous.
10.2307/1484733|Globorotalia sensu lato embraces two allochronous radiations from the same generalized stock based on Subbotina pseudobulloides. Globorotalia is restricted herein to the second, mainly Neogene, radiation. Truncorotaloides, expanded, parallels Globorotalia in test form but Globigerina in wall structure. The subfamily Truncorotaloidinae accordingly is retained, and three subgenera are recognized. Planorotalites parallels Globorotalia in test form and wall structure, and therefore is retained in the Globorotaliinae. Transition and parallelism suggest reunion of all these taxa in the Globigerinidae.
10.2307/1484146|Globigerina cretacea d'Orbigny, described d'Orbigny in 1840 as the only trochoid Globigerina from the Craie blanche of the Paris Basin, began its development in the Aptian-Albian with the form Praeglobotruncana infracretacea (Glaessner); it gradually changed (by enlargement and by change in apertural conditions) into Praeglobotruncana sp. cf. P. gautierensis (Bronnimann) of Bolli, and occurs in the Cenomanian as P. crassa Bolli. Due to the enlargement of the later chambers, the apertural conditions changed gradually, and the developmental stage of typical Globigerina cretacea d'Orbigny was reached, beginning in the Turonian. At the end of the Maestrichtian, aberrant forms appeared, of which Rugoglobigerina rugosa (Plummer) is the most common. Since a single biological unit ("gens") passes through three different "genera," at least two of them (Praeglobotruncana and Rugoglobigerina) must be regarded as artificial. This can also be said of the different "species." The gradual change is illustrated by figures of the different stages, as well as by statistical diagrams.
10.2307/1484754| The Oligocene form of Cassigerinella chipolensis (Cushman and Ponton) does not differ from C. boudecensis Pokorn, and the Aquitanian form from the Cipero formation in Trinidad is only slightly different. The inner structure reveals a distinct well-developed toothplate in all chambers, resembling that found in Cassidulina. The type species of Cassigerinella belongs to the group of cassiduline species which Nrvang gathered into his genus Islandiella, a name that thus becomes a junior synonym of Cassigerinella Pokorn. Cassigerinella has to be removed from the Globigerinidae, which are deuteroforaminate in origin, and placed in the Cassidulinidae, Order Protoforaminata. 
10.2307/1485089|A mid-Cretaceous Minnesota lacustrine deposit, capped by a lignite and then channeled by a Cretaceous stream, has yielded a number of megaspores of both aquatic ferns and aquatic and terrestrial lycopods. Distribution of these megaspores shows differences in percentages in the several depositional environments. The lacustrine and fluvial deposits contain spores derived from the uplands, as well as those also occurring in the lignite. The lignite, representing deposition in a swamp, lacks Costatheca and Spermatites, and has a high incidence of Tenellisporites. Two new species are described: Tenellisporites spinatus Peake and Ariadnaesporites varius Hall and Peake.
10.2307/1484111|The genus Nezzazata Omara is recorded from strata of late Cenomanian to earliest Turonian(?) age in Israel. Begia Smout is regarded as a junior synonym of Nezzazata. The systematic position of this genus is briefly discussed.
10.2307/1484333|Study of planktonic foraminifera from an Equatorial Pacific core dated by Hough and Urry as Pleistocene reveals typical modern warm-water species from top to bottom. Certain species show unusual resistance to disintegration and dissolution. It is believed that tests on the bottom truly reflect surface-water temperatures. Modern planktonic foraminifera date mostly from the pre-Pleistocene, and thus lived through the ice ages, but warm-water forms were restricted to areas near the equator during these times. The evidence tends to support Arrhenius' conclusions that there is little calcium carbonate accumulation at present, that the maxium accumulation occurred during the ice ages, and that the same warm-water faunas lived continuously near the equator throughout the Pleistocene.
10.2307/1485072|Fifteen species of two-, three- and four-segmented theoperid radiolarians which are closed distally or have very restricted apertures are assigned to the genera Stichocorys, Cyrtocapsella, Lithopera and Cyclampterium?. Most of the species are Miocene, and all are post-Eocene. Nine of them are new, and Glomaria is described as a new subgenus of Lithopera. Two additional species of Stichocorys are discussed in connection with the phylogenetic development of the "closed" forms.
24413300|This study represents a contribution to the biostratigraphic characterization of the Gulf of Gabes Triassic series. Diverse and well preserved palynological assemblages from the Djerba Melita 1 (DJM1) well in the Djerba Island (Gulf of Gabes, Southern Tunisia) are here presented and discussed. A Carnian microflora is recorded in the Triassic portion of the drilled succession. The co-occurrence of Ladinian-lower Carnian taxa in association with typical Carnian elements allows to refer the microflora to the lower part of the Duplicisporites continuus palynological assemblage (late Julian, Austrotrachyceras austriacus Subzone). A semi-quantitative analysis of the assemblages also seems to document the occurrence, in the middle-upper part (units 3 and 4) of DJM1 well of the Aulisporites-Aratrisporites Acme Zone, an ammonoid-calibrated palynological event occurring in several European successions, referring to the late Julian/early Tuvalian. The occurrence of this acme zone in Southern Tunisia encourages its application also to Triassic sedimentary records belonging to the southern Tethyan margin.
3648481|We describe the lithostratigraphy and planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy of the upper Paleocene-lowermost Eocene (Zones P4a-P5c) stratigraphic section exposed in a neritic/shelf carbonate setting at Wadi Abu Ghurra in the southern part of the Upper Nile Valley. The 2.5cm thick PETM-correlative interval lacks the phosphatic-coprolitic horizon(s) typical of the Dababiya Quarry Beds to the north, but does contain elements (Acarinina africana, Ac. sibaiyaensis and M. allisonensis) of the planktonic foraminifera excursion taxa (PFET). The PETM-correlative interval is bracketed (below) by the LO of Acarinina esnaensis, Igorina broedermanni, Ac. angulosa and Ac. wilcoxensis and (above) the LO of Pseudohastigerina wilcoxensis. The top of the inferred PETM-interval coincides with the Garra / Dungul formational contact and is marked by an abrupt enrichment in planktonic foraminifera together with a low-diversity benthic foraminiferal association, comparable to those of the calcarenites which terminate the Dababiya Quarry Beds in deeper water sections in the north. Angulogavelinella avnimelechi, together with several long-ranging Paleocene benthic forms, have their HO at the base of the PETM-interval, whereas dimorphic larger foraminifera (Discocyclina, Operculina, primitive Nummulites) have their LO at its top.
10.2307/1484291|The first record of the genus Hantkenina in the Eocene of Western Australia is discussed. The species described are Hantkenina (Applinella) cf. dumblei Weinzierl and Applin and Hantkenina (Applinella) cf. longispina Cushman. Associated species of foraminifera indicate a Middle to Upper Eocene age.
23250462|Troughed conodonts of the late Desmoinesian genus Swadelina are common in the C27(M) Suite (upper Moscovian, middle Pennsylvanian) in the Donets Basin, Ukraine. The youngest species, Swadelina sp. 1, is very similar to Swadelina nodocarinata (Jones). It was found for the first time in the uppermost part of the C27(M) Suite in the Gurkova Valley section. Two older troughed late Moscovian (early Desmoinesian) species, known as Streptognathodus dissectus Kossenko and S. concinnus Kossenko, are herein assigned to Swadelina on the basis of their similarities to this genus. They may have given rise to the American Desmoinesian Sw. nodocarinata and Sw. neoshoensis Lambert, Heckel and Barrick via Swadelina sp. 1. Swadelina probably appeared earlier in Moscovian time in eastern Europe than in North America.
10.2307/1485194| Calcareous nannofossils recovered from Tertiary rocks on the coast of northern California (latitude 39N) provide definitive biostratigraphic criteria for dating depositional events and for determining time distribution of benthic foraminifers. About 20 million years of the later Paleogene geologic record from Middle Eocene to Middle Oligocene time, appears to be missing within the northern segment of the Salinian Block, but Oligocene-Miocene nannofossil zonation can be correlated with the radiometrically-calibrated Zemorrian-Saucesian Stage boundary. Nannofossil zonation of middle Tertiary rocks deposited in the open marine, deep-water turbidite environment of the Point Arena Basin indicates that many associated deep-water benthic foraminifers are time-transgressive, while a relative few are time-restrictive. Nannofossil floras of the Late Oligocene to Middle Miocene section near Point Arena can also be compared to assemblages described from DSDP (Deep Sea Drilling Project) Site 173. 
10.2307/1484552|Four species of the ostracode genus Paijenborchella Kingma were found in Neogene and Recent sediments of the Indomalaysian and Philippine area. Of these, P. malaiensis Kingma and P. solitaria Ruggieri had a wide distribution in the Mio-Pliocene Tethys sea, ranging from Italy to the Indopacific, the latter species even to Victoria, Australia. P. malaiensis is a deep-water species living in depths of over 100 m. P. iocosa Kingma and P. malaiensis are polytypic species. The new subgenus Eopaijenborchella is proposed to incorporate the reticulate species of Paijenborchella and to distinguish them from the species with a smooth surface belonging to the nominal subgenus.
10.2307/1486137|Foraminifera occur in the peculiar, meromictic Jellyfish Lake on Mecherchar Island in the Palau Archipelago (Western Caroline Islands). The lake is marine, 30m deep, and characterized by both oxic and anoxic water layers separated by a distinct chemo- and thermocline. Above 15m, the lake is well lighted, oxic, and with normal marine salinity and temperatures. Below that, the lake is dark and anoxic with high sulfide content in the water and sediment. Sediment surface samples, collected by SCUBA from sites within both layers, contain few foraminifera. The foraminiferal fauna is characterized by a particularly low-diversity and thin-shelled assemblage and is devoid of typical diverse reef and lagoonal species commonly present in South Pacific reef complexes, including those surrounding Mecherchar Island just 100m or so from Jellyfish Lake. A total of 15 species was recovered from surface sediments in the upper oxic zone of the lake, but no foraminifera were found in those samples collected in the deeper, anoxic water of the lake. Two species, Helenina sp. and Ammonia sp., dominate in the shallow-water lake habitats (0-10m), while the agglutinated species Glomospira fijiensis and Rheophax scorpiurus appear to be most tolerant to decreasing oxygen conditions at the anoxic/oxic interface. The foraminiferal faunal association most closely resembles assemblages that have been described from mangrove environments of the South Pacific. The specific distribution pattern and the absence of foraminifera within the anoxic zone is consistent with findings from volcanic sulfide-rich environments. The physico-chemical properties of this stratified lake, in particular the lack of dissolved oxygen and the high concentration of hydrogen sulfide within the anoxic water layer, appear to control this particular presence/absence pattern of benthic foraminifera.
10.2307/1484109|The ostracode fauna of Oligo-Miocene marls and shales from limestone quarries in southern Trinidad is described. Of the sixty species, six are new and one is given a new name. The faunas show relationship to those of the European Aquitanian and Burdigalian and to those of the Tampa/Catahoula and Chipola formations of Florida.
4499772|The US Geological Survey Pliocene Research, Interpretation and Synoptic Mapping (PRISM) North Atlantic faunal data set provides a unique, temporally constrained perspective to document and evaluate the quantitative geographic distribution of key mid-Pliocene taxa. Planktic foraminifer census data from within the PRISM time slab (3.29 to 2.97 Ma) at thirteen sites in the North Atlantic Ocean have been analyzed. We have compiled Scanning Electron Micrographs for an atlas of mid-Pliocene assemblages from the North Atlantic with descriptions of each taxon to document the taxonomic concepts that accompany the PRISM data. In mid-Pliocene assemblages, the geographic distributions of extant taxa are similar to their present day distributions, although some are extended to the north. We use the distribution of extinct taxa to assess previous assumptions regarding environmental preferences.
10.2307/1486050|Cytoplasmic organization and symbiotic associations of Didymocyrtis tetrathalamus (Haeckel) were examined. The most distinctive cytological feature is the presence of an extraordinary, non-living wall structure (termed endocapsular wall) that lies immediately inside the outer medullary shell. It closely resembles the capsular wall, which is the most diagnostic feature for radiolarian cytoplasmic organization, but is completely enclosed by the latter wall. The capsular wall lies inside the cortical shell, except in the polar region where the wall is always outside the latticed skeleton of the bilocular cortex. Based on these observations, and previously reported skeletal changes during maturation, five ontogenetic stages are described. In the first stage, the test consists of the double medullary shell and the endocapsular wall may serve as the "first capsular wall." In the second stage, the equatorial girdle surrounding the medullary shell and the capsular wall is formed. A major portion of the cortical shell is constructed in the third stage, forming the nearly completed hour-glass-shaped shell. In the fourth and fifth stages, the cortical shell is completed and polar caps lying above each pole are deposited, associated with the expansion of the central capsule to partially encompass the bilocular shell. Two ultrastructually different symbiotic dinoflagellates were observed in the extracapsular region around the cortical shell. One is identified as Amphidinium sp. and the other remains unnamed. They were never observed in the same host and appear to mutually exclude one another. In addition to dinoflagellates, there were also bacterial endobionts within vacuoles.
10.2307/1484894|The ostracode subfamily Campylocytherinae is represented in Middle Miocene to Recent sediments of the Atlantic and Gulf Coast Provinces of North America and the Caribbean region by species of three morphologically similar genera: Campylocythere, Acuticythereis, and the new genus Proteoconcha. The appendages of species of Proteoconcha closely resemble those of Hemicythere and related genera. However, there are sufficient differences to warrant retention of the Campylocytherinae as a separate subfamily under the family Hemicytheridae. Among these genera of the Campylocytherinae, there are two distinct types of normal pores, which are arranged on the valves in patterns that are consistent and diagnostic at the generic level. In the genus Proteoconcha, the arrangement of the radial and false radial pore canals in the anterior marginal area is of major importance in speciation. Eight species, three of them new, are herein assigned to Proteoconcha. The other two genera at present consist of only their respective type species.
10.2307/1485110|Sixteen coccolith species from the sediments of the western Mediterranean have been recognized, and some of their morphological characters have been discussed. Two additional species, Pontosphaera alboranensis and Pontosphaera messinae, are described as new. Reworked specimens, which include some Discoasters, are very rare. The frequencies of some species, referred to as environment-sensitive in the literature, have been evaluated. A limited agreement was observed between the Gephyrocapsa oceanica frequency distribution along the studied core and the 0<sup>16</sup>/0<sup>18</sup> paleotemperature curve. Coccolithus pelagicus and Helicosphaera carteri appear not to be temperature-controlled. The reliability of coccoliths as paleoclimatic indicators is briefly discussed.
10.2307/1485940|This study examines and illustrates deep-sea benthic foraminifera from 21 Holocene samples from the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea Deep Sea Drilling Project sites. The samples represent a wide range of water depths (ca 800-5600m). A total of 226 taxa were recorded and their bathymetric distribution was examined. Seventy six important taxa are illustrated using scanning electron micrography. About 76% of the total species recorded belong to the suborder Rotaliina, 13% to Textulariina, and 11% to Miliolina. Identification of 18 species was equivocal and, consequently, they are described with 'cf.' Thirty three taxa are identified up to generic level. Calcareous forms are dominant above 5000m whereas agglutinated forms are dominant below 5000m water depths. This supports the theory that the Calcite Compensation Depth (CCD) in the Indian Ocean lies at about 5000m as reported earlier. Characteristic assemblages are found to be associated with distinct deep-water masses.
10.2307/1485856| We examined uppermost Oligocene to lowermost Pliocene sections from four northeastern Gulf of Mexico boreholes for quantitative benthic foraminiferal faunal changes, stratigraphic ranges, paleobathymetry, organic carbon content, and planktonic foraminiferal relative abundances. The Eureka boreholes provide a depth transect in the De Soto Canyon area from the upper to lower bathyal zone: E68-136 (557m present depth, 600m paleodepth), E66-73 (857m present depth, 860-1000m paleodepth), E68-151A (1326m present depth, 1300m paleodepth), and E68-141A (1599m present depth, 1600m paleodepth). A number of taxa last appeared in the late Oligocene to early Miocene (Biochrons P22-N5) at E68-136; several of these disappearances constitute global last occurrences. A global benthic foraminiferal taxonomic turnover that began in the latest early Miocene in other parts of the ocean was restricted to the middle Miocene at E68-136 (Biochrons N9-N12), although faunal abundance changes began in late early Miocene Biochron N8. At middle bathyal borehole E66-73, ten taxa last occurred in Biochrons N8-N10, which is consistent with the timing of the taxonomic turnover in the Pacific and Atlantic. Depth-related faunal trends are examined and compared with previously published distributional data, resulting in revised paleobathymetric ranges of 12 taxa. Detailed age-paleodepth reconstructions reveal several stratigraphically and bathymetrically significant predominance biofacies in the northeast Gulf of Mexico: 1) Uvigerina pigmea dominated the middle-upper bathyal late Neogene; 2) Lenticulina spp. dominated the late Oligocene- middle Miocene bathyal zone; 3) Oridorsalis spp., Gyroidinoides spp., and Globocassidulina subglobosa dominated the late Neogene lower bathyal zone; and 4) Uvigerina proboscidea was important in the late Neogene in the middle to upper bathyal zones. Four distinct bathymetric migrations are mapped, and 34 additional taxa are shown to have distinct paleobathymetric distributions. Planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphic control allows us to evaluate the stratigraphic usefulness of benthic foraminiferal ranges. We revise the stratigraphic ranges of 12 bathyal benthic foraminiferal taxa, requiring re-correlation of the benthic foraminiferal zonal boundaries of Berggren and Miller (1989). 
10.2307/1485099|The abundance and distribution of Radiolaria are analyzed for 456 core tops from the South Atlantic and the Atlantic sector of the Antarctic Ocean, and are compared with the abundance and distribution of surface nutrients and of dissolved silicate throughout the water column, and with lithology. Siliceous ooze accumulates in the tropical Atlantic, where the mean values for phosphate-phosphorus in the photic zone are only 0.4 microgram atoms per liter. Radiolaria reach their highest concentration in calcareous ooze on the southern flank of the Guinea Rise (255,000 specimens per gram of bulk sediment). In the subantarctic region, Radiolaria become abundant (greater than 100,000/gram) in sediments underlying surface water with phosphate-phosphorus concentrations above 1.0 microgram atom per liter. Radiolaria decrease in frequency in sediments underlying surface water richer in phosphate-phosphorus than 1.4 microgram atoms per liter. Dilution and dissolution result in such great variability in the abundance of Radiolaria that a uniform over-all relationship between abundance in sediments and surface phosphate-phosphorus concentration is not evident. Some species have limited distributions that can be classified as polar, subpolar, central, and equatorial. Many equatorial species of Radiolaria have uniform low frequencies in Atlantic sediments, and their occurrences are continuous with those in Indo-Pacific sediments. Seasonal introduction of these species into the Atlantic by the Agulhas-Benguela Current is offered as a possible explanation for this distribution. Populations of Triospyris antarctica and Tholospyris scaphipes intergrade in the subantarctic region.
10.2307/1484861|The assemblage of palynomorphs in the bottom of a deep-sea core collected from the outcrop area of Seismic Reflector Horizon A northeast of Cat Island in the Bahamas indicates a middle Cretaceous age (Albian or early Cenomanian). Fifty-three species of spores, pollen and marine microplankton (acritarchs, hystrichosphaerids and dinoflagellates) are listed. Twelve species and one acritarch genus, Prismatocystis, are described as new. The assemblage dates this core amongst the oldest yet recovered from deep-sea basins.
10.2307/1485387|An array of foraminiferal species and subspecies previously attributed to the genera Rotalina, Anomalina, Planorbulina, Discorbina, Discanomalina and Paromalina can be arranged in an intergradational morphological series. The series is composed of sympatric elements and is continuous, suggesting that this array of taxa represents only one highly variable species of the genus Discanomalina, namely Discanomalina semipunctata (Bailey). The morphological variations between attached versus nonattached specimens within the same species has been largely ignored in micropaleontology: we use this relatively simple consideration to clarify the taxonomy of D. semipunctata, and suggest that it be applied in the study of other groups composed of both attached and nonattached forms.
1486192|The Eocene biostratigraphy of the Jabal Qatar area located at the border between UAE and Oman is described. The occurrence of the Late Eocene index fossil Turborotalia cunialensis/Cribrohantkenina inflata Concurrent-Range Zone and the homogeneous biozone P16 is reported for the first time. The presence of the T. cunialensis/C. inflata with its associated taxa permits the tripartite division (P15, P16, P17) of the Upper Eocene at Jabal Qatar. The data obtained were used in correlating the Jabal Qatar sequence with stratigraphically equivalent sequences at Jabal Hafit and Jabal Malaqet, near Al-Ain city. Effects of the previously reported eustatic sea level changes at the close of Chron C15r can be recognized in the facies characteristics of the studied sequences.
10.2307/1485677|The diatom endosymbionts have been isolated in culture from over 2,000 specimens of larger foraminifera (Amphistegina lessonii, A. lobifera, Heterostegina depressa, Borelis schlumbergi, Operculina ammonoides, Calcarina calcar) harvested from Red Sea, Indian Ocean, Hawaii, Palau, and the Great Barrier Reef stations. Twenty different species or varieties of diatoms were collectively isolated from the 6 host species in the total samples. Nitzschia frustulum var. symbiotica was the most commonly (33.7% of total hosts) isolated endosymbiont. Next most common were Nitzschia panduriformis var. continua, Fragilaria shiloi, Nitzschia laevis, and Amphora roettgerii, respectively, representing 14.5, 9.9, 8.7, and 6% of the isolations. More than half of the isolations were made in the vacinity of the H. Steinitz Marine Biology Laboratory on the Gulf of Elat, Red Sea so that the results have to be interpreted with that bias in mind. N. frustulum var. symbiotica was the most frequently isolated endosymbiont at all sites where more than 75 organisms were studied. Significant numbers of N. frustulum var. symbiotica, N. laevis and N. panduriformis var. continua were isolated from hosts collected at every depth. Fragilaria shiloi, in contrast, was rarely isolated from hosts at depths greater than 25m. Achnanthes maceneryae, Amphora sp.(J) and Protokeelia hottingeri were only collected in hosts harvested at depths greater than 25m. Although host species harbored more than one endosymbiont species some bias was observed. Nitzschia laevis and F. shiloi were the most common symbionts of B. schlumbergeri. A. maceneryae and N. laevis were isolated in over 55% of all the O. ammonoides studied. Most larger foraminifera were the hosts for only a single species of symbiont (71%) at a time; a second symbiont species was found in the remainder. Studies of the microflora on substrates on which larger foraminifera were feeding showed no correlation between potential diet and the endosymbiotic diatoms present in foraminifera harvested from the same substrates. Endosymbiotic diatoms were extremely rare (<0.5%) in the habitat where the foraminifera were feeding.
10.2307/1485037|The planktonic foraminiferal fauna was studied in 104 surface plankton samples collected by the author during the crossing in both directions of Drake Passage between Tierra del Fuego and Elephant Island off the Palmer Peninsula, Antarctica, during the months of January and February, 1969. Samples were gathered by means of a fire pump. This method is discussed and recommended for planktonic foraminiferal collection. Eight species were determined, and their horizontal distribution was established. The percentage abundance of each species, as well as the number of specimens per cubic meter of filtered water, were calculated for every station. Distribution patterns of foraminifers were compared with those obtained by previous authors and were related to the surface hydrology. Some discrepancies were found and discussed. The most simple means of separating Globigerina pachyderma from G. quinqueloba is proposed and the most simple means of locating the Antarctic Convergence by the use of foraminifers is discussed. Abnormal spinosity of foraminiferal tests is considered.
10.2307/1484516|Assemblages of acid-insoluble microplankton, pollen, and spores are described from the Lias of England and South Wales. They include one new genus and nineteen new acritarch species and many others previously unrecorded from the Lower Jurassic. Forty-two pollen and spore genera, one new, are also recorded. The stratigraphic distribution of microplankton, pollen, and spores is described, and it is concluded that this is environmentally controlled. The relationship between stratigraphic microfossil assemblage changes, Liassic transgressions, and facies changes is established, and its paleoecological significance is discussed.
10.2307/1484219| Individuals of the marine ostracode Hemicythere conradi Howe and McGuirt were acclimated in the laboratory at a salinity of 30 parts per thousand and water temperatures of 20-26 C. They were able to survive salinities from 6 to 65 parts per thousand and water temperatures from 6 to 36 C. Individuals of this species also exhibited a positive response to light and preferred silty sand to coarser oolitic sand when given free choice in laboratory experiments. The results are discussed in relation to the distribution of the species in the field. 
41410984|Twenty lacustrine  brackish water ostracode species are described from the recently discovered early Danian Planktic Foraminiferal Zone Pla sediments in the Deccan Inter-trappean beds of Jhilmili, Chhindwara District, Madhya Pradesh, India. These include two brackish water species  Neocyprideis raoi (Jain 1978), Buntonia sp. - and 18 lacustrine species of which one species-Strandesia jhilmiliensis - is new, 15 species are assigned to previously known species, and 2 species are left in open nomenclature. The Inter-trappean beds in the central Deccan volcanic province of India were previously mostly considered as Maastrichtian in age but at Jhilmili, on the basis of associated planktic foraminifera, their deposition clearly persisted into early Danian time.
10.2307/1484984|Specimens related to the genus Spirolina Lamarck, 1804, but with a distinctive cribrate aperture are present in Persian Gulf Recent bottom sediments and represent a new genus of the family Soritidae, herein designated Cribrospirolina. Descriptions of a new species and variety of the genus are included.
10.2307/1485544|A diatomite outcrop at Bandon Beach, Oregon and some diatom-rich mudstone outcrops from the Oregon continental shelf were examined for diatom and silicoflagellate remains. Samples from these sites are compared, the floras are documented, and the outcrops are related to a modern diatom stratigraphy. Seven silicoflagellate and 91 diatom taxa are recorded from these assemblages, of which two diatom taxa are described as new (Rhizosolenia twistata and Thalassiosira multipora). The abundance of planktonic marine microfossils indicates that these diatomites and mudstones were deposited in a highly productive deep-water marine environment. Sample ages are Early Pliocene for Bandon Beach and Cape Arago, and Late Miocene for Heceta Bank samples, indicating a possible progression from west to east with oldest material seaward (Heceta Bank) and youngest material landward (Bandon Beach and Cape Arago).
10.2307/1484701|Palynologic fossils considered to represent a new taxon have been recovered from rocks of the Cedar Valley Formation (Middle Devonian) of Winneshiek County, Iowa. The scanning electron microscope has revealed details of morphology not readily discernible in transmitted light microscopy. The new genus Dibrochosporites and the new species Dibrochosporites nodosus are erected for these fossils.
10.2307/1484613|Representatives of Chovanella, a longitudinally ribbed gyrogonite, are widely distributed in the Middle Devonian strata of North America. All known North American forms are referred to a single new species, Chovanella burgessi.
10.2307/1485255| A benthonic foraminiferal fauna of about 80 taxa is recorded from the Eocene of Orphan Knoll (Labrador Sea). The dominant supraspecific taxa are Cibicidoides (eight species), Anomalinoides (six species), Pleurostomella and Bulimina (five species each), Stilostomella (four species), and Chrysalogonium and Ellipsodimorphina (three species each). The numerically dominant specific taxa include Nuttallides truempyi (Nuttall), Oridorsalis ecuadorensis (Galloway and Morrey), Gyroidinoides girardanus (Reuss), Buliminella grata Parker and Bermdez, Stilostomella curvatura Cushman, S. aculeata Cushman and Renz, Cibicidoides hercegovinensis (de Witt Puyt), and Bulimina orphanensis, n. sp., described herein. The Stilostomella-Pleurostomella-Nuttallides assemblage suggests deposition at lower bathyal to abyssal depths (1000-2000 m.) and supports an earlier interpretation by geologists of DSDP Leg 12 that Orphan Knoll subsided rapidly to its present depth (1800 m.) during Paleocene time. 
10.2307/1484833|Five new species and one new subspecies of planktonic foraminifera of the genera Globanomalina, Globorotalia, and Globigerina are described from Lower and Middle Eocene deposits of Salzburg Province, Austria, and their stratigraphic ranges are evaluated.
10.2307/1485753|An extensive study has been made of the radiolarian genus Pterocorys Haeckel in Neogene (< 8 Ma) sediments from the tropical Indian and Pacific Oceans. The detailed morphologies of eight species are described along with their geographic and stratigraphic ranges. Morphometric analysis has suggested certain phylogenetic lineages which are described in detail. Since there are numerous transitional forms, and since several species are apparently delicate and, therefore, rare, only 2 stratigraphically useful and easily recognizable Neogene datum levels (F.A.D. of P. hertwigii and L.A.D. of P. campanula, both between 0.6 and 1.1 Ma) based on Pterocorys can be identified and paleomagnetically dated. Stratigraphic events associated with the genus Pterocorys and their absolute ages are presented in tabular form.
10.2307/1485526|Last occurrence data on 113 Early Cretaceous-Late Jurassic foraminifers as observed from 13 hydrocarbon exploration wells in the East Newfoundland Basin were examined in an attempt to determine a regional stratigraphy. The majority of the wells differ from each other in the relative sequence of their events. The underlying stratigraphic signal within this data set was investigated with the aid of the quantitative biostratigraphic method RASC (RAnking and SCaling). Examination of RASC derived optimum and scaled optimum sequences facilitated the recognition of 11 RASC biozones of Cenomanian to Kimmeridgian age. Two correlation schemes are presented: the first is subjective appraisal of the RASC-derived zonation using a standard time scale; the second is an objectively derived scheme using the RASC results as input and a RASC timescale. The two schemes are essentially similar; the latter, however, is more objective and provides statistically derived measures of uncertainty (in meters) for each tie line.
10.2307/1485528| Six diatom assemblages were identified in 10 surface water samples taken along a north-south track in December 1976, between New Zealand and the Ross Ice Shelf. These were further divided into two groups, whose boundary is approximately marked by: 1) the 0C sea surface isotherm; 2) a surface salinity minimum; 3) the northward limit of high-silicate surface water; and 4) the presence of sea-ice to the south. The northern group (two assemblages) is characterized by open ocean forms while the southern group (four assemblages) is characterized by ice-edge and near-ice forms. Diatom abundance along this track appears to be dictated by temperature and nutrients and the damping effects of sea-ice on surface water productivity. We could not, however, rule out other factors such as differing nutrient concentrations and proportions and water column stability. A number of surface water assemblages could also be observed in the underlying surface sediments after allowing for dissolution in the water column and the homogenizing effects of deep and bottom water currents. 
10.2307/1485353|Biogeographic patterns of Miocene calcareous nannoplankton in the North and South Atlantic Ocean, the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico are apparent from a Q-mode factor analysis of census data from 49 DSDP sites. In a total of 444 relatively well-preserved Miocene samples, 5 major and 1 minor (but relatively important) assemblages were recognized, most of which show distinct spatial and temporal distribution patterns. The major assemblages (identified by the dominant taxa) are the Dictyococcites minutus, Cyclicargolithus floridanus, Coccolithus pelagicus, Reticulofenestra pseudoumbilica-R. haqii, and Discoaster-Sphenolithus assemblages. Four of the major assemblages show distinct shifts through latitudes that are interpreted as a response to changing climate. Four warming and cooling cycles of 4 to 4.5 m.y. duration are identified in the Miocene. Both the paleobiogeographic and available isotopic data show the warming episode between 17 and 15.5 Ma and the cooling trend that followed, as well as the warming episode between 9 and 7 Ma, to have been particularly extreme in both Hemispheres, and probably of global extent. The sharp cooling centered at 15 Ma and the biogeographic changes at this time suggest this event to have been associated with the development of an extensive ice-cap on Antarctica.
10.2307/1484329|Smaller foraminifera from several samples of the Bartonian of Barton, Hampshire, England, are recorded and described. The faunule is compared with that of the London Clay (Lower Eocene) and the marine Oligocene of England.
10.2307/1485103|The Mediterranean core 189, previously analyzed isotopically, includes sediments ranging from stage 2 to stage 11 or, in terms of time, from about 20,000 to about 400,000 years ago. Environmental changes across the glacial/interglacial cycles, particularly strong in the Mediterranean, are reflected in the morphology of the shells of Globigerinoides rubra populations, with the G. rubra rubra type restricted to the hypsithermals and G. rubra gomitulus predominant at lower temperature and exclusive during the bathythermals.
10.2307/1485279|Actinocyclus ingens var. nodus Baldauf, n. var., is a morphologically distinct variety of the Miocene diatom A. ingens Rattray. The last occurrence of this new taxon approximates the top of the lower Middle Miocene Denticula lauta Zone in the circum-North Pacific. Its first occurrence appears to be in the lower part of the D. lauta zone and possibly lies close to the Lower Miocene-Middle Miocene boundary.
10.2307/1484710|Foraminifera were extracted from acid residues of oil well samples from the Hunton Group in the subsurface Salina and Forest City Basins in northeastern Kansas. The fauna was found to be restricted to the Niagaran portion of the Silurian beds which is equivalent to the Clarita Member of the Chimneyhill Limestone of the Arbuckle Mountains, Oklahoma. Several thousand specimens were obtained and were used to correlate southward into Oklahoma and eastward into Missouri, Indiana and Kentucky. The foraminifera and acid residues gave information which made it possible to divide the Hunton into two Devonian and five Silurian zones, and to identify previously unknown faults and account for anomalous thicknesses and paleogeologic aspects. Twenty species from eleven genera were identified, among which are two new species and one new genus. The work extends the known occurrence of Silurian foraminifera about 500 miles north and 500 miles west of previously described localities, and emphasizes the use and value of foraminifera in subsurface research.
10.2307/1484555|Based upon very abundant material from the Cenomanian of the eastern Carpathians, the author presents a series of taxonomic and paleogeographic remarks on the foraminiferal taxa Schackoina cenomana, Schackoina cenomana gandolfii, and Schackoina multispinata bicornis.
10.2307/1485175|Four new species of the genus Vulcanisphaera Deunff, 1961, are described from the Shineton Shales Formation, Tremadocian, England. The type species, V. africana Deunff, was previously recorded from the Tremadocian of Africa and Belgium. It is now recorded by the present author in the Tremadocian of England. Genus Vulcanisphaera Deunff is emended because of new evidence of morphological variations of processes recorded in the new species.
10.2307/1485411|A new species of ostracod, Euryitycythere dorsicristata, is described from beds equated with the middle Barremian Roach Stone of the Hunstanton Borehole, Norfolk, England.
4097010|The genus Semicytherura develops a broad thin calcareous lamella inside the adult carapace, and this feature is one of the characters which define this taxon. However, neither anatomical nor histological studies have so far been done on this character. In earlier works, the lamella was regarded as an extension of the marginal infold, i.e. the "calcified inner lamella cuticle." In this study scanning and transmission electron microscope observations have clarified that the lamella is a different structure from the outer lamella cuticle, and that the epidermis does not exist inside the lamella. The lamella is called the "prismatic layer," because of its calcareous crystal form. Development of this layer causes a restriction of the epidermis, which has a function in respiration and metabolism. Species of this taxon are thought to support their respiratory and metabolic systems by their small body size and low energy of locomotion, or through some specialized structures in the epidermal layers.
10.2307/1485537| The last appearance datum (LAD) of Neogloboquadrina continuosa has been identified in a continuously exposed sequence of fossiliferous marine sediments along the continental margin of southern Chile. Planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy was integrated with magnetostratigraphy in order to calibrate the N. continuosa last appearance datum level to a standard chronostratigraphic timescale for the Cenozoic (Berggren et al., 1985) thus providing an important chronostratigraphic correlation between high southern latitudes and the tropical Pacific. This level is 8.7  0.1 Ma. The evolutionary first appearance of Neogloboquadrina pachyderma also occurs within this sequence, arising gradually from a morphotype intermediate to N. continuosa and N. pachyderma. The co-occurrence of N. continuosa sensu stricto and its apparent descendent, the intermediate morphotype, over a period of 1.5 m.y. in the latest middle Miocene and early late Miocene suggests that N. pachyderma evolved through cladogenesis of the parent population rather than gradual phyletic transformation from N. continuosa. 
20627970|A study on deep-sea benthic foraminifera from the interval 445 ka BP to the Present of the Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Hole 716A (456.0N, 7317.0E; present water depth 533.3m), Maldives Ridge, southeastern Arabian Sea, documented 201 species belonging to 105 genera. These taxa were examined under scanning electron microscope (SEM) to illustrate their interspecific morphological variations. Several of these species are dominant showing significant down core fluctuations in their abundances whereas some are rare and sporadic.
10.2307/1485493|Two new species of the lituolid genus Phenacophragma, characterized by intracameral hemiseptae, are described from "flysch-type" agglutinated foraminiferal faunas. Phenacophragma beckmanni, n. sp. occurs in the Paleocene Lizard Springs Formation of Trinidad and in Paleocene to middle Eocene sediments of the Polish Carpathians. Phenacophragma elegans, n. sp. has been observed only in Trinidad.
10.2307/1485666|The geographical distribution of fossil and modern species of Agglutinella shows that this genus is restricted to the Indo-Pacific region. Agglutinella soriformis has the widest geographical distribution. No representatives of the fossil Agglutinella species are recorded in the studied modern samples.
10.2307/1484451|The hingement of Beyrichia jonesii is described. The morphology in relation to classification, and the classification, distribution, and phylogeny of the Beyrichiidae are discussed.
10.2307/1485271|The types of 311 species, subspecies and varieties of foraminifera not previously recorded as deposited in the British Museum (Natural History) are listed, and some of the more important early British collections are discussed.
10.2307/1485614| The occurrence of Bolboforma badenensis Szczechura in the Akpak sequence of the Beaufort Sea is the first Arctic record of Bolboforma, an enigmatic planktonic microfossil generally thought to be of algal cyst origin. Its occurrence above Asterigerina staeschei ten Dam and Reinhold and below Ehrenbergina variabilis Trunk praepupa Spiegler suggests a Late Miocene age for B. badenensis. The host sediments were deposited in an outer neritic environment, an interpretation based on seismic profiles and associated microfaunas. 
40959490|A total of 200 calcareous benthic foraminiferal species were identified in 30 surface samples collected across a depth transect in the southwestern Marmara Sea. Q-mode cluster and canonical correspondence analyses performed on the foraminiferal species abundance data revealed three clusters. Environmental parameters collected at each sampling station allowed the correlation between foraminiferal clusters and watermass characteristics, such as water depth, temperature, salinity and dissolved oxygen concentrations. Cluster A (55-130 m) is characterized by species typical of muddy substrates in the circa-littoral zone and related to declining dissolved oxygen values. Cluster (140-350m) is characterized by deep-infaunal dysoxic and suboxic species indicative of circa-littoral and upper epibathyal environments and strongly related to low dissolved oxygen values and increased water depth. Cluster C (15-50m) is characterized by neritic species typical of the infra-littoral environment. This cluster is further subdivided into three subclusters that reflect brackish surface flow (influenced by low salinity, higher temperature), pycnocline (rising salinity, falling temperature) and infra-littoral to circa-littoral transitional environments (higher oxygen from the Mediterranean countercurrent and the subsurface chlorophyll maximum), respectively.
10.2307/1484505|The organic cement secreted by the twelve species of arenaceous foraminifera examined is considered to be a mucosubstance containing acid mucopolysaccharide to which iron, and probably calcium, is organically bound. A phase of mineralisation of the organic cement by calcium and/or iron salts, possibly also secreted by the animal, will produce a hard shell, whereas soft shells may have little, if any, mineral deposit. No significant difference has been found in the amino acid content of the cement obtained from forms representing four genera. Previously published analyses of the inorganic composition of arenaceous shells are examined. It appears that the high values for iron may have concealed relatively large amounts of aluminium and that the shells of arenaceous foraminifera may be much less ferruginous than is generally recognised. The colour of a shell is not a reliable guide to its ferruginous nature, since pure white and red-brown shells may be equally ferruginous.
10.2307/1484769|A study of Pennsylvanian petrified seeds and seedlike megaspores has revealed new information on the structure of the megaspore membrane and associated tissues, and has provided characteristics useful for identifying seed fragments released from coals and shales by maceration. Layering and ornamentation may be observed in surface views of detached megaspore membranes, but clarity is greater if microtome sections are prepared. Fragments of the nucellus which sometimes remain associated with the megaspore membranes supplement these features and aid in the recognition of taxa. Genera studied which are recognizable from fragments of the megaspore membrane (with or without fragments of nucellus) are: Cardiocarpus, Conostoma, Codonospermum, Stephanospermum, Taxospermum, Pachytesta, Lepidocarpon and Lepidostrobus.
10.2307/1485912|Unilocular foraminifera sculptured in reticular patterns are described. These have relatively short stratigraphic ranges within Argentine Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary sediments. Two types of lagenid forms are distinguished according to their apertural character: a) forms with an elongate and slender neck, generally associated with low energy environments, including Favolagena n. gen. (type species Lagena atilai Bertels) and b) forms with a heavy solid conus and a narrow duct connecting the aperture with the chamber lumen, a thicker wall and coarser surface sculpture. The latter forms are generally associated with shallow, high energy environments, and are herein included in Conolagena n. gen. (type species Conolagena argentina n. sp.). Among foraminifera a reticulate surface pattern occurs relatively frequently in the Cretaceous Nodosariacea and Tertiary buliminids, and could be an important character in reconstructing the phylogeny of unilocular foraminifera. The following taxa are described as new: Favolagena ardolinoi, Conolagena argentina, C. tetratransversa and Conolagena? mateformis.
10.2307/1485036|Examination of several well-known species, eight new species and one new subspecies of Discoaster indicates an evolutionary trend toward less massive skeletal elements in a genus that is assumed to be related to the calcareous nannoplankton family Coccolithophyceae. Reduction of the amount of calcite in the skeletons of Discoaster species during the Tertiary, which includes their entire time range from appearance to extinction, may reflect a cooling of oceanic waters.
10.2307/1485362|Sixty-four taxa of Late Cretaceous nannofossils from 10 cored wells on the Canadian Atlantic margin were used to erect a statistical zonation. The methods are based on the matrix F of relative frequencies by which stratigraphic events are observed to succeed one another in the wells. Four types of events were used: lowest occurrences, subbottom, subtops and highest occurrences, which were ordered in an optimum stratigraphic sequence. The relative position of the events in this sequence is an average of all the relative positions encountered. The sequence was used to construct a range chart that expresses the ranges between average tops and bottoms and average subtops and subbottoms. This chart and the zonation based on it compare favorably with subjective, conventional ones in the literature; the subtop/subbottom concept improves biostratigraphic resolution.
10.2307/1484899|Specific and generic misidentifications of Quaternary diatoms from Oklahoma are corrected.
10.2307/1484218| Studies of the bathymetric distribution of planktonic foraminifera indicate that they are most abundant in the euphotic zone of the oceanic waters around Bermuda. Seasonal fluctuations in the relative and absolute abundances of fifteen species have been observed from 106 plankton samples, showing a regular succession in the foraminiferal populations. Globorotalia hirsuta, G. truncatulinoides, Globigerina inflata and G. bulloides were most abundant in winter and spring, when temperatures within the euphotic zone ranged between 18 and 23 C and salinities varied between 34.40 and 36.60. Globorotalia menardii, Globigerinoides sacculifer and G. conglobatus reached their maximum concentrations in summer and fall, when temperatures ranged between 23 and 27 C and salinities between 36.10 and 36.40. The oceanographic and paleoecologic implications of these observations are discussed for the northern Sargasso Sea. 
10.2307/1484411|Correlation of the Tertiary of the Far East and Europe is possible only for the Stampian (Tertiary d), Sannoisian (Tertiary c), and probably the Priabonian (Tertiary b). Correlation between Tertiary e and f and the Chattian -- Aquitanian -- Burdigalian (or Vindobonian) is at present not feasible.
10.2307/1484316|The trends in variation of the different species groups of Lenticulina from the Lias are shown. The plexus of evolving forms is discussed and the stratigraphical significance of the various species groups is given. The gradation from the coiled lenticuline to an uncoiled at flabelline stage is demonstrated. The evolutionary, biological and stratigraphical aspects are stressed rather than the purely taxonomic approach. Some forms described by other authors are discussed, but a complete synonymy is not attempted.
41410992|The revision of Theriosynoecum Branson 1936, a common ostracod genus of Middle Jurassic to Early Cretaceous nonmarine deposits worldwide, demonstrates that its representativesparticularly the Early Cretaceous North American onesare not as endemic as hitherto assumed. The taxonomic concept applied herein resolves many problems resulting from an overestimation of the taxonomic (in-)significance of some ornamentation elements in the genus as well as the too regional view of the faunas during the second half of the 20th century. This is the first step to a supraregional biostratigraphic and improved paleoecologic application of representatives of the extinct genus Theriosynoecum (Cytheroidea, Limnocytheridae, Timiriaseviinae). Theriosynoecum fittoni (Mantell 1844) and Theriosynoecum alleni (Pinto and Sanguinetti 1962) are proposed for being synonymous because of their many striking similarities. The species Theriosynoecum forbesii (Jones 1885) and T. verrucosa (Jones 1885) are considered separate and not subspecies of T. forbesii. Theriosynoecum verrucosa occurs in the uppermost Morrison Formation of the Black Hills area, South Dakota, U. S. A., Theriosynoecum fittoni in the Lakota Formation of the same area. Theriosynoecum pahasapensis (Roth 1933) is, thus far, endemic to North America. A key to the described species is presented. Early Cretaceous species of Theriosynoecum are not yet as applicable biostratigraphically in North America as in Europe (e. g. the English Purbeck/Wealden), but this is due to the lack of data from the former area and considered to be promising once more data are available. Nevertheless, the "classic" taxonomic approach provides a considerable step towards better application of these taxa as well as future analysis and robust discussion regarding the phylogeny, evolution and distribution of the limnocytherid subfamily Timiriaseviinae. The genus Metacypris is now restricted to an Aptian to recent lineage of small, weakly monosulcate Timiriaseviinae. Middle Jurassic to Early Cretaceous bisulcate and large taxa formerly designated as Metacypris are now assigned to Theriosynoecum.
10.2307/1484788|One hundred thirty-eight foraminiferal species from the Lower Miocene? Paynes Hammock Formation of Alabama and Mississippi are described and illustrated, including thirty-two new species and the new genus Arcanispira. Several taxonomic changes are suggested for well-known Gulf Coast species. The fauna is compared with Recent assemblages in the the nearshore northeastern Gulf of Mexico. Correlation is suggested with faunas of outcropping and subsurface beds in the Gulf Coastal Province and Trinidad.
10.2307/1485794|A new foraminiferal species of Loftusia, Loftusia turcica which is thin, long, fusiform shaped, with sharp-pointed poles and alveolar structure, is described and figured. It is found in shale and argillaceous sandstone of the Middle-Upper Maastrichtian over the Yuksekova complex near the village of Seyhkatil, southeast of Elazig, Eastern Anatolia (Turkey).
10.2307/1484983|The ultrastructure and organization of the monosaccate spore Endosporites are described from spores occurring within structurally preserved lycopsid sporangia from a Pennsylvanian locality in eastern Kentucky. Features thought to reflect different ontogenetic stages are discussed, and a comparison is made with known dispersed spore species of the genus.
10.2307/1484465| The variability in shape of the embryonic chambers of Lepidocyclina (Pliolepidina) pustulosa H. Douvill from the American upper Eocene and L. (Eulepidina) radiata (Martin) from the Indo-Pacific Miocene is discussed and illustrated. Each of these species contains specimens which have a single set of embryonic chambers, others which have two sets of these chambers and still others possess multiple embryonic chambers. The probable cause of this development in the two species is given. Synonyms of the species are discussed. A tentative revision of the subgenera of Lepidocyclina is given. 
10.2307/1484367|Some doubtful foraminiferal "brown bodies" in Bryozoa, "egglike" microfossils, dinoflagellates, hystrichospherids, Radiolaria, echinoderm sclerites, scolecodont assemblages, and miscellaneous Problematica in Baltic Cretaceous flintstones are described, with taxonomic comments.
10.2307/1484805|The stratigraphic distribution of the oligosteginid assemblages found in the Bangestan Group (Albian - Campanian) of Lurestan Province, Iran, is similar to that found elsewhere in the European and Asiatic Tethys. The Albian - Turonian forms are considered to be of benthonic origin and maintain an exclusive geographic location along both shelf edges of the Lurestan sedimentary basin.
10.2307/1485246|Sediment accumulation, non-deposition or erosion in the deep sea depends on the balance between the rate of sediment supply and the rate of sediment removal. In most pelagic areas the rate of supply is related to the productivity of near-surface waters. The rate of removal depends on the advective velocity of bottom waters and their chemical nature (i.e., their corrosiveness with respect to biogenic skeletal debris). Any change in the shape of the ocean basins or in the oceanic circulation patterns can have major regional and even global effects on the balance between sediment accumulation and removal. The temporal and spatial distribution of hiatuses can be determined for the Cenozoic section from the core material recovered by the Deep Sea Drilling Project. For all ocean basins, maxima in hiatus abundance occurred at the Cenozoic-Mesozoic boundary, in the Late Eocene (spanning the Eocene-Oligocene boundary in some areas) and in Middle to Late Miocene. Fewest hiatuses are found in the Middle Eocene, Early to Middle Miocene and Quaternary. There is some variation in the temporal and spatial distribution of hiatuses both within and between the major ocean basins. It is suggested that the beginning of global cooling during the Cenozoic started with the rapid opening of the Atlantic Ocean and Norwegian Sea and the gradual closing of the Tethys Sea. The opening of the Australia-Antarctic seaway, the development of the circum-Antartic current, the opening of the Norwegian Sea to the Arctic, the lowering of the southern sill to the Norwegian Sea, and the opening of the Tasman passage to deep water flow, all may have contributed to the increased formation of hiatuses in the Late Eocene-Oligocene. The initiation of North Atlantic Deep Water caused by the further lowering of the sill to the Norwegian Sea and the subsequent formation of the Antarctic icecap and Antarctic Bottom Water led to the Miocene maxima. The onset of glaciation in the northern hemisphere is reflected by a small peak in hiatus abundance in all the major ocean basins.
10.2307/1485135|Systematic descriptions of fifteen new species and one new subspecies of Tertiary Antarctic Radiolaria are presented in this paper. These Radiolaria, ranging in age from Oligocene to Pleistocene, are constituents of the biosiliceous sediments collected from 16 holes drilled in the ocean floor during Leg 28 of the Glomar Challenger. In addition, several are designated as index fossils in a proposed radiolarian zonation.
10.2307/1485249|Scanning electron microscope studies reveal three types of wall microstructure in Mesozoic calcispheres: granular calcite platelets, radial calcite prisms, and multiple calcite lamellae. These types of wall microstructure distinguish three families: Cadosinidae Wanner, Stomiosphaeridae Wanner, and Bonetocardiellidae, n. fam., respectively. All free calcispheres possess an aperture that may consist of a ring and a central plug. Most wall laminations described from thin section specimens are diagenetic products. One new genus, Inocardion, is erected for homeomorphs of Bonetocardiella Dufour that possess a radial prismatic wall structure. New data on test microstructure strengthen the analogy between fossil calcispheres and Holocene algal cysts. Calcispheres occur in shallow to deepwater marine facies.
10.2307/1484668|Three biostratigraphic units are recognized on the basis of the vertical distribution of coccolithophorids and related calcareous nannofossils from the Upper Eocene, Lower Oligocene and Middle Oligocene of exposures at Little Stave Creek and St. Stephens Quarry, Alabama. Of the fifty-four species of nannofossils encountered, seven are described as new.
10.2307/1484709|The radiolarian species, Protocystis thomsoni (Murray), is reported for the first time from the northeast Pacific Ocean. A detailed study indicated that this species shows considerable variation in the shape of the shell, as well as in the peristome and its teeth. Statistical treatment indicated that the shape of the shell has no taxonomic significance. The local distribution of the species and its position within the water column are discussed and compared with those of specimens from other parts of the world.
10.2307/1484745|Planktonic species of foraminifera in the Recent sediments of the Pacific are discussed within the framework of a modified classification. Two families, Globigerinidae and Globorotaliidae, are represented. The family affiliation of Globigerinita and Candeina is uncertain. Genera are reclassified with added stress on the characteristic of some to have long, thin spines as a floating mechanism. Three new species, Globigerina calida, Globorotalia pumilio and Globigerinita iota, are described. Gross distributional data in the South Pacific are given for each species.
10.2307/1485134|An aberrant specimen of Uvigerina, possessing two apertures in the final chamber, is described from a sample of the Clays of Ypres (Lower Eocene) from the Kallo well (Belgium).
10.2307/1485966|Dissolution of calcareous foraminiferal tests was noted during a recent study of the foraminiferal standing crop in the northern Adriatic Sea. The dissolution took place after the specimens were stored in microfossil slides. Extensive tests have pointed to the interaction between the material used so far to file foraminifera and the calcium carbonate of the shell. Other materials are more suitable for such purposes and their use should be encouraged.
10.2307/1485784|Actin in Miliammina fusca (Brady) was identified by immunoblotting with a monoclonal antibody and compared to the actin of other foraminifera, including porcellaneous-walled Miliolina and agglutinated-walled Textulariina. M. fusca possesses one actin band (which molecular weight averages 46 kD), that is similar to the other Miliolina, but clearly differs from the two actin bands (at about 43 and 45 kD) observed in the other foraminifera. This result suggests a close relationship of M. fusca with porcellaneous foraminifera in contrast to modern taxonomy which places this species within the agglutinated foraminifera.
10.2307/1484217|Some 48 species and subspecies of planktonic foraminifera, eight of which are new, have been identified and their stratigraphic ranges established in a closely sampled sequence of Miocene rocks from southeast Australia. Zoning based on the ranges of these foraminifera is discussed and the use of initial appearances of evolving species is strongly advocated. Intercontinental correlation of the foraminiferal zones is feasible and comparison with the Caribbean is reasonably close.
40960131|Distribution of the benthic foraminiferal assemblages on the continental shelf of the northern Marmara Sea (NW Turkey), controlled by various hydrographie characteristics between Black and Aegean seas, was systematically examined in 26 sediment samples. The samples generally consist of mud, sand and gravel. A total of 115 foraminiferal species belonging to 37 families and 70 genera were determined. Four benthic foraminiferal assemblages occur on the shelf and are characterized by moderate diversity and richness. The assemblages are dominated by 4 species, all calcareous hyaline: Asterigerinata mamilla, Elphidium crispum, Cassidulina cannata, and Brizalina spathulata. Q-mode cluster analysis recognized 4 clusters.
24413307|The Gulf of Sirte is a largely unexplored area in the southernmost Mediterranean Sea. We are presenting here 2008 summer data on the distribution pattern of living coccolithophores, a main phytoplankton calcifying group, in 105 samples from 20 stations. The survey includes coastal and offshore stations, enabling us to provide indications on the dynamics of phytoplankton productivity in relation to oceanographic processes. The total coccosphere concentrations show higher values in the offshore stations and lower ones for coastal sites. Umbellosphaera tenuis, Emiliania huxleyi, Florisphaera profunda, Syracosphaera pulchra HOL (Calyptrosphaera oblonga) and Rhabdosphaera spp. dominate the assemblages. The coccolithophore community shows the typical vertical zonation, with K-strategist taxa (among others U. tenuis, Rhabdosphaera spp. and Discosphaera tubifera) in the upper 75 meters depth and Lower Photic Zone taxa, dominated by F. profunda, below. The latter species shows its maximum development in the Deep Chlorophyll Maximum layer, which occurs in the upper part of the Levantine Intermediate Water, where the nutrient content is higher than in the overlying layers. The mesoscale oceanographic circulation significantly affects the spatial and vertical distribution of coccolithophores, with the thermocline and halocline depth shaping the vertical zonation of coccolithophore taxa and resulting in a strong lateral gradient within the gulf: in the eastern sector, under the influence of the Gulf of Sirte anticyclone, the DCM is deeper and so is the occurrence of K-strategist taxa and F. profunda.
10.2307/1485497|Seventeen North American species have been described under or referred to the Middle Pennsylvanian primitive fusulinid Profusulinella. Species concepts among workers are varied and there is no consensus as to taxonomically acceptable limits of intraspecific morphologic variation. Morphometric data obtained by measuring type specimens have been evaluated statistically to enable identification of strictly diagnostic characters (or lack thereof) for each species. Ten species (including one now assigned with question to Fusulinella) are readily delimited by one or more diagnostic characters. Two species, P. spicata and P. plummeri, are distinguishable from all others but are suspected synonyms because their types are closely similar in all aspects throughout all stages of growth. Diagnostic characters cannot be demonstrated for the remaining five species. Of these, P. marblensis, P. walnutensis, and P. springensis are rather poorly represented by their type series, resulting in doubtful application of the names.
10.2307/1484628|Foraminifera that are rare or absent in waters of normal oxygen content off southern California exist in great numbers in a low-oxygen environment within the Santa Barbara Basin, California. The foraminiferal faunas and their associated sedimentary features in this basin are described and compared with other Recent and Tertiary foraminifera and sedimentary features. Environmental significance is given to fossil homeomorphs based on this comparison.
10.2307/1484700|The holotype of the foraminiferal species Globorotalia fohsi Cushman and Ellisor is keeled throughout its periphery, although the keel is weakly developed on the early chambers of the final whorl.
10.2307/1484410| A new lithostratigraphic unit in the Upper Cretaceous of north-central Venezuela is named and defined as the Escorzonera formation. The age of this formation has been established as Maestrichtian from the occurrence of a number of species of larger foraminifera. Certain interesting foraminifera from the Morro del Faro member of the Gurico formation are also included, since they help to define the age of the large morros of San Juan as Paleocene, contrary to recently expressed opinion that they may be of Cretaceous age. The genus Laffitteina is reported for the first time from the Western Hemisphere. 
10.2307/1486101|The San Agustine and San Francisco de Paula sections constitute two complementary, albeit incomplete, records of late Paleocene-early Eocene history of western Cuba (Bahia Honda tectonic unit). The San Agustine section is of exceptional value because it is the only definitive known record of the Late Paleocene Thermal Maximum (LPTM) in the Caribbean. This extends the geographic distribution of the LPTM calcareous nannofossil assemblage from the western Indian Ocean to the Caribbean through the Tethys and North Atlantic Ocean. The fact that this assemblage has not yet been documented outside this area may reflect provincialism or, alternatively, broadly distributed unconformities. The San Francisco de Paula section, sampled with the hope that it would constitute a suitable reference section for the Paleocene/Eocene boundary, yields a valuable record of successive latest Paleocene-earliest Eocene erosional events, that may reflect regional tectonic in the Caribbean or may be part of a global pattern of sedimentary history.
3648436|The ostracode genus Fossocytheridea Swain and Brown 1964 is emended herein. A summary of the diagnostic characters include: (1) a median sulcus, (2) a tripartite antimerodont hinge with distinct heart-shaped terminal elements, (3) distinct sexual dimorphism; (4) a narrow inner margin that has 20-28 straight radial pore canals, and (5) variability in the external carapace (pore shape, pore density, and patterns of reticulation) that bears close resemblance to Cyprideis. Two new species are described from southwest Utah (U.S.A): Fossocytheridea mosbyense sp. nov. and Fossocytheridea kirklandi sp. nov. and 21 taxa previously assigned to Fabanella, Sarlatina, Ovocytheridea, Dolocytheridea, Antibythocypris, and Cytheridea are assigned to the emended genus. Fossocytheridea resembles Cyprideis with respect to both shell morphology and ecology since it occurs in association with euryhaline biota in coal-bearing strata. Expansion of marginal marine environments during the highest sea level of the Mesozoic saw Fossocytheridea successfully migrate and dominate restricted coastal environments. Since this expansion, the prominent characters of Fossocytheridea have been preserved in descendent genera belonging to the tribe Cyprideidini Kollmann 1960 that are preserved to this day in Cyprideis.
10.2307/1485333|Australoecia atlantica Maddocks, n. sp., is described and illustrated. The soft-part anatomy demonstrates that Australoecia McKenzie is correctly classified in the family Pontocyprididae. Abyssocypris van den Bold is a synonym; suggested resemblances to Cardobairdia (van den Bold) are superficial and due to convergence. Australoecia abyssophilia Maddocks is reillustrated.
1486167|The tidal mud flats of the Colorado River delta are located at the head of the Gulf of California. This region is characterized by exceptionally high nutrient concentrations which are able to sustain a high primary productivity. This study documents the taxonomic composition of foraminiferal assemblages of this area and their preservation potential from the intertidal zone of the southwesternmost part of the delta plain, in surface and subsurface (down to 20cm deep) sediments sampled north of San Felipe. Thirty-three species belonging to seventeen genera have been recognized: calcareous perforate taxa make up most of the assemblage, whereas imperforate taxa (Miliolina) are less frequent and agglutinated taxa are virtually absent. Only a small number of specimens, belonging to offshore species, were likely conveyed to the delta during storms. In general, the foraminiferal surface density seems largely controlled by burrowers and deposit feeder activity, alkalinity, degree of dissolution, and the type of sediment. Counts of total foraminifera show that subsurface samples have higher densities - by one order of magnitude - than those registered in surface samples. In the study area, which is characterized by low to absent sedimentation, rapid sediment reworking may alter surface/subsurface faunal ratios and buried specimens may repeatedly be reworked to the surface in the taphonomically active zone. This is a possible explanation for the distribution of dissolution, which is higher in subsurface than surface assemblages and which exhibits no relationship to the age of specimens.
10.2307/1485305| The genus Rhombodinium Gocht has previously been distinguished from other members of the cyst-family Wetzeliellaceae by its lack of spinate ornament, but the pericyst shape and soleiform archeopyle are also diagnostic. The earliest species, R. draco Gocht, appears to have evolved into three lineages in the Upper Eocene Barton Beds of the Hampshire Basin. The first proposed lineage involves development of an irregularly perforate periphragm in R. porosum, n. sp., with regularization of the perforations possibly leading to R. perforatum (Jan Du Chne and Chateauneuf) Lentin and Williams in the overlying Headon Beds. The second lineage resulted in the long pericingular horns of R. longimanum Vozzhennikova. The third involved development of short spines on Gochtodinium spinula, n. gen., n.sp., and longer spines on G. simplex, n. sp. The Paleogene zonal scheme of Costa and Downie (1976) is emended to include 2 new phylozones, the G. simplex and R. porosum Zones, and the R. perforatum Zone of Costa and Downie is redefined. 
40959489|Sediment subsamples (0-2cm layer, >63m fraction) from box cores taken at four sites (Stns 120, 121, 122, 123) located along a transect in the Gulf of Trieste (water depth range 8-22m) were sorted for foraminifers, including soft-walled monothalamous taxa (organic-walled allogromiids, agglutinated saccamminids and psammosphaerids). The distribution of foraminiferal species differed among samples, corresponding to differences in water depth, granulometry, distance from fresh water source and other chemical and physical parameters (temperature, salinity and dissolved oxygen). In general, the absolute and relative abundance of monothalamous foraminifers tended to decrease with distance from the coast, i.e. with distance from the inflow of the Isonzo River, whereas polythalamous taxa exhibited the opposite trend. There was also a switch in dominance by polythalamous agglutinated species at Stn 122 to polythalamous calcareous species at Stn 123. Among polythalamous foraminifers, the calcareous species Ammonia perlucida was dominant at the innermost station (Stn 120), together with the agglutinated species Cribrostomoides spp. and Haplophragmoides spp. These species were absent or less common at the other stations. Textularia agglutinons was abundant at the two inner stations (121, 122). Stn 122 was further characterized by Reophax nana, Leptohalysis scottii and the calcareous species Nonionella stella. The latter is also the most abundant taxa at the outer station (Stn 123) where the agglutinated taxa Reophax nana and Textularia conica are also well represented. All the monothalamous taxa found are previously unreported from North Adriatic waters; all are undescribed at the species level and, in most cases, at the generic level also. Two genera (Psammophaga, Vellaria), however, are common in other shallow-water settings and Micrometula, previously known from habitats ranging from coastal to deep sea, is also present. One of the allogromiid morphotypes closely resembles Goodayia rostellaum, recently described from the Black Sea. Psammophaga and Vellaria are also known from the Black Sea, but the populations are probably distinct at the species level.
10.2307/1485050|The stratigraphic ranges of eight post-Middle Miocene Tholospyris taxa in five piston cores from the central equatorial Pacific Ocean are compared with the paleomagnetic stratigraphy and with biozonations based on Radiolaria, diatoms, coccoliths and planktonic foraminifera. These Radiolaria exhibit an evolutionary pattern of progressive reduction in anatomical complexity and of concomitant increased regularity in the remaining skeletal components. Tholospyris newtoniana (Haeckel), Tholospyris baconiana (Haeckel) and Tholospyris devexa Goll, 1969, are shown to be an anagenetic trend from which Tholospyris rhombus has diverged as a cladogenetic stock. Tholospyris baconiana is divided into three subspecies: T. b. baconiana (Haeckel), T. b. variabilis, n. subsp., and T. b. spinula, n. subsp. Tholospyris devexa is divided into three subspecies: T. d. devexa Goll, T. d. dusenburyi, n. subsp., and T. d. finalis, n. subsp. A new Pleistocene biostratigraphic zone, the Tholospyris devexa devexa Range Zone, is defined.
4499761| Orthophragmines from late Lutetian (Alaman), Bartonian (Keili) and early Priabonian (Sarky) localities in Turkey are described and illustrated for the first time. Biometry of megalospheric individuals, based on a large number of free specimens sectioned mainly in the equatorial plane, contributes to our knowledge about the orthophragmines in several aspects. They are of western Tethyan affinity and belong to the evolutionary lineages of the genera Discocyclina, Nemkovella, Orbitoclypeus and Asterocyclina, known mainly from the European part of peri-Mediterranean region. Identified foraminifera are categorized into evolutionary lineages, different developmental stages of which are distinguished by biometrically defined subspecies. Two new species ofAsterocyclina, A. sireli n. sp. and A. ferrandezi n. sp. from the late Lutetian and early Priabonian respectively, one subspecies of Discocyclina, D. trabayensis elazigensis n. ssp. and one of Orbitoclypeus, 0. douvillei malatyaensis n. ssp., both from the Bartonian, are introduced. An emended description of Nemkovella daguini, the poorly known orthophragminid taxon (formerly ascribed to Orbitoclypeus), is given, with emphasis on equatorial development and generic position. Stratigraphic position of orthophragminid populations is ascertained from the calcareous nannoplankton, planktonic foraminifera and the assemblages of accompanying larger foraminifera, such as Heterostegina, Spiroclypeus and some lineages of Nummulites (especially of N. fabiani and N. perforatus). The stratigraphic distribution of some orthophragminid taxa is rearranged and a revision of late Lutetian to early Priabonian orthophragminid foraminiferal zones (marked by OZ), in the context of shallow benthic zonation of Tethyan early Paleogene, is proposed. In the updated zonation, OZ 12 corresponds to the latest Lutetian to earliest Bartonian interval, OZ 13 to the late early Bartonian, and OZ 14 to the late Bartonian to earliest Priabonian time-span. 
10.2307/1485264|A coded system proposed by Doyle, Kennedy and Riedel (1974) for classifying Cenozoic and Mesozoic ichthyoliths is modified so that it can be used for Paleozoic elements as well. Portions are simplified to eliminate repetitious categories. Furthermore, several additional categories are added to accommodate the greater diversity of the Paleozoic ichthyoliths. The modified system is based solely on observations using reflected light and therefore eliminates the need for thin sections.
10.2307/1484318|The discovery of fossil opal-phytoliths in several Tertiary and Quarternary sediments of Victoria shows that they resisted mechanical and chemical weathering during deposition. They survived several million years without being severely corroded or transformed by hydration to either chalcedony or quartz during the diagenesis of sedimentation. Fossil as well as recent plants secreted opal-phytoliths. Their presence in sediments serves as an indicator of certain plant groups, grasses, reeds and their allies, where recognizable remains or macerated debris did not survive.
10.2307/1486112|Risella Carter and Laxtorum Blome, two genera from the diverse Rhaetian fauna of the Sandilands Formation, Queen Charlotte Islands, are used to illustrate phyletic trends in latest Triassic Radiolaria. Several distinct morphotypes constituting a lineage are recognized for each genus. These lineages are homogenous, evolved in situ, and show a continuum of variation through time. The evolution of Risella takes place entirely in the Rhaetian and all species disappear at the end of the Triassic. Earliest species of Laxtorum appear in the upper Norian and evolve rapidly in the Rhaetian. All Rhaetian species go extinct at the end of the Triassic but the genus survives marginally into the Lower Jurassic. Morphological transformations in Risella (a paronaellid) are manifest in the external/cortical shell as the shape changes from triangular to three-rayed. In Laxtorum, distal post abdominal chambers become constricted and eventually develop a terminal tube while, at the same time, an increase in size and sphericity is coupled with a reduction in the number of post abdominal chambers. Evolutionary transitions in the Risella lineage probably represent a reversion of the normal hypothesized trend for paronaellid radiolarians. In the Laxtorum lineage, comparisons with other groups and species displaying similar homeomorphies suggest the evolutionary trends are fundamental and occur repeatedly in faunas of all ages.
10.2307/1484930|Thirty-one species and subspecies of planktonic foraminifera belonging to three distinct assemblages are recorded from the Middle and Upper Eocene succession in the Garo Hills, Assam, India. They were recovered from samples containing abundant larger foraminifera, described and discussed earlier by the writer. The three assemblages are correlated with the Globorotalia cerroazulensis Zone, the Truncorotaloides rohri Zone, and the combined Globorotalia lehneri and "Porticulasphaera mexicana" Zones of Bolli. The ages indicated by the planktonic foraminiferal assemblages support the earlier age determinations of the different horizons in the Garo Hills by larger foraminifera.
10.2307/1485457|In order to improve the resolution of ichthyolith stratigraphy in the Pacific Neogene and Oligocene, 12 new taxa are described, and their ranges are determined in Giant Piston Core 3 and in 104 samples dated by means of calcareous microfossils. These new ichthyoliths increase by one-third the number of reliable ichthyolith stratigraphic events for the sequences studied. The stratigraphic utilization of these microfossils is improved by adaptation of a scheme which assesses the relative reliability of earliest and latest occurrence data in correlated sequences. This procedure allows for less subjective decisions regarding the stratigraphic dependability of individual forms and provides a basis for choosing between conflicting correlation lines.
10.2307/1485708|The first and last stratigraphic occurrences of selected planktic diatom species for the low and high latitudes in the Eocene and Oligocene are given. Stratigraphic datums for these species are used to define two separate diatom zonations: one (with 12 zones) for low latitudes (Early Eocene to Late Oligocene), and the other (with four zones) for the Oligocene of the high southern latitudes. Cosmopolitan species are well represented in both latitudinal regions during the latest Eocene and in the Late Oligocene. But correlation between the two latitudinal regions is more difficult during the Early Oligocene owing to a dominance of paleogeographically restricted species. Eleven new species, three new varieties, and two new combinations are defined in the appendix, which also includes a species list.
10.2307/1485583|Silicoflagellate specimens referable to the genus Octactis Schiller were examined from suspended particle and sediment trap samples recovered from the Panama Basin, near the Hawaiian Islands and in the equatorial Atlantic. The observations on skeletal structures indicate that the genus Octactis is best considered a synonym of the genus Distephanus.
10.2307/1485602|Extensive study of the radiolarian genus Anthocyrtidium Haeckel in Neogene (< 8 Ma) sediment from the tropical Indian and Pacific Oceans permits description of the detailed morphologies of ten species (two new) along with their geographic and stratigraphic ranges. Phylogenetic lineages may be proposed in some cases, but in general our studies have not revealed clear evolutionary trends. However, eight stratigraphically useful and easily recognizable Neogene datum levels based on Anthocyrtidium can be identified and paleomagnetically dated.
10.2307/1485806|Analysis of the microfauna of the Jealousy Formation and Kingshill Limestone from four cored wells, two water wells, and ten outcrops in the Kingshill basin of St. Croix allows a comprehensive reconstruction of the Neogene stratigraphic evolution of the island. This study results in the first precise biostratigraphic zonation and paleoenvironmental evaluation of these Neogene units in the subsurface as well as a re-evaluation of the age and correlation of outcropping strata. The Jealousy Formation is an entirely subsurface unit of dark, plankton-rich marls which contains planktonic foraminifera indicative of the lower part of the middle Miocene (Praeorbulina glomerosa Zone to the Globorotalia fohsi fohsi Zone) and a middle bathyal benthic microfauna. The Kingshill Limestone conformably and diachronously overlies the Jealousy Formation and is subdivided into two members, both of which occur in outcrops and the subsurface. The lower of these, the La Reine Member, is characterized by buff pelagic limestones and marls with an upward increasing proportion of intercalated shelf-derived debris. It ranges from the basal part of the middle Miocene (Praeorbulina glomerosa Zone) to the upper part of the uppermost Miocene (Globorotalia humerosa Zone), and exhibits a transition from middle bathyal (600-800m) to upper bathyal (200-300m) environments. The uppermost part of the Kingshill Limestone, the Manning's Bay Member, is made up of skeletal debris-rich carbonate slope deposits and is placed near the Miocene-Pliocene boundary. Biostratigraphic control indicates activation of the St. Croix graben fault system and formation of the Kingshill basin at the beginning of the late Miocene. The Neogene section records deposition in an open-marine setting at middle bathyal depths during the early middle Miocene, shoaling gradually to upper bathyal depths in the late middle and late Miocene and more rapidly to a shallow-marine setting at the beginning of the Pliocene. Shoaling was accompanied by an increasing proportion of transported shallow marine sediments. Subsidence analysis for the section indicates more than 400 m of tectonic uplift between 10.5 and 3.5 Ma. Two depositional shifts in the Kingshill Limestone may be tied chronostratigraphically to postulated major global sea-level falls. An interval of carbonate debris in the type section of the Kingshill Limestone may record a fall at 10.5 Ma, and a disconformity at the base of the Mannings Bay Member may be tied to a fall at 5.5 Ma.
10.2307/1485330|Six spinose species of planktonic foraminifera (Hastigerina pelagica (d'Orbigny), Globigerinella aequilateralis (Brady), Globigerinoides ruber (d'Orbigny), Globigerinoides sacculifer (Brady), Globigerinoides conglobatus (Brady) and Orbulina universa d'Orbigny) are routinely collected by scuba diving in the Sargasso Sea off Bermuda and are maintained in the laboratory. These and non-spinose species can also be collected with plankton nets for laboratory culture. H. pelagica recovers extremely well from the net-towing operation. The mean survival times of H. pelagica, G. aequilateralis, G. ruber, G. sacculifer, G. conglobatus and O. universa in laboratory cultures are 21.1, 10.6, 6.2, 6.7, 11.8 and 8.8 days, respectively. These figures reflect in part the onset of gametogenesis, which terminates the life of the mother cell. During gametogenesis, which occurs over a period of about thirteen hours, the mother shell sinks and sheds its spines, and hundreds of thousands of gametes are released. Gametogenesis has been observed in nine species. All six spinose species possess one or more types of associated algae, which vary widely in size and number. The external ones are large dinoflagellates, such as Pyrocystis fusiformis, P. noctiluca and Dissodinium spp., which occur with H. pelagica. The smaller ones (zooxanthellae) in G. sacculifer, G. ruber and O. universa exhibit a circadian periodicity of ingress into the shell in the evening and egress to the rhizopodial network and the distal parts of the spines during the day. Some planktonic foraminiferal species are herbivorous, others are carnivorous, and still others are omnivorous. Copepods appear to be the main diet of G. aequilateralis and H. pelagica, both of which are fed Artemia nauplii in the laboratory. Shell and spine growth have been observed, and the formation of a new chamber in G. ruber takes place in about 90 minutes.
10.2307/1484824|Holothurian sieve plates from the Middle Devonian of Bohemia, described by F. Prantl in a rare Czech paper under the name of Achistrum bohemicum Prantl, 1947, should be listed as Eocaudina bohemica (Prantl) to prevent misunderstanding. The genus Achistrum has been found in the Middle Devonian of western Germany together with sieve plates, wheels, needles, and a multiradiate sclerite.
10.2307/1485829|The recent discovery of well preserved, complete spheres of Biantholithus sparsus in a clay layer from the K/T boundary interval in the Geulhemmerberg section resulted in a search for coccospheres of other taxa. Applying the same new preparation- and SEM techniques, coccospheres of over 30 Cretaceous and Tertiary species were found; they are illustrated and briefly described in this paper. Based on the excellent state of preservation of the coccospheres of several Cretaceous species it is suggested that they survived the K/T boundary event(s).
10.2307/1484947|The planktonic foraminiferal fauna of core 6275, Tongue of the Ocean, Bahamas, was analyzed in terms of 1) planktonic/benthonic ratio, 2) planktonic number, 3) planktonic species diversity, 4) relative abundance of individual species, 5) ratios of species, and 6) factor-vector analysis. Use of the first three analytical techniques as paleoecological indicators was unsuccessful. R-mode factor-vector analysis indicated that planktonic foraminiferal population densities were dependent upon a complex interaction of both abiotic and biotic factors. This, along with statistical restraints placed upon closed number systems, severely limits the use of individual planktonic foraminiferal species as paleoecological indicators. Q-mode factor-vector analysis was used in conjunction with a non-tropical/tropical faunal ratio to analyze the population structure, paleoecology and chronology of core 6275. It was found that the present planktonic foraminiferal fauna at the locality of core 6275 stemmed from the beginning of the Wisconsin and appeared to be adapted to a slightly cooler, less saline environment than the fauna which preceded it. Seven faunal zones were delineated, representing glacial, interstadial and interglacial stages. It is believed that these zones span a period of time from the present back into the Sangamon. Paleoecological analyses indicated that only minor fluctuations occurred in both temperature and salinity regimes between glacials, interstadials and interglacials. Temperature and salinity variations between glacial and non-glacial stages were probably no more than a degree or two Celsius and a few hundredths of one part per thousand, respectively. Core 6275 indicated that the climate deteriorated slowly throughout the Wisconsin and that the most intense glacial stage of the Wisconsin occurred just prior to the amelioration which resulted in the Holocene.
10.2307/1484475|The planktonic foraminifera of northwestern Peru are discussed with regard to their value as index fossils. Formation tables, an index map of northwestern Peru, and a range chart of Peruvian planktonic foraminifera are included.
10.2307/1484381|Fifteen species of planktonic foraminifera are recorded from the middle Tertiary rocks of Puerto Rico. It is concluded that the two areas of outcrop of these rocks represent roughly contemporaneous successions which are lower to middle Miocene in age. The significance of two miogypsinid species is briefly considered.
4097061|To help understand potential biases in coccolithophore paleo-biodiversity estimates various aspects of their biology are reviewed based on the recent monographic guide to extant coccolithophore taxonomy and research developed within the CODENET project. The evidence for life-cycles in coccolithophores involving two biomineralized phases is reviewed in detail, and it is shown that these are likely to have been pervasive through the fossil record of coccolithophores. The extent of polymorphism in extant coccolithophores is reviewed and a surprisingly strong correlation with phylogeny is documented, in particular it is shown that there is a very strong correlation between polymorphism in heterococcolith and holococcolith-bearing phases. Recent documentation of (pseudo)cryptic speciation in coccolithophores is discussed and it is argued that this provides considerable support for the rather fine morphological taxonomy adopted by nannofossil paleontologists, but also means that accurate recognition of species in the fossil record is an almost impossible goal. Finally the diversity of extant coccolithophores is compared with that recorded in Holocene sediments and it is shown that the majority of extant diversity is represented by small rare species with very low preservation potential. It is argued that this is the most serious potential biasing mechanism for study of paleobiodiversity changes since estimates of diversity at any time will be strongly influenced by the availability of well-preserved shelf sediments and of the intensity of their study by electron microscopy. Moreover, secular changes in coccolith size in relation to environmental change could significantly affect the preserved diversity of coccolithophores.
10.2307/1485274|For scanning electron microscopy, radiolarian specimens have to be mounted on stubs, often involving complicated procedures and expenditure of time. A simple method is proposed, requiring only basic, inexpensive materials, permitting manipulation of radiolarians with a minimal risk of breaking and providing an even black background for photography.
1486023| During Mesozoic time Turkey was situated within the Tethyan Realm. The stratigraphic section KEL of pelagic sequences on the Sakarya Continent (=SC) (northwest Turkey) is latest Tithonian-Berriasian in age based on radiolarians and co-occurring calpionellids and calcareous nannofossils. Section PEM, from fragmented slope deposits of SC, is defined as late Valanginian in age for the first time based on its radiolarians. Pantanelliids comprise  25% of Berriasian and  39% of late Valanginian radiolarian faunas in these sections. Two new genera, Cana and Denize, and six new species, Cana elegans, Cecrops anatolicus, Cecrops blomei, Cecrops (?) pessagnoi, Denize magnifica, and Gorgansium lingi are described. 
40607116|In the late summer of 2004, Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP) Expedition 302, also called the Arctic Coring Expedition (ACEX), successfully drilled the first deep boreholes on the Lomonosov Ridge in the central Arctic Ocean. The well preserved fossil diatoms used here are from biosiliceous Unit 2 in Holes 2 A and 4A of middle Eocene age. In the lower part of Unit 2, resting spores occurred abundantly with other fossil diatoms. 25 diatom resting spore taxa and five allied vegetative cell taxa are described in this study of ACEX samples. Moreover 11 diatom taxa which did not occur in these sediments are also described for comparison with the Eocene Arctic resting spores. Their biostratigraphic ranges are also indicated. 10 of the resting spore species which occur in the ACEX samples had already appeared during the late Cretaceous while the rest of them appeared in Eocene. 21 of 25 (84%) resting spore taxa became extinct during the middle Eocene to early Oligocene. Most resting spore taxa described in this study do not belong to Chaetoceros resting spores because they lack a single ring of puncta on the hypovalve mantle that characterizes the resting spores of Chaetoceros and became extinct before Oligocene, therefore it is clear that Chaetoceros did not flourish in the middle Eocene in the Arctic Ocean. Other diatom genera that produced resting spores such as Pterotheca and Pseudopyxilla, might have prospered before the Eocene/Oligocene boundary, although their vegetative cells are unknown so far. Since some Chaetoceros resting spore taxa are reported in this study, most coastal regions experienced regular seasonal environmental change, which benefitted genera such as Pterotheca, Pseudopyxilla and Odontotropis, but also there might have been some patchy coastal upwelling regions with nutrient depletion and sporadic supplies where Chaetoceros may have survived. The abundant dinoflagellate cysts preserved in middle Eocene ACEX cores provide evidence of stable conditions before the Eocene/Oligocene boundary. The resting spore ecology of most resting spore taxa before the Eocene may have been similar to that of dinoflagellate cysts rather than that of Chaetoceros resting spores after the Oligocene.
10.2307/1484583| The writer has studied the types of the Upper Tertiary species of Cytheridea (Leptocytheridea), a subgenus based on larval molts, and the adult species (primarily of Haplocytheridea) to which they belong. The resulting taxonomic revisions and synonymies are presented in the systematics. Lectotypes are designated for several species. The antimerodont hinge seems to be the common larval hinge of the Cytherideinae, regardless of the adult hinge type. This suggests that the primitive hinge of the Cytheracea is the hemisolenic type (e.g., antimerodont), rather than the holosolenic type (e.g., holomerodont) as proposed by Pokorn (1957). The occurrences of holosolenic hinges in advanced groups with hemisolenic hinges, such as the Cytherideinae, is considered as an innovation rather than a retention of ancestral characters. 
10.2307/1484972|Two deep-sea cores from a rise on the east side of the Falkland Plateau in the South Atlantic penetrated a Miocene-Pliocene siliceous ooze containing abundant tests of the silicoflagellate Mesocena circulus. This species has previously been recorded from Upper Miocene-Lower Pliocene sediments in the North Pacific Ocean. The occurrence of such a nearly monospecific ooze is unique and may be related to special oceanographic and/or climatic conditions.
10.2307/1485499|Disarticulated plates of the dasycladacean alga Acicularia elongata elongata (Carozzi) 1955 have been described from the Coralline Oolite Formation (Corallian; Lower to Middle Oxfordian, Upper Jurassic) of North Yorkshire, U.K. The occurrence of these algae extends the Upper Jurassic distribution of the genus Acicularia in Europe from Yugoslavia, Italy, Switzerland and France to England. The presence of the forms also solves the apparent anomaly of the absence of dasycladacean algae from the Corallian of England. The algae grew in coralliferous facies in a period of carbonate deposition (the Corallian) which occurred during 'the great Oxfordian spread' of Arkell. This alga is important as a paleoenvironmental indicator of tropical shallow-water conditions.
10.2307/1484489|A study limited to one group of microfossils suggests only a partial resolution of stratigraphic problems, whereas an investigation of the total fossil microbiota is more effective. Tertiary sedimentary rocks lend themselves well to paleoecological studies, since many of the faunal and floral elements have modern equivalents, and they occur in assemblages similar to those of living forms. For a fuller understanding of Tertiary sediments, it is important that the ecology of Recent aquatic and terrestrial environments be appreciated. Composite studies have aided in more complete understanding of certain paleoecological problems, in closer stratigraphic correlations, and in the discerning of facies trends.
30135299|Coarse size (>63m) radiolarian fluxes along the Equator in the central and western Pacific between 145E and 160W (Stations MT3, MT4, MT5, MT6 and MT7) were examined during January 1999 to January 2003 in order to evaluate how radiolarian assemblages respond to the El Nio Southern Oscillations (ENSO). Radiolarian fluxes were constrained by the water masses: the Western Pacific Warm Pool (WPWP) located in the west and the Equatorial Upwelling Region (EUR) east of the WPWP in the central equatorial Pacific. In general, radiolarian fluxes gradually increased from the western sites to the eastern sites, responding to the increases in nutrient supply and primary production in the euphotic layer. Notable annual cycles of radiolarian fluxes observed at the two Stations with nearly complete time series (MT3 and MT5) were likely corresponding to the rainy seasons of Papua New Guinea (MT3) and the extent of upwelling intensity in the equatorial Pacific (MT3 and MT5). With transition from La Nia to El Nio during 2001 to 2002, high radiolarian fluxes were coincident with cooler surface water. Among the radiolarian taxa, Lithomelissa sp. group and Pseudocubus obeliscus Haeckel 1887, which were mainly dwelling in the surface water in the EUR, responded distinctively to the WPWP excursion and decreased their fluxes as surface water temperature rose.
10.2307/1484576|The lineages of Globigerina bulloides, Globigerina ampliapertura to G. apertura, Globigerinoides quadrilobatus to Orbulina, and Globorotalia fohsi are described as developed in the temperate southeastern Australian region. Comparison with tropic and northern temperate faunas demonstrates continuous temperate-climate optimum development for Globigerina bulloides and tropic for Globorotalia fohsi. The others were tolerant and allow reliable interprovincial stratigraphic correlation. Tertiary marine faunal provinces were distributed asymmetrically about the equator, probably by major ocean currents, as at present.
10.2307/1485354|Eocytheropteron retroversicardinatum, n. sp. shows reversal of valve overlap and hinge elements. It is found in Kuwait, only in the lower Ahmadi Limestone Member of Early Cenomanian age. Forms with normal and forms with reversed valve structures do not anywhere exist at the same stratigraphic level.
10.2307/1484932|In the scanning electron microscopy of microfossils, aluminum plating is preferable to gold because aluminum is more easily removed.
20627985|A revision of Praeorbitolinoides japonica, established by Matsumaru (2005) as new genus and species from the Aptian of Hokkaido (Japan), reveals that this taxon is identical with transitional forms between Praeorbitolina cormyi and P. wienandsi Schroeder 1964 known from the upper part of the early Aptian (Deshayesites deshayesi and Dufrenoyia furcata ammonite Zones) of the Tethyan realm. Praeorbitolina gr. cormyi-wienandsi and possibly Palorbitolina lenticularis represent at present the oldest orbitolinids found in Japan. The former genus is reported for the first time from the circum-North Pacific regions.
10.2307/1484425| The classification at present applied in the study of fossil holothurian sclerites is briefly outlined, and a major difficulty in the selection of valid criteria for the "speciation" of such microfossils is discussed. Groups of morphologically similar sclerites (morphogroups) derived from the Recent holothurians Holothuria impatiens (Forskl) and Cucumaria saxicola Brady and Robertson are subjected to statistical analysis by standard univariate and bivariate techniques. The results are discussed in detail, and broad conclusions are drawn as to the application of statistical methods as an objective basis for the taxonomy (qua parataxonomy) of fossil morphogroups. A less rigid approach to the concept of the "type specimen" of the "species" is recommended. 
40607083|The original type section of the Reef Trail Member (uppermost part of the Bell Canyon Formation) is called the Park Boundary Section, and is less than satisfactory in several aspects. We propose a new reference section designated Reef Trail Reference section 1 (RTR1) on the same hill as the original type section. Section RTR1 compensates for some of the Park Boundary Section's shortcomings, including better exposure of a single measured section with only minor offset. The conodont biostratigraphy of section RTR1 is presented that, when combined with a better set of described correlation intervals, allows for improved correlation to recently discovered, complete, basinal sections in the Patterson Hills. In comparison with the South Boundary basin section, both the Park Boundary and RTRl sections are missing approximately the upper third of the Reef Trail Member. Transitional conodonts from the basin demonstrate that Jinogondolella crofti evolved directly from J. altudaensis. We formally elevate Clarkina postbitteri hongshuiensis to C. hongshuiensis.
4499763| The new gonyaulacoid dinoflagellate Pentadinium galileoi Sancay et al., sp. nov. from the Oligocene-Lower Miocene sediments of Eastern Anatolia has been identified. It is spherical, chordate with prominant discoidal cingulum and distally furcate apical, sulcal, and antapical processes. It has a type P (3") archeopyle, and periarcheopyle is larger than endoarcheopyle. Tabulation is distinct and it has a formula of lpr, 3-4', 6",6c, 6"', lp, 1"". Wall structure is granular in intraplate areas, and it has gonal spines at apex, posterior intercalary, and antapex. Processes at gonal positions may be on a variably developed antapical 'skirt' formed by extended septa (2-3 ipm), minute bifurcate spines intergonally and along cingulum at plate intersections. Periphragm and endophragm appressed except at cingular area and at septa. The size of the cysts ranges between 73-89m with an avarage of 84m. 
4097081|Examination of benthic foraminifera from six vibracores collected from a relict flood tidal delta near the Virginia/North Carolina border documents the assemblages associated with a former inlet and provides geologic evidence of this former inlet that once defined the boundary between Virginia and North Carolina along the Outer Banks. Three distinct foraminiferal assemblages were identified. The oldest assemblage contained abundant and diverse forms, dominated by Elphidium excavatum and several other calcareous species typical of shallow nearshore areas. Sediment immediately below and above this diverse calcareous assemblage was barren or nearly barren of foraminifera. A medium-salinity agglutinated marsh assemblage characterized mainly by Trochammina inflata with fewer Tiphotrocha comprimata overlies the uppermost barren unit. The core top assemblage was dominated by low-salinity marsh species Jadammina macrescens, Miliammina petila and Miliammina fusca. A comparison of these vertically-stacked assemblages with the modern geographic distribution of assemblages in the Outer Banks estuarine system and on the nearby continental shelf reveals a succession of depositional environments proceeding from estuarine and flood tidal delta to medium salinity marsh to lower salinity marsh. These changes in depositional environments reflect a rapid and dramatic increase in salinity caused by the opening of an inlet followed by a gradual decrease in salinity due to inlet shoaling and eventual marsh colonization of the flood tidal delta. These changes cannot be determined through sedimentological studies alone; micropaleontological analysis is required. We conclude this distinctive trend of changing depositional environments constitutes paleontological evidence of the origin and evolution of Old Currituck Inlet that breached the barrier spit prior to 1585AD, actively built a flood tidal delta for more than 145 years, and then closed in 1731AD allowing the flood tidal delta to become colonized by marsh species.
30130916|Taxonomic revision of the gublerinid serial planktonic foraminifera of the Late Cretaceous (late Campanian-Maastrichtian) reveals that the group consists of two genera, Gublerina Kikone 1948 and Praegublerina gen. nov., which evolved from the finely costate, biserial species Heterohelix planata (Cushman 1938). Three species are included within Praegublerina: P. pseudotessera (Cushman 1938), P. acuta (de Klasz 1953) and P. robusta (de Klasz 1953), the first being the oldest of the genus and a descendant of Heterohelix planata (Cushman 1938). Gublerina cuvillieri Kikone 1948 and G. rajagopalani Govindan 1972 are retained within Gublerina. The two lineages are recognized based on gross test architecture, test ornamentation, pore size and internal test morphology. Our study reveals the existence of an evolutionary continuum between lineages in which the gublerinid-type chamber proliferation is independently developed in Gublerina and Praegublerina. The new taxonomic framework reects the iterative pattern of planktonic foraminiferal evolution and it results in a better understanding of the stratigraphic and geographic distribution of the gublerinid taxa. Stable isotopic comparison of G. rajagopalani and G. cuvillieri with co-occurring late Maastrichtian benthic and planktonic species indicates that the two Gublerina species shared the same depth habitat near the thermocline.
4097039|The determination of radiolarite ages of supraophiolitic rocks date the expansion age of oceanic crust. Radiolarites from the Gets nappe, a decollement cover nappe, provide the means of dating selected localities of outcropping oceanic crust based on their radiolarian faunas. Some studied samples from the ophiolitic
10.2307/1485631|A technique for preparing quantitative radiolarian slides from deep-sea sediments is described. Only relatively small amounts of sediment and chemicals are required. The cleaning steps use hydrochloric acid, hydrogen peroxide and potassium dichromate. Two methods for dispersing the sample are described. Particles are randomly distributed on coverslips with a settling technique. The part of the sample remaining after slides are made can be concentrated for storage using either a filtering or a settling technique. Formulas for calculating absolute numbers of radiolarian tests in a sample are given.
10.2307/1484522|The character of the test of members of the Lepidocyclinidae and Lepidocyclininae are reviewed. Generic distinctions are based primarily on characters of the megalospheric nucleoconch. All generic and subgeneric names are discussed, and the genera Lepidocyclina (subgenera Lepidocyclina and Nephrolepidina), Eulepidina and Pliolepidina are adopted. Polylepidina belongs to the subfamily Helicolepidininae. An alternative treatment of species reclassified by Cole (1960a-c) is suggested. A stratigraphically significant fauna from Trinidad is described. Age-determinations of some significant occurrences are revised.
10.2307/1484254|The Recent brackish-water foraminiferal faunas of the river estuaries and mangrove swamps of Trinidad are described briefly, and notes on the distribution of species are given. Comparable brackish-water faunas of Miocene and Pliocene age are outlined, and some of the species they have in common with the Recent faunas are described. Comparisons are drawn, where possible, between conditions of deposition of fossil and Recent faunas.
10.2307/1484518|A new species of fossil fern, Azolla geneseana, based on megaspores and massulae is described and illustrated from the Upper Cretaceous Edmonton Formation of western Canada. The definition of Azolla primaeva is expanded and a comparison with Azolla intertrappea suggests that the two are probably conspecific. It is suggested that the section Azolla has a longer geologic record than and gave rise to the section Rhizosperma. Azolla prisca would represent a transitional form midway between the two sections. Azolla species may be useful in subdividing the entire continental Tertiary sequence.
10.2307/1484763|The contact between the Pedawan and Plateau Sandstone Formations in Sarawak is palynologically studied. Fifty-six marker species are described, of which thirty-two are new, and they are assigned to thirty-eight genera, of which six are new. Six palynological zones are established, ranging in age from Cenomanian to Eocene. Unconformable contact between the two formations is indicated, supporting field geological evidence. Floristic affinities of the microflora are discussed.
10.2307/1484248|The value of smaller foraminifera in Upper Palaeozoic stratigraphy is enhanced greatly by the adoption of an integrated procedure of analysis, using assemblages from both the hard and the soft rocks of any one sequence. This partial fusion of the "solid" and thin-section analytical methods reveals the inadequacies of each when employed singly. Its combined character leads to much greater accuracy in palaeontological and stratigraphic studies, and, at the same time, indicates many of its own limitations. In the present paper, examples are drawn from the British Avonian Palaeotextulariidae to illustrate the combined method.
10.2307/1485316|Seven species of foraminifera and 3 of ostracodes described by Chapman (1909) from New South Wales proved to be pellets only superficially resembling shells of organisms. Prismatic calcite cement may have been mistaken for shell substance. Other "fossils" described by Lovering (1954) are also inorganic. They are siderite spherulites plus a radiolarian (?) within a lithic grain. Until the present, the so-called microfossils provided the most cogent evidence for the interpretation of marine influence during the deposition of the Wianamatta Group.
10.2307/1485715|The Kellogg Shale of northern California has traditionally been considered to be late Eocene in age on the basis of benthic foraminifer, radiolarian, and diatom correlations. The 30-m-thick Kellogg section exposed west of Byron, California, however, contains middle Eocene planktonic foraminifers (Zone P12), coccoliths (Subzones CP13c and CP14a), silicoflagellates (Dictyocha hexacantha Zone), and diatoms. Quantitative studies of the silicoflagellates and diatoms show a general cooling trend through the section which is consistent with paleoclimatic trends for this part of the middle Eocene (ca. 42-45 Ma) from elsewhere in the world. Seven new silicoflagellate taxa (Corbisema angularis, C. exilis, C. hastata miranda, C. inermis ballantina, C. regina, Dictyocha byronalis, Naviculopsis americana) and one new coccolithophorid species (Helicosphaera neolophota) are described.
10.2307/1485208|Coccoliths in recent sediments from the Great Barrier Reef Province, Torres Strait and Coral Sea have geographically distinctive patterns of diversity, relative abundance and species distributions. Gephyrocapsa oceanica along with Emiliania huxleyi dominate most samples from the shallower waters of this region. The minor species are primarily scapholiths and cyrtoliths. Due to severe environmental stresses, the Torres Strait and northern Great Barrier Reef floras are extremely limited, whereas to the south there is increasing diversity due to enhanced circulation of Coral Sea waters. The pelagic floras of the Coral Sea are relatively diverse, with E. huxleyi and G. oceanica the dominant species, but G. oceanica declines in abundance around the basin. The abyssal Coral Sea flora is strongly modified by taphonomic processes.
10.2307/1485995| Benthic foraminifers from the size fraction greater than 63m were studied in 54 samples from the late Paleocene-Quaternary sequence of DSDP Site 548. In total 362 taxa were identified, 103 of which were considered as the most representative. Clustering of the samples on the basis of these foraminifers enabled recognition of six assemblage zones. The most important faunal break took place at the Eocene/Oligocene boundary. Thirty-four taxa appeared to be long ranging, being recorded from the Paleocene/Eocene through the Pliocene/Quaternary; the most abundant of these was Cassidulina subglobosa subglobosa. Absolute foraminiferal abundance was highest in the Oligocene. Relationships between water masses and marker species in Site 548 are in disgreement with results of most previous authors. The biostratigraphic zonation based on benthic foraminifers proposed by Berggren and Miller (1989) was not applicable to the site under study; not only were there very few foraminifers in common in two species lists, but also the few shared ones showed mostly dissimilar stratigraphic distribution. 
3648437|Well preserved nannofossil assemblages in upper Albian and lower Cenomanian hemipelagic sections from Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Leg 171B preserve a record of the early history and adaptive radiation of the genus Eiffellithus. Seven distinct taxa are recognized and differentiated, with one previously named taxon (E. monechiae) emended and four new species described: E. praestigium, E. vonsalisiae, E. equibiramus, and E. parvus. Sample census data indicate that most species evolved, rose to dominance, and then rapidly declined to extinction, to be replaced by other members of the genus. Newly evolved species tended to remain at low abundance levels until a significant disruption in the pelagic realm resulted in the precipitous decline of the dominant species. This decline provided open niche space in the pelagic realm into which the new species could rapidly rise to dominance. These major disruptions correspond to significant changes or shifts in the sedimentological and carbon isotopic records associated with the late Albian Oceanic Anoxic Event (OAE-1d), suggesting that major changes in the strength of deep mixing and the structure of the surface water mass drove the early adaptive radiation of Eiffellithus.
10.2307/1484831|Cutinized microfossils which lack haptotypic features are described from the Permian of Western Australia. It is suggested that these forms be classified as acritarchs, and the new acritarch Subgroup Schizomorphitae is introduced to accommodate forms which tend to rupture equatorially. Four new genera, Haplocystia, Mehlisphaeridium, Pyramidosporites and Spongocystia, and eight new species are instituted.
10.2307/1485069|Clarification of the early history of the Globigerinoides trilobus lineage is a prerequisite for its use in basal Miocene correlation. Changes in the lineage are demonstrated by analysis of intrasample and intersample variation of two stratigraphically sequential occurrences of the lineage in southern New Zealand. Apertures show high variability and changing patterns of correlation. The height of the primary aperture provides good discrimination between samples. Its use to differentiate basal Miocene populations with a high primary aperture (G. trilobus altiapertura) from subsequent populations (uppermost or post-Burdigalian) with a low primary aperture (G. trilobus trilobus) is advocated.
10.2307/1485781|Agglutinated foraminifera from a section of the Chipaque Formation (Cenomanian-Campanian) in the Eastern Cordillera of Colombia are reported. The foraminiferal assemblage is dominated by species of the genera Ammobaculites and Haplophragmoides. The stratigraphic ranges of Ammobaculites colombianus, Haplophragmoides walteri, and Haplophragmoides rugosus are extended from a previously known Coniacian-Maastrichtian to a Cenomanian-Maastrichtian distribution, according to their appearance in the Chipaque Formation. Similarly, the range of Saccamina globosa (Cenomanian-Turonian) is extended to the Maastrichtian. The predominance of agglutinated foraminifera in the section is ascribed to undersaturation of calcium carbonate in the water column over the inner to outer shelf, due to the influx of terrigenous material. The array of parasequences composed of mudstone-sandstone couplets indicate landward and basinward coastline migrations that correspond to third order depositional sequences.
4499762|The Paleogene neritic sedimentary succession in Jaisalmer Basin is correlated with the stratigraphic record in the Indus basin, Pakistan. In a number of exploratory oil wells drilled westward (basinward) in Jaisalmer the shelf stratigraphic record is more complete than in outcropping sections to the east. In the Tanot-1 well (Oil India Limited) Paleocene sandstone, marl, clay, glauconitic limestone and shale unconformably overlie upper Cretaceous strata. Zone P4 is recognized in about 36m of arenaceous and calcareous clays and marl, which transgresses the lithostratigraphic boundary between the Ranikot Formation and the succeeding Laki Formation. Planktonic foraminifers in Zone P4 and lower Zone P5 are found only in the -80 ASTM fraction of the residue. Rich plank foraminiferal assemblages are found in the maroon coloured shale, clay, limestone and marl beds 42m above the base of Zone P5 and this level is characterized by the common occurrence of Morozovella rajasthanensis n. sp., Globanomalina luxorensis morphotypes with their typical slightly asymmetric aperture along with Acarinina africana, A. sibaiyaensis and Morozovella allisonensis morphotypes. Morozovellids with weak ornamentation and slightly biconvex axially compressed tests are also present at this level that is marked by the abundance of acarininids. This biotic evidence of the presence of planktonic foraminiferal taxa typically related to the global Paleocene/Eocene boundary warming event (PETM) is recorded about 39m above the base of Zone P5, which is 102m thick in the Tanot- I well. The presence of Subzone P5b is indicated by the occurrence of excursion-taxa namely Acarinina sibaiyaensis, A. africana and Morozovella allisonensis. In the inner-middle shelf M. rajasthanensis n. sp., a morphological variant of M. acuta with larger number of chambers in the last whorl, weak muricocarina and umbilical-shoulder ornamentation commonly present above the barren clay beds (1005m) appeared during the PETM and characterizes the Subzone P5b (Berggren and Ouda 2003). The Paleocene-Eocene planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy as proposed by Berggren and Ouda, (2003) is applicable to the Indus Basin.
10.2307/1485833|Proteolobus wallii gen. et sp. nov. is described and illustrated from the Iquiri Formation (Devonian), Sierras Subandinas region, Bolivia. This new acritarch has a variable morphology consisting of two to twelve lobate processes that originate from a central point. The predominance of specimens with even-numbered processes suggests that Proteolobus may be a type of coenobial alga.
3648466| The calcareous nannofossil species Neobiscutum romeinii, N. parvulum, and Cruciplacolithus primus, are considered in modern zonation schemes as index species for the lowermost Paleocene. Our studies, however, reveal that they are consistently present in upper Maastrichtian calcareous nannofossil zone CC26. The two Neobiscutum species were found several meters below the Cretaceous-Paleogene (K-P) boundary in cores from Brazos River (Texas) and Antioch Church (Alabama), and in outcrops at Geulhemmerberg (the Netherlands), El Kef (Tunisia), and Jebel Qurtasiyyat (Jordan). Except for the Jordanian record, the same applies to the occurrence of C. primus. These coccoliths are extremely small, ranging from 0.8 to 2.5m for Neobiscutum and 1.5 to 3.5m for C. primus, and they constitute less than 1% of the calcareous nannofossil association. This may explain why they were not consistently detected below the K-P boundary in earlier investigations. Since these species are not exclusively Paleocene indicators only their prominent acmes or, alternatively, the index species Biantholithus sparsus should be used to unambiguously identify the lowermost Paleocene. The geographic coverage in our study indicates that the late Maastrichtian appearances of N. romeinii, N. parvulum and C. primus are typical for marginal seas of the Northern Hemisphere. 
10.2307/1485692|Consistency in specimen orientation of individuals comprising a sample of microfossils is required if accurate replicate measurements are to be obtained for the purposes of biometric analysis. A method is presented for obtaining geometrically comparable specimen orientations using azimuth and angle correction factors; these may be used to orient a designated specimen plane within a three-dimensional coordinate system defined by the specimen mounting surface. This method affords a significant improvement over stereo-pair techniques in obtaining distance and angular measurements.
10.2307/1485535|The study of eight samples from the Nares Abyssal Plain has shown that the rhizopodan surface population of the area is dominated by forms with fragile, flexible tests. In this rarely reported component of the abyssal population we have identified twenty new species for which holotypes have been designated and figured: Arbor cuspidata, n. gen., n. sp.; A. floccularis, n. sp.; A. hispida, n. sp.; A. multiplex, n. sp.; Aschemonella composita, n. sp.; Cactos mollis, n. gen., n. sp.; Calos chalazius, n. gen., n. sp.; Catena piriformis, n. gen., n. sp.; Cerebrum coralliformis, n. gen., n. sp.; Clados floridus, n. gen., n. sp.; Crambis conclavata, n. gen., n. sp.; Dendrophrya disiuncta, n. sp.; Lana spissa, n. sp.; Linea simplex, n. gen., n. sp.; Radicula ramosa, n. sp.; Reticulum pingue, n. gen., n. sp.; Testulorhiza profundi, n. sp.; Septuma paucisaeptata, n. sp.; Staphylion compactum, n. gen., n. sp.; Tuber proteum, n. gen., n. sp. We have also designated five lectotypes for species previously described and introduced new terms essential for the concise description of komoki and few other abyssal foraminifera. For the rapid identification of the more complex and less known genera we have provided an identification key.
10.2307/1484577|Evidence is presented of the great change in calcareous nannoplankton fossils between the Maestrichtian and Danian, and indicates that it represents primarily a remarkable extinction of a large number of distinctive Cretaceous genera and species. Type areas and sequences in other parts of Europe, North Africa, and the southern United States have been examined, and biostratigraphic correlations are indicated. Six new genera and twelve new species are described, and emended descriptions of some other taxa are presented.
10.2307/1485898|A stratophenetic lineage phylogeny ("phylogram") is proposed for the Paleogene planktonic foraminifera, based on an extensive taxonomic review and fundamental reassessment of their geohistoric record. In this phylogeny, an attempt is made to delineate lines of genetic descent through lineages, rather than relationships among typologically defined morphospecies. The phylogenetics of 20 subgroups of the Paleogene planktonic foraminifera are summarized in a series of "plexigrams," which are graphical representations of previous taxonomic opinions. The phylogeny is constructed with additional consideration of stratigraphic ranges and known examples of intergradation between taxa. As a result, approximately 800 morphospecies are grouped into six principal clades and 134 lineages, of which 70 are terminal (ending in extinction or surviving into the Neogene) and 64 are nonterminal (ending in branching). The phylogeny is in no way intended to replace the existing taxonomic methodology but rather is intended to help elucidate patterns of evolution in the group by allowing cladogenetic and anagenetic modes of evolution to be identified.
24413318|Three new species of ostracodes are reported from the dinosaur-bearing Escucha Formation at Ario in Eastern Spain (Iberian Range): Rosacythere denticulata sp. nov., Theriosynoecum escuchaensis sp. nov. and Theriosynoecum arinnoensis sp. nov. Associated charophyta include Clavator harrisii harrisii and Clavator harrisii zavialensis indicating a Lower Albian age, therefore extending the stratigraphic range of the genus Theriosynoecum into the Albian in southern Europe. The environment of deposition for the dinosaur bonebed is interpreted as permanent lacustrine given the association of limnic ostracodes and charophytes.
40607072|This report deals with part of an ongoing research of the Upper Cretaceous lithostratigraphy, biostratigraphy and chronostratigraphy of the Austin Chalk, northeast Texas. The Family Marginotruncanidae Pessagno is emended herein to include all species showing extraumbilical-non umbilical primary aperture, umbilically. This resulted from the shift of the primary aperture and final chambers away from the umbilicus towards the periphery of the test. Examples of Marginotruncanidae species showing extraumbilical-non umbilical primary aperture include Marginotruncana marginata (Reuss), M. pseudolinneiana Pessagno, M. renzi (Gandolfi), Whiteinella archaeocretacea Pessagno and W. paradubia (Sigal).
10.2307/1485073|Saccate pollen grains extracted from the Pennsylvanian synangiate fructification Idanothekion glandulosum and from five species of the extant genus Picea are described and compared. Morphological and microtopographical features are delimited utilizing the information obtained with the scanning electron microscope.
10.2307/1484725|The subspecies of Globorotalia fohsi Cushman and Ellisor and the zones based on them are discussed in the light of Blow and Banner's (1966) publication. As a result, two subspecies, G. fohsi peripheroacuta Blow and Banner and G. fohsi praefohsi Blow and Banner, and a change in name of G. fohsi barisanensis Le Roy sensu Bolli (1950) to G. fohsi peripheroronda Blow and Banner are accepted. Banner and Blow's (1965) Zone N. 10 and the lower part of their Zone N. 11 are incorporated as subzones in the G. fohsi fohsi Zone sensu Bolli (1957). The other taxonomic changes proposed by Blow and Banner (1966) for the G. fohsi lineage and the alterations postulated by Banner and Blow (1965) affecting the zonal scheme based on the subspecies of G. fohsi are rejected.
10.2307/1485153| Marine and fresh-water species of the living dinoflagellate genus Ceratium Schrank, 1793, possess at least one hypothecal horn that is composed strictly of postcingular thecal plates, an asymmetric hypotheca with the right side shorter than the left, and a tabulation pattern that includes three plates within a concave ventral area. These ventral plates have been ignored in earlier works as contributors to the plate formula. We revise the formula from 4, Oa, 5, 4-5c, 5, 2 to 4, Oa, 6, 5-6c, 6, 1p, 1, and suggest that Ceratium is a gonyaulacinean genus. Cysts of freshwater C. hirundinella (O. F. Mller) Bergh, 1882, likewise have distinctive horns and an asymmetric hypotract but otherwise are featureless, and they do not become fossilized because they have a cellulose wall. Certain Cretaceous marine fossil dinoflagellates exhibit diagnostically ceratioid features, including postcingular horns, asymmetric hypotracts and, more rarely, the same tabulation pattern as modern Ceratium. These fossils belong to Pseudoceratium Gocht, 1957, Odontochitina Deflandre, 1935, Muderongia Cookson and Eisenack, 1958, Endoceratium Vozzhennikova, 1965, Aptea Eisenack, 1958, and Phoberocysta Millioud, 1969. These genera presumably are related to Ceratium through a pattern of iterative evolution involving selective preservation of cyst-producing taxa during the Cretaceous. Other fossil genera which we refer to as the Areoligera-Cyclonephelium complex are considered not to be ceratioid, although they are morphologically similar to those listed above in many respects. We believe that Canninginopsis denticulata Cookson and Eisenack, 1962, has a tabulation pattern that may be representative for the Areoligera-Cyclonephelium complex, and we contrast its organization with that of Ceratium. 
4097065|Calcareous nannofossil assemblages were investigated across the Oceanic Anoxic Event (OAE) at the Cenomanian/Turonian Boundary (CTB) in a section from the Western Interior Basin and a borehole from the New Jersey coastal plain. The objective was to determine the surface-water response to environmental perturbations during the OAE. A decrease in surface water fertility at the two localities is suggested by an increase in relative abundances of taxa with oligotrophic affinities and a concomitant decrease in taxa with mesotrophic or eutrophic affinities. Oligotrophy and anoxia at both localities are likely responses to increased water-column stratification associated with the incursion of warmer waters from lower latitudes.
20627982|The study of calcareous nannofossil distributions in three cores from the subtropical front to the Antarctic Divergence (IMAGES MD 97-2114, Subtropical Front; PNRA Anta 95-157, Polar Front; ODP 188-1165, Antarctic Divergence) provides a way to check the reproducibility from low to high latitudes of the most recent calcareous nannoplankton biostratigraphic schemes (Raffi et al. 2006) and to verify the geographic calcareous nannofossil distribution during the Quaternary climate phases. The cores cover different sedimentary records and have various degrees of preservation. Four bioevents are recorded in all studied successions. From older to younger, these are: the re-entry of Medium Gephyrocapsa, the Highest Occurrence (HO) of Reticulofenestra asanoi, the Pseudoemiliania lacunosa HO, and the Lowest Occurrence (LO) of Emiliania huxleyi. This study interprets the calcareous nannofossil distributions in the cores in paleoceanographic terms, evaluating the Antarctic ice-sheet evolution and testifying to the climate relationships between the different geographic areas. During the Early Pleistocene (Jaramillo subchron), while the calcareous nannofossils experienced their maximal abundance in the subtropical region, they are also found near the Antarctic Divergence. From this interval upwards at the Antarctic Divergence, the calcareous nannofossils decrease in relation to more stable glacial conditions of Antarctica. The climate evolution of the Antarctic continent influences the entire Southern Ocean and has led to a sporadic occurrence of calcareous nannofossils near the polar front (PNRA Anta 95-157) and to a slight decrease in their abundance in the subtropical region (MD 97-2114).
40607112|The endemic aquatic acritarch Decahedrella martinheadii is confined to the Atlantic sector of the high northern latitudes in the Miocene and has been previously considered as useful for biostratigraphy and paleoenvironmental interpretations in temperate to cold water environments. Stimulated by its recovery in Neogene sediments from the Lomonosov Ridge (Central Arctic Ocean) during IODP Expedition 302, the stratigraphie and biogeographic distribution has been compiled to revise its age range based on the Astronomically Tuned Neogene Time Scale 2004, and to assess its paleoecologic affinities. The biostratigraphic revision reveals that this species is restricted to the late Middle to Late Miocene. The first appearence is inconsistent at the various sites but was probably in sediments younger than 13 Ma, whereas the last appearance is a relatively well-constrained datum in the Norwegian-Greenland Sea at around 6.2 Ma. Decahedrella martinheadii was particularly abundant and had its widest biogeographic distribution in the northwestern North Atlantic Ocean, the Norwegian-Greenland Sea, the Fram Strait and the Central Arctic Ocean in the Late Miocene suggesting that it was adapted to temperate to cold seasonally ice-covered surface waters. This species evolved during the global cooling after the mid-Miocene thermal optimum, and it became extinct when small-scale glaciations developed in the Northern Hemisphere in the latest Miocene. Moreover, fundamental reorganisations of the circulation system and the water mass characteristics may have affected the distribution of this species.
10.2307/1486104|Benthic foraminifera were collected from the Paleocene-Eocene San Francisco de Paula section, Ciudad de la Habana, Cuba. The benthic foraminifera comprise a small portion (<10%) of the total foraminiferal fauna. In each sample, the benthic foraminifera generally have a high species diversity but few individuals per species. The paleoecologic setting indicated by the benthic foraminifera is middle to upper bathyal. The benthic foraminifera collected from the San Francisco de Paula section are characteristic of the bathyal "Velasco type" fauna. Three intervals of the section contain species associated with the neritic "Midway type" fauna. The fauna in these intervals is a mixed "Midway" and "Velasco" assemblage. The mixing of the two faunas in the section suggests downslope transport of the "Midway type" species. Two important benthic foraminiferal biostratigraphic markers are recognized in the San Francisco de Paula section. The highest occurrence of Stensioina beccariiformis is an important biostratigraphic datum from the bathyal realm and is documented at this locality. Another marker, the highest occurrence of the abundant benthic foraminiferan Osangularia velascoensis, is an important datum in western Cuba and may be useful in upper bathyal Paleocene sections elsewhere in the Caribbean. Two bathyal benthic foraminiferal biozones are recognized at San Francisco de Paula: the Angulogavelinella avnimelechi-Anomalinoides rubinginosus Interval Zone (BB1), and the Anomalinoides capitatus-Hanzawaia ammophila Partial Range Zone (BB2). The benthic foraminiferal fauna from the San Francisco de Paula section has affinities with many upper Paleocene-lower Eocene bathyal faunas worldwide. It is most like the upper Paleocene-lower Eocene benthic foraminiferal fauna collected from the Santa Anita Group of eastern Venezuela.
10.2307/1485462|The Globotruncana aegyptiaca, Gansserina gansseri and Abathomphalus mayaroensis planktonic foraminiferal zones were found in the Colon mudstones of the Colon Formation (Molino River section, northern Colombia, S.A.). A Maastrichtian age is assigned to this unit, rather than the Campanian(?)-Maastrichtian age previously proposed. The Siphogenerinoides cretacea benthonic foraminiferal zone reaches the Gansserina gansseri zone and hence is Maastrichtian rather than Santonian-Campanian, at least for the Rancheria province. The upper boundary of this zone could be either diachronous or "isochronous". The relative sea level curve for the Colon Formation shows two "deep" water intervals (Socuy Member and middle Colon mudstones), separated by an "intermediate" depth interval (lower Colon mudstones). The upper part of the sequence shows a marked regression. Such a pattern is comparable with that of the Arabian Peninsula and NW Europe-W Paris basin with differences due to local tectonics and sedimentation rate. Anomalous samples of the middle part of the Colon mudstones and similar samples described previously at the DSDP site 146 are characterized by a sudden drop of heteroheliciids compared to "unkeeled" and "keeled" planktonic foraminifera, and by a sudden increase of agglutinated foraminifera and buliminids compared to other benthonic groups. Such samples are possibly the result of a subtle decrease in paleoxygenation within a dysaerobic zone.
10.2307/1484286|Wechesia pontis, n. gen. and n. sp. (new family Wechesiidae), is based on the first recorded fossil crustacean gastroliths. These minute objects (less than 0.5 mm. in diameter), planoconvex, finely laminar, and calcareophosphatic, originated in larval marine crayfish. Gastroliths are stratigraphically unimportant, but are significant in paleoecology and in their bearing on crustacean evolution and migration. Summary accounts are given of gastroliths of the crayfish Astacus (from Huxley) and of the lobster Homarus (from Herrick), and those of a Mid-Western crayfish ("Cambarus") are described and figured.
10.2307/1485120| A quantitative study of Pseudohastigerina Banner and Blow, 1959, in tropical to mid-latitude regions indicates the following phylogenetic trends: The derivation of P. micra from P. wilcoxensis during the Middle Eocene by gradual compression of the test; and the reduction in test size in the late Eocene-early Oligocene. (P. micraP. cf. naguewichiensis.) 
10.2307/1485266|Three new dinoflagellate cyst genera, Exiguisphaera, Isthmocystis and Taleisphaera are described, together with their respective type species, E. phragma, n. sp., I. distincta, n. sp., and T. hydra, n. sp.
10.2307/1485021| Scyphosphaera columella Stradner and S. tubicena Stradner, which occur in the Lower Eocene, are the earliest species of Scyphosphaera. Their straight walls are a primitive characteristic of the genus. Scyphosphaera expansa Bukry and Percival, occurring in the lower Middle Eocene, also possesses straight walls, which significantly are inclined outwards. The absence of Scyphosphaera in the Oligocene can be attributed to climatic deterioration during this time in the southwest Pacific. The characteristics of Scyphosphaera species change through the Miocene and Pliocene, and gradually pear-shaped or cylindrical forms develop. In its final development the genus Scyphosphaera shows some atavistic features such as the straight, outwardly inclined walls of S. porosa Kamptner, or forms a very prominent collar, as in S. pulcherrima Deflandre, or exhibits a nearly perfect circular outline, as in S. globulata Bukry and Percival, which develops further to the somewhat elongate forms of S. globulosa Kamptner and S. graphica Mller. The cylindrical forms atavistically exhibit characteristics encountered in S. columella Stradner in the Lower Eocene. S. columella Stradner, S. tubicena Stradner, S. expansa Bukry and Percival, S. porosa Kamptner and S. graphica Mller have not been encountered in eastern Australia. Six new species are introduced. 
1486090|The known stratigraphic and geographic ranges of 50 recently erected species and five recently erected genera of Radiolaria, originally described from the New Zealand area (from the Mahurangi Limestone and Puriri Formation in Northland, and the Oamaru Diatomite in the South Island), are documented. The data is significantly updated from that presented in the original descriptions, and includes information from several DSDP/ODP localities that were not investigated in the original studies. All taxa considered as belonging in the recently erected genera are listed, and full synonymies cover all forms considered as belonging to the recently erected taxa. During the reinvestigation of samples from DSDP Hole 280A three new species were noted and are described herein. The new species are Dictyoprora nigriniae, Plannapus? aitai (Artostrobiidae), and Lithomelissa? sakaii (Plagoniidae). Problems with some age indicator taxa are discussed, namely the possible diachroneity of the last occurrence of Lychnocanium amphitrite, and the extent of the age overlap between Stichocorys delmontensis and Calocycletta (Calocyclopsis) serrata. A distinct biogeographic boundary to Radiolaria exists between the Mahurangi Limestone (Latest Eocene to earliest Miocene), and the Late Eocene to Oligocene sections of the other South Pacific localities investigated. This necessitated the use of two different radiolarian zonal schemes for establishing the age ranges of the new taxa. The boundary seems to be attributable to differing latitudes of deposition and associated water circulation patterns.
4097012| Lakadongia indica n. gen., n. sp. erected by Matsumaru and Jauhri (2003) is a junior synonym of Setia tibetica Ferrndez-Caadell 2002. The genus Lakadongia is based on ambiguous characters and misinterpretation of oblique sections, and it is considered invalid. The postulated evolutionary relationship of these Paleocene orbitoidiform foraminifera with those of Cretaceous age is not justified by structural similarities and inconsistent with the stratigraphical record. 
4097018|Plant pathogens Colletotrichum causing leaf spot and red rot disease, Erysiphe and Uncinula responsible for producing powdery mildews and microthyriaceous ascostromata making black spot on leaves were recovered from the Group A type of coprolite of Matley from the Lameta Formation. This was supposed to be voided by Isisaurus (Titanosaurus) belonging to sauropods. The presence of these fungi in the coprolites indicates that the said dinosaur ate the leaves. As these pathogens occur in all types of plants it is postulated that the Isisaurus used its long, slender neck to browse the trees like modern camels and giraffes. The coprolites also yielded Glomus - a mycorrhizal fungus which probably penetrated into it after it was voided on the surface. On the basis of epiphyllous fungi it is postulated that the dinosaurs lived in a tropical-subtropical climate.
20627975|A new species of agglutinated benthic foraminifera belonging to the Genus Ammodiscus has been discovered in seafloor sediment from the Colombian Caribbean continental slope. Ammodiscus anulatus n. sp. is characterized by a smoothly finished test and by circular constrictions on the tubular chamber.
10.2307/1484243|A simple, rapid, and inexpensive method for concentrating pollen and spores and for cleaning other microfossils is described.
10.2307/1484211|A study of the foraminiferal content of samples from around Santa Catalina Island, California, reveals that the living and dead foraminifera can be divided into three depth zones, ranging from 0 to 20 fathoms, from 21 to 40 fathoms, and from 41 to more than 100 fathoms. Among the factors studied by the author, either temperature or depth or a combination of both is primarily responsible for this bathymetric distribution. Sedimentation and submarine topography were found to be important in the distribution of foraminifera in smaller areas.
10.2307/1485087|Lower Arbuckle Group strata (McKenzie Hill and Cool Creek Formations) have yielded a moderately large conodont fauna of over 2000 identifiable specimens. The various elements have been assigned to 55 species, 4 of them new, distributed among 17 genera. McKenzie Hill conodonts show no dominant group but contain an assortment of species, while Cool Creek conodonts are dominated by an overwhelming number (>60% of the total lower Arbuckle fauna) of specimens of Scolopodus. These include, in order of importance. Scolopodus quadraplicatus Branson and Mehl. S. triangularis Ethington and Clark, S. triplicatus Ethington and Clark, and S. filosus Ethington and Clark. The predominance of these species strongly suggests partial equivalency of Cool Creek beds with the El Paso Formation of West Texas, three of the most abundant Scolopodus species having been first described from the latter formation.
10.2307/1484431|Several techniques useful in the preparation of spores, pollen, hystrichospherids, and similar acid-insoluble microfossils are described. These include oxidation treatments to remove unwanted organic matter; four aids in the mechanical separation of organic and mineral matter; and two methods for making permanent slides using cover-glass smears. A feature of all of these techniques is that the residues are retained in a water-base medium throughout processing.
10.2307/1485474|The taxonomy, ultrastructure and systematic relationships of gomphonemoid diatoms found in the non-marine upper Miocene Hot Springs Limestone (Idaho, USA) are considered. A total of 15 taxa are identified and of these 13 are described as new. The new taxa include 2 species and 1 variety of Gomphoneis and 8 species and 2 varieties of Gomphonema. Lectotypes for two Gomphonema species, G. grovei M. Schm. and G. occidentale var. abbreviata M. Schm., are designated. Intra- and intergeneric similarities and differences in valve ultrastructure are described and used to suggest systematic affinities of the taxa. In Gomphoneis, a species is described that appears to represent a lineage separate from G. elegans and its allies and G. herculeana and its relatives. Several Gomphonema species are described that have chambers around the central area. A specimen of G. grovei is shown to possess recurved, not anchor-shaped, internal proximal raphe ends which suggests a closer affinity to the freshwater gomphonemoid lineage than previously demonstrated. Most of the Gomphonema and Gomphoneis species considered possess stigmata and finer, more radiate striae near the footpole. The high degree of morphological diversity exhibited in both Gomphonema and Gomphoneis suggests the Late Miocene may have been a period of rapid evolutionary change in these genera.
41410970|The study of the foraminifera and ostracodes from the Umm er Radhuma Formation in five wells of the Dukhan Oil Field in Western Qatar allows to reevalute the age of the type-levels of the larger rotaliid foraminifera first described by Smout in his classical paper in 1954 as Early Eocene (late Ypresian, zones P8/9 respectively E6/7 of Berggren and Pearson 2006a). During the Early Eocene, a rather uniform depositional environment prevailed in a large part of the Arabian Platform as indicated by the close similarity of the microfaunas of Western Qatar to those of the same age in the Rub al Khali in Saudi Arabia (Hasson 1985), Wadi Rusayl in Oman, (Racey 1995), Shabwa in southwestern Yemen (Ismail and Boukhary 2008) and this fauna extends eastwards to Tibet (Wan 1991). The environment of deposition of Umm er Radhuma was marine and most probably sheltered lagoon that prevailed during the Ypresian of Qatar. The planktonic and the larger rotaloid foraminifera and the ostracodes are illustrated and discussed briefly.
10.2307/1485268|Analysis of Recent foraminiferal distribution patterns for the Amerasian Basin and the adjacent continental shelves indicate 3 major biofacies: the Trochammina nana biofacies (17-350 m), the Cassidulina teretis biofacies (350-900 m) and the Stetsonia horvathi biofacies (below 900 m), with the T. nana and S. horvathi biofacies divided into subfacies. Water mass properties appear to play the dominant role in controlling the distribution of the biofacies.
10.2307/1485765|Comparative taxonomic studies on late Eocene intermediate-water benthic foraminifera from Japan, U.S. Pacific Coast, southwestern Europe and New Zealand lead to the recognition of two late Eocene intermediate-water faunal provinces: the North Pacific and the South Pacific-Tethyan-Atlantic provinces. The faunal similarity between Oregon-Washington and Hokkaido in species rank is 28% (41 species; 78% of these species are endemic to these areas) and that between southwestern Europe and New Zealand is 11% (16 species; 63% of these are endemic). These percentages are relatively high as compared to the 3-6% similarities (0% endemic species) in other comparable data sets.
10.2307/1484599|Cladognathodus Rexroad and Collinson, 1961, must be rejected as an unjustified emendation with status as a junior objective synonym of the conodont generic name Kladognathus Rexroad, 1958.
3648452|A planktonic foraminiferal zonal scheme is proposed for the internal basinal successions of the Monferrato and Northern Appennines (late Bartonian-early Serravallian). This scheme is based on a synthesis of quantitative analyses performed on the foraminiferal assemblages from 30 Stratigraphic sections, cropping out over a distance of 300 km, between the Piedmont and the Northern Appennines. The proposed zonal scheme represents the synthesis, with minor changes, of the biozonations proposed by Novaretti et al. (1995) and Mancin and Pirini (2001) with the addition of unpublished data from some new sections, spanning a broader temporal and geographical range. With respect to the previous regional and standard biozonations, this scheme shows a better biostratigraphical resolution resulting from the replacement of missing or unreliable standard bioevents with new "reproducible" and reliable regional biohorizons. These new events are: LO of muricate species, which identifies the top of the Acarinina spp., Globigerinatheka spp. and Turborotalia cerroazulensis Assemblage Zone because Truncorotaloides rohri is very rare to absent; LO of Turborotalia cerroazulensis lineage, which marks the top of the Turborotalia cerroazulensis Interval Zone because the Hantkenina group is absent; LO of psuedohastigerinids, which marks the upper boundary of the Pseudohastigerina spp. Interval Zone because Cassigerinella chipolensis and Pseudohastigerina micra do not co-occur; the former appears later, in the Globigerina ampliapertura Zone, whereas the latter often disappears near the Eocene/Oligocene boundary; FCO of Paragloborotalia opima opima, which identifies the Paragloborotalia opima opima Subzone boundary (IFP21a/IFP21b) because the LO of Chiloguembelina cubensis is a weakly reliable event; FO of Globoquadrina dehiscens, which marks the Paragloborotalia kugleri Subzone boundary (IFNla/IFNlb) because the FCO of the Globigerinoides group occurs later; LO of Paragloborotalia kugleri, which identifies the top of the P. kugleri Total Range Zone because the FO of Globigerinoides altiaperturus occurs later and finally, the FO of Globigerinoides trilobus, used to subdivide the interval between the LO of P. kugleri and the LO of Catapsydrax dissimilis, because Globigerinatella insueta is absent. Other homotaxial biohorizons have also been recognized and introduced among the primary bioevents. These "secondary events" can help in better placing zonal and subzonal boundaries when the primary events cannot be used and in the refinement of the correlations among the different sections. The validity of this proposal, in our view, consists in the general correspondence between the adopted bioevents and the standard zonal boundaries and therefore in an easy correlation with the various standard schemes. Moreover, the area of applicability of this biozonation could be extended to the surrounding basins and also to coeval Mediterranean successions.
10.2307/1484163|An account of the micropaleontology of the deep-sea sediments deposited in the various zones of the Tethyan geosynclines during the Jurassic and Cretaceous is presented. The study has been considerably hampered by lack of material. Most of the sediments studied came from the present western Mediterranean zone. In general, during the Jurassic (Tithonian) and Lower Cretaceous, radiolarians and globigerines predominated in the zones of subsidence, while Nannoconus and tintinnids were most abundant in the sediments of the deeper zones. Pithonella and Globotruncana predominate in Middle and Upper Cretaceous lithofacies.
3648447|In a first systematic study of Cretaceous ostracods from Antarctica, a middle to upper Campanian fauna from James Ross Island, Antarctic Peninsula, is described. Previously, the existence of these microfossils has only been mentioned in passing by a few authors. The material was sampled at Hamilton Point on the southeastern part of the island. The fauna contains a moderately rich and diverse association of marine ostracods, which are assigned to thirteen genera, including: Cytherella, Cytherelloidea, Bairdia, Bythocypris, Argilloecia?, Paracypris, Majungaella, Mandelstamia, Rostrocytheridea, Cytheropteron, and Eocytheropteron. In addition, Trachyleberididae gen. et sp. indet. and one indeterminate taxon occur. Among the sixteen species present, two are described as new: Mandelstamia antarctica n. sp. and Rostrocytheridea hamiltonensis n. sp.
10.2307/1484954|Quisquilites buckhornensis, type species of a marine palynomorph genus, is related to the genus Tasmanites because of its ultrastructure revealed by the transmission electron microscope. This ultrastructure requires that the generic description of Quisquilites be emended. Pseudolunulidia imperatrizensis Brito and Santos (1965) is considered to be a species of Quisquilites and is here transferred to that genus. Several species of Leiofusa (L. brasiliensis, L. brasiliensis lingula, L. eisenacki and L. cylindrica), also described by Brito and Santos, may on further study prove to belong to the genus Quisquilites. The types of Quisquilites? pluralis and Q? ornatus described by Hemer and Nygreen (1967) have been examined. These two species should be transferred to another genus, possibly to a new one.
10.2307/1485489|We reconstructed Oligocene-Miocene abyssal circulation changes in the North Atlantic using seismic, isotope, and sediment accumulation data, and evaluated the response of benthic foraminifera to these abyssal circulation changes. North Atlantic Oligocene-early Miocene abyssal benthic foraminiferal assemblages were relatively stable, showing few first or last occurrences. Late Oligocene subsidence at Sites 558 and 563 caused the local disappearance of a buliminid assemblage. Nuttallides umbonifera increased in abundance at the deepest locations (Sites 10, 119, 400; >3.5 km paleodepth) during the "middle" Oligocene in response to increased carbonate corrosivity and reduced bottom-water supply to the North Atlantic. A period of accelerated faunal change (disappearances) lasted from about 16 to 13.5 Ma (late early to early middle Miocene) at Sites 558 and 563; benthic foraminiferal relative abundance and flux changes began earlier, at 17 Ma and 19 Ma, respectively. These benthic foraminiferal changes correspond with a series of productivity and bottom-water changes. We speculate that increased primary productivity triggered these changes. The benthic foraminiferal taxonomic composition at Sites 558 and 563 have remained essentially unchanged from 13.5 Ma to the present.
23250635|Revision of the type material of Phanerostomum asperum Ehrenberg, 1854 from the Upper Cretaceous of Rgen Island (northern Germany) shows that it is a planispiral species assignable to the genus Globigerinelloides Cushman and ten Dam, 1948; its stratigraphical range is SantonianMaastrichtian.
10.2307/1485273|In 1976, 19 sites were cored along the U. S. Atlantic Continental Shelf and Slope by the Oceanographic Branch of the U. S. Geological Survey aboard the Glomar Conception. Only 6 sites contained siliceous microfossil assemblages of sufficient quantity and quality for biostratigraphic study. Two of the sites, AMCOR (Atlantic Margin Coring Project) 6002 and AMCOR 6011, contained good Miocene assemblages; a small Pleistocene assemblage occurred at the top of AMCOR 6002. A Late Miocene to Early Pliocene assemblage was encountered in AMCOR 6007B. AMCOR 6013, 6019, and 6021 contained Pleistocene assemblages. In addition to the AMCOR cores, 3 additional Atlantic Margin cores were studied. These were the JOIDES 1 (Caldrill) core, and Atlantic Slope Project (ASP) cores 10 and 22. JOIDES 1 contains a Middle Miocene assemblage similar to AMCOR 6002. ASP 10 contains a Lower Pliocene assemblage and ASP 22 contains a Middle to Late Oligocene and a Pleistocene assemblage. Siliceous assemblages at all sites consisted mainly of shallow shelf species, including brackish and marine benthics and occasionally freshwater forms. Although planktonic forms were present, they were few and most were extant cosmopolitan species. This makes it difficult to correlate the biostratigraphy of the sediments with siliceous microfossil zonations from other oceans. The only biostratigraphic zonations for Atlantic Shelf diatom assemblages are for the Miocene.
10.2307/1484980|The charophyte genus Sycidium, represented by S. foveatum Peck, 1934, is recognized in the Devonian of North America for the first time. This record of the genus is the second in North America. The present specimens are from the Upper Devonian of Iowa, from strata generally considered equivalent to the Owen Member of the Lime Creek Formation, but the over-all aspect of the megafossils and charophytes suggests correlation with the Cerro Gordo Member of the Lime Creek Formation. A basal structure (possibly a cage structure) and vegetative parts of Sycidium are present in this Devonian material; these features lend support to the charophyte nature of Sycidium. The polygonal reticulate pattern on the gyrogonite of Sycidium is anomalous in Paleozoic charophytes. It is not considered to be the pattern of a utricle (as in many of the Mesozoic charophytes), for it is well marked on the steinkerns of these gyrogonites. The method of orientation of charophyte gyrogonites consistent with the orientation of the oogonia of living charophytes is applied successfully to the gyrogonites of Sycidium.
4097019|Early Aeronian (middle Llandovery, Early Silurian) radiolarians collected from calcareous nodules of the Kallholn Formation in the Siljan district, Sweden, are described. Seven genera and 11 species, including one new family Gyrosphaeridae and two new species, Palaeoscenidium kuriharai and Gyrosphaera primigena, are described. This fauna is characterized by the dominance of large spherical radiolarians, which constitute 54% of the total number of specimens per nodule. The fauna is similar to the middle Telychian fauna insofar as it is dominated by Haplotaeniatum cathenatum. However, it can be distinguished from the late Rhuddanian fauna by the sparse occurrence of H. aperturatum. These data suggest that the period from the Aeronian to the middle Telychian was marked by the dominance of H. cathenatum. Radiolarian spines, a morphological innovation, are believed to have evolved in the Aeronian. The time of radiolarian diversification corresponds to that of other planktonic/nektonic faunas including graptolites, chitinozoans, and fish, which suggests that marine macroplanktonic/nektonic faunas and microplankton diversified simultaneously in the Aeronian.
23250463|We document the occurrence of agglutinated foraminifera in Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) sediments recovered during the Arctic Coring Expedition (ACEX), IODP Expedition 302. Foraminiferal assemblages consist entirely of agglutinated taxa with 29 taxa including three new species (Labrospira macilenta, Recurvoidella arctica, and Recurvoides trochoidalis). The agglutinated assemblage from the Lomonosov Ridge represents a shallow, probably restricted, brackish environment, and displays some taxonomic affinity to Late Cretaceous assemblages described from the Beaufort-Mackenzie basin. There are no species in common with coeval assemblages described from the southwestern Barents Sea or Western Siberia, and also only several cosmopolitan species in common between the later two regions. Therefore we suggest that the Arctic Ocean was probably isolated from the North Atlantic faunal province during the Late Cretaceous, with very limited or no marine connections between the Arctic, North Atlantic and Western Siberia over the Barents Shelf.
10.2307/1486065|Deep-water agglutinated foraminifera (DWAF) were studied from Cores PS2177-5, PS2200-5, PS2212-3 and PS2185-6; from the R/V POLARSTERN ARK-VIII/3 Cruise in the central Arctic Ocean. The sediments were non-calcareous containing a sparse assemblage of eleven DWAF species. A chronostratigraphic framework is presented for Cores PS2200-5 and PS2185-6. Paleoenvironmental data suggests a bathyal environment (2000-4000m) affected by water masses in the Arctic Ocean. The taxonomy of all of the DWAF found is presented and illustrated. A new species of the Family Trochamminidae; Trochammina lomonosovensis n. sp. is described and illustrated.
4097104|Different species and types of extant Calciosolenia are described in this paper. The two species C. murrayi Gran 1912 and Anoplosolenia brasiliensis (Lohmann 1919) Deflandre 1945 were traditionally placed in separate genera, the main differences being in the presence or absence of spines in the apical part of the coccosphere. Recent work (Young et al. 2003) transferred A. brasiliensis into the genus Calciosolenia, due to the high similarity in coccolith morphology. Within this paper, the varimorphic nature of both species is shown and the coccolith ultrastructure is described in detail, with the recognition of new diagnostic characters, such as the presence of spurs at the coccolith ends. Four different morphotypes are recognized within C. murrayi, based on the variability in central area structure; a further type shows affinity to both C. brasiliensis and C. murrayi, depending on the characters considered: this is defined as a new species, C. corsellii, and its taxonomic position is discussed. These observations reveal a high morphological diversity within the Calciosoleniaceae, with complex relations between individual species.
10.2307/1485591| A total of eight land-based sections were studied. Four sequences are from Baja California (San Felipe, El Cien, Tortugas Formation, Arroyo Tiburon and Cabo San Lucas-La Paz); two from the Tres Maras Islands (Arroyo Hondo and Mara Cleofs) and Experimental Mohole (the only offshore site). The radiolarian zones recognized were: Dorcadospyris alata, Diartus petterssoni, Didymocyrtis antepenultima, D. penultima and Stichocorys peregrina. This is based on the tropical zonation of Riedel and Sanfilippo (1978). However, the Didymocyrtis antepenultima Zone is the most important in most of the selected sections; it occurs between 10.1 and 7.8 Ma. The zones recognized were correlated with the cold-water radiolarian assemblages of Weaver et al. (1981) in southern California. This correlation appears best with the northern sections and Experimental Mohole. 
10.2307/1484508|The morphology, physiology and life history of the foraminifer Rosalina floridana (Cushman) have been studied using specimens cultured in the laboratory in agnotobiotic or pentaxenic systems. Histochemical stains of decalcified specimens reveal a three-layered test, with protein on the outside, polysaccharide on the inside, and a Feulgen-positive layer in the middle. The cytoplasm shows fiberlike inclusions or vesicles and a periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) positive ground substance. Morphological and size variations are correlated with the nutrition and the life cycle, which is essentially classical. Gamontic generations are haploid, uninucleate and megalotypic, and coil predominantly clockwise; agamonts are diploid, multinucleate and microtypic, and coil predominantly counterclockwise. Nuclear changes are described, with meiosis detailed. Changes in culture medium vary the gross morphology. Methods of isolation, culture and maintenance are described. Although growth in a natural medium with at least two kinds of bacteria is still best, stimulatory factors have been identified and a provisionally defined artificial medium has been developed.
10.2307/1485152|Coccolithophores occur in the back-reef lagoon waters of Belize (British Honduras) in standing crops comparable in number of specimens per liter with those reported from the nearby Caribbean Sea. Specimens are mainly whole coccospheres, indicating that the coccoliths previously recognized in sediments are derived from organisms inhabiting the overlying water. The coccolithophore flora comprises 27 species, which are illustrated by scanning electron micrographs.
10.2307/1485723|Comparative analyses of some skeletons of fossil and modern radiolarian species exhibiting similar morphotypes and possibly comparable patterns of morphogenesis, suggest that some modes of skeletal development may be old phylogenetic adaptations that have persisted into modern times. Several polycystine skeletal forms can be explained as the product of some basic growth patterns varying in spatial and temporal ordering, hence accounting for the diverse morphologies observed in the mature skeletons of the fossil and modern species. Using previously published basic patterns of Bridge Growth and Rim Growth, two additional forms of complex growth have been identified in fossil and modern species: 1) Spine and Cross-Bridge Growth (producing a variety of shell morphologies from conical to spongiose spherical); and 2) Plate and Lattice Growth (found in lattice skeletons with rimmed pores).
4097101|Reliable estimates of coccolith masses of the different species are an important prerequisite in determining coccolith carbonate fluxes. This paper presents data from sediment trap samples that were analysed in order to determine the contribution of coccolithophores to the flux through the water column and to compare relative flux contribution based on different size estimates. Biometrical analyses of distinct coccolith species were therefore performed on samples from four additional time-series stations. Besides analysing the numerically dominant taxa Emiliania huxleyi and Florisphaera profunda, measurements have been made on Calcidiscus leptoporus, Gephyrocapsa oceanica, Helicosphaera carteri and Syracosphaera pulchra. This study strongly reinforces the previous conclusion that size calibrations are essential for reliable results, i.e. that the superficially attractive alternative of adopting "standard" size estimates for species is an invalid approach. The most extreme example of variable volume calculation is given for C. leptoporus. Mean size plots differ significantly from different regions, either with large, intermediate or small coccoliths dominating. The variability in size is likely to result in an approximately three-fold variability in carbonate mass contribution.
1486160|The spiral umbilical canals of the elphidiids are located below the adaxial tips of the alar prolongations of the planispiral-involute chambers delimiting a true umbilicus on both sides of the test. This is in contrast to the spiral canals of the equally planispiral nummulitids where the spiral canals flank the tunnel in marginal position. On the other hand, in many rotaliid genera, the spiral canals are produced, as in elphidiids, by the fusion of consecutive foliar chamberlet lumina, but in a single umbilicus on the ventral side of the shell. In the following Recent species of elphidiidae, spiral canals of two different types are recognized: in Haynesina germanica, Porosononion spp. and Cribroelphidium selseyense these canals, produced by interconnected foliar chamberlets, are separated from the main chamber lumina by umbilical plates which are positioned nearly normal to lateral chamber-wall and adjacent coil. Each foliar chamberlet possesses an opening between main chamber lumen and foliar chamberlet, secondarily closed in all, but the ultimate chamber, by a sealing plate. In Elphidium craticulatum, E. striatopunctatum, E. crispum and E. williamsoni the spiral umbilical canals are spaces between umbilical plates and adjacent coil. The plates are more or less elongated in radial direction and positioned at an acute angle to the adjacent coil. Communication between main chamber lumen and foliar chamberlet is permitted through a large opening, secondarily closed in all, but the ultimate chamber by a sealing plate. The tips of the foliar chamberlets are gradually incorporated in the canaliculate umbilical plug, wherever present. These descriptions of the spiral-umbilical canals modify to some extent those of previous authors and reconcile apparently contradictory statements. The possible functional significance of the two types of spiral-umbilical canals in relation to motility, symbiosis and microhabitat is discussed.
10.2307/1485063|Specimens of six (possibly seven) genera of arenaceous foraminifera of Late Eocene age were recovered from Lamont-Doherty core RC 9-58. A microtektite-rich zone occurs between 230 and 270 cm. in this core, and the arenaceous foraminifera from the same zone have selected these glassy objects as structural components for their tests. The size, color and location of the microtektites in some of the arenaceous tests indicate that the foraminifera may have selected them in preference to other particles available in the surrounding sediment. If the origin of microtektites can be ascribed to some type of cosmic event, this note represents the first reported utilization of extra-terrestrially produced material by a primitive earth organism.
10.2307/1484995|A new family, Lingulogavelinellidae, comprising the genera Lingulogavelinella, Orithostella and Bilingulogavelinella, is described from the marine Cretaceous (Albian and Cenomanian) of the Great Artesian Basin in northern New South Wales, Australia, together with a few species of the genera Discorbis, Gavelinella and Pseudolamarckina. They are similar to or identical with species of the above genera recorded from marine Cretaceous sequences in North America (Great Plains), the Mangyshlak Peninsula on the east shore of the Caspian, the northwest Caucasus, the West Siberian Lowland, the Russian Platform, Poland, northwestern Germany, England, France and Sweden. Palaeogeographically, these areas represent the Boreal and Transitional Biogeoprovinces. The occurrence of similar or identical species of boreal aspect in the Great Artesian Basin accords well with the ideas of the present author regarding Mesozoic biogeoprovinces based on foraminifera, namely, that, during the Cretaceous, Australia, New Zealand, and the southern parts of South Africa and South America, and, up to the boundary between the Early and Late Cretaceous, also Madagascar and peninsular India, represented the Austral Biogeoprovince, opposite and equivalent to the Boreal Biogeoprovince of the Northern Hemisphere, and with the Great Artesian Basin as a type area. Fluctuations in general composition of the foraminiferal assemblages are world-wide, so they can not be explained by local events only. The author suggests that they reflect world-wide minor fluctuations in temperature minima and maxima and rapid facies change in the epicontinental seas north and south of the Tethyan and Pacific seaways.
10.2307/1485334|The average valve diameter of the marine diatom Coscinodiscus nodulifer A. Schmidt in deep-sea sediment increases near the Equator, supporting previous studies in the water column that relate cell size to zones of upwelling. A downcore study in the same area reveals several intervals when the size-frequency distribution of this species becomes bimodal. These episodes of bimodality are isochronous and can be traced over much of the eastern equatorial Pacific. It is suggested that this property of C. nodulifer may be useful in biostratigraphy and paleoecology.
10.2307/1484490|The Oligocene of the Carmen-Zambrano area is divided into five foraminiferal zones and two subzones, the Lower Miocene into two zones; the Middle Miocene contains one zonule. A gradual filling-in of the basin is suggested, which was interrupted in the Carmen area by deepening of the sea during the upper Lower Oligocene and the Middle Oligocene, and at the end of the Upper Oligocene. The zones are correlated with faunal units from other parts of the Caribbean area. Ten new species and one new variety are described.
1486209|First and last occurrences of several Maastrichtian calcareous nannofossil species are shown to be diachronous across paleodepth and paleoenvironment using the graphic correlation method. Calcareous nannofossil assemblages examined from eleven cores from a deep- to shallow-water transect along the eastern United States Atlantic margin document that the first occurrence of Micula murus (Martini 1961) Bukry 1973 is diachronous, appearing 2.0 million years earlier in open ocean sites than in shallow marine sites. The first occurrence (FO) of Lithraphidites kennethii Perch-Nielsen 1984 is also nonsynchronous, appearing in the deep ocean before its FO in neritic waters. The last occurrence (LO) of L. praequadratus Roth 1978 is diachronous across paleodepth, going locally extinct first in deeper water. The LO of Watznaueria bybelliae Self-Trail 1999 is also diachronous, going locally extinct first in shallow-water settings. Ceratolithoides amplector Burnett 1997, C. pricei Burnett 1997, C. self-trailiae Burnett 1997, C. ultimus Burnett 1997, Cribrocorona gallica (Stradner 1963) Perch-Nielsen 1973, Micula praemurus (Bukry 1973) Stradner and Steinmetz 1984, Pseudomicula quadratus Perch-Nielsen et al. 1978, and Semihololithus spp. are present consistently in common to frequent abundances in ODP holes 1050C and 1052E on the Blake Nose, but they are rare or absent from neritic sections in Coastal Plain cores. It is apparent that these species flourished in an open ocean setting, suggesting that differences in assemblage abundance and diversity between deep ocean and nearshore areas were controlled by paleoceanographic factors. These species are not used for biostratigraphy, but may be useful indicators of open ocean conditions. The line of correlation (LOC) for nine Coastal Plain cores clearly defines the Cretaceous-Tertiary (K/T) boundary unconformity at the top of the Maastrichtian section (Peedee Formation) and the Campanian-Maastrichtian (C/M) unconformity at the base of the Maastrichtian section (Peedee/Donoho Creek formational contact). The K/T boundary unconformity is undulatory in nature; updip Maastrichtian sections have been stripped to a greater depth than the downdip sections. The uppermost Campanian, all of the lowermost Maastrichtian, and the basal upper Maastrichtian sediments are missing from the study area.
10.2307/1484370|Changes in diversity of fossil polospore assemblages, traced through sedimentary series, are interpreted as having evolutionary and environmental significance in terms of the floras that produced them. Congruent corresponding changes in the frequency of first and last appearances lend support to these hypotheses. Paleobotanical remains and the physical history of the region, as deciphered directly from the sediments, are other sources of supporting evidence. Data from three comprehensive publications dealing with the description and stratigraphic distribution of fossil polospores are analyzed by this approach.
24413489|A high resolution biostratigraphic analysis of the PliocenePleistocene sequence of the offshore Nile Delta region in West Delta Deep Marine Concession (WDDM), in which 29 planktonic foraminiferal species belonging to 8 genera and 51 benthic foraminiferal species belonging to 40 genera were identified, allowed the recognition of seven foraminiferal zones and two subzones. These are as follows: Sphaeroidinellopsis Acme Zone (MP11), Globorotalia margaritae Zone (MP12), Globorotalia puncticulata / Globorotalia margaritae Zone (MP13), Sphaeroidinellopsis s.l. Zone (MP14), Globorotalia puncticulata Subzone (MP14a), Globorotalia planispira Subzone (MP14b), Globigerinoides elongatus Zone (MP15), Globorotalia inflata Zone (MP16) and Hyalinea balthica Zone.
10.2307/1484383|Many Uvigerinidae are important zone fossils in deep-water massive sandstones and mudstones of upper Oligocene and Miocene age in Raukumara Peninsula. Twenty-nine species and six subspecies are described, of which nineteen species and three subspecies are new. Subspecific classification is revised, five new genera and four new subgenera being established, partly on morphology and partly on lineage sequences. Time ranges are given in terms of eleven local zones which are correlated approximately with New Zealand stages and with European stages.
10.2307/1484593|Comparative studies have demonstrated that an approximate correlation can be made between the Paleocene - Lower Eocene planktonic foraminiferal zonations which have been recently proposed in the Western Hemisphere and the southwestern part of the Soviet Union (Crimea and Caucasus). The stage names Midway, Sabine (= Wilcox) and Claiborne commonly used in Gulf Coast stratigraphy do not correspond to the classic time-stratigraphic subdivisions in western Europe.
10.2307/1484955|Examination of Turkish Lower Carboniferous specimens of Lapidopiscum piveteaui Deflandre confirms an earlier opinion that the skeletal frame consists of three rods, and suggests that the three-rod, triangular frame is approximately equidimensional and might be closed in typical ceratoikiscid style. Arcuate projections from the shell compare closely in structure and geometry with the caveal ribs of Ceratoikiscum, and the spongy cone of Lapidopiscum may be considered as a patagial development on the b-side of the frame. Rare, associated specimens of a new species of Albaillella show an apparently homologous development of spongy tissue. Lapidopiscum shares both Ceratoikiscum and Albaillella characteristics, and the new observations reinforce the argument for the author's previous redefinition of the suborder Albaillellaria.
10.2307/1485292|Seventy genera of foraminifera and Pteropoda represented by 109 species and 15 subspecies, including one new species and one new subspecies, are described from a biological dredge sample of Holocene sediment recovered from 1067 m. of water, approximately 80 nautical miles southwest of the birdfoot delta of the Mississippi River, northern Gulf of Mexico.
10.2307/1485450|Normal sieve-pore distribution patterns of the living brackish-water ostracode species Loxoconcha elliptica and Cyprideis torosa in molt and adult stages of right and left valves in both sexes show a fairly constant pore arrangement, with some number and position variations. A direct relationship has been found between instar stadia and the number of pores. The development of these consistent pore patterns throughout ontogeny has been traced, and may indicate how epidermal cells producing pores divide in each phase of growth.
10.2307/1485620| Sieving techniques used in palynological sample processing, including the Modified Reissinger Apparatus sieving system, are described. MRA is useful for the removal of fine particles undesirable in palynological residues. It can also be used for filtration during various chemical treatments. MRA uses sintered glass filter discs fitted into Bchner funnels. Size-frequency studies using Schott type-3 filter funnels show that 98% of particles in filtrates are <15-16 m, and filtration rates of over 100 ml/min are easily obtained. These funnels are efficient for most palynological sample sieving. Finer filters may be necessary for samples containing smaller palynomorphs. 
41410994|Despite the fact that the number of publications on the morphologic terms of ostracod carapace features is impressive, definitions, use and interpretation of many terms remain inconsistent and therefore fraught with problems. A particular problem is the application of certain terms of morphologic features in different ostracod groups without the consideration of their potentially different origin, genesis and nature. This revised and annotated glossary focuses on nonmarine ostracods, families Timiriaseviinae (Cytheroidea, Limnocytheridae) and Cyprideidae (extinct, Cypridoidea), particularly on the extinct genera Theriosynoecum and Cypridea in its selection of terms and given examples, and is strongly connected with the preceding papers of this issue (Sames 2011 a, b) which also include the supporting illustrations. It as well comprises detailed discussions on the origin and differentiation of the taxonomic or otherwise significance of selected carapace features, particularly ornamentation. Herein, ornamentation is subdivided into area-wide and local ornamentation elements for that reason. In contrast to their patterns of distribution, the presence of local ornamentation elements as well as their degree of expression are considered of no, or rather low, taxonomic significance. If applicable, local ornamentation elements can be used for paleoenvironmental interpretations or to identify juveniles in some cases (e.g. in Cypridea). Type, occurrence and shape of area-wide ornamentation elements are, by contrast, always taxonomically relevant to a certain degree. As to the Family Cyprideidae, the alveolar ridge is newly introduced and defined, and the terms for the anteroventral (alveolus and its elements) and posteroventral regions (cyathus, cyathus-like protrusion) are redefined and discussed. A morphologic term can never be a matter of common or collective knowledge as long as its appreciation and usage differs between researchers. In fact, the accuracy of its usage can only be identified when we know that we are talking about the same thing. With this glossary it is intended to better communicate the views of the author, to integrate new insights into ostracod paleobiology into the interpretation of carapace features, and to propose a kind of harm onization between different concepts as well as to put these up for discussion and further development.
10.2307/1484642|Evidence is presented in support of a relationship between certain species of coccolithophorids derived from selected samples of two Pleistocene deep-sea cores and the associated sea-water paleotemperatures. An explanation is given for the observed fact that a greater variety of species was found in samples from core levels deposited during cold (glacial) periods. Identifications of the most characteristic species are included.
10.2307/1484770|Silicified megaspores with well-preserved wall structure have been recovered from Upper Cretaceous bentonitic shales of southern Alberta. Two new genera are proposed. Nine new species belonging to five form genera, viz. Henrisporites, Verrutriletes, Horstisporites, Stelckisporites, new genus, and Selenasporites, new genus, are described. Henrisporites and Verrutriletes are suitably emended.
10.2307/1485566| Coccoliths recovered from the northwest coast of San Miguel Island (latitude 34N) provide definitive biostratigraphic criteria for subdivision of the Upper Cretaceous strata and for regional correlation with Upper Cretaceous rocks of the southern California mainland and offshore areas. Seven coccolith zones are recognized from the stratigraphic distribution of 38 species and suggest an early Turonian to middle Maestrichtian age. More than 500 m of stratigraphic section along the northwest coast previously mapped as Paleogene are Upper Cretaceous. Part of the Upper Cretaceous sequence of San Miguel Island can be correlated with the Jalama, Chatsworth, and Ladd formations and the Point Loma Formation of the southern California mainland. 
3648475|We describe the planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy of the ~130m thick upper Paleocene-lower Eocene composite stratigraphic section at Dababiya, which contains the recently designated Global Standard Stratotype Section and Point (GSSP) of the Paleocene/Eocene boundary. The measured (composite) section extends from the Tarawan Chalk (Zone P4), through the Esna Shale (Zone P4c, P5-8) to the basal Thebes Limestone (Zone P8). Midway-type benthic foraminiferal faunas extend throughout the section and suggest deposition at mid-outer neritic depths with no indication of (significant) shallowing at the Esna/Thebes contact across which Zone P8 planktonic foraminiferal faunas continue. The Paleocene/Eocene boundary GSSP is located in the lowermost part of the Esna Shales at the base of a dark clayey horizon at ~1.6m above the base of section DBH (~5.7m above the top of the Tarawan Chalk). The level is firmly located in conjunction with the base of the carbon isotope excursion (CIE) and is immediately succeeded by ~3.75m of the lithologically distinct Dababiya Quarry Beds. The characteristic planktonic events that are associated with the CIE in oceanic sections are well represented throughout the 3.2m interval directly overlying the P/E GSSP (~5.7m to 8.9m above the base of the Esna Shales) within the Dababiya Quarry Beds. Acarinina sibaiyaensis is by far the most common of the planktonic foraminiferal excursion taxa (PFET) that appear slightly (75cm) above the base of the Dababiya Quarry Beds. The latter interval exhibits a phased pattern characterized by different lithologies, biota and faunal patterns that we interpret as reflecting progressive changes in temperature and content of dissolved oxygen as a result of global changes in climate and water circulation. The critical interval is generally bracketed (below) by the upward sequential lowest occurrences (LOs) of Acarinina esnaensis, Igorina broedermanni, Ac. angulosa and Ac. wilcoxensis, and (above) by the LO of Pseudohastigerina wilcoxensis.
10.2307/1484819|Most living planktonic foraminifera thicken their tests in adaptation to increasingly deeper habitats. One example is presented with morphological and ecological data, indicating that Sphaeroidinella dehiscens (Parker and Jones) is an aberrant, terminal form of Globigerinoides sacculifer (Brady). The "dehiscens" stage is achieved by secretion of a thick, translucent calcite crust upon the test of G. sacculifer. The process of shell thickening starts in the epipelagic zone (0-300 m.) and reaches its maximum development at mesopelagic and bathypelagic depths (300-2000 m.). Not all specimens of G. sacculifer develop into "S. dehiscens".
10.2307/1484423|This paper is a revision of the generic nomenclature of a few radiolarian genera whose species are good zone and index fossils. The following genera are revised more or less extensively: Sethamphorus, Sethocephala, Dictyocephalus, Theocampe, and Tricolocampe. The following names are reduced to synonomy: Dictyocryphalus, Cryptocephalus, Dictyoprora (1882), Platycryphalus, Dictyoprora (1887), Theocamptra, Theocampana, Tricolocampium, Tricolocamptra, and Theocampula. Diabolocampe is described as a new genus.
10.2307/1484994|Temperature-dependent and temperature-independent changes in shell structure are exhibited through time by mature morphotypes of the eurythermal planktonic foraminifer Globorotalia crassaformis (Galloway and Wissler) found in undisturbed Quaternary sediments from the Atlantic and the Caribbean. Parallel morphological variations are observed in the cores from three ecologically distinct regions, but the degree of variation is largest in the North Atlantic core, reflecting a greater glacial/interglacial temperature range at the more northern latitude. Direction of coiling in the species is not related to temperature.
24413490|Diatom occurrence, abundance, and biostratigraphic position are documented from subsurface Albian - Maastrichtian succession penetrated by the Raad-1 Well, drilled at the north-eastern Sinai, Egypt. The examined stratigraphic section is differentiated into four lithostartigraphic units from base to top: Kharita Formation (Albian), Halal Formation (Cenomanian), Wata Formation (Turonian) and Sudr Formation (Santonian to Maastrichtian). Well to moderately-preserved marine diatom assemblage included 87 species and varieties representing 37 genera have been identified. The assemblage is mainly dominated by planktonic taxa rather than periphytic forms. Most of the encountered diatom species have long stratigraphic ranges, except 39 taxa are belonged to Cretaceous period, and taxonomically enumerated. Two diatom biozones are recognized based on the distribution and stratigraphic occurrence of the Cretaceous diatoms in the studied section. Amblypyrgus campanellus Zone is characteristic the lower part of the succession (Kharita Formation), and point to Lower Cretaceous. Gladius antiques Zone is encountered from Halal, Wata and the lower part of Sudr Formations, and denotes the Upper Cretaceous age. The Albian / Cenomanian boundary is placed at the last occurrence of Albian diatom taxa and the first appearance of Late Cretaceous diatom forms. The microfloral content and lithological characters of the examined section reflect a shallow marine environment prevailed during the Early Cretaceous, which changed to be more deeply environment in the Late Cretaceous.
1486218|The Late Pennsylvanian-Early Permian succession in southern Kansas and northern Oklahoma preserves a fairly complete and precisely dated record of dominantly marine sedimentation. Calcareous smaller foraminifers from these rocks are abundant and diverse, but they have not been documented in their entirety before now. Analysis of the local and global stratigraphic distributions of lagenoid taxa shows that the Nodosinelloides-Geinitzina evolutionary transition may be an internationally correlatable interval within the upper Gzhelian Stage. The local succession contains the oldest known occurrence of Geinitzina postcarbonica in the upper Hughes Creek Shale, slightly below the base of the Asselian Stage. Globally, the appearance of G. postcarbonica and other primitive congeners reliably indicates Asselian age. More advanced G. bisulcata n. sp. and G. indepressa appear locally in the Sakmarian and Artinskian stages, respectively. Species in Nodosinelloides, Protonodosaria, Vervilleina, and Syzrania appear locally in the upper Gzhelian Stage, but they are known from older strata elsewhere. Paleozoic lagenoids have been classified within the suborders Fusulinina and Lagenina. They are assigned here to the Lagenina on the basis of wall structure, which differs only slightly from that in Recent nodosariaceans, and on evidence of evolutionary continuity with unquestioned Mesozoic Lagenina. The Lagenina are considered a monophyletic group that originated with the family Syzraniidae in Moscovian time. Two species, Syzrania bulbosa and Geinitzina bisulcata, are described as new.
41410977|The scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) and the Petrographie Microscope (Light Microscope, LM) are devices which both are used in routine analysis of coccolithophore assemblages, but comparisons and/or combinations of quantitative data from both sources are difficult. In this paper a comparison is made between the results obtained with the Flores and Sierro settling technique (1997) for LM and the Andruleit filtration technique (1996) for SEM, considering their advantages and drawbacks. Twenty-six surface sediment samples from the South Atlantic and Southeast Pacific were studied. All the taxa distinguished were reduced to fourteen groups accounting for 100%. The biogeographical patterns of coccolithophorid species and species groups determined using both techniques are highly comparable, although the trends in relative and absolute numbers are not always identical. In particular, the numbers of coccoliths per gram of sediment are higher in the case of the filtration technique/SEM-technique than for the settling technique/LM technique and an approach is introduced to estimate LM values using SEM counts with a linear regression equation. The results obtained allow different methodologies to be compared for the study of current coccolithophore biogeography.
10.2307/1485439|A cheap disposable filter, improved acetolysis and a method for applying a uniform pollen layer to scanning electron microscope studs are described.
10.2307/1485431|Calcareous nannoplankton can be liberated from bituminous sediments (including sediments previously thought to be barren) in a soxhlet apparatus using benzene as the solvent. Recovered material is suitable for normal processing for light-microscope and SEM study.
10.2307/1484392|Well-preserved spores have been recovered from clastic sediments of Upper Devonian age encountered in borings in the Canning Basin, Western Australia. Thirty-one small spore forms have been described from these samples and seventeen of them designated as new species. Two new form genera, Diaphanospora and Pulvinispora, have been established. Although the assemblages are frequently diverse and many of the species morphographically complex, all the spore types recognized are trilete and presumably of pteridophytic origin. These assemblages contrast markedly with Givetian-Frasnian microfloras from the Carnarvon Basin, Western Australia, but have points in common with those from the Lower Carboniferous. It is inferred from this that floral modifications took place in Western Australia during the middle or late Frasnian. Marked similarities are apparent between the Australian uppermost Devonian assemblages and those from the Famennian of the Elets district, U.S.S.R. Species described from the Canning Basin occur also in the Upper Devonian of North Africa.
4499769|Calcareous algae of order Bryopsidales, family Halimedaceae abound in shallow marine ramp facies of the Jbel Guersif Formation (late Thanetian), Ait Ouarhitane Formation (middle - late Ypresian) and Jbel Tagount Formation (latest Ypresian to late Lutetian or latest Bartonian), southern rim of central High Atlas, Morocco. The genus Halimeda includes nine new species, Halimeda erikfluegeli, H. lacunosa, H. barbata, H. marcconradi, H. praetaenicola, H. unica, H. praemacroloba, H. praegoreaui, H. praecuneata. Additionally, 14 modern and fossil taxa occur: H. cylindracea, H. incrassata, H. monile, H. opuntia, H. opuntiaf triloba, H. simulans, H. tuna, H. tuna f. platydisca, H. gracilis, H. copiosa, H. scabra, H. fragilis, H. nana, H. praeopuntia. For the first time, gametangia were observed in fossil species. All new species were of short range. Most appeared during adaptive radiation in the late Thanetian, associated with some already known fossil species and an ancient stock of modern Halimeda taxa (H. cylindracea, H. incrassata, H. monile, H. opuntia). The adaptive radiation was connected with the marine transgression at the southern rim of the central High Atlas and is interpreted as part of the recovery phase after the end-Cretaceous decline of green algal diversity. Mid Ypresian to late Lutetian or latest Bartonian assemblages show minor origination rates but the onset of long-ranging extant species. These assemblages are interpreted to represent the stabilization phase of Paleogene green algal evolu, dominated by well-adapted species. At the beginning of the Lutetian, already twelve modern taxa of Halimeda were present. This proves geological longevity extending over more than 50 million years and characterizes the corresponding species, respectively the genus Halimeda, as living fossils. The results also prove the early origin of the basal clades of the genus Halimeda, defined from morphological and molecular data of extant species. Origin of the extant Sections Rhipsalis, Micronesicae, Halimeda and of an opuntoid basal clade is assumed to be prior to the Late Thanetian, either in the late Cretaceous or in the earliest Paleocene, following the end-Cretaceous extinctions. Separation of the opuntoid basal clade into the lineages of the present-day sections Pseudoopuntia and Opuntia was achieved before Mid Ypresian and further differentiation of the clades during the Ypresian and Lutetian, much earlier than hitherto postulated. Presumed timing of the origin of the basal clades of Halimeda and delayed first occurrences in southern Morocco invoke speciations of the recognized extant taxa outside of the peculiar Atlantic-bound Moroccan epeiric sea somewhere on the wide shelfs of the southern Tethys. Neogene vicariance events influencing the evolution of Halimeda are shortly discussed. Concerning the fossil record, they seem to be of minor importance except for the Holocene outburst of Recent taxa, which might be a sampling or preservational artifact. Halimeda-rich facies at the southern rim of the central High Atlas is comparable to modern Halimeda meadows and banks of the Great Barrier Reef. This concerns the almost total absence of other algae, minor lateral changes in the composition of the Halimeda flora, high diversity with analogous percentage of composition patterns, which show few dominant and common taxa, and quite a lot rare to very rare taxa. In both cases, psammophytic and lithophytic species co-occur, demonstrating sufficiently coarse-grained, immobile substrates. Both Halimeda floras flourish due to upwelling of cold, nutrient-rich waters.
40607110|Deep-water agglutinated Foraminifera (DWAF) were recovered from Miocene to Pliocene sediments in 103 samples from IODP Hole M0002A on the Lomonosov Ridge. The First Occurrence of DWAF in Hole M0002A is observed just above the color change corresponding to the boundary between Lithological Subunits 1/4 and 1/5 in Core section -44X-1. The foraminiferal record of Hole M0002A consists entirely of agglutinated benthic species, largely sparse assemblages containing Cyclammina pusilla and Alveolophragmium polarensis. The faunal succession in Hole M0002A is subdivided into three assemblages based on the stratigraphie ranges of characteristic taxa: (1) a relatively diverse assemblage at the base of Lithological Subunit 1/4 (Cores 44X-1 to -38X), with abundant agglutinated foraminifera including Reticulophragmium pusillum and Ammolagena clavata, indicating connections with the North Atlantic. This assemblage displays the best preservation, which is here attributed to higher concentrations of dissolved silica in pore waters (2) A less diverse assemblage characterized by Alveolophragmium polarensis with Adercotryma agterbergi, in the lower part of Lithological Subunit 1/3 (Cores -38X to -35X); (3) a sparse residual assemblage within Lithological Subunit 1/3 with Rhabdammina spp., A. polarensis and R. pusillum indicating poor preservation of organically-cemented DWAF in Cores -34X to -10X. A comparison of the DWAF assemblages from the Lomonosov Ridge with previously studied Miocene assemblages from ODP Hole 909C in the Fram Strait, Norwegian-Greenland Sea (Kaminski et al. 2005), suggests that the inflow of Atlantic intermediate water into the Arctic Ocean began prior to 17.5 Ma.
10.2307/1485618|The present paper deals with the lithostratigraphy, biostratigraphy, and micropaleontology of the Tanjero Formation of the Dokan area, Sulaimaniah district, northeastern Iraq. The Tanjero Formation is middle-late Maastrichtian in age and is assigned to the Globotruncana aegyptiaca-lapparenti-stuarti Assemblage Zone, G. gansseri (part), G. contusa and Abathomphalus mayaroensis subzones. Forty-nine species assigned to 12 genera have been recorded, and the species belonging to the Heterohelicidae and Planomalinidae families are discussed and photographed.
10.2307/1484991|During Leg 8 of the Deep Sea Drilling Project several almost complete Tertiary sections were collected in the equatorial Pacific. Examination of this material has led to great improvements in the radiolarian stratigraphy. An evolutionary lineage is proposed for a group of species belonging to the stratigraphically important genus Calocycletta. This group of six species ranged from the Late Oligocene to the Late Miocene in the equatorial fauna.
10.2307/1484537|Part 2 concludes the systematic cataloguing of the Miocene foraminifera from the Gulf of Suez region. Some 80 species are recorded from the superfamily Rotalioidea. Five new species and one new subspecies are introduced.
41410975|Detailed sampling of the Upper Triassic atoll-type carbonates of the Sambosan Accretionary Complex throughout Southwest Japan yielded highly abundant and diversified porcelaneous, microgranular, agglutinated and hyaline foraminifers of Carnian-Rhaetian age, as well as some microproblematica and ostracods. The foraminiferal assemblages were collected from shallow-water carbonates originated upon volcanic seamounts surrounded by deep-water radiolarian chert in a mid-open oceanic realm of the Panthalassan Ocean during Triassic time. Because most studies of the Upper Triassic microfauna come from the former Tethys, counterparts of the Panthalassan Ocean are pivotal to decipher the micropalaeontological biodiversity of the western circum Pacific, as well as to evaluate the distribution patterns of organisms and their evolution trends throughout the Tethys and Panthalassa. This study reports on 42 genera and 60 species whose associations can be used as sedimentary facies indicators of carbonate buildup environments. Japanese specimens show a strong Tethyan affinity, and especially with the Peri-and Southern Tethyan forms. A palaeobiogeographic distribution analysis using a large foraminiferal database is led, in order to evaluate the extraordinary spreading of these Upper Triassic foraminifers between the Neo-Tethys and the Panthalassa. Data are finally integrated in a new plate tectonic model, where six faunistic provinces are defined, each containing a characteristic foraminiferal assemblage. This map provides for the first time a useful and visual synthesis of the Upper Triassic foraminifer palaeobiogeographic distribution.
24413487|The present work deals with the stratigraphy, lithological characteristics, planktonic foraminiferal zonation and the ostracods of the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) - Paleocene rocks in the Kharga Oasis and the lower paleogene of Gebel Dandara section, Nile Valley, Egypt. The planktonic foraminifera and ostracods were obtained from two stratigraphic sections: Ain Dabadib and N. Ain Amur from the area North West of the Kharga Oasis, Egypt. Thirty seven planktonic foraminiferal and twelve ostracod species were identified, among the latter, 1 genus: Aegyptoleberis Boukhary, Bassiouni and Sharabi n.gen. (Type species: Cythereis coronata Esker 1968) and 2 species: Cytheropteron dakhlaensis Boukhary and Bassiouni n.sp., and Ordonyia dabadibensis Boukhary and Sharabi n. sp., from the Late Paleocene are believed to be new. Among the association, there are species which are identical with those described from Tunisia by Esker (1968) and Said (1978) and from Jordan by BASSIOUNI (1971). The planktonic foraminifera were used for the biostratigraphic control. Future studies may prove these ostracod assemblages to be of index value and valid for the Mesogean Paleocene in the neritic provinces in North Africa and Middle East.
10.2307/1485410|Three new species of Turonian planktonic foraminifera, assignable to the subfamily Marginotruncaninae Pessagno, are described from the Basque-Cantabrian Basin of northern Spain. They are Dicarinella elata, Marginotruncana pileoliformis and M. scorpionis. The first species is related to D. sp. aff. D. schneegansi (Sigal), and its ancestor is Praeglobotruncana delrioensis (Plummer); the second species is related to M. sigali (Reichel) and evolved from D. sp. aff. D. hilalensis (Barr); the third species evolved from M. pseudolinneiana Pessagno by adult variation (gerontomorphosis).
10.2307/1485985|We use International Statospore Working Group (ISWG) guidelines to taxonomically describe the chrysophycean cyst flora from a deposit (ca. 2.5-4 m.y.) in the Sonoma Volcanics from Napa County, California. Cyst preservation was very good. We observed a total of 21 different cysts (19 with SEM, 2 with LM only), nine of which are described here for the first time. This represents a relatively low diversity flora when compared to cyst assemblages in Holocene sediments. Dominant cyst morphotypes that have previously been described in the literature indicate that the environment of deposition was probably shallow (littoral) and alkaline. We believe that this study is the first to describe pre-Holocene cysts using ISWG guidelines. At this time, it is unclear whether newly described morphotypes represent extinct or extant species.
4097023|The Krishna Godavari Basin is located in the East Coast Indian Peninsula containing 5 to 7 km of Cretaceous through Cenozoic terrigenous clastic sediments. The Miocene-Pliocene section in the offshore is known as the Ravva Formation, a major argillaceous facies with sandstone beds from which oil and gas are being produced. In this sequence, some cutting samples studied from four offshore wells were found to be rich in agglutinated benthic foraminifera, while planktic foraminifera were absent at these levels. These samples were studied in much detail for agglutinated foraminifera. A total of fifty-nine agglutinated foraminiferal species belonging to thirty-five genera have been identified. Two new species, Alveolophragmium indicum Govindan n. sp and Liebusella krishna Govindan n. sp., are described. All these species are reported for the first time from this region. The agglutinated benthic foraminiferal taxa bear close resemblance to those of Miocene agglutinated foraminifera assemblages reported from South Trinidad, the Falcon Basin of Venezuela, and offshore West Africa. The present report of alveolar genera, Alveovalvulina, Alveovalvulinella and Guppyella, and compressed, inner partitioned alveolar genera Pavonitina and Spiropsammia, together with other genera having complex reticulate inner structure as Cyclammina, Reticulophragmium and Alveolophragmium in this region are of great importance for the evaluation of biostratigraphy, paleoecology, paleobiogeography and burial history. Paleoecological analysis reveals three agglutinated foraminiferal biofacies/groupings, which characterize beyond outer shelf through bathyal slope (500 to 1500m) depth regimes in an oxygen minimum deep water setting for the deposition of these turbidite/debris flow sediments. A major marine transgression at the close of the Oligocene probably caused a moderately rich, more uniform distribution of deep water agglutinated species over this deep basin. Additional observations on the agglutinated benthic assemblage such as deformation of the tests, coloration of the tests and stratigraphic markers are also dealt with briefly.
30135275|The southwestern region of the Dominican Republic (Enriquillo Valley) contains exceptionally well-preserved, relict marine and saline lake deposits of mid-Holocne age. Abundant euryhaline ostracodes found in this deposit include Cyprideis salebwsa, C. mexicana, C. similis, and C. edentata. Morphometric and geochemical analyses performed on Cyprideis spp. provide high
10.2307/1484882|Thirty-four species of ostracodes have been found in outcrops of the Roca Formation, Rio Negro Province, Argentina. Eleven species have been previously described from Argentina; twenty-one species are new. The Roca Formation and Rocanian Stage are of Lower Tertiary age and correlative with the lower Danian Stage on the basis of planktonic foraminifera present in the studied strata.
4097114|Paleoecologic interpretation of Cretaceous benthic foraminiferal assemblages is frequently problematic because of the lack of modern indicator species. Late Cretaceous (Cenomanian to Coniacian) assemblages of the Nkalagu area in southern Nigeria (Lower Benue Trough) were analyzed paleoecologically and compared with isochronous assemblages of the Upper Benue Trough (Futuk and Ashaka). The analyzed sections are forming a transect from near shore to oceanic environments and therefore represent paleocological gradients. Late Cenomanian assemblages of the Nkalagu area are continuously dominated by Ammobaculites spp. Diversity is constantly low and a dysoxic to suboxic, normal marine, inner shelf environment can be assumed for this section. The Middle Turonian to Coniacian Sections at Nkalagu yielded various arenaceous and calcareous species. The most common genera are: Ammobaculites, Flabellammina, Gabonita, Gavelinella, Haplophragmoides, Nonionella, Planulina, Praebulimina and Trochammina. Middle to early Late Turonian sediments at Nkalagu were deposited at paleo-waterdepths of about 600 m, latest Turonian sediments at c. 250 m and Coniacian sediments at c. 600 m. Latest Turonian assemblages indicate unstable, alternating oxygen-rich and oxygen depleted conditions (suboxic to low oxic), changing to more stable conditions in the Coniacian at Nkalagu. The successive deepening indicated by the foraminiferal assemblages documents a change of the depositional environment from inner shelf to upper bathyal in the lower portion of the Benue Trough during the Cenomanian to Coniacian interval. Inner shelf assemblages from the Upper Benue Trough (Futuk and Ashaka localities) vary between brackish and normal marine conditions. Ammobaculites, Haplophragmoides and Gavelinella are the most frequent genera at Futuk, while additional occurrences of Ammotium, Reophax and Saccammina are indicative for brackish conditions at Ashaka. The application of a canonical correspondence analysis (CCA), embracing assemblages from the entire Benue Trough, enables the separation of different depositional environments with partly similar species content. In the present case, CCA is able to distinguish between brackish and normal marine conditions among shallow water assemblages, and between shelf and bathyal depths among normal marine depositional environments. CCA might therefore be used in settings with largely endemic associations and/or without modern species for calibration of assemblages, such as the Cretaceous Benue Trough.
10.2307/1485813|Dinoflagellates are an important component of Antarctic coastal and sea ice communities but comprise only a relatively minor component of Southern Ocean oceanic phytoplankton assemblages. However, living species capable of producing geologically-preservable cysts have been reported only rarely from Antarctic waters and no Quaternary cysts have ever been recovered from Southern Ocean surface sediments. The youngest fossil dinoflagellate cysts to occur anywhere in the Antarctic - Southern Ocean region are Oligocene and these predate the period of rapid sea-floor spreading and major continental glaciation. This geographic and thermal isolation has prevented the poleward migration of cyst-producing dinoflagellates, which require a continental shelf or slope pathway to migrate. The loss of shallow water shelves from the Antarctic continent, due to the isostatic effects of ice accumulation, must have contributed to the local extinction of the Paleogene cyst-forming groups.
10.2307/1485950|Excellent preservation of the impoverished Louisiana Limestone (Upper Devonian) conodont fauna from the Midcontinent, North America, allows apparatus reconstruction for multielement species Protognathodus kockeli, P. meischneri, P. collinsoni, Palmatolepis gracilis? and Serraellataxis petroskei gen. nov. sp. nov. Previously proposed apparatuses of Polygnathus communis and Cryptotaxis culminidirecta are revised by the addition of a hindeodinan Sb2 element to P. communis and a hibbardellan Sa element to C. culminidirecta. A partial reconstruction, possibly related to Bispathodus aculeatus anteposicornis, is suggested.
10.2307/1484232|The foraminiferal family Orbitolinidae is represented in rocks of early Cretaceous through Eocene age. The genera Coskinolinoides, Iraqia, Simplorbitolina, Orbitolina, and Dictyoconus are included in the family because of the similarity of their wall structure and general test development. Genera previously assigned to this family which do not have the characteristic wall structure are removed from the family. Each of the genera assigned to the Orbitolinidae is diagnosed, on the basis of topotypes of the type species of each of the genera.
10.2307/1485199|Spines and pustules of Recent planktonic foraminifera can be differentiated on the basis of their morphology and development. Pustules are outgrowths of the chamber wall, and as such are difficult to remove. They have a lamellar construction and various shapes which are not distinctive for individual species. Spines, on the other hand, are sharply differentiated from the chamber wall, both through their organic content and through their smooth external surface. Furthermore, they are not firmly bound to the wall, so they can easily fall out during fossilization. On this basis, spinose forms can be differentiated from non-spinose fossil forms when the test is seen in cross-section. A further feature of the outer surface is the ridging which occurs especially in the region of the aperture and the keel of the animal. Spines, pustules, and ridging can be explained in relation to the protoplasmic streaming that sustains the life of the foraminifer.
10.2307/1486122|A comparative statistical study of foraminiferal and ostracode assemblages in Domerian marls from the Aquitaine basin (France) shows that the taxonomic structure of the populations fluctuates through time. Multiple Correspondences Analyses (M.C.A.) processing presence - absence data (table of taxa in the successive sample levels) were conducted. The first axis (F1) of this M.C.A. is related to faunal diversity and expresses a biotic capacity gradient. The F2 axis coincides with accomodation space and can be used to identify systems tracts and sequence boundaries. The F3 axis is interpreted as representing an oxygenation gradient. Short-term fluctuations at the systems tract or half systems tract level appear in the residuals of regressions and the distance between samples.
10.2307/1485370|Terrigenous and biogenous particles forming pelagic sediments are mainly distributed by wind, and by surface, mid-water, and bottom currents. Local slumping is also considered. Bottom currents are dealt with in detail from examples such as the Antarctic bottom water, and contour and turbidity currents. Methods used to study them are 1) direct measurements, calculations, and experiments; 2) observations of large-and small-scale morphological features by echosounders, side-scan surveys, and bottom photography; 3) geophysics; 4) investigations of internal structures, soil properties, and petrographic and micropaleontological features. Bottom current activities result in reduced sedimentation, erosion, transport, and accumulation as an interdependent system.
10.2307/1484382|Methods employed for routine laboratory culture of foraminifera are described, including a method for establishing axenic or synxenic culture. Attempts have been made to grow Trochammina inflata, Miliammina fusca, Elphidium poeyanum, Allogromia sp., Quinqueloculina sp., and Streblus beccarii in limited agnotobiotic and synxenic culture. The algae and the foraminifera have been grown and tested in enriched seawater and artificial seawater media. None of the synxenic cultures tested support continuous growth and reproduction of the foraminifera. A Mixture of eight pennate diatoms, three bacteria, and three blue-green filamentous algae supports abundant growth of Streblus beccarii cultures. Nitzschia acicularis was found to stimulate the growth of Bolivina sp.; another species of Nitzschia was found to inhibit growth; and there was no response to a mixture of Rhodomonas lens and Isochrysis galbana. Reactions between Dunaliella cultures and foraminifera are described.
10.2307/1485793|Three biofacies were recognized in samples collected at a depth of 10cm along three transects from the marshes of the Fraser River delta, British Columbia. These biofacies, defined by comparison with those previously identified from surface marsh samples, correspond to three elevational zones: the High Marsh Zone, characterized by the Jadammina macrescens biofacies; the Lower High Marsh Zone, characterized by the Ammonia beccarii biofacies; and the Low Marsh Zone, characterized by the Miliammina fusca biofacies. A dramatic decrease in the abundance of Ammonia beccarii at 10cm depth suggests that the calcareous tests of this species are poorly preserved in the low pH subsurface sediments. As a result, the Ammonia beccarii biofacies will no longer be recognizable after extended burial. Although fewer biofacies can be resolved from paleomarshes of the Fraser delta than at the surface, it is still possible to differentiate between a High Marsh fauna (>+0.94m above mean sea level) and a Low Marsh fauna (<+0.94m above mean sea level).
10.2307/1484905|The taxonomy, geographical distribution, stratigraphy and evolutionary trends of the marine planktonic species of the diatom genus Denticula that have been found in the Neogene sediments of the North Pacific are discussed, and the following taxa are described: Denticula seminae, Denticula seminae var. fossilis, n. var., Denticula kamtschatica, Denticula hyalina, Denticula hyalina var. hustedtii, n. var., Denticula punctata, Denticula punctata var. hustedtii, Denticula hustedtii, Denticula dimorpha, Denticula miocenica, Denticula lauta, Denticula nicobarica.
40607076|A diverse radiolarian fauna is described from strata of a road cut section of the uppermost part of the Bell Canyon Formation (Capitanian, Guadalupian, Middle Permian), Apache Mountains, West Texas. Fifteen new species are described: Campanulithus insuetus, Pseudoalbaillella apachensis, Astroentactinia capitanensis, Polyedroentactinia guadalupensis, Afanasievella apachensis, Copicyntra erinacea, Paracopicyntra snyderi, Klaengspongus planus, Copiellintra orbiculata, C. fastuosa, Shangella capitanensis, Rectotormentum wardlawi, Tetratormentum ormistoni, Quadrilobatal blomei, and Nazarovispongus globosum. The diagnoses of the species Follicucullus sphaericus Takemura in Takemura et al. 1999 and the genus Raciditor Sugiyama 2000 are emended. The rank of the subspecies Raphidociclicus gemellus americanus Nazarov and Ormiston 1985a is raised to species level. The genus Nazarovispongus Kozur 1980 is considered to be a valid genus and is reinstated. Established are one new genus, Afanasievella (assigned to the family Spongentactiniidae), one new subfamily Polyedroentactiniinae (in the composition of the family Orosphaeridae), and one new family Tetratormentidae (in the composition of the order Pyramidata). The radiolarian assemblage from the described section in the Apache Mountains is at least partly coeval with the radiolarian assemblage from the Reef Trail Member of the Bell Canyon Formation in the Guadalupe Mountains, allowing a straight correlation of this age strata between the Apache and Guadalupe mountains. This correlation is supported by the conodont species that define the latest Guadalupian conodont zones and that occur together with radiolarians in both areas. The radiolarian species Albaillella yamakitai in sense of Xia et al. (2005) present in the late Guadalupian J. altudaensis conodont Zone cannot be a marker for the Guadalupian - Lopingian boundary as was proposed by Xia et al. (2005).
24413488|The Cenomanian-Early Turonian succession exposed in west central Sinai was carefully studied for their foraminiferal content. Lithostratigraphically, this carbonate platform interval in the studied area include the Raha Formation (Early-Middle Cenomanian) and Abu Qada Formation (Late CenomanianEarly Turonian). One hundred and one species belonging to 69 genera and 41 families are identified. Out of this content, 86 species belong to benthic foraminifera, and 16 belong to the planktonic ones. One larger benthic foraminiferal species namely Biconcava ribbata Shahin (n. sp.) is considered here as new species. Four large benthic foraminiferal zones and one planktonic foraminiferal zone are recognized and correlated with their equivalents inside and outside Egypt. The successive last and first appearances of most large agglutinated and porcellaneous benthic foraminifera refer to successive bioevents. The Heterohelix shift below the Cenomanian-Turonian boundary is an excellent biomarker for global event correlation for oxygen minimum zone. Also the scarcity or even the disappearance of larger benthic foraminifera in this interval can be interpreted as the final stages of the Late Cenomanian-Early Turonian Oceanic Anoxic Event 2. The wide paleobiogeographic distribution of the recorded larger foraminifera reveals that there was a strong affinity and direct connection allover the Tethyan Realm.
24413298|Taxonomic remarks and comments on the early Paleocene fasciculiths are presented. The study was carried out across the Danian Selandian transition at Site 1262 (South Atlantic), Zumaia (Spain) and Qreiya (Egypt) sections. A scheme of the main characteristics and structural features useful to identify the new taxa of Gomphiolithus, Diantholitha, Lithoptychius and Fasciculithus is suggested.
10.2307/1484108|Cylindroporella sugdeni and Cylindroporella arabica n. spp., Arabicodium aegagrapiloides n. gen., n. sp., and Polygonella incrustata n. gen., n. sp., are described as new calcareous algae from the Jurassic and Cretaceous of Arabia.
10.2307/1485491| Although our knowledge of living planktonic foraminifera is limited, useful paleoecologic information can be obtained from ancient assemblages. During the mid-Cretaceous, as today, the simple, inflated morphotypes inhabited the near-surface waters while the flatter, keeled forms probably occupied deeper habitats. Three faunal groups are proposed, an Epicontinental Sea Fauna (ESF) characterized by species of Gubkinella, Guembelitria and Heterohelix, an open marine Shallow Water Fauna (SWF) composed primarily of species of Hedbergella and Globigerinelloides, among others, and finally an open marine Deep Water Fauna (DWF) represented by species of Planomalina, Rotalipora and Praeglobotruncana (keeled taxa). Open ocean assemblages of DSDP Sites 545 and 547 are numerically dominated by species of the SWF in the >63-m size fraction while the ESF comprises about 5% of the assemblages, and the biostratigraphically important DWF generally comprises less than 2%. These assemblages demonstrate remarkable stratigraphic consistency. In contrast to open ocean assemblages, epicontinental sea assemblages of the Vocontian Basin are characterized by loss of the DWF with decreasing water depth and an increase in the proportion of the ESF. The ESF:SWF ratio also becomes increasingly variable with decreasing water depth. Upwelling also has pronounced effects on the composition of planktonic assemblages as suggested by an increase in the proportion of the ESF, interpreted to include opportunistic species. 
10.2307/1484180|Climatic curves derived from variations in planktonic foraminifera in three deep-sea cores are compared with isotopic temperature curves drawn by Emiliani on the basis of the same cores. There is close correlation in the upper part of the section, but increasing deviation downward.
10.2307/1484919|Upper Cretaceous strata along the west side of the Sacramento Valley and northern San Joaquin Valley contain a diversified and well-preserved fauna of planktonic foraminifera. Fifty-six of the stratigraphically important species of this fauna are herein described and illustrated. Three species are described as new.
10.2307/1485818|88 ostracode species have been found in the Upper Paleozoic Harper Ranch beds of south-central British Columbia, Canada. They occur with three different conodont associations that are dated as Early Carboniferous (late Visean-early Namurian) and Early Permian (late Sakmarian, and early Artinskian). The composition of the oldest ostracode fauna suggests a younger, Late Carboniferous/Sakmarian age for that fauna, which suggests some stratigraphic admixture has occurred. The ostracodes are the first described from the region, and the Permian ostracodes are the first described from Canada. Two genera are new: Valentinia n. gen. and Victoria n. gen.; 7 species are new: Valentinia harperensis n. sp., Valentinia vermiformis n. sp., Valentinia dercourti n. sp., Victoria hemicircularis n. sp., Victoria pinantonensis n. sp., Victoria postpleta n. sp., and Pseudobeyrichiopsis gerryi n. sp.; 17 species are firmly determined, 31 are compared to previously described material, and 40 species are in open nomenclature. Paleoecologically, the Carboniferous fauna of Pinanton Lake has deep water features, whereas Early Permian faunas are shallower; the late Sakmarian assemblage is indicative of the shallowest water.
10.2307/1485883|In this paper we report a new genus Protentelloides and two new species (Protentelloides primitiva and Protentelloides dalhousiei) from the upper Oligocene (planktonic foraminiferal Zone P22) in DSDP Hole 366A on the Sierra Leone Rise, eastern equatorial Atlantic. We suggest that Protentelloides is one of the phylogenetic branches of Globorotaloides suteri (Bolli). Protentelloides dalhousiei evolved from P. primitiva. Protentelloides primitiva and Protentelloides dalhousiei are suggested to have a duration of about 1.3 and 0.45 m.y., respectively. These two taxa are considered to be stratigraphically important in determining the upper Oligocene (Zone P22) and the Oligocene/Miocene boundary because of their short stratigraphic ranges and diagnostic features. The last occurrences of the two taxa are juxtaposed at ca. 23.2 Ma, only 0.5 m.y. earlier than the first occurrence of Globorotalia kugleri that has been used recently as the most reliable Oligocene/Miocene boundary marker. Hence, the two species can be suggested as secondary indicators of the O/M boundary.
10.2307/1484962|Spiniferites cruciformis, Spiniferites inaequalis, Tectatodinium psilatum and Peridinium ponticum are new dinoflagellate species that are represented by cysts in brackish-water and fresh-water to brackish-water sediments in the top few meters of deep-water sediment in the Black Sea. These new species and several other unusual fossil cysts from the Black Sea sediments are described and illustrated.
10.2307/1484554| Twenty-seven species of ostracodes are listed from the Tubar Formation, south of the village of Tubar, near Barranquilla, Colombia. Twenty-one of the species have been described before from the Caribbean Miocene. Two new species are described, Cytherelloidea impages and Isocythereis? redmondi. The distribution of the ostracodes suggests correlation with the Upper Miocene of Trinidad and northeastern Venezuela. 
10.2307/1485041| The recent suggestions by Venkatachala and Kar (1969) to conserve the generic names Densipollenites Bharadwaj, 1962, and Virkkipollenites Lele, 1964, and to reject the legal and valid respective senior synonyms Sehorisporites Dev, 1961, and Cannanoropollis Potoni and Sah, 1960, because the latter two genera are based on reworked material are criticized. 
10.2307/1484507|Laboratory and field observations on arenaceous foraminifera indicate that high salinity is correlated with the occurrence and reproduction of intertidal species. A salt-water aquarium system with an 8-inch simulated tide designed to provide four different environments (sandy beach, mud flat, coral beach, and artificial glass wool "beach") was constructed, using stock aquarium tanks and plastic pipe. Native flora and fauna (including foraminifera) continue to flourish in the laboratory environment. Field collection data of sites in the New York area are presented.
10.2307/1485207|Recent benthonic foraminifera from middle bathyal-abyssal water depths (2500-4600 m) in the southeast Indian Ocean consist primarily of calcareous species, but with agglutinated species present in most samples. The presence of calcareous benthonic foraminiferal assemblages to depths of 4600 m suggests that the CCD is deeper than 4600 m in the southeast Indian Ocean. The majority of the 33 taxa found in this study are rotalid species (26), with miliolid species (4) and agglutinated forms (3) of secondary importance. The number of taxa found in any one sample ranges from 12 to 25. The dominant rotalids are Epistominella umbonifera, Uvigerina spp., Globocassidulina subglobosa, Epistominella exigua, Planulina wuellerstorfi, and Oridorsalis tener. The four miliolid species are Pyrgo murrhina, Quinqueloculina cf. weaveri, Quinqueloculina venusta, and Ophthalmidium pusillum. The most common agglutinated species are Siphotextularia catenata and Eggerella bradyi, while Karreriella bradyi is uncommon. Faunal/water-mass associations are similar to those found in the Atlantic by other workers.
10.2307/1486047|The Bathonian to Ryazanian succession of Central Spitsbergen consists mainly of shales with high to intermediate organic content, and preserves an essentially continuous foraminiferal record composed almost exclusively of agglutinating taxa. The assemblages are reexamined in three extensively sampled sections, with supplementary material included from other localities in Spitsbergen and the Russian Arctic. The foraminiferal record of Spitsbergen is subdivided into eight interval zones, which are correlated with a Boreal ammonite zonal scheme using a graphic procedure. The age-thickness relationships reveal extremely low average sedimentation rates through the Upper Bathonian-Lower Kimmeridgian and Middle Volgian-Ryazanian intervals, suggesting the possible presence of minor hiatuses. The taxonomical revision of foraminifera was accomplished in the light of comparisons with sample material from Russian occurences. The emendation resulted in the proposal of two new genera, Agardhella and Calyptammina, and the following nine new species: Thuramminoides lapilliformis, Saccammina compacta, Scherochorella densiformis, Cribrostomoides subretusus, C. vallatus, Ammobaculites areniferus, Agardhella placula, Trochammina praerosacea and Gaudryina rostellata.
10.2307/1484585|This paper describes and illustrates the planktonic foraminifera separated from 228 samples collected from the classic section of Gebel Aweina, Egypt, which is taken as the type locality of the Esna Shale. The analysis of this large series of samples makes possible the zonation of this Upper Cretaceous-Lower Tertiary succession in a manner which has never been attempted before in Egypt. This zonation establishes the correlatability of the Egyptian section with sections in other parts of the world. The Globotruncana-Heterohelix assemblage found in the lower parts of the section denotes a Maestrichtian age. This is followed by the Globigerina daubjergensis-G. pseudobulloides zone (Danian); the Globorotalia uncinata, the G. pusilla, the G. pseudomenardii, and the G. velascoensis zones (Landenian); and the G. rex zone (Lower Eocene). In spite of the fact that the age of these world-wide zones is still controversial, the authors accept the views expressed by Loeblich and Tappan on the age of these units. The presence of an erosional hiatus between the Danian and Maestrichtian, represented by a conglomerate with a sandy glauconitic matrix, is noted, and its significance is discussed. The Paleocene-Lower Eocene contact is shown to cut the upper beds of the Esna Shale and does not follow the contact of this rock unit with the overlying Thebes Formation.
20627972|Foreman established the genus Polyentactinia from three species. Since then, 26 additional Polyentactinia species have been described. Together, their biostratigraphic range is Late Cambrian to Early Permian. Such a long range for one genus is unlikely. Further, the species were assigned to Polyentactinia because of their shell wall's angular meshwork, disregarding other characteristics. From re-examination of the type species, P. craticulata, we find that, unlike the genus and type species diagnoses, it has a thin one-layered shell wall of fine spongy meshwork with a latticed base, an internal spicule with seven rays extending to main spines, and one short ray directed toward the single large pylome. Such specimens may belong to the Pylentonemidae. Recently three genera, including two Cretaceous genera, have been assigned to the Polyentactiniidae, but they share no characteristics with Polyentactinia that would tie them to the Polyentactiniidae, regardless of how diverse and unrelatedly heterogeneous the species in Polyentactinia. Therefore, the family Polyentactiniidae may no longer be a valid taxon. Except for the type species, among 29 Polyentactinia species, other researchers have reorganized five species; we reassign 24 species in this paper. Among them, six species shae characteristics with a previously unreported species from the Ohio Shale fauna. For those, we establish the genus Costaentactinia and, for the unreported species, C. foremanae. We also establish Retentactinia spongiosa n. sp. that is closely related to one of the three species on which Foreman based her genus.
30136848|Many vertebrate and invertebrate species of Indo-Pacific origin are observed in the Eastern Mediterranean. These alien species were likely transported via ballast waters or by attaching themselves onto vessels. In addition to that, many species were carried into the Mediterranean for aquaculture purposes or inadvertantly introduced from public aquariums. More importantly, man-made canals, especially the Suez Canal, serve as conduits to transportation of species between ecosystems. Many foraminifer species native to the Indo-Pacific were introduced into the Eastern Mediterranean via the Suez Canal. Some of these genera coexist with other benthic foraminifers in the Bay of Haifa, the Gulf of Iskenderun, southwestern Antalya, eastern Aegean Sea and northeast of Crete. We identified 26 genera and 32 species of Recent Foraminifera common to the Indo-Pacific and some to the Atlantic Ocean in our samples collected from various depths in the Aegean and Southwestern Mediterranean coasts of Turkey and the Gulf of Iskenderun. The absence of species native to Atlantic waters in the western Mediterranean suggests that their presence in the eastern Mediterranean must be of Indo-Pacific origin rather than Atlantic.
10.2307/1484450|A revision of the type material of the forms grouped by Brady (1876) under the genus Nodosinella leads to an emendation of this genus and of the family Nodosinellidae. A new family, the Earlandiidae, is erected to include Earlandia Plummer, 1930, Earlandinella, n. gen., Earlandinita, n. gen., and Lugtonia, n. gen. Lower Carboniferous representatives of the Hyperammininae and Reophacidae are also described.
10.2307/1485941|Based on experience gained from processing samples from the Cenozoic basins of south-west Ecuador, a composite procedure for the processing of fossil diatoms from lithified or partially consolidated sediments is presented. The procedure is divided into four stages: (I) initial sample breakdown. (II) cemented rock breakdown and removal of carbonate component. (III) organic matter removal. (IV) clay removal. These are presented in the form of annotated tables linked by an accompanying flow chart.
10.2307/1484265|The structural and stratigraphic geology of the island of Majorca is outlined in order to show the stratigraphic positions in the Lower and Middle Miocene occupied by the foraminiferal species cited in the text. Discordance exists between the Lower Miocene (Burdigalian) and the Middle Miocene (Helvetian-Tortonian). In the Burdigalian, Miogypsina mediterranea is associated with foraminifera of "Caribbean" type which are frequent in the "Upper Oligocene" and Lower Miocene of Central America, as well as in the Balearic Islands. In the Helvetian-Tortonian, other associations, which are very different from these but which are frequent in the Middle and Upper Miocene and Pliocene of the Mediterranean zone, are found. Miogypsina has not previously been observed in the Helvetian-Tortonian of Majorca.
10.2307/1485216|Eocene, Oligocene, Miocene, and Pliocene biostratigraphic zonation based on calcareous nannoplankton is established in eastern Australian nearshore basins, taking into special consideration the southeastern Australian region--calcareous nannoplankton of this region is described. The shallow nearshore basins in eastern Australia are characterized by poor development of Sphenolithus and Ceratolithus. Discoaster, Helicopontosphaera, and Chiasmolithus are used in biostratigraphic zonation. The standard calcareous nannoplankton zones based on Sphenolithus are replaced by zones of Helicopontosphaera recta (Haq). Chiasmolithus altus Bukry and Percival, and C. oamaruensis (Deflandre) in the Oligocene. Discoaster formosus Martini and Worsley has been widely encountered in eastern Australian nearshore basins, and with other discoasters has been used in new zones in biostratigraphic zonation in these basins. The Discoaster calculosus Zone, Discoaster formosus Zone, and Discoaster variabilis Zone are established in the Miocene. Seventeen biostratigraphic zones based on calcareous nannoplankton are distinguished in eastern Australian nearshore basins. Five new species are introduced.
10.2307/1484192|In Northwest Australia fourteen species and subspecies of Globotruncana, ranging in age from Cenomanian or Turonian to Maestrichtian, have been found in surface and well samples from the Carnarvon Basin. Many species that are common in the European Upper Cretaceous also appear in the Upper Cretaceous of Northwest Australia, where their stratigraphic distribution is likewise of considerable value in correlation. Quantitative analysis of microfaunas containing Globotruncana suggests that the members of this genus are benthonic, at least in the adult stages, and not entirely planktonic as formerly supposed.
10.2307/1484315|The Archaeomonadaceae of the Calvert formation (Miocene) of Maryland were studied morphologically and taxonomically. Two genera with fifteen species, four of which are new, are described and illustrated. A history of the study of the group with a review of the existing genera is given.
20627981|We report on Recent podocopid ostracods from the northern coast of Vietnam, describe two new ostracod species (Loxoconcha vietnamensis and Caudites huyeni), and describe the appendages of Loxoconcha ocellata Ho 1982. We identified 75 species from 15 Recent surface-sediment samples and recognized three biofacies (I, II, III) based on salinity ranges. Among these, biofacies II commonly occurs in marine to brackish waters over a wide range of salinity. The Recent ostracod assemblages of the northeastern coast of Vietnam shows a strong connection with the ostracod fauna of the coast of China.
10.2307/1485673| Seven taxa belonging to the diatom genus Azpeitia are compared and illustrated, a key provided, and details of age and geographic distribution included. Type specimens or type collections have been examined whenever possible. One new species, A. apiculata P.A. Sims, is described; A. vetustissima var. voluta (Baldauf) Sims changed in rank, and A. nodulifera forma cyclopus (Jous) P.A. Sims is transferred from Coscinodiscus. These taxa not only share the characteristics of the genus as a whole but share morphological similarities including only two rings of areolae on the valve mantle and exhibit close relationships to Azpeitia nodulifera (Schmidt) G. Fryxell and P.A. Sims, a living, oceanic, warm water species. Geological records indicate a limited existence of representatives of the genus during the Paleogene, with many in the Miocene, and a few in the Pliocene. 
10.2307/1484578|Multilocular embryonts in Lepidocyclina (Eulepidina) undosa Cushman are recorded for the first time in specimens from the Oligocene Cibao Formation of northern Puerto Rico. The development and causes of this phenomenon in species of Lepidocyclina are examined in the light of recent publications by Cole, Eames et al., and Hanzawa. This analysis demonstrates that multilocular embryonts alone have no taxonomic significance on a subgeneric or higher level.
10.2307/1485026| The large planktonic diatom Ethmodiscus rex (Rattray) Hendey occurs in largely monospecific oozes in the eastern equatorial Atlantic. These oozes are restricted to glacial episodes in Pleistocene sediments and are found only between the equator and latitude 5 N. The various mechanisms proposed over the past 70 years to account for these accumulations are reviewed and evaluated. We conclude that the Wiseman-Hendey theory of a massive, but short-lived, productivity bloom of E. rex is the most plausible and best fits the observed data. The causes of such a high production of one species are unknown. 
10.2307/1485157| The ostracode assemblage present in the Upper Jagelian Substage, which consists of the upper beds of the upper member of the Jagel Formation, is studied in the present paper. The strata crop out in the Fortn General Roca area, Ro Negro Province, Argentine Republic. They were dated by means of planktonic foraminifera, especially by the species Heterohelix globulosa (Ehrenberg), Guembelitria cretacea Cushman, Globigerinelloides multispina (Lalicker), Rugoglobigerina rugosa (Plummer), Rugotruncana subpennyi (Gandolfi), and were correlated with the Middle Maastrichtian Substage of Europe. Thirty-seven ostracode species are described, of which thirty are new. 
10.2307/1486204|This paper presents the results of the first detailed study of organic microplankton assemblages from the Bilecik Formation (Middle-Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous). The Bilecik Formation is exposed in northwest Anatolia, Turkey. Seventy-seven samples were analysed for organic microplankton. Although the resultant assemblages are varied, the species are represented in low numbers and their preservation is generally poor. A total of 97 species and subspecies of dinoflagellate cysts and acritarchs are recorded, Seventy-three species have been previously reported from the Middle and Upper Jurassic, fourteen other species were recorded for the first time in the Jurassic. Pollen and spores are abundant and varied.
10.2307/1484884|The types of Tetrataxis conica and Textilaria palaeotrochus that are illustrated in Ehrenberg's "Mikrogeologie" (1854) are described, and a lectotype is designated for Tetrataxis conica.
10.2307/1485923|Thirteen new radiolarian species, two new genera and one new combination from the Oligocene and early Miocene of Northland, New Zealand, are formally described. The species are - Heliodiscus tunicatus (Phacodiscidae), Rhopalastrum tritelum (Spongodiscidae), Lithomelissa gelasinus, L. maureenae, Lophophaena tekopua (Plagiacanthidae), Valkyria pukapuka (Sethoconidae), Cyrtocapsa osculum, Lophocyrtis (Paralampterium)? inaequalis, Lychnocanium neptunei, Stichocorys negripontensis, Theocorys bianulus, T. perforalvus, T. puriri (Theoperidae); the genera are - Plannapus (Artostrobiidae) and Valkyria (Sethoconidae); the combination is Plannapus microcephalus (Artostrobiidae). Standardised terminology is proposed for internal skeletal elements and external appendages. Emendations are proposed for the family Artostrobiidae and the genera Heliodiscus, Lithomelissa and Cyrtocapsa. Heliodiscus, Cyrtocapsa and Lychnocanium are established as senior synonyms of Astrophacus, Cyrtocapsella and Lychnocanoma respectively.
10.2307/1485147|The new genus Quinquecapsularia and the new species Quinquecapsularia spinosa (Radiolaria) are described from the Cenomanian portion of the Great Valley Sequence, California Coast Ranges
10.2307/1485546|The fossil diatom Coscinodiscus eccentricus Ehrenberg from Oran, Algeria is described as Thalassiosira oranica, n. sp., distinguished from the Recent Thalassiosira eccentrica (Ehrenberg) Cleve by process pattern and areolation. It belongs to the group of Thalassiosira with one central strutted process, one marginal ring of strutted processes, and one marginal labiate process. Other conspicuous morphological features are irregularly situated marginal occluded processes, a linear to eccentric areola array, and a ribbed flange at the edge of the valve mantle. This pattern of strutted processes and areolation is usually regarded as representative of ancient Thalassiosira species, an assumption here supported by the simple construction of the strutted process. The literature brings no evidence that T. oranica is living in the sea today.
30135272|In the Albian to Coniacian subsurface series of Jaisalmer Basin, Rajasthan, India, the distribution of ostracode assemblages is proposed, calibrated using planktonic foraminifera biozones of the global standard stages. Ninety species, 19 named and 71 in open nomenclature, belonging to 45 known genera and one unknown, are indexed; their first and last appearance (or first and last observation) levels, compared with the stage boundaries, are used as biostratigraphical guide markers. The ostracode assemblages enable us to recognize and define the Cenomanian, Turonian and Coniacian stages. Cenomanian-Turonian faunistic communications appear between the Jaisalmer Basin and different countries of the southern Tethyan margins and the eastern and western Atlantic borderlands.
10.2307/1484107|This paper gives an account of the morphologic variation and dimorphism shown by certain species of foraminifera belonging to the family Lagenidae in the Upper Lias of northern Lincolnshire, England. The variation of the megalospheric generation is described, and the relative importance of different morphological features commonly used in the diagnosis of species is discussed. The clear morphologic separation of microspheric and megalospheric generations is established in one case, but no support for the theory of trimorphism is given by this investigation.
10.2307/1484711|Upper Miocene to Pliocene strata in north Westland and Marlborough Districts, New Zealand, contain abundant fossils representing a bioseries of planktonic foraminifera showing gradual progressive morphological changes. The bioseries commenced with Globorotalia miozea Finlay and ended with Globorotalia crassaformis (Galloway and Wissler). The form representing one stage of the bioseries in Marlborough differs slightly from the corresponding form in north Westland, 150 miles to the southwest, but the end form is the same in both areas.
10.2307/1485607|Permo-Carboniferous Ostracoda have valuable biostratigraphic potential in Texas, if the paleoenvironmental component of the species distributions can be controlled. Collections from 76 outcrop sections in 14 counties provide stratigraphic occurrences for 226 ostracode species, the first comprehensive survey of these faunas. Pattern analysis of a second data set of paleoecologically significant, long-ranging informal taxonomic units yields an inferred coenocline reflecting an onshore-offshore gradient. The position and dispersion of each ostracode species on this independently derived coenocline are presented. The resulting ecological characterizations will help measure the biostratigraphic utility of species and evaluate the applicability of a future biozonation.
10.2307/1485162| Statistical analysis of spherical tests of Orbulina universa d'Orbigny in Indian Ocean waters and surface sediments indicates a strongly inverse correlation between test size and latitudinal occurrence. Populations with large tests (600  to 800  in diameter) are found in tropical and subtropical areas. A marked decrease in mean test diameter, from 550  to 450 , takes place in a relatively narrow belt in the middle latitudes. Test sizes average less than 450  within the Subtropical-Subantarctic Transition Zone (= "Subtropical Convergence Zone") and in subantarctic areas, where the cold waters may cause stunting of O. universa's growth. A direct correlation can therefore be demonstrated between mean test diameter of O. universa and surface-water temperature. Somewhat analogous to an expanding balloon, the increase in O. universa's test diameter from high to low latitudes is accompanied by corresponding increases in its pore diameters and test porosity. However, there is also an increase in total number of pores with an increase in test diameter. The variations in test porosity are largely attributable to the variations in the diameters of the small pores rather than the large pores. Highest test porosities (> 10%) are observed in tropical areas and lowest porosities (5% or less) in temperate and subantarctic regions. O. universa exemplifies a general phenomenon seen in other species of planktonic foraminifera, the test size and test porosity of which reach their maxima in warm-water regions. However, although O. universa's test growth is probably more rapid and its test size is largest in tropical waters, its greatest abundance occurs in relatively cool, subtropical waters near its distributional limit. 
4097087|Growth-independent test characters of the genera Operculina, Planoperculina, and Planostegina were investigated to determine relations to water depth in form of morphoclines. All characters describing test form - thickness, initial vector of the test spiral that is correlated to proloculus size, and radius expansion rate describing test contour - are correlated. The investigated Operculina and Planoperculina species (O. ammonoides, O. elegans, O. complanata, P. heterosteginoides) demonstrate significant morphoclines in these characters, which can be used for gradient estimation using regression analyses. Thick forms of Operculina with intensively coiled spirals predominate in shallow water (-20 to -40m); in the deeper parts of the euphotic zone (-120m) they transform into thin forms possessing a weakly coiled spiral. Planoperculina heterosteginoides, with thin tests and therefore restricted to the deeper euphotic zone (starting at -80m), is the only symbiont-bearing larger foraminifer that can extend its distribution to just below the euphotic zone, where it develops extremely thin tests. Both Planostegina species, similar to shallow specimens of Planoperculina heterosteginoides in test form and thickness, do not show morphoclines and are thus restricted to depths between -30 and -90m (P. operculinoides) and -70 and -90m (P. longisepta). Chamber numbers, represented by the growth-independent parameters 'chamber number of the first whorl' and the 'chamber number increase rate' differ between Operculina species on the one hand and the Planostegina Planoperculina group on the other. Although both parameters are weakly correlated with characters describing test form, they do not show significant morphoclines either in the Operculina species or in the Planostegina Planoperculina group.
40607113|Abundant and diversified ebridians recovered during IODP Expedition 302 (ACEX) have been identified and counted in order to establish their taxonomy and to decipher the biostratigraphic potential of ebridians in the central Arctic Ocean. In the ACEX samples these fossils are preserved in Lithologie Units 1/6 and 2, which consist mainly of dark silty clay and biosiliceous ooze, respectively. Thirty taxa have been distinguished, three of which are described as new species (Ammmodochium lomonosovense, Pseudammodochium karyon, and Pseudammodochium psichion). The most dominant ebridian species is Pseudammodochium dictyoides throughout the biosiliceous section. The second dominant species varies alternately throughout the section. Based on the characteristic occurrences of major ebridian taxa, the ebridian assemblages were divided into Groups A to D in stratigraphie order. The ebridian assemblages in piston core USGS Fl-422 from the Alpha Ridge probably correlate to our assemblage Group A of early middle Eocene age, although rare younger taxa are irregularly included.
10.2307/1485889| The Kap Kbenhavn Formation crops out in Greenland at 80N latitude and marks the most northerly onshore Pliocene locality known. The sands and silts that comprise the formation were deposited in marginal marine and shallow marine environments significantly different from the present day. An abundant and diverse vertebrate and invertebrate fauna and plant megafossil flora provide age and paleoclimatic constraints. The age estimated for the Kap Kbenhavn ranges from 2.0 to 3.0 million years old and is based on vertebrates from the uppermost unit B3, benthic foraminifers from members A and B, amino acid analysis of bivalve shells from members A and B, paleomagnetic analysis from Member B and ostracodes from Member B. Winter and summer bottom water paleotemperatures were estimated on the basis of the ostracode assemblages using three methods: (1) overlap of the temperature ranges of twelve extant species of the Kap Kbenhavn fauna, (2) overlap of the temperature ranges of extant genera and (3) factor analytic transfer function methodology. The marine ostracode fauna in units B1 and B2 (localities 10, 50, 74, 75 and 130) indicate a subfrigid to frigid marine climate, with estimated minimum sea bottom temperatures (SBT) of -2C and estimated maximum SBT of 6-8C. Sediments assigned to unit B2 at locality 72 contain a higher proportion of warm water genera, and the maximum SBT is estimated at 9-10C. The marginal marine fauna in the uppermost unit B3 (locality 68) indicates a cold temperate to subfrigid marine climate, with an estimated minimum SBT of -2C and an estimated maximum SBT ranging as high as 12-14C. These temperatures indicate that, on the average, the Kap Kbenhavn winters in the late Pliocene were similar to or perhaps 1-2C warmer than winters today and that summer temperatures were 7-8C warmer than today. In the estuarine environment of unit B3, sea bottom temperatures during the summer were particularly warm, ranging from 10 to 12C warmer than at present. 
1486226| Lower Jurassic Radiolaria have been recovered from limestone beds and concretions in the sandstone member of the San Hiplito Formation near Punta San Hiplito, Baja California Sur, Mexico. The San Hiplito Formation and underlying Upper Triassic ophiolite form part of the Vizcano Sur terrane. The faunas are well-preserved, abundant, and diverse. Assemblages are dominated by spumellarians, but small cyrtid nassellarians are strongly varied also; multicyrtid nassellarians comprise a lesser component of the fauna. The Baja faunas are dated mainly by comparison to radiolarians from the Queen Charlotte Islands that co-occur with ammonites of Pliensbachian age. New ammonite zones for North America established by Smith and Tipper (1996) provide precise age control for equivalent radiolarian faunas that has not been possible in the past. Baja radiolarians are also compared with faunas from east-central Oregon, Turkey, and Japan. The strong similarity between Baja California radiolarians and Tethyan faunas from Turkey supports existing paleomagnetic evidence that the Vizcano terrane may have occupied a low-latitude position in Early Jurassic time. Two radiolarian genera (Ducatus and Religa) and twenty-two species are described as new; many other forms are discussed informally. Thirty-six previously described taxa are also documented. 
4097057|This study establishes for the first time in Japan a Paleogene dinoflagellate cyst biostratigraphic zonation, which enables dating and correlation of Paleogene shallow marine sediments in the northwestern Pacific where other marine planktonic microfossils are extremely rare. This study uses previously-dated outcrop sections in northern Japan and proposes nineteen dinoflagellate cyst biozones for the interval of the Paleocene-Lower Miocene, except the middle Middle Eocene where appropriate marine sections were not available. Comparison between assemblages from various other localities in Japan and Sakhalin Island, Far East Russia, confirms that the biostratigraphic zonation proposed here is applicable to the northern Japan and Sakhalin region. The taxonomic part describes 36 taxa that include three new species, Spinidinium pentagonwn Kurita, sp. nov. from the Eocene, and Spinidinium? tripylum Kurita, sp. nov. and Williamsidinium diaphanes Kurita, so. nov. from the Oligocene.
10.2307/1485779|The Lakes Entrance oil shaft section in east Gippsland, southeastern Australia, spans most of the second-order rise and fall in sea level and climate known as the Miocene oscillation. For this section, we have established time series of taxic changes and relative abundances of benthic foraminifera. Metrics reflecting the Miocene oscillation are changes in the profiles of inner, middle and outer neritic species, infauna and epifauna, and first and last appearances of species, as well as the numerous intervening comings and goings. A paleodepth curve is derived from shifts in the dominance of ecological groups. The inferred pattern of transgression/regression shows good agreement with third-order sequences. The pattern of first and last appearances shows three levels of particular interest. Two major changes are close by correlation to second-order sequence boundaries, early in the early Miocene and at the middle/late Miocene boundary respectively. Whereas the planktonic succession peaks in all measures at the Miocene optimum, the equivalent but muted benthic peaking leads it by some 2 m.y., peaking at the beginning of the Monterey carbon excursion. Thus the neritic record is more in tune with the deep-ocean record than with the plankton, and we suggest that fluctuations in nutrient supply had their major impact on the rising side (early Miocene) of the Miocene oscillation.
10.2307/1485481|A well-preserved acritarch and spore assemblage is described from an 18.3-m section of the Upper Devonian (upper Frasnian, Palmatolepis gigas conodont zone) Juniper Hill and Cerro Gordo members of the Lime Creek Formation, Floyd County, Iowa, U.S.A. The palynomorph assemblage comprises 23 genera and 43 species of acritarchs, and 12 genera and 12 species of spores. We propose two new acritarch genera, Centrasphaeridium and Pratulasphaera; nine new acritarch species; and two new spore species. In addition, one new combination, Dictyotidium craticulum (=Cymatiosphaera craticula Wicander and Loeblich 1977), is proposed. The palynomorph assemblage indicates a nearshore, normal marine environment, consistent with the interpretation provided by the associated shelly fauna. Comparison with other Frasnian palynomorph assemblages indicates similarity mostly in terms of long-ranging and cosmopolitan acritarch species while of the 12 miospore species present, only Geminospora lemurata and Laiphospora membrana have been previously reported.
10.2307/1484941|One new scolecodont genus and eight new species were found in the Upper Cretaceous Marshalltown Formation, in the coastal plain of southern New Jersey. One of the new species is referred to the living genus Glycera, which has not previously been reported from the fossil record. The occurrence of the genera Drilonereisites and Rhamphegenys extends their time ranges into the Cretaceous. This find raises the hope that additional annelid remains, previously overlooked, may yet be discovered in coastal plain beds. The close similarity of these New Jersey scolecodonts to others of almost the same age from Germany suggests that certain worm jaws may yet prove of value as guide fossils.
1486013|Well-preserved radiolarian faunas have been extracted from twelve sections in Middle and Upper Jurassic cherts of the sedimentary cover of ophiolites in the Mirdita area of northern Albania. The radiolarians are late Bajocian-early Oxfordian in age. Thirty-two radiolarian species are illustrated; thirteen species are described as new, the remainder are discussed informally. The ranges of all taxa are correlated with the Unitary Association Zones (UAZ) of Baumgartner et al. (1995b).
10.2307/1486125|We describe a device for random settling preparation of calcareous nannoplankton (coccolith) samples. The device allows easy draining and cleaning, as well as sedimentation at different heights of the water column through the use of different slide carriers. Reproducibility and accuracy of the device has been tested with standardized microbeads as spiking material. In applying counting techniques with different equations for determining absolute abundances, we discovered major anomalies in the calculated results that we interpreted as being due to the effect of convection currents within the device and the usage of elevated cover slides. A modified formula that corrects for the influence of elevated cover slides in random settling experiments is therefore proposed. Although the settling method is more time-consuming than standard smear-slide techniques, additional information is gained about the spatial and temporal distribution of coccoliths. These are important for palaeoecological and palaeobiogeographical interpretations.
10.2307/1484993|Thirty-three species of planktonic foraminifera, including one new species, are reported and illustrated from the upper Campanian and Maestrichtian sediments of the Pondicherry area, south India. Based on the stratigraphic ranges of these forms, two biostratigraphic zones and two subzones are recognised, defined, and correlated with the Globotruncana tricarinata, Globotruncana gansseri and Abathomphalus mayaroensis Zones of Bolli.
10.2307/1484908|Globorotalia miozea Finlay (sensu Kennett) is considered to be G. miotumida conoidea Walters. Globorotalia miotumida conomiozea Kennett is considered to have evolved from G. miotumida miotumida Jenkins during the Late Miocene. A previous theory that G. crassaformis (Galloway and Wissler) gave rise to G. miotumida conomiozea is considered invalid.
10.2307/1485079|The upper Cenomanian and lower and middle Turonian Greenhorn Formation and the Fairport Member of the Carlile Shale in the Great Plains region yielded 23 planktonic and 61 benthonic foraminiferal species. One benthonic genus, Orithostella, eight benthonic species, and one planktonic species, are new. Lack of benthonic specimens in the Lincoln and Hartland Members of the Greenhorn possibly resulted from a lack of oxygen at the sea floor. Diverse benthonics in the basal Bridge Creek Member possibly resulted from increased circulation during the sea's maximum extent and depth. Paucity of benthonics in the upper Bridge Creek and Fairport suggests a partial return to restrictive conditions.
10.2307/1485389|By charting stratigraphic range and species diversity in 50 diatom genera, it is possible to recognize a broad zonation from the Pleistocene down to the Upper Cretaceous when factors affecting representation in the fossil record are taken into account. On the generic level, 6 major evolutionary stages in diatoms can be distinguished: (I) a period of intense radiation and diversification in the Late Cretaceous, or earlier, followed by (II) a time of relatively low origination at the generic level; (III) relatively rapid evolution from Late Eocene to Middle Oligocene, with a higher degree of representation in the fossil record than in the preceding period; (IV) a fundamental overturn, with wholesale replacement of the Paleogene genera in the Late Oligocene, so that the difference between Early Oligocene and Late Oligocene is much greater than the difference between Late Oligocene and Miocene floras; (V) modernization of diatom floras in Middle and Late Miocene, with the appearance of Thalassiosira and abundance of Nitzschia; and (VI) the interval of distinctly modern assemblages, with no extinctions in the studied genera, from Late Pliocene through Pleistocene.
10.2307/1484266|An ostracode fauna of eleven species is described from the Eocene Capay formation at Fig-Tree Gulch, Marysville Buttes, California. One species is considered to be conspecific with a Gulf Coast form, one is described as a nomen apertum, and nine are new. The genera Cytherella, Bythocypris, Buntonia, Paijenborchella, Munseyella, Trachyleberis, Trachyleberidea, and Actinocythereis are represented. The most noteworthy generic occurrence is that of Paijenborchella, hitherto unreported from the Western Hemisphere.
10.2307/1485111|Eleven species of the foraminiferal family Bolivinitidae from the inner-neritic zone of the eastern Pacific off southern California and northwestern Mexico are examined and illustrated with the use of scanning electron microscopy. Taxonomic characters are redescribed, and morphologic variation is noted.
40607115|The Cenozoic sedimentary record of the central Arctic Ocean recovered during the Arctic Coring Expedition (ACEX) Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP) Expedition 302 contains a new dinoflagellate cyst genus, Arcticacysta, assignable to the Peridiniales. Two different species are here formally described, Arcticacysta backmanii and A. moraniae gen. et sp. nov. Both species have a combination archeopyle, formed by the loss of several plates. In A. backmanii the archeopyle involves three apical (2'-4') and three intercalary (1a-3a) plates. In A. moraniae the archeopyle is formed by the loss of four apical (1'-4') and three intercalary (1a-3a) plates. The species differ in size and in the wall structure. A. backmanii has a microreticulate wall and is relatively large, whereas A. moraniae is smaller and with spinose wall. Their lowest occurrence in the ACEX core lies at the base of subunit 1/5 (core M0002A 46X, 113-114 cm, 198.70 meters composite depth, mcd). Morphologically closely related taxa, potentially representing other species of Arcticacysta, have been previously recovered from the late Oligocne and early Miocene sediments of the Norwegian-Greenland Seas.
10.2307/1484116|The algal genus Clypeina has been recognized in the upper Middle Eocene Avon Park limestone of the Florida subsurface. Clypeina infundibuliformis, Clypeina pezanti, and Clypeina digitata have been previously described from the Middle Eocene of the Paris Basin. Clypeina johnsoni is described here for the first time. The ambiguity of the descriptions of the previously named species has made it necessary to redefine them here.
10.2307/1484368|A survey is presented of the micropaleontology and biostratigraphy of the middle Eocene Jacaguas group. The Jacaguas group contains an early middle Eocene planktonic assemblage correlating with Bolli's Hantkenina aragonensis and Globigerapsis kugleri assemblage zones of Trinidad.
10.2307/1484514|Three new genera and eighteen new species of foraminifera are described from the Jurassic of Saudi Arabia. Two of the genera, Pseudomarssonella and Riyadhella, are tentatively placed in Cushman's subfamily Globotextulariinae. The third, Dhrumella, can not be more closely placed than somewhere within the superfamily Rotaliacea.
10.2307/1484863|Topotypes of the Late Tertiary foraminiferal species described in the report of the Novara Expedition published in 1866 by Dr. Conrad Schwager were obtained from samples collected on the island of Car Nicobar in the Bay of Bengal. The present status of these species is listed. Topotypes matched with the figures and descriptions given by Schwager have been lodged in the Geology Department, Banaras Hindu University, and a second set of topotypes will be deposited at the British Museum (Natural History), London. Neotypes will later be designated for all of the valid species described and figured by Schwager in his Novara report of 1866, except Globigerina conglomerata Schwager and G. seminulina Schwager, neotypes for which have already been proposed by Banner and Blow (1960).
4097009| A new, very small to small (2.4 to 4.6m) reticulofenestrid coccolith, Reticulofenestra calicis n. sp., is described by scanning electron and light microscopy from the Lower Pliocene (Zone CN11 of Okada and Bukry 1980) of the South Caribbean Sea. The coccolith shows typical reticulofenestrid distal and proximal shields but the distal shield is surmounted by a cup-shaped structure formed from extensions of the inner and outer tube elements. A new genus is not introduced, although this structure is peculiar for reticulofenestrids. We base generic attribution on the distal shield morphology. The species occasionally has few slits between the distal shield elements. Attribution to the genera Reticulofenestra instead of Pseudoemiliania is discussed in detail. R. calicis n. sp. is structurally similar to the modern Emiliania huxleyi var. corona and to Reticulofenestra maceria. R. calicis n. sp., readily recognized under the light microscope in side view, has a short stratigraphic range. If the species proves not to be under strong ecological control, it will constitute a new biostratigraphic marker for subdivision of the R. pseudoumbilicus Zone. 
20627973|A specimen of Loftusia persica Brady is described that contains as a part of its inner test a specimen of Turborotalia pomeroli (Toumarkine and Bolli), which is a very distinctive Middle to Late Eocene planktonic foraminifera. Although originally described as a "Tertiary" form, more recently Loftusia persica has been considered to be restricted to the Maastrichtian. A number of scenarios that could have led to the inclusion of an Eocene planktonic foraminifera deep within the test of a specimen of Loftusia are discussed, and it is concluded that the most probable interpretation is that Loftusia persica reappeared as a "Lazarus" species in the Eocene having survived the Cretaceous-Paleocene mass extinction, but was eventually driven to extinction by the orogeny that led to the formation of the Zagros Mountains.
10.2307/1485611|Two species of Radiolaria from paleomagnetically-dated Plio-Pleistocene sediments of the central equatorial Indian Ocean are described. Anthocyrtidium jenghisi (n. sp.) has a last appearance datum at approximately 2.4 Ma, near the base of the Pterocanium prismatium Zone. The last occurrence of Anthocyrtidium michelinae is at about 1.5 Ma, near the base of the Anthocyrtidium angulare Zone.
10.2307/1484480|Examination of the literature and specimens of various species has shown that the diagnosis of Gaudryina must be emended and a new synonymy proposed. Both these requisites are embodied in the present paper.
10.2307/1485525|The probable functional significance of dinoflagellate cyst morphology is considered. Ecological aspects can be inferred from living forms, even though many fewer types are present in modern than in ancient aqueous environments. Reasons are given for concluding that only incomplete versions of the phragma may be preserved. Though encystment is primarily associated with sexual reproduction, it has a secondary function as a means for surviving adverse conditions. The position of the cysts in the water column appears variable. Experimental results on cyst shape as an aid in flotation are presented and examined mathematically. Processes, except when mineralized, retard sinking significantly. Flotation may also be achieved either by cytoplasmic modification or by utilizing processes or mucus coats for attachment to suspended debris. Extreme overall elongation and process development may deter some predators. Tables and graphs portraying variations in cyst assemblages through time indicate certain evolutionary trends, including progressive increases in process length and of periblast size in cavate cysts. Noteworthy are (1) the restricted compass within which cyst size has fluctuated and (2) the extreme constancy and close comparability in size of proximate cysts, chorate central bodies and cavate endoblasts. Fossil forms having an operculum within the cyst are considered not to be abandoned cysts, but individuals that failed to excyst. Spheroidal central bodies of chorate cysts and spherical endoblasts of cavate cysts add to mechanical strength, as does parasutural ornament. Predation is considered possibly an inadvertent precursor to endoparasitism and symbiosis. Three new terms are proposed; loisthocyst, the portion of the cyst left behind after throwing off the operculum; cystoteny, the persistence of cyst characteristics into the motile stage; and mototeny, the retention in the cyst of characteristics lost from the motile stage. Reasons why some motile species develop internal skeletal elements are considered.
10.2307/1485728|A new diatom species, Thalassiosira praeoestrupii Dumont, Baldauf and Barron, is described. The first occurrence of T. praeoestrupii in coastal California diatom-bearing outcrops occurs between the last occurrence of Rouxia californica at 6.0 Ma, and the first occurrence of Thalassiosira oestrupii at 5.1 Ma. The latter two species have customarily been used to identify the Miocene/Pliocene boundary. Paleomagnetic studies at Santa Cruz, California, demonstrate that the first occurrence of T. praeoestrupii coincides with the top of magnetic polarity Chron 5, which closely approximates the Miocene/Pliocene Epoch boundary.
10.2307/1485675|We defined a latest Pleistocene and Holocene biostratigraphy in seven cores from Monterey and Delgada Fans. We tested every muddy sample for its turbiditic or hemipelagic character using grain-size analysis of the silt fraction. Previous results indicated that muds were turbiditic if mean silt size was coarser than 6.4 phi and if modes occurred in medium and coarse silt sizes (Brunner and Ledbetter 1987). We rejected all identified turbiditic samples from the biostratigraphic data set. Q-mode cluster analysis clustered samples into four groups distinguished by four assemblages of planktonic foraminifers: 1) a subarctic assemblage dominated by Globigerinita uvula (Egger), 2) a transitional assemblage dominated by Globigerina quinqueloba Natland, 3) an upwelling assemblage dominated by Globigerina bulloides d'Orbigny, and 4) a dissolution assemblage dominated by Neogloboquadrina pachyderma (Ehrenberg). We defined three assemblage zones based on the above foraminiferal assemblages, the coiling ratio between sinistral and dextral morphs of Nq. pachyderma, and frequency of subtropical taxa. After exclusion of samples with mud turbidite components, the sediment sequences exhibit a pattern of assemblage succession that is coherent between the two fans. The zonation draws attention to the similarity between middle Holocene and full glacial Pleistocene faunas, and highlights the peculiar nature of deglacial assemblages relative to full glacial and interglacial assemblages. We tentatively correlate a brief cooling within the deglaciation to the Younger Dryas event of the North Atlantic basin and northern Europe.
10.2307/1485658|Mesozoic sediments from the continental margin off eastern Canada and the Lusitanian Basin of Portugal yield rich and diversified assemblages of the benthic foraminifer Epistomina. Close examination, documentation and illustration of the distinctive morphologies of different species of this genus together with comparisons with holotypic and other material from the North Atlantic and Europe has enabled the recognition of three distinct morphotypes. The first group is made up of morphologically conservative smooth forms which are geologically long ranging. A second group is distinctively ornamented with a central umbilical collar or reticulae and possesses a weakly to strongly developed secondary keel. The third group has a first order ornamentation of pitting and lacks the central umbilical collar or reticulae. An extensive review of pertinent literature, particularly Russian sources, facilitates the understanding of the geological history of each morphotype and serves also to highlight the surplus of names that are used for what appears to be relatively few species. The evolution of the epistominid group is broadly characterized by periods of diversification of morphotypes punctuated by times of "crisis" where only smooth types persist. Only the smooth morphotype has an Early Jurassic to Recent history. All species of the other morphotypes become extinct in the Cretaceous. Reduction of morphotypes (the latter involving the virtual disappearance of all ornamented forms) during the Late Jurassic and again in the late Albian is coincident with the widespread development of carbonate type sedimentation patterns in the Atlantic and Mediterranean Tethys margins suggesting a broad relationship between epistominid predominance and the availability of suitable clay/shale type facies. The impact of this relationship on observed patterns of evolution within the epistominid group and the impetus behind their evolution is discussed.
4097064|We have conducted a preliminary analysis of the history of size change of coccoliths through the Jurassic and Cretaceous. This is essentially based on a compilation of literature data. The results demonstrate that the average size of coccoliths has increased from early Jurassic through the Santonian, stabilized until the Campanian and decreased during the Maastrichtian. Remarkably, this size history parallels the diversity (species richness) history of the Mesozoic Coccolithophorids, and constitutes an illustration of Cope's rule . The amplitude of change of the average size through time appears to have remained small, which may result from competition by other, larger, contemporaneous calcareous nannoplanktonic groups.
23250466|The details of the shell wall ultrastructure of Strictocostella matanzana (Palmer and Bermudez) 1936 and Strictocostella matanzana (Palmer and Bermudez) 1936 perytae subsp. nov. are investigated for the first time. This study shows that the calcareous shell wall of these two subspecies is monolamellar, consisting of one layer of crystals aligned in a radial direction. This fact necessitates changing the taxonomic position of the genus from the class Rotaliata which is characterized by a bilamellar shell wall to the class Nodosariata whose representatives have a monolamellar shell wall. Some other unique details of the shell and wall structure of the two subspecies studied are also described. The suborder Stilostomellina Saidova 1981 is reinstated and its rank is elevated to that of order.
24413314|Thorough restudy of the Cretaceous planktic foraminifera in the Ehrenberg Collection shows that they belong to 13 species: Spiroplecta americana (Ehrenberg 1841), S claraenew name (ex S. americana Ehrenberg 1844), Laeviheterohelix euryconus (Ehrenberg 1854), Ehrenbergites striata (Ehrenberg 1838), Lazarusina lazarusinew directional lineage and new species, Liuenella porulosum (Ehrenberg 1854), Allotheca megathyra Ehrenberg 1841, A. globulosa (Ehrenberg 1838), A. asperum (Ehrenberg 1854), Vanhintella oligosticta (Ehrenberg 1854), V. globulosum (Ehrenberg 1854), Dorbignya cretacea (d'Orbigny 1840), and Edgarinella mississippica (Ehrenberg 1854); they are included into seven directional and two iterative lineages. Five directional lineages are new: Ehrenbergites, Lazarusina, Vanhintella, Dorbignya, and Edgarinella. A new type of lineage with significance in evolutionary classification is recognized: the iterative lineage, which is characterized by the iterative evolution of a particular feature from the initiating species (e.g., planispiral coil from trochospiral coil).
10.2307/1485676|Microforaminiferal linings have been largely ignored by paleontologists. To rectify the omission, fourteen morphological types from palynological samples of Oxfordian age are described and illustrated, using an informal classification designed to enhance the use of these linings in biostratigraphic and paleoenvironmental research. The acritarch genus Alisum is considered to be a single chamber of a microforaminiferal lining and is therefore removed from the Group Acritarcha and placed in the Order Foraminifera.
10.2307/1485161|In the foreland of the Polish Carpathians, assemblages of sporomorphs were encountered in the Lower Keuper series of dark pelites and in the variegated pelite series of the Upper Keuper. This paper contains the taxonomic description of a new genus of pollen from Keuper deposits of the borehole Trzciana near Mielec in the Carpathian Foreland. The new genus is Diaphanisporites, and the new combinations are Concentricisporites insignis, Distalanulisporites badius, Diaphanisporites diaphanus, Cordaitina major, Cordaitina minor, Protohaploxypinus subcarpaticus, Alisporites perlucidus, Granisaccus decus, Granisaccus ornatus, and Brachysaccus fulvus.
10.2307/1485477|Large, spongiose skeletal radiolaria occur abundantly in tropical and some subtropical oceanic locations. They are particularly conspicuous in plankton tows owing to their brightly colored central capsular region (red to purplish-brown) and the numerous dinoflagellate, prymnesiophyte, or prasinophyte symbionts that impart a distinctly golden-brown or greenish hue to the peripheral cytoplasm. There is substantial variability in skeletal and cytoplasmic morphology and the major skeletal features used by Haeckel and others to discriminate among species integrade to such a degree that it is not possible in most circumstances to make a clear taxonomic distinction. Furthermore, there is no correlation between the kind of symbiont associated with the host and its skeletal organization. Moreover, there is a nearly continuous variation in cytoplasmic organization of the central capsules varying from loosely organized radially arranged lobes surrounding a centrally located nucleus to a more spongiose and compact cytoplasm (consisting of interconnected masses of nucleated cytoplasm) with large, densely staining reserve bodies. In the extreme development of spongiose cytoplasmic organization, the reserve substance is dispersed throughout the cytoplasm. There is no correlation between the degree of spongiose quality of the cytoplasm and the organization of the skeleton. The variations in cytoplasmic organization suggest an ontogenetic sequence progressing from a large, centrally located nucleus with loose, radially-arranged cytoplasmic lobes toward increasingly dispersed nuclear lobes distributed into the peripheral cytoplasm containing abundant reserve bodies. Further research is needed to evaluate this hypothesis. In overall perspective, the variability among this group is so large and so intergraded that due caution is advised in assigning them to different species. Indeed, given the lack of clear skeletal and cytoplasmic demarcation within this group, and the absence of molecular genetic information to clarify the species affinities, it may be misleading to establish species based only on skeletal evidence. Moreover, further research is required to determine how much of the variation in skeletal structure can be attributed to genetic differences (taxonomic differences) versus ecophenotypic variation that may provide information about environmental variables recorded in the skeletal morphology.
10.2307/1485538|Deep marine, fine grained sedimentary strata of Maastrichtian through Miocene age in the Labrador and North Sea sedimentary basins are rich in agglutinated benthic foraminifera. Six new taxa have been found in these regions, several of which also extend to other circum-Atlantic Paleogene localities. The new taxa are: Ammomarginulina aubertae, n. sp. (Maastrichtian to Eocene), Adercotryma agterbergi, n. sp. (middle Eocene to lower Oligocene), Reticulophragmoides jarvisi (Thalmann) emended herein (Paleocene to lower Oligocene), Reticulophragmoides sp. 5 (Oligocene to Miocene), and Spiroplectammina navarroana Cushman emended herein (Maastrichtian to lower middle Eocene). The last occurrences of these taxa are important elements in the high-resolution probabilistic biozonations for the Labrador and North Sea basins.
4097043| Three new species of Podocopid Ostracoda (Families Cytheruridae and Pontocyprididae) are described from washings of Riftia pachytila tubes and associated sediment at the Tica and Riftia hydrothermal vent fields at 950'N on the East Pacific Rise: Xylocythere vanharteni n. sp., Thomontocypris brightae n. sp., and Thomontocypris gollnerae n. sp. 
10.2307/1484289|Calcareous plates from the Upper Bathonian (Middle Jurassic) of the Dorset coast, England, doubtfully placed in the Holothuroidea and previously referred to Etheridgella sp., are redescribed as Frizzellus irregularis, n. gen., n. sp. A statistical study of Frizzellus n. gen. (qua "parataxon") shows it to be a normally distributed coherent unit of a zoological genus within the sections and localities studied.
30135288|This study reports and describes fossil thecamoebians from early Cretaceous deposits of Cohasset A-52 well located on the Scotian Shelf. In this paper we illustrate and discuss fossil thecamoebians to provide additional data to the few published reports on this fossil group. The identified taxa are attributed to the genera Cucurbitella, Difflugia and Heleopera, showing a strong similarity with recent thecamoebians. Several other forms with an uncertain generic characterization are are described.
10.2307/1484526|This report is a survey of the micropaleontology and stratigraphy of Upper Cretaceous rocks in the Ponce-Coamo area, south-central Puerto Rico. Planktonic foraminifera and radiolaria are utilized for the zonation of these rocks. Upper Cretaceous planktonics useful in zonation are illustrated. One new species of Praeglobotruncana and two new subspecies are described and illustrated.
10.2307/1484836|Re-examination of available material of Normanicythere leioderma (Norman) and Normanicythere concinella Swain (Ostracoda) suggests that for the time being they may be regarded as separate species characteristic of different geographic areas.
10.2307/1484669|Eight species of algae; seven new genera and fifteen species, fourteen new, of acritarchs; and one new genus and two new species of other microfossils incertae sedis are described from the Saudi Arabian Lower Carboniferous.
40607078|Well-preserved radiolarians are described from a road-cut of the upper Lamar Limestone Member of the Bell Canyon Formation along Highway 62/180 in the Delaware basin of West Texas. The upper part of the Lamar Limestone contains early Capitanian (late Guadalupian) conodonts and fusulinaceans and is assigned to the Reichelina lamarensis and the Jinogondolella postserrata zones, respectively. A total of 31 species were recovered from 17 samples in a ~ 6m section of micritic laminated limestone. Twenty species are reported from this locality for the first time, including 6 new species; Copiellintra ferula, Copiellintra laurelae, Hegleria agnusiforma, Hegleria globosa, Recotormentum fengi, and Stigmosphaerostylus wildei. Sectioning and transmitted light microscopy of the spongy taxa reveals internal structures and allows for a more natural grouping of genera and species based on aspects of wall structure, rather than external geometry or presumed internal structure. All of the spongy taxa lack an entactinarian spicule and the genera Copicyntra, Copiellintra, Copicyntroides and Hegleria are reassigned to families within the Spumellaria. Lamar radiolarian assemblages show fluctuations in their faunal composition, alternating between albaillellarian-dominated assemblages composed mostly of Follicucullus spp. and spumellarian-dominated assemblages composed largely of spongy taxa of spherical, oblate, to discoidal shape (Copicyntra, Copiellintra, Copicyntroides, Klaengspongus, Tetrapaurinella, and Hegleria). By far the most common radiolarians are spongy spumellarians and albaillellarians, but latentifistularians also occur sporadically in samples, and entactinarians are rare and occur throughout the section. These marked faunal fluctuations are interpreted to be environmentally driven and is the subject of ongoing investigations using geochemical proxies to reveal paleoecological controls.
10.2307/1485029| In the Santonian (Upper Cretaceous) of the West Carpathians, in a calcareous nannoflora, an organic form incertae sedis has been found. It has been assigned to the genus Carpatochitinoides Planderov and described herein as a new species. 
20627979|The first Ordovician foraminifers in South America are described from Middle Ordovician (Darriwilian) strata of the upper part of the San Juan Formation, Argentina. The foraminifers are found together with conodonts of the Eoplacognathus pseudoplanus/Dzikodus tablepointensis Zone that enhances the stratigraphic significance of the foraminifers. The assemblage of foraminifers described includes the agglutinated genera Lakites, Amphitremoida, Lavella, Ordovicina and Pelosina. The distribution of the genera Lakites and Lavella, previously known only from the Lower Ordovician, Floian (Tetragraptus phyllograptoides graptolite Zone), now can be extended up into the Middle Ordovician (Darriwilian). The find of representatives of the xenophyophorean genus Pelosina extends the first appearance of this genus down into the Middle Ordovician.
10.2307/1485732|The study of Middle Jurassic foraminiferal assemblages of the Jaisalmer basin, western Rajasthan, India is herein used to propose the biostratigraphy for the Kuldharian (Callovian) sequence, and Jurassic foraminiferal biogeography is reviewed. The occurrence of assemblages of European and North American affinities in India provides support for the idea of latitudinal bipolarity during Jurassic times. The Jurassic strata in Rajasthan show clear evidence of cyclic sedimentation. This is in consonance with the global pattern of sea-level changes accompanying the phases of disruption of the Permian supercontinent and the spreading of its fragments during the Mesozoic.
10.2307/1484154|The duly designated genotype Spirocyclina choffati Munier-Chalmas, 1887, from the Senonian of Les Martigues, southern France, has never been figured to date, so that the genus Spirocyclina has been repeatedly misinterpreted and is still not definitely known. With regard to its internal organization, Spirocyclina choffati from the Senonian of the Marseille region differs from the other forms of "Spirocyclina" of authors recorded from the Upper Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous; the generic name Iberina Munier-Chalmas, 1902, is therefore reinstated for the tests described first by Choffat from Portugal and subsequently by numerous authors from many other parts of the Tethys domain.
10.2307/1484871|Carbonate strata of Middle Jurassic to Late Cretaceous age, sampled from outcrops in Mount Lebanon, have been found to contain a wide variety of marine calcareous algae. These consist predominantly of green algae (Chlorophyceae), which are most numerous in the Lower Cretaceous limestones. Species here identified as occurring in Lebanon include cosmopolitan representatives of the families Dasycladaceae and Codiaceae of the green algae, and Corallinaceae and Solenoporaceae of the red algae. Each algal species is apparently confined to a certain stratigraphic interval and a certain paleoenvironment.
10.2307/1484568|Sixteen species of Upper Cretaceous radiolaria, six of which are new, are figured and described from the lower Campanian Dictyomitra multicostata zonule of Puerto Rico.
10.2307/1484653|Cycledomia, new genus, is described. Its type species, Edomia iranica Henson, 1948, occurs in strata of Cenomanian-Turonian age. A representative of an apparently new genus closely related to Cycledomia is recorded and figured.
10.2307/1485516|Compressed agglutinated foraminifers with characteristic inner structures are included in the family Tawitawiidae. They have a fanlike arrangement of incomplete inner partitions and triserial, biserial, uniserial, or combined series of chambers. The genera have an evolutive history that is in agreement with their biostratigraphic distribution. Pavopsammia, n. gen., with a triserial-biserial trending to uniserial arrangement of chambers is described in this family. Spiropsammiinae, n. subfam. is erected to include agglutinated foraminifers with fan-arranged, bulboid alveoles in planispiral or planispiral-uniserial chambers. Spiropsammia, n. gen. is described with two species: S. uhligi (Schubert) which has planispiral-uniserial chambers, and S. primula, n. sp. with only uniserial chambers. Two other species of agglutinated planispiral foraminifers with inner structures are also abundant in the Tertiary of West Africa: Reticulophragmium cf. venezuelanum and Hemicyclammina plana?.
10.2307/1484604|Topotypes of Discocyclina (Discocyclina) dispansa (Sowerby) and D. (D.) sowerbyi Nuttall from northwestern Kutch, India, are redescribed and illustrated, with special reference to the internal structure of both the megalospheric and the microspheric generations. The synonymy is discussed.
10.2307/1484255|Holothurian sclerites from the Permian Florena shale are assigned to four species, belonging to four different genera. Two of the genera and three of the species are new.
10.2307/1485360|The precision of biostratigraphic correlation within a given region, and the degree of resolution achievable within a given sequence, can be estimated quantitatively when an independent set of control points is known for "absolute" age determination (e.g., paleomagnetic polarity boundaries). Using paleomagnetically dated Miocene cores from the equatorial Pacific, we selected 15 readily identified radiolarian datum levels in these cores, and have ranked these events according to their correlation precision. Estimates of correlation precision range from 0.1 to 0.3 m.y. for some of the most easily identified events, and may be in excess of 1 m.y. for other events. Our approach suggests an objective set of criteria for selecting the best biostratigraphic control points to use in sequences where paleomagnetic control is not available. One first determines correlation precision of each datum level in precisely dated cores and then selects those datum levels with minimal correlation uncertainty to use as control points. When this method is applied to "non-magnetic" cores, the correlation precision attainable may approach or exceed that obtainable using magnetic polarities alone. This procedure for ranking microfossil events according to their correlation precision may lead to a re-definition of some zonal boundaries when this re-definition offers a more precise and easily recognized datum level as the defining event.
10.2307/1485678|Archaeacarus dubinini n. gen., n. sp., is described and illustrated based on a specimen recovered from the terrestrial fossiliferous mudstone deposits of Devonian age at Gilboa, New York. Observable character-states are consistent with its inclusion in the extant family Alicorhagiidae, one of the early-derivative taxa of the mite order Acariformes. This family record is consistent with the presence of related extant mite families in the Devonian-age Rhynie Chert of Scotland, and lends support to the validity of the latter material.
10.2307/1485958|The Oneota and Shakopee Formations of the Lower Ordovician Prairie du Chien Group of Wisconsin and Minnesota are readily differentiated on the basis of their distinctive conodont faunas. These faunas are part of the North American Midcontinent Province fauna (NAMP). The Oneota Formation contains elements of Ibexian fauna C, and represents the upper Skullrockian Stage of the Ibexian Series. The Shakopee Formation contains elements of Ibexian fauna D (NAMP), and represents at least part of the lower Stairsian Stage. The Skullrockian-Stairsian boundary and Ibexian C-D faunal boundary correspond to the Oneota-Shakopee disconformity. The Skullrockian and Stairsian Stages are the only stages of the Ibexian Series represented in the Prairie du Chien outcrop area studied for this report. Strata of the Shakopee in its type area at Shakopee, Minnesota, contain conodont elements of Ibexian fauna C. We interpret these strata to represent older strata of the Oneota Formation instead of younger, Stairsian-age strata of the Shakopee Formation, and accordingly, we reassign these strata to the Oneota.
10.2307/1485553|Ferromanganese encrusted hardgrounds, their intraclasts and the nuclei of manganese nodules collected from the central Indian Ocean basin have yielded plentiful numbers of ichthyoliths. Forty well-known ichthyoliths, one new type and 35 new subtypes are encountered. To accommodate these newly recovered ichthyoliths, the coded descriptive system for the taxonomy of ichthyoliths (Doyle and Riedel 1979a and its later modifications) is updated herein. New ichthyoliths are described and illustrated. A majority of them are believed to be of Paleogene age.
10.2307/1484946|A single aragonitic ultrastructure and six calcitic ultrastructures have been identified in skeletal material of cheilostome bryozoans by means of scanning electron microscope study. Two calcitic ultrastructures are known only from basal walls, two only from monomineralic species, and one only from bimineralic species. Growth surfaces and fractured sections of walls are well shown on free specimens. Embedding of specimens in plastic allows closer control of section orientation, as well as multiple study of the specimen by ancillary techniques, such as microprobe analysis or replication for light and transmission electron microscopy. Feigl's solution staining of aragonite, especially on embedded, polished sections, and X-ray determinations made with the Debye-Scherrer powder camera clearly show the morphologic location of the two CaCO<sub>3</sub> polymorphs in bimineralic species.
10.2307/1485197| The purpose of this investigation is to improve quantitative techniques for the recognition of ancient shore lines, for the paleobathymetry of the shelves adjacent to them, and for the detection of the distribution of the ancient currents across these shelves. To attain these objectives, relative abundance patterns have been employed for the investigation of current patterns, specific diversity of planktonic foraminifera for revealing the bathymetric pattern, and cluster analysis for biotope and biofacies investigations. An area off the coast of Massachusetts was selected as most favorable for applying the methods mentioned. It lies between 3930 and 4130 N latitude, and between 6830 and 7100 W longitude. The relative abundance method was employed at three levels: total population, generic ratio, and specific ratio. The results have shown that the total population method, which is less time-consuming, gives very dependable results in recognition of shore lines and current patterns. Both generic and specific diversity of planktonic foraminifera have been employed. Although specific diversity resulted in a better bathymetric pattern and is hence accepted as superior to the generic diversity method, the latter can be employed in general, fast surveys, since it also gives quite dependable results. For biotope investigations, cluster analysis with the use of the Jaccard coefficient resulted in meaningful maps, and it was found that the generic level should be employed. As for biofacies studies, the Jaccard coefficient has yielded good results both at generic and specific levels when independently applied to each cluster representing a biotope. However, it was apparent that clustering methods could not be applied independently to paleoecologic problems. At best it can serve as a "supporting" method. 
30135296|In this paper, we compile the plankton tow and sediment trap data previously obtained in the North Pacific and discuss the relevant results for ten representative radiolarian taxa. Didymocyrtis tetrathalamus and Tetrapyle octacantha group are controlled by warm water currents. Tetrapyle octacantha group is a Tropical-Subtropical indicator whose living zone is broader than that of D. tetrathalamus. Pseudocubus obeliscus is a productivity indicator. Spongotrochus glacialis appears to be advected from the Subarctic Current through the California Current into the central Equatorial Pacific. Pseudodictyophimus gracilipes, Stylochlamydium venustum, Larcopyle butschlii, and Litharachnium tentorium show distributions conformable with the "tropical submergence" hypothesis. Botryostrobus aquilonaris and Stylodictya aculeata seem to be associated with upwelling and we define them as "upwelling" taxa.
10.2307/1485176| The mean diameter of the proloculus in specimens of the foraminifer Fursenkoina punctata (d'Orbigny) increases on approaching the sources of organic pollution in Mayagez Bay, Puerto Rico. The distribution of these specimens in the bay is also affected by pollution sources. The same trends are recognized in populations of the foraminifer Ammonia catesbyana (d'Orbigny) with a giant proloculus, which occurs in polluted environments. Forms with a giant proloculus are termed hypermegalospheric. 
10.2307/1485574|A seagrass flat, located on the south coast of Papua New Guinea, supports a large Marginopora vertebralis Quoy and Gaimard population and is subject to periodic subaerial exposure. Seagrass from 25 cm by 25 cm areas at seven stations along a transect on this flat was sampled for living Marginopora during six successive weekly intervals. The size-frequency distribution of Marginopora and the total seagrass area for each sample were computed. There is no correlation between seagrass area and Marginopora density, although there is a maximum number of Marginopora that can inhabit a given area of seagrass. There is no simple relationship between the size-frequency distribution of Marginopora and subaerial exposure, nor is there any systematic change in the distribution across the seagrass bed. Spatial variability is greater then temporal variability for Marginopora when the size scale is on the order of tens of meters and the time scale is on the order of weeks.
1486222|On the basis of both a literature survey and incubation experiments, the cyst-motile form relationship in the two Polykrikos species (Dinophyceae), P. schwartzii and P. kofoidii, must be reassessed. Surface ornamentation of the cysts of P. schwartzii and P. kofoidii has been considered the most important morphological feature differentiating these species. The cyst of P. schwartzii has been considered to be characterized by reticulate ornament, and that of P. kofoidii by separate, rod-like processes. In our incubation experiments, P. kofoidii produced a cyst covered with complete reticulate ornament; this species also germinated from a cyst with incomplete reticulate ornament. We found four morphological types of Polykrikos cysts in the surface sediments of Omura Bay. The ornament varied from rod-like elements (Type 1), to separate rows of lumina (Type 2), shelf-like ornament with incomplete reticulum (Type 3), to a complete reticulum (Type 4). Our observations show that cysts of P. kofoidii have not only variants with rod-like processes, but also forms with a reticulate network, and that intermediate forms sometimes occur. In particular, the presence of intermediate forms strongly suggests that a separator based on the surface ornament of cysts is not effective for differentiating these two species. Therefore, the taxonomic criterion that cysts with reticulate ornament are identical to P. schwartzii and those with rod-like form to P. kofoidii, is considered untenable.
10.2307/1485148|This brief note is a reply to some comments published in Micropaleontology, 1970, vol. 16, no. 2, by J. de Porta. Concepts about planktonic zonation in the Tertiary of Colombia are reviewed. The relationships of the ages indicated by mollusks and by planktonic foraminifera are emphasized.
10.2307/1484428|An examination of specimens of Cibicides, Gyroidinoides and Globorotalites from the Upper Cretaceous of Germany and France and of Planulina from the Pliocene of Italy shows them to have primarily double-layered septa and thus to belong to the superfamily Bilamellidea. The species examined have been described by Hofker to have single-layered septa. The late Cretaceous species of Cibicides examined have granular-calcareous walls and not agglutinated ones, as stated by Hofker, and belong to the "lamellar" group of foraminifera. Sixteen photomicrographs illustrate the features discussed.
10.2307/1485173|Foraminiferal assemblages from Late Miocene to Late Pleistocene sediments from Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) Sites 157, 158, and 84 in the Panama Basin have been analyzed, using factor analysis and other quantitative techniques. As a working hypothesis, species in continuous evolutionary lineages and those similar in morphology to modern species are assumed to have environmental tolerances similar to the living representative. The Late Miocene of the Panama Basin is marked by major calcium carbonate dissolution. On the Carnegie and Cocos Ridges, samples from this interval have from 5 to 20 times as many benthic foraminifera and foraminiferal fragments as whole specimens of planktonic species. Dissolution is apparent, but less intense, in the Pliocene and Pleistocene. The faunas throughout consist generally of tropical and subtropical taxa admixed with a few temperate-water species. The Late Miocene is also marked by a gradual increase in the abundance of the Neogloboquadrina plexus relative to the abundance of tropical species. This may be associated with the emergence of the Isthmus of Panama and the separation of the tropical Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. The faunal elements of waters of highest latitude occur in the Early Pliocene on the Carnegie and Cocos Ridges and in the Pleistocene throughout the entire region. This introduction of a new assemblage reflects climatic cooling. There is also faunal evidence of climatic deterioration beginning in the Middle Pliocene. Important faunal elements are illustrated with scanning electron micrographs.
10.2307/1484755|The stratigraphic ranges of the species of the genus Gabonella (Heterohelicidae), erected by de Klasz, Marie and Meijer, are given for the sedimentary basin of Gabon. This genus is widely distributed in the Upper Cretaceous and locally present in the lowermost Tertiary on the west coast of Africa from Angola to central Morocco.
10.2307/1484659|A simplified technique for preparing replicas of broken surfaces, complete surfaces or broken sections of foraminifera for examination by electron microscopy is presented. The technique produces ultrathin films which are usable 90 per cent of the time.
10.2307/1484750|One hundred samples were examined from the sections of Zug el-Bahar, Wadi Wizr, Um Ghaig and Wadi el-Anz, which all lie south of Qoseir, Red Sea coast, Egypt. Only the section of Zug el-Bahar proved to be fairly rich in microfossils. This paper describes, illustrates or lists its foraminifera (some 55 species, one new) and its Corallinaceae (14 species, 4 new). The samples investigated range in age from middle Miocene to Pleistocene. General, biostratigraphic and paleoecological conclusions are drawn.
10.2307/1484183|Fluctuations of North Atlantic surface-water temperatures during the Pleistocene are demonstrated by the patterns of occurrence in deep-sea cores of foraminifera that are known temperature-indicators. Similar patterns of occurrence have been found in three cores studied.
10.2307/1484844|The upper Flowerpot Formation of western Oklahoma has yielded 71 species of pollen and spores which occur in two different assemblages. One is the normal Upper Permian assemblage dominated by Lueckisporites virkkiae; the other is modified from this by the addition of a high proportion of Sporites. The hypothesis of the latter being reworked from older sediments is discussed and rejected. It is suggested that the spore-rich assemblage represents the expansion of hydrophytic elements present in the flora during certain intervals. Paleoclimatic implications of this are discussed. New genera include Oklahomaspora, Gnetalesaccus, Polylophothylax, and Paludospora; new species are described for Lueckisporites, Striatopodocarpites, and Vittatina.
10.2307/1485973|The distribution patterns of Stilostomella lepidula (Schwager) during the Pliocene-Pleistocene have been examined at Indian Ocean DSDP Sites 214, 216, 217, 219 and 223 to understand whether this species can be better used in 1) biostratigraphic zonation and 2) in paleoceanographic interpretation. The continuous stratigraphic record and well preserved carbonate sequences facilitated the examination of abundance trends of S. lepidula at Sites 214 and 219. In our samples, the species abundances vary significantly, but they do not show consistent trends and may reflect complicated ecologic preferences. The disappearance of S. lepidula at ca. 0.73 Ma near the Brunhes/Matuyama boundary may be used as a stratigraphic datum which coincides roughly with extinction levels observed at Atlantic sites by other authors. This is the first report of Stilostomella extinction outside of the Atlantic.
4499764|We recovered freshwater diatoms from the Maastrichtian lacustrine intertrappean beds, intercalated between the Deccan lava flows, exposed near the village Naskal, Andhra Pradesh, India. The diatoms were recovered from rhizopod (Thecamoeba) cysts assigned to Nitzschia and Planothidium. Other, unidentifiable diatoms are also present in the collections examined. Based on the modern ecological affinities of these diatoms, it is inferred that the sediments were deposited in a freshwater bog or mire, perhaps a small pond where water was circumneutral to slightly acidic. Spores of freshwater ferns dominate the assemblage, which also supports the above inference. Associated marker palynomorphs, namely Ariadnaesporites, Gabonisporites, Triporoletes, Mulleripollis, Azolla and Minerisporites corroborate the Maastrichtian age based on paleontological studies. Presence of ferns and fungal remains in the assemblage reflect warm and humid conditions prevailing during the period of deposition of the sediments.
10.2307/1485371|In addition to foraminifera and ostracodes, geologically significant invertebrates of the Alpha Cordillera and Canada Basin regions include microscopic bivalves, pteropods, sponge spicules, holothurians and echinoids. Holothurians are the most widely distributed of these groups. Correlation of abundances of the more common groups with depth, geographic position and sediment texture confirms qualitative observations that factors related to depth are most important in understanding distribution. In addition, Bathyarca frielei is generally associated with coarser sediment, the pectinids are more common in sediment having a relatively low water content and the abundance of Elpidia glacialis and Pourtalesia jeffreysi is influenced, at least to some extent, by geographic location. Temperature, salinity, and oxygen concentration are relatively constant throughout the study area. The supply of nutrients probably is sporadic. The maximum depth in the study area is well above the calcite compensation depth, but dissolution of aragonite, explains the paucity of pteropods at greater depths. As with the foraminifera and ostracodes that have been described previously, the faunal elements show very close relationship with taxa of the North Atlantic. The paucity of endemic species support the idea that the central Arctic is a young ecosystem.
24413480|Nummulites fichteli Michelotti, is identified from a nummulitic bank at Wadi Al Bisseh Section (W. Al Ghadaf), east Jordan. This species is an index species for the Rupelian. It represents a new Nummulites record for the Oligocene in Jordan. The age of the sampled stratigraphic level was previously dated by means of echinoids (Zachos et al. 2008). Biometrical studies on N. fichteli show that it is distinct from N. intermedius Schaub 1981. According to Schaub (1981) Nummulites fichteli is considered as the ancestral form of Nummulites sublaevigatus d'Archiac and Haime 1853. It is also a descendant species of N. fabianii retiatus Roveda 1959. According to Boukhary et al. 2010, Nummulites emiratus (of Rupelian age) is the descendant species of N. fabianii while Nummulites ptukhiani (Early Priabonian) is possibly the direct ancestor of N. retiatus since N. fabianii and N. retiatus are not phylogenetically related.
10.2307/1485382|Fossil palynomorph residues stored in polyvinyl acetate resin (such as Vinylite AYAF) can be freed after polymerization by dissolving in DMSO (dimethyl sulfoxide). This provides an undamaged residue which then can be mounted or stored again in liquid form. DMSO can also be used to dissolve any alcohol-based mounting or to remove residues from the surfaces of palynomorphs to facilitate examination.
10.2307/1485921|Eleven radiolarian events are identified in the Late Miocene to Early Pliocene sequences of the Andaman-Nicobar Islands. Stratigraphic ranges of important taxa are discussed and events are compared with those in sediments from the Central Indian Basin and Site 214 in the Indian Ocean and Sites 289, 586, 573 and 503 in the Pacific Ocean.
4097076|Detailed descriptions and stratigraphic analysis of 159 species of foraminifers recovered from six existing wells drilled in the Tofino Basin, offshore Vancouver Island support the establishment of 10 zones, ranging from upper Eocene to Pleistocene-Recent. The newly refined stratigraphic ages improve correlations between the offshore Tofino Basin and onshore outcrops of the Carmanah Group on western Vancouver Island and to other areas in the Pacific North-west and Canadian Arctic. Paleobathymetric estimates from interpreted biofacies changes indicate a shallowing upward trend throughout the Oligocene, with deep biofacies encountered during the early Miocene and early Pliocene, reflecting a major transgression or basin subsidence. Late Pliocene-Pleistocene inner to outer neritic biofacies, cool-water faunal assemblages and coarser-grained lithology indicate a regressive phase and regional onset of glaciation. The TB represents a complex tectono-stratigraphy, which has undergone episodic uplift, tectonic underthrusting, climatic cooling and eustatic fluctuations resulting in complex facies changes, stratigraphic breaks and structural complexities. The new, updated biostratigraphy has constrained many of these regional geological events, with improved/high resolution analysis of correlations and paleoenvironmental interpretations. Proposed lifting of federal and provincial moratoriums on offshore exploration and development has renewed interest in offshore energy resource potential, reassessment of existing data, and interpretations of the Tofino Basin (TB) and adjacent shelf architecture. This study provides baseline data for future taxonomy, biostratigraphy, basin modeling and energy resource assessments.
4499770|Three new species of Streptochilus, a biserial planktic foraminiferal genus, were recognized in the lower Miocene of the eastern Atlantic and western Indian Oceans. These species had been formerly thought to be benthic species of the genus Bolivina, but evidence on their apertural morphology and stable isotopic composition indicates that they lived as plankton and should be assigned to the genus Streptochilus. The observation that three morphological species occurred in different regions of the oceans during the same short period of time (18.9-17.2 Ma) suggests that these biserial planktic species may have evolved polyphyletically, either from biserial planktic or from benthic ancestors, possibly in response to the occurrence of relatively eutrophic environmental conditions caused by intermittent upwelling, leading to high algal growth rates but low transport efficiency of organic matter to the sea floor. The new species of Streptochilus are described, illustrated and named: S. rockallkiddensis sp. nov. (from the northeastern Atlantic), S. cetacensis sp. nov. (from the equatorial and southeastern Atlantic) and S. mascarenensis sp. nov. (from the western equatorial Indian Ocean) and the description of the genus is emended.
40607077|Moderately well-preserved radiolarians are described from two measured sections of the Reef Trail Member of the Bell Canyon Formation (Middle Permian), exposed in the Patterson Hills, Guadalupe Mountains National Park, West Texas. The Reef Trail Member is the youngest member of a series of basinal marine carbonates deposited in the Delaware basin prior to the deposition of the Castile Formation evaporites, and represents the uppermost Guadalupian (upper Capitanian). The Guadalupian-Lopingian boundary is presumed to occur at or just above the top of the Reef Trail-Castile contact because of the presence of C. postbitteri hongshuiensis ~ 2m below the top of the Reef Trail Member in sections in the Patterson Hills. A total of 30 genera containing 51 species were recovered from the Reef Trail Member, belonging to the orders Albaillellaria, Latentifistularia, Spumellaria, and Entactinaria. The following new taxa are described: Raphidociclicus scutum, Camptoalatus volaticus, Pseudoalbaillella delawarensis, Astroentactinia porosa, Stigmosphaerostylus favusa, Polyedroentactinia quadrata, Praedeflandrella firmata, P. prolata, Copicyntra spinosa, Copicyntra irregulata, and Paracopicyntra puncta, and Copicyntroides nazarovi. The following taxa are emended: Raciditor scalae (Caridroit and De Wever 1986), and Klaengspongus Sashida 2000b. Near the top of the Reef Trail Member, there are marked fluctuations in the relative abundances of albaillellarian and latentifistularian species. Fluctuations are possibly controlled by paleoenvironmental changes associated with the onset of the end-Guadalupian extinction event. Biostratigraphically, the fauna most closely correlates with the widely recognized F. bipartitus -F. charveti Zone sensu Caridroit, which we now consider to be uppermost Guadalupian, not Lopingian, and to the Guadalupian F. charveti Zone of Sun and Xia 2006 from oceanic facies in China. Both older and younger biostratigraphic markers also occur in the Reef Trail fauna, including Pseudoalbaillella longtanensis and A. yamakitai, requiring a rvaluation of the reliability of these albaillellarian taxa in biostratigraphy.
10.2307/1484614|Elaterites triferens Wilson, 1943, is reported for the first time since its discovery. The occurrence of this elater-bearing spore at West Mineral, Kansas, as at the original locality near What Cheer, Iowa, is in a coal ball of Desmoinesian age in the Pennsylvanian system. Morphological evidence indicates that the spores have equisetalean affinity.
10.2307/1485808|Benthic foraminiferal assemblages of 237 high-quality surface sediment samples from the South Atlantic Ocean, including the Atlantic sector of the circumpolar ocean, were quantitatively analyzed. Comparisons between assemblages of live (stained with Rose Bengal) and dead specimens showed that potential fossil assemblages of dead specimens were markedly impoverished in fragile and non-resistant agglutinated forms compared to the living assemblages. The dead material was grouped into nine principal faunal end-members by multivariate statistics and quantitatively correlated with available environmental variables. This data set is planned to serve as a reference for interpreting benthic foraminifera fluctuations in Pleistocene Southern Atlantic core material and to constrain the reliability of proxies directly derived from benthic foraminiferal shell geochemistry. Multiple regression analysis in concert with the analysis of distinctive and limited distribution areas of specific faunas delineated ecological demands and preferences of well-known cosmopolitan species and the generation of characteristic assemblages. We differentiated between four principal but interdependent groups of environmental agents acting upon the generation and distribution of nine specific potential fossil assemblages: (1) Lateral advection and bottom water ventilation, (2) primary productivity and organic carbon flux rates, (3) bottom water carbonate corrosiveness and (4) energetic state at the benthic boundary layer.
4097006|Important artifacts have been found in situ (i.e., not redeposited) within lacustrine deposits in the Valsequillo region. These deposits contain many diatoms which indicate an age corresponding to the Sangamonian Interglacial sensu lato (80,000 to ca. 220,000yr BP). Two of the four samples in this study are associated with the Dorenberg skull or with stratigraphic units which contain bifacial tools. The remaining two samples are from diatomaceous deposits which are also Sangamonian and stratigraphically above the artifact units. These four diatomaceous samples yielded 30 extinct and 143 extant diatom taxa. The ages of the four samples correspond to other diatomaceous samples (some of which are associated with artifacts) from nearby Valsequillo localities. A post-Sangamonian age for these four diatom-bearing samples is discounted by the presence of Navicula bronislaae and N. dorenbergi, both of which have short stratigraphic ranges and are known only from the Sangamonian (or its equivalents), and by 13 diatoms which evidently have known long stratigraphic ranges and extinctions before the end of the Sangamonian. An age no older than Sangamonian for the artifacts and their enclosing diatomaceous deposits is indicated by the presence of two diatoms (Epithemia zebra var. undulata and Navicula creguti) known only from Sangamonian (or = age) or younger and by an extant diatom, Cymbella cistula var. gibbosa (C. gibbosa), which has its first occurrence in the Sangamonian.
10.2307/1484846|Living dinoflagellate spores that are identical with the hystrichosphere Spiniferites ramosus (Ehrenberg) Mantell have been isolated from modern marine lagoonal sediments in Bermuda and germinated in vitro to produce motile dinoflagellates of the Gonyaulax spinifera type. Another typical hystrichosphere, Spiniferites bentori (Rossignol) Wall and Dale, n. comb., was isolated from sediments in Phosphorescent Bay, Puerto Rico, and excysted to produce a dinoflagellate of the Gonyaulax digitalis type. The biological and paleontological significance of this culture work is discussed.
10.2307/1486040|Scyphosphaerids are frequently encountered in low-latitude Miocene-Pliocene sediments. The genus first evolved in the early Eocene (calcareous nannofossil Zone NP12), but abundance and diversity remained low until middle Miocene Zones NN5-NN6, when global radiation began. More new species (24) evolved during the Miocene NN5-NN6 and NN9 zonal intervals than at any other time. The abundance acme for the genus is the late Miocene (NN9)-late Pliocene (NN15) interval. Diversity peaked in early Pliocene Zones NN12 and NN13, with 31 extant species. Abundance and diversity began to decline markedly in the late Pliocene, with a first wave of extinctions occurring in late Pliocene Zone NN16B. A second wave of extinctions began in late Pleistocene Zone NN20. Only two scyphosphaerid species live in the oceans today (S. apsteinii and S. cohenii). Scyphosphaera is a highly polymorphic genus. Some species have been named based on relatively minor differences in shape: S. antilleana and S. apsteinii var. dilata are here considered to be synonyms of S. cohenii; S. australiensis a synonym of S. kamptneri; S. biarritzensis a synonym of S. apsteinii; S. darraghi a synonym of S. campanula; S. expansa a synonym of S. porosa; S. galeana a synonym of S. cylindrica; S. globulata a synonym of S. globulosa; S. queenslandensis a synonym of S. deflandrei; and S. turris a synonym of S. lagena. One new species, S. excelsa, and one variety, S. recurvata var. projectura are named in this study. First and last stratigraphic occurrences of some 45 scyphosphaerid species and one variety are documented. Some of these species may be useful as secondary biostratigraphic zonal markers.
10.2307/1484641|This paper deals with the form analysis of sectioned specimens of six Recent species of Globorotalia s. s. Pore patterns and the wall structure of the Globigerinacea are discussed.
1486212|One new foraminiferal genus Sirelella (type species Sirelella safranboluensis) is described and figured from the Lutetian shallow-water limestones of Safranbolu area, Southeast of Bartin (Northern Turkey). It is characterized by the presence of the trochospiral early orbitoidal adult chambers and by the lack of vertical canals in the large umbilical plug.
10.2307/1485590|Twenty-four new ichthyolith subtypes are described and their occurrences in 136 Pacific sediment samples recorded in order to refine the ichthyolith stratigraphy of the late Paleogene and early Neogene of this region. Sixty-one of these samples are from two continuous cores (Giant Piston Core 3 and Mid-Plate Gyre region II), which lack other microfossils that could be used for age assignments. The other 75 samples have been previously correlated with one or two nannofossil zones and therefore provided a reference column for comparing the undated samples of GPC-3 and MPG-II. Cluster analysis was used to group samples on the basis of the 24 ichthyolith subtypes described in this report and 26 additional subtypes described in previous reports. The analysis resulted in a separation of the dated samples at approximately epoch level. The samples from GPC-3 and MPG-II are assigned ages based on their clustering with the dated samples, and corresponding boundaries are placed within the two core sequences. Ranges of the subtypes described in this paper are given, based on their occurrences in GPC-3, MPG-II and the dated reference samples.
10.2307/1484822|The Mexia Clay Member at the base of the Wills Point Formation, which forms the upper part of the Midway Group, is stratigraphically equivalent to the Globorotalia uncinata Zone of Bolli (1957) in Trinidad, to the Globigerina inconstans Zone in the North Caucasus, Soviet Union, and, by extension, to the upper (= type) Montian of Belgium. The lower part of the Midway (Kincaid Formation) is of Danian age.
4097011|As a symptom of evolution, human beings are always trying to better understand current and past events so as to be able to foresee future situations. In order to do that the development of new tools and/or methods is a must. Currently, the Modern Analog Technique (MAT) is one of the most used techniques in paleoceanography and it is applied for the quantitative reconstruction of environmental conditions of the past. Here we propose a new tool, PaleoAnalogs, a method that combines the MAT technique with an interactive analysis to produce faster and more accurate down core reconstructions of (i.e.) sea surface temperature. The tool is tested here using planktonic foraminifers from Pleistocene sediments in the Mediterranean sea, where a well-build data-base is available. PaleoAnalogs is programmed with flexibility in order to enable the use of this technique for different micropaleontological groups and it is available for any operating system.
10.2307/1484680|The Ostracoda from the D beds of the type Speeton clay fall into three clearly defined faunas. The lowermost has no close affinities with any fauna hitherto described, such affinities as exist being with the Volgian (Upper Jurassic) rather than with the Lower Cretaceous. The second fauna is of Valanginian age and is comparable with the "Mittel-Valendis" and "Ober-Valendis 1" faunas of northern Germany. The third fauna is of lower Hauterivian age and is closely similar to faunas of that age from northern Germany and France. Forty-three species are described, of which twenty-one are new, three are comparable but not identical with previously described species, and five are left with open nomenclature. One new genus is described.
1486211|Both Azpeitia endoi and Azpeitia tabularis, which are referred to the Azpeitia tabularis group, are described based on light microscope and SEM observations. Samples came from living material collected on the KH99-3 cruise in the Bering Sea, from fossil Pliocene and Pleistocene material in DSDP Holes 579A and 580 in the northwest Pacific Ocean, and from the Middle Miocene of the Oga Peninsula, northeast Japan. Both these species occurred in the Middle Miocene, and A. endoi has the central depression which is common feature in the genus Azpeitia, while A. tabularis does not. Since A. tabularis does not posses the central depression, A. endoi is considered to represent the ancestral condition for A. tabularis.
10.2307/1484806|The type locality of Pseudotextularia elegans (Rzehak), a planktonic index fossil for the interval upper Campanian to Maastrichtian, contains a rich Paleocene foraminiferal fauna with planktonic species diagnostic of the upper Paleocene Globorotalia pseudomenardii Zone. The presence of Upper Cretaceous specimens, including Pseudotextularia elegans, in this Paleocene fauna can be attributed to reworking. Furthermore, this is the first definite proof of the presence of upper Paleocene rocks in the Waschberg Zone of Austria.
41410980|We reconstructed Middle Pleistocene surface hydrography in the western South Atlantic based on planktonic foraminiferal assemblages, modern analog technique and Globorotalia truncatulinoides isotopic ratios of core SP1251 (3829.7'S /5340.7'W /3400 m water depth). Biostratigraphic analysis suggests that sediments were deposited between 0.3 and 0.12 Ma and therefore correlate to Marine Isotopic Stage 6 or 8. Faunal assemblage-based winter and summer SST estimates suggest that the western South Atlantic at 38S was 4-6C colder than at present, within the expected range for a glacial interval. High relative abundances of subantarctic species, particularly the dominance of Neogloboquadrinapachyderma (left), support lower than present SSTs throughout the recorded period. The oxygen isotopic composition of G. truncatulinoides suggests a northward shift of the Brazil-Malvinas Confluence Zone and of the associated mid-latitude frontal system during this Middle Pleistocene cold period, and a stronger than present influence of superficial subantarctic waters and lowering in SSTs at our core site during the recorded Middle Pleistocene glacial.
41410978|Orbitolinid foraminifers supply important information for the understanding of Cretaceous marine biogeographic and paleoclimatic conditions. A pre-requisite for these paleoenviromental interpretations is a sound taxonomy. The taxonomy of the orbitolinids from the Northwest Pacific has been controversial, and this paper aims at a taxonomic and stratigraphie revision of this group. Four orbitolinid species ("Palorbitolina lenticularis", Praeorbitolina cf. wienandsi, Mesorbitolina parva, and M. texana) have been recognized. Orbitolinids occurred almost continuously from the Late Hauterivian to the late Early Albian. Species belonging to the Praeorbitolina cormyi-Mesorbitolina aperta evolutionary lineage are most common, while dictyoconids are missing in the Northwest Pacific. Following the last occurrence of M. parva in the Douvilleiceras mammilatum Zone of the Early Albian, no orbitolinids have been recognized in the Northwest Pacific. It is possible that provincialism in orbitolinid foraminifers occurred during the Early Cretaceous of the North Pacific.
4499779|Two distinctive uppermost Silurian to Lower Devonian radiolarian assemblages, the Pseudospongoprunum tauversi Assemblage and the Futobari solidus-Zadrappolus tenuis As, occur in new localities of felsic tuffaceous strata in the Hitoegane area of the Hida-gaien terrane of central Japan. The first is characterized by the presence of P. tauversi and diverse inaniguttids, which can be correlated with the well-constrained Pridolian radiolarian zonal fauna defined in west Texas. The second occurs stratigraphically above beds containing the P. tauversi Assemblage and in strata correlative to beds from which a probably Lower Devonian flora has been recovered. These occurrences indicate that the F. solidus-Z. tenuis Assemblage ranges from uppermost Silurian to Lower Devonian. Based on the stratigraphic context for the underlying Pridolian P. tauversi Assemblage, the probably Lower Devonian flora, and the reinterpretation of the previously dated zircon U/Pb age, the F. solidus-Z. tenuis Assemblage is the first confirmed radiolarian assemblage from the lowermost Devonian. Previous workers have suggested that entactiniid radiolarians became increasingly dominant in the latest Silurian to Early Devonian, but the present study shows that inaniguttids such as Futobari and Zadrappolus were dominant in the early to probably middle Early Devonian. A new inaniguttid species is described: Zadrappolus (?) nudus n. sp.
10.2307/1484684|The design, construction and use of an inexpensive manually-controlled plankton sampler is described. Fabricated in a plaster mold from polyester resin reinforced by glass fibers, the 15-inch long casing, together with its internal cone of bolting silk, weighs but 14 ounces. Towed at speeds up to 17 knots during a trans-Atlantic crossing aboard a commercial freighter, it successfully collected a variety of planktonic organisms, including living globigerinids with extended pseudopodia and intact spines.
10.2307/1484412| A confirmation of Jeletsky's and Wicher's theories of a warm-water phase in the Baltic area toward the end of Maestrichtian time is found in the fact that the southern species Globotruncana contusa (Cushman) occurs in a marl layer in the uppermost part of the White Chalk. The restriction of the presumably planktonic Globotruncana contusa to a certain lithofacies is tentatively explained. The Kjlby Gaard marl is formally defined. 
10.2307/1484933|The new foraminiferal genus Taxyella, represented by two species, T. fontcaudensis and T. inflata, is described from the maris of the upper Aquitanian in the Montpellier area of southeastern France.
10.2307/1484380|Following a review of previous literature on Classopollis Pflug, 1953 and a discussion of its nomenclature, type species, and diagnosis, this pollen genus is here emended on the basis of numerous specimens recovered from Permian to Upper Cretaceous rocks in Canada. The type species, Classopollis classoides Pflug, is also emended, and three new species are described. The stratigraphic occurrence, possible depositional environment, and possible affinities of the genus are discussed.
3648464| Pleurosigma strigosum W. Smith is not a variety of P. angulatum (Quekett) W. Smith but a different species, as confirmed in SEM. This conclusion agrees with that of Hendey (1964), who typified the species. P. finmarchicum Cleve in Cleve and Mller 1882 does not show specific differences from P. strigosum. This paper gives descriptions and criteria for differentiation for P. strigosum, P. acutum Norman ex Ralfs in Pritchard, P. latum Cleve in Cleve et Grunow and P. sabangi Meister, a species that is not restricted to tropical seas - hitherto its only record. The second record of P. sterrenburgii Stidolph, from a truly antipodal locality, also raises questions regarding its distribution. 
10.2307/1485801|The identification of North Pacific diatom assemblages in the Olkhovian Formation of eastern Kamchatka and their correlation with the paleomagnetic time scale allows accurate placement of the Pliocene-Pleistocene boundary in the Kamchatka region. Analysis of the composition of the diatom flora makes possible a paleogeographic reconstruction of the shelf region in the western Bering Sea during the latest Pliocene and early Pleistocene.
10.2307/1484856|Nonionellina flemingi (Vella) reaches reproductive maturity at earlier stages in lower latitudes. Adults from the continental shelf off northern New Zealand are small and trochospiral, while those from off the subantarctic islands are commonly twice the size and planispiral. The mean length and number of chambers in the final whorl of a local population is an inverse function of the temperature at which the animals are living. The relationship is used in a palaeotemperature study of the New Zealand Upper Miocene to Recent.
3648461|Devonian radiolarians from four new sections at Shaijingpo, Lila, Bazhai, and Shiti Reservoir in southern China are described. Faunas from these localities are assigned to eight families, 15 genera and 30 species, with the introduction of one new species Trilonche parapalimbola n. sp. Wang. The stratigraphic significance of the Middle Devonian Eoalbaillella lilaensis fauna, morphotypic variation within the genus Helenifore and the abundance and diversity of the Upper Devonian Holoeciscus foremanae fauna are discussed.
10.2307/1485900|An ostracode data base consisting of 273 samples from coretops and comprising 226 species was developed for the seas around the Japanese Islands to determine zoogeographic patterns and for application to Pliocene and Pleistocene paleoceanography in the area. Quantitative analyses of the 59 most common taxa between 0 and 300m water depth indicate that ostracode associations are controlled by the main oceanic water masses around Japan and that bottom water temperature is a key factor influencing species distributions. Ostracodes from the following water masses were studied: warm Kuroshio Current, Tsushima Current (Tsugaru Current and Soya Current), Japan Sea intermediate water, Japan Sea proper water and cold Oyashio Current. In order to apply the modern coretop data base to fossil ostracode assemblages, the modern analog technique (MAT) using a squared chord distance (SCD) measure of dissimilarity was tested as a means of comparing fossil and modern assemblages. SCD values of 0.25 or less adequately identify modern analogs from the coretop data set at the local ecological level (i.e. within the same modern bay), while values of 0.25-0.5 identify modern analogs at the level of the zoogeographic province. The MAT method was tested against 3 Pliocene and 11 Pleistocene formations in Japan to examine the use of the MAT in paleoceanographic reconstruction.
10.2307/1484167|Tests of planktonic foraminifera are clastic particles from an off-shore source area, shoreward deposition of which is controlled by sedimentary processes. In Recent sediments, significant correlation was observed between depth and per cent of planktonic tests. Islands had a marked effect on the distribution. In fossil sediments, the varying per cent of tests may assist in locating the former strand line, direction of deepening, and possible off-shore topographic anomalies.
10.2307/1485527|Most previous speculations concerning the mode of the addition of shells in fossil radiolarians have concentrated on the relative importance of progressive outward addition (centrifugal) versus inward growth from an original outer shell first of radial and then of concentric elements (centripetal). Tangential addition of shells is a third, independent mode for the operation of which we suggest there is good phyletic evidence in such forms as Provisocyntra, n. gen. Failure to take tangential growth into full account may explain the recurrent, unresolved discussions of the relative importance of centrifugal and centripetal growth modes.
40960130|We present the most complete record of Rupelian to Chattian hyaline larger foraminifera in Mediterranean Tethys from Keleredere section (Mus. region, eastern Anatolia) based on the biometrie study of such stratigraphically important groups as Miogypsina, Miogypsinoides, Nephrolepidina, Eulepidina, Nummulites, Cycloclypeus, Heterostegina, Operculina and Spiroclypeus. The identified taxa, most of which are described for the first time in Turkey and represent the Shallow Benthic Zones 22A, 22B, 23, enable us to correlate them with comparatively well-known coeval taxa from other parts of the Tethys. Our data suggest that the populations oi Miogypsinoides, Eulepidina, Nephrolepidina and Cycloclypeus are represented by more than one lineage for each of these groups during Oligocene. Some new taxa such as Nephrolepidina musensis n. sp., Eulepidina anatolica n. sp. and Cycloclypeus pseudocarpenteri n. sp. are introduced. The stratigraphie position oi Eulepidina elephantina, highly disputed in previous works, was re-evaluated based on its occurrence in the late Chattian. We for the first time demonstrate the parallel evolution of Miogypsina and Miogypsinoides in the late Chattian of eastern Mediterranean region. Miogypsinoides formosensis is associated with Miogypsina basraensis at the lower part of upper Chattian and this association is accompanied by Miogypsinoides sivasensis at the uppermost part of the section. We compare our results with the available data from other parts of Tethys and remarks on Rupelian-Chattian boundary and the zonation of shallow-marine Oligocene of Mediterranean Tethys are made.
20627989|Ten new species of the coccolithophore genus Syracosphaera are described from temperate and sub-tropical to tropical waters: Syracosphaera andruleitii sp. nov., Syracosphaera castellata sp. nov., Syracosphaera didyma sp. nov., Syracosphaera hastata sp. nov., Syracosphaera hirsuta sp. nov., Syracosphaera leptolepis sp. nov., Syracosphaera operculata sp. nov., Syracosphaera reniformis sp. nov., Syracosphaera serrata sp. nov. and Syracosphaera squamosa sp. nov. An emended description is given for Syracosphaera nana Kamptner. These and other Syracosphaera species are placed in a revised classification scheme for the genus, based on the morphological structure of endothecal and exothecal coccoliths, and coccosphere characteristics. The Syracosphaera noroitica group is introduced for species with exothecal muroliths with a beaded proximal flange and varimorphic endothecal muroliths. The three new subgroups in the Syracosphaera nodosa group are characterised by their exothecal coccolith structure: subcircular and delicate in the leptolepis-subgroup, oval in the nana-subgroup and laminated in the squamosa-subgroup. The corolla-subgroup, with its large funnel-shaped exothecal coccoliths, is new in the Syracosphaera pulchra group.
10.2307/1484738|A water-miscible mounting medium consisting of gelatin, gum arabic, glycerin, phenol or formaldehyde, and water has been found satisfactory for most palynological work when speed of slide preparation and permanence of retention of fossils are desired.
10.2307/1484306|A microcapillary tube attached to a Leitz mechanical stage and mounted on the stage of a microscope provides a simple method for single-mounting microfossils. This technique makes it possible to sort and mount large numbers of fossils in a short time, in either glycerine jelly or Canada balsam.
30135284|Mid-Pliocene low-latitude Pacific faunal (planktic foraminifer) sea surface temperature (SST) estimates are normally based upon the Modern Analog Technique (MAT). In the Eastern equatorial Pacific (EEP), where upwelling of cool water predominates, MAT can be used to discern both cooling and warming in Neogene records. SST today is ~30C in the western equatorial Pacific (WEP) warm pool, the upper limit of the modern calibration data, and past warming above that level is difficult to assess using faunal methods. Mid-Pliocene fossil samples from the WEP have been analyzed using several variations of MAT with different outcomes and associated levels of confidence. While SST above ~30C in the WEP during the mid-Pliocene cannot be ruled out due to the limitations of the method, temperatures this warm seem unlikely. In addition to the mid-Pliocene, planktic foraminifer assemblages from the coretop, last glacial maximum, last interglacial and the penultimate glacial (Marine Isotope Stage 6) show striking similarity to each other which suggests little to no change in the region between times of global climate extremes. There is generally good agreement between the Mg/Ca paleothermometer and MAT derived faunal SST estimates. Both suggest stability of the WEP warm pool.
10.2307/1484969|A new species of Globotruncana is described from the Upper Cretaceous (latest Campanian and earliest Maestrichtian). Preliminary studies indicate that this species occurs at several localities in the Western Hemisphere and in JOIDES deep-sea cores.
10.2307/1485154|Common coal-ball spore-bearing fructifications were selected from Pennsylvanian material and correlated with spore taxa originally described as dispersed spores from Pennsylvanian coals. Fossil genera include members of the Lycopsida, Marattiales, Sphenophyllales, Calamitales, and Coenopteridales. Spores are described and illustrated by light and electron microscopy for the fructifications Lepidostrobus oldhamius (Lycospora granulata), Lepidostrobus diversus (Lycospora subjuga), Achlamydocarpon cf. maslenii (Cappasporites distortus). Mazocarpon oedipternum (Crassispora kosankei), Sporangiostrobus cf. kansanensis (Radiizonates cf. difformis), unknown cone (Alatisporites trialatus), Scolecopteris cf. latifolia (Punctatisporites obliquus), Bowmanites bifurcatus (Laevigatosporites medius), Peltastrobus reedae (Columnisporites ovalis), Calamocarpon insigne (Calamospora breviradiata), Calamostachys americanus (Calamospora hartungiana), and Biscalitheca musata (Verrucosisporites microtuberosus). No new taxa are described.
10.2307/1485466|Thirteen fragments of a fossil parasitic copepod have been recovered from two specimens of the fossil teleost fish, Cladocyclus gardneri, from the Santana Formation in Brazil. The fossil fragments are preserved in the round and represent both sexes of a primitive species of the family Dichelesthiidae, related to the modern genera Anthosoma and Dichelesthium.
10.2307/1486043|New genera and species are coined in the paranatural classification. These new taxa are Dualigenys new genus, D. erecta new species; Nothrites vergonsensis new species; Ottawina elegans new species; Pterogenys new genus, P. dubius new species; Sinugenys new genus, S. robusta new species. The affinities of certain of them with both Paleozoic and modern-day forms are suggested. The family Onuphidae appeared during the Upper Triassic. Up to present the oldest-known members of the family were Upper Cretaceous. Jaw apparatus remains of Errantida polychaetes in Mesozoic black shales, that are regarded as representing anoxic events, provide arguments for suboxic deposits. These chewing pieces belong to the families Dorvilleidae and Mochtyellidae, which constitute the oldest-known identity in the natural fossil taxonomy of burrowing worms. Mochtyellidae, up to now only reported from the Paleozoic, present both modern and ancestral characteristics interpreted as neotenic and progenetic evolutionary modes. Scolecodonts provide a good tool both to distinguish suboxic and anoxic deposits and to interpret some of the mechanisms of Errantida polychaete evolution.
3648438| On the basis of thin-section studies of larger foraminifera in well cores and cuttings from the Amap Formation of the Foz do Amazonas Basin nine informal biozones (LF1-LF9) have been recognized for the upper Paleocene to middle Miocene of this basin. Lepidocyclinids are the most abundant of the larger foraminifera in the formation, and the occurrence of Lepidocyclina rdouvillei in the late middle Eocene (LF4 biozone, equivalent to planktonic foraminiferal biozones P13 -P14) corroborates the hypothesis of an American origin for this genus and its rapid colonization of the northeastern margin of South America in the middle Eocene. By at least middle Eocene times, strong American affinities of the larger foraminifera of the equatorial Atlantic margins of both South America and Africa had become established by eastward migration. The presence of larger foraminifera throughout the entire carbonate section in the basin suggests that there were no significant changes in the equatorial climate of this region during the Tertiary. Extinctions of some larger foraminifera in the basin were related to environmental and ecological changes associated with sea level fluctuations. 
10.2307/1485971| Unilocular calcareous benthic foraminifers were studied in the size fraction greater than 73m in 88 samples (upper Paleocene-Quaternary) from Deep Sea Drilling Project Site 525 (Walvis Ridge, bathyal zone, eastern South Atlantic). The total number of taxa (sp., subsp., formae) identified was 159; this number, however, is underestimating because many species were left unidentified due to their bad state of preservation and/or scarcity. Three species were described as new, one was renamed (nom. substit.) and 26 were identified only generically. The fauna recovered was quantitatively very poor: 38% of the taxa were represented by only one specimen. The most common foraminifers (in decreasing order of abundance) were: Pytine walvisi, n. sp., Fissurina fimbriata (Brady) 1884, Oolina cookei (Cushman) 1923, Fissurina auriculata auriculata (Brady) 1884, Lagenosolenia stelligera (Brady) 1884, Parafissurina uncifera (Buchner) 1940, P. lata (Wiesner) 1931, Pytine corn, n. sp., Oolina globosa (Montagu) 1803 and Lagena meridionalis Wiesner 1931. The following species were found in both the upper Paleocene and Quaternary sections: Fissurina fimbriata, Lagena acuticosta brevipostica Brady 1951, L. caudata (d'Orbigny) 1839, L. meridionalis, L. perexigua McCulloch 1977, Lagenosolenia axiformis (Matthes) 1939, Parafissurina fusuliformis Loeblich and Tappan 1953, Pytine corn and P. paradoxa (Sidebottom) 1912. The most numerous genera were Fissurina and Lagena, followed by Oolina, Parafissurina and Pytine. Comparison of the present data with our previous results for other DSDP Sites did not yield any interoceanic stratigraphic markers. The unilocular benthic calcareous foraminifers of the bathyal zone are of very limited value as guide fossils mainly due to their scarcity and broad vertical ranges. In addition, their use for stratigraphic purposes is seriously hindered by the state of disarray of their taxonomy. 
10.2307/1485236|Statoliths, or ballast-stones, secreted by the shrimplike mysids (Mysidae, Mysidacea, Crustacea) are a long neglected microscopic form, the study of which is of great interest to biology, geology and natural resource economy. The first systematic study of the composition and structure of fossil and Recent statoliths is reported here, and a nomenclature for the description of statoliths is presented. This gives rise to the first systematic method of classification of the fossil species and revision of the method formerly used in Recent species of the Mysidae. Furthermore, the analysis of statoliths offers new criteria by which to evaluate phylogenesis of the known mysids, and has resulted in the identification of 2 fossil species of the genus Paramysis (one new, described here) from among a number of statolith types found in the Paratethys Miocene. A zone characterized by mysid statoliths in brackish-marine strata is diagnostic of the lower and part of the middle Sarmatian in the Central and Eastern Paratethys. In paleogeographic terms, the correlation between mysid statoliths of the Paratethys and the Indo-Pacific indicates that the general uplift of the Carpathian orogen took place during the early, not the middle, Sarmatian. Mysid statoliths, which are composed of calcite in fresh-water and brackish-water forms and fluorite in marine forms, are indicators of paleosalinity. The fluorite in living marine mysids constitutes a very large, nearly inexhaustible resource in the areas where mysids proliferate, and strata in which fossil marine statoliths have accumulated may eventually be explored for large-scale mining of organically concentrated fluorite.
10.2307/1485518| The spatial distribution, abundance, and ecology of ostracodes present on the continental slope and rise (400-3210 m) between 49 and 5030N have been studied after collection by Van Veen grabs and replicate box-cores. Three biofacies are present in the study area: An upper slope biofacies, defined by living individuals of Muellerina canadensis and M. abyssicola, is found at depths from 300 to 1499 m. Few ostracodes are present in the transitional fauna which occurs between 1500 and 2399 m. Species known only as empty valves, dominate a lower slope and rise biofacies between 2400 and 3210 m. This fauna may owe its origin to the transport of shells parallel to isobaths by rapid contour currents, or the uncovering and concentration of the sand fraction of a mid-Holocene (7000 Ma) stratigraphic unit by current erosion. The diversity of the living fauna increases slightly below 2800 m in response to decreasing current velocities. Significant faunal changes at approximately 1600 m coincide with the downslope transition from waters associated with the Labrador Current to North Atlantic Bottom Water locally entrained in the Western Boundary Undercurrent. Environmental contrasts between these water masses, chiefly salinity and temperature, are thought to be primarily responsible for the ostracode depth zonation. 
1486223|Digestion in cold, highly concentrated acetic acid, a technique commonly adopted in conodont studies, is successful in retrieving calcareous microfossils, such as planktic and benthic foraminifera as well as ostracods, from strongly lithified lime deposits (calcilutites, marly calcilutites and fine-grained calcarenites). Moreover, in cases where the standard disaggregation techniques employing hydrogen peroxide or Desogen do not produce clean specimens, acetic acid treatment of the residue will remove residual encrustations and will also improve liberation of the small-sized fraction.
10.2307/1484181|From a study of the variations of the Lingulinae occurring at successive horizons in the Lias, an attempt is made to unravel the history of the species plexus. The taxonomy of the chief species is discussed and the zonal significance of the main variants assessed, with the aid of a diagram of the plexus.
10.2307/1485930|This is the first of two publications dealing with a study of the family Entactiniidae and the taxonomy of a diverse assemblage of Late Devonian spumellarians. A well-preserved radiolarian fauna from the Gogo Formation, Western Australia, has made it possible to clarify the relation of the shell wall and internal structure in this family. The entactiniid shell is of two types: spongy and latticed. The former has apophyses on rays of the internal spicule, whereas those with latticed shells have an internal spicule without apophyses. On the basis of the internal spicule structure the Entactiniidae can also be divided into four types: (1) six-rayed spicule without a median bar, (2) four-rayed spicule without median bar, (3) six- to eight-rayed spicule with a median bar, and (4) twelve- to twenty-rayed spicule with a median bar. The Gogo fauna includes more than 100 species. Entactiniids or taxa having characteristics similar to Entactiniidae are treated here. They comprise 17 genera and 72 species and subspecies, of which 13 genera and 66 species and subspecies are new. Bisphaera, Radiobisphaera, Plenoentactinia, Apophysisphaera, Retentactinia, Retisphaera, Spongosphaera, Duodecimentactiniaand Multientactinia belong to the Family Entactiniidae. Apophysiactinia, Magnisphaera, Magnentactinia, and Intracorpus, are of uncertain taxonomic position. Entactiniid genera of this fauna are tentatively classified into two subfamilies: (1) Entactiniinae, which has a latticed shell(s) and lacks apophyses, and (2) Retentactiniinae n. subfam., characterized by a spongy shell and possessing apophyses. Taxa belonging to subfamily Entactiniinae plus taxa having characteristics similar to Entactiniidae, and subfamily Retentactiniinae are described respectively in this paper and in a second paper in this volume (Won 1997).
4097052|The taxonomy of the marine diatom spore genus Liradiscus Greville is established based on detailed light and electron microscopic observations, along with the stratigraphic examination of DSDP Holes 438A, 438B and 436 (northwestern Pacific) and the Newport Beach Section (California). The genus Liradiscus is characterized by circular or elliptical valves covered with circular, branched or net-like veins. Eleven fossil Liradiscus species including five new species (L. akibae, L. japonicus, L. petasus, L. pacificus and L. reticulatus) are described, and their stratigraphic ranges are presented. Liradiscus akibae, L. reticulatus and I. petasus can potentially serve as additional useful biostratigraphic markers to improve the Miocene diatom biostratigraphy of the North Pacific. Furthermore, taxonomy of fossil resting spores will allow us to detect additional paleoceanographic signals recorded in fossil resting spore assemblages in up welling regions.
24413481|The Citadel of Salah El-Din is located near the center of Cairo on the slope of Gebel Mokattam, built on strata of the Middle Eocene Mokattam Formation, which yields Nummulites praelyelli Boukhary and Kamal 2003, the ancestor of Nummulites lyelli Archiac and Haime 1853. Nummulites sp. cf. N. praelyelli collected from the nummulitic bank at the base of the Citadel tombs section is named after the citadel tomb which is a cemetery below Gebel Mokattam known since Mamluk times of the 14th century, H.D. The described Nummulites belong to the Nummulites partschi group (s. l.) which the authors propose to subdivide into three subgroups: N. partschi (s. s.), N. gizehensis and N. lyelli. According to the nature of their septa, the species N. praelyelli and Nummulites sp. cf. N. praelyelli should belong to the N. lyelli subgroup of the N. partschi group. The studied Nummulites are described, biometrically studied and photographed. With reference to the scheme of Serra-Kiel et al. (1998), the considered biostratigraphic interval is assigned to SBZ 16.
1486197|The distribution of ostracod populations in Kagoshima Bay (South Kyushu, Japan) is analyzed with regard to environmental parameters. Topographic irregularity makes this elongated south-facing embayment amenable to subdivision into six different environments: Head, Margin, Slope, Basin, Mouth and Open Sea. The bay is under the influence of the Kuroshio Current, which enters from the east to flow northward along the west side of the Osumi Peninsula, and returns southward along the east side of the Satsuma Peninsula. A counterclockwise eddy current occurs in the widened central portion of the bay. The bay is in an area of andesitic volcanism centered in Mt. Sakurajima, an active volcano that rises from the water to separate the Bay Head area from the rest. The biocenotic indices such as abundance and diversity decrease from the Mouth of the bay towards the Basin and Head environments. On the other hand, volcanic ash and domestic input provide nutrients that are favorable to the ostracod biocenoses. The relative frequencies of species throughout the bay show that different environments are characterized by different assemblages. Correspondence analysis (CA) shows how ostracod distribution is influenced by the quality and structure of water masses such as dissolved oxygen content, salinity, anthropic pollution, and volcanically induced changes in pH.
1486129|Strata in the Canadian Arctic contain diverse and moderately well-preserved Late Cretaceous siliceous microfossil assemblages. One-hundred-twelve samples were analyzed from a composite stratigraphic section (1094m-thick) of the Smoking Hills, Mason River and Kanguk formations. Four sections were examined: (1) Slidre Fjord on Ellesmere Island; (2) Hoodoo Dome on Ellef Ringnes Island; (3) Cape Nares on Eglinton Island; and (4) Horton River on the Anderson Plains, Northwest Territories. Two hundred-three diatom taxa were identified in forty-nine productive samples. Four Upper Cretaceous diatom zones are proposed for the Canadian Arctic based on the biostratigraphic distribution of diatoms: (i) the Upper Cenomanian to Upper Santonian(?) Gladius antiquus Concurrent Range Zone, (ii) the Lower Campanian Costopyxis antiqua Partial Range Zone, (iii) the lower Upper Campanian Trinacria indefinita Interval Zone, and (iv) the upper Upper Campanian Stephanopyxis simonseni Partial Range Zone. The diatom assemblages are similar to those of Alpha Ridge (Arctic Ocean), Ural Mountains (Russia), and Campbell Plateau (SW Pacific Ocean), enabling diatom-based biostratigraphical correlations within the northern high-latitudes and to the southern high-latitudes. A fifth biostratigraphic zone, Azpeitiopsis morenoensis Concurrent Range Zone, is also proposed, based on common and widespread distribution of the nominative taxon in lower to upper Maastrichtian sediments. Sufficient data is now available to establish the construction of a diatom-based standard zonal framework for the Upper Cretaceous. Two new combinations, Trochosira denticulatum (Strelnikova) Tapia and Trochosiropsis polychaeta (Strelnikova) Tapia are here proposed.
4097007|Year-round changes in species composition and flux of calcareous dinoflagellates at station JT (
10.2307/1485420|During recent years, there has been rapid increase in the understanding of Cenozoic radiolarians. Evolutionary lineages have been traced, and used as the basis for revision of parts of the generic classification. Simultaneously, several attempts have been made at zonations. The broad outlines of Cenozoic radiolarian classifications and stratigraphy are clear, and the details now demand attention. This involves principally the definition of species limits in time, necessary for sharpening the boundaries between zones which were defined about nine years ago on the basis of less complete data. Similarly, earlier generalizations about the nature of radiolarian evolution can now be supplemented by more comprehensive accounts. The limits of the species used to define the lower limits of the following zones are now found to be more complicated than originally described, and require clarification or replacement- Ommatartus penultimus Zone, Cannartus laticonus Zone (?), Calocycletta virginis Zone (herein subdivided), Thyrsocyrtis bromia Zone, Podocyrtis goetheana Zone, Thyrsocyrtis triacantha Zone, Theocampe mongolfieri Zone and Theocotyle cryptocephala cryptocephala Zone. A decade ago it appeared that, in some radiolarian genera at least, evolutionary changes in morphology proceeded along simple directions for periods of millions of years at a more or less constant rate, with some lineages terminating in bizarre forms, and it became evident that these observations could not readily be explained by invoking natural selection as the principal guiding factor. In a general way, this view of radiolarian evolution still seems to be the most acceptable, but complications in detail are becoming apparent. The present availability of more continuous sequences reveals previously unknown or misunderstood offshoots from the principal phyletic lineages. Also, at some stages in some lineages, when a form with an established symmetry changed to a different symmetry, the organism went through a period of "indecision" during which it exhibited an unusually wide range of morphological variability.
10.2307/1485558|The uppermost 40 meters of Tuwaiq Mountain Limestone (Callovian) at Khashm al Giddiyah, 40km west of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, were investigated for the presence of dasycladacean algae. At Khashm Al Buwaibiyat, 100km northeast of Riyadh, the lower 50 meters of Aruma Formation (Coniacian to Maastrichtian) were also studied. The most common dasycladacean algae are: Cylindroporella sugdeni, Cymopolia tibetica, Heteroporella jaffrezoi, Heteroporella lemmensis, Salpingoporella annulata and Trinocladus radoicicae. The dasycladacean algae will, hopefully, be used in the interpretation of the biostratigraphy and depositional environment of Tuwaiq Mountain Limestone and Aruma Formation, which are good source and reservoir rocks in eastern Saudi Arabia and the Arabian Gulf states.
10.2307/1485142|Sections through portions of the Pagoda Member of the Mancos Formation, the Mesaverde Group, and the basal Lewis Formation were sampled at seventeen localities in northwestern Colorado for foraminiferal analysis. Forty-nine species of foraminifera comprising three distinctive microfaunal assemblages were recovered, and are herein described and illustrated. Five species are described as new.
10.2307/1484543|A description of the design, construction and use of a simple and inexpensive but practical device for the relatively automatic maintenance of large numbers of small-volume cultures of foraminifera or other small organisms in circulating and continually aerated fluid. Several of the precursory devices that led to the development of this one are also described.
10.2307/1485746|The foraminiferal genus Ranikothalia characterizes the Upper Paleocene (Thanetian) succession of Pakistan as well as other locations thruoughout the world. In addition, it sometimes extends into the Lower Eocene. A closer examination of Upper Paleocene species from various localities demonstrates that the open spiral complanate evolute forms may all be identified as Ranikothalia sindensis (Davies), as illustrated here from the Upper Paleocene Lockhart Limestone and the Lower Eocene Margala Hill Limestone from the Kala Chitta Range, northern Pakistan. In view of this demonstration of its stratigraphic value, the Ranikothalia sindensis Partial Range Zone should be incorporated within the Upper Paleocene (Thanetian) in the Paleogene stratigraphic correlation scale of Cavelier and Pomerol (1983).
10.2307/1484671|Microplankton and microspores recovered from an Eogene sample collected near Punta Arenas, Chile, are identified, new records for both South America and the Southern Hemisphere are established, and the finding of redeposited striatitid disaccate pollen grains is noted.
10.2307/1485098|Ninety-four species of middle Pleistocene foraminifera and five species of Ostracoda, including three new species, one new variety, and several genera and species previously unreported from the immediate area, were identified from a composite ninety-foot ditch sample between 4120 and 4210 feet in an offshore Louisiana well located seventeen miles south of the Mississippi River birdfoot delta in the northern Gulf of Mexico.
10.2307/1484394|Alveolina fusiformis Sowerby is redescribed from the type locality of Bracklesham and its extraordinarily wide range of morphological variation is discussed. Alveolina cf. elongata d'Orbigny is also described and previous records of other species of Alveolina from England are shown to be incorrect.
10.2307/1484857|The coal-bearing Dakota Sandstone at Coal Canyon, Arizona, in the western portion of the Black Mesa Basin, yielded abundant, diverse, and generally well-preserved spores, pollen and microplankton, including ten new species and two new genera. The palynomorph assemblage is characterized by high frequencies of fern spores, especially striate schizaeaceous spores, and simple tricolpate and tricolporate angiosperm pollen. Gymnosperm pollen grains are comparatively uncommon. On palynologic evidence, the age of the Dakota Sandstone within the study area is interpreted as early Late Cretaceous (Cenomanian).
10.2307/1484907| Assemblage-by-assemblage (Q-mode) cluster analysis was applied to planktonic foraminifera from fifty-two stations in the Tsushima and Korea Straits, where the Tsushima Warm Current prevails. Two major assemblage clusters are recognized, and one of them is subdivided into five. "Faunal" differences among these clusters may be attributed not to any ecological factor but to some sedimentational condition, if one judges from the shell-size composition. The shell-size frequency distribution is determined with a newly devised micrometer and is expressed by three parameters, median diameter, "sorting coefficient" and skewness, on the basis of the phi scale in the same way as the mechanical analysis of sediments. The characteristic bimodal curves of the frequency distribution of Assemblage Cluster  suggest strongly that the Tsushima Current is scouring the localities facing the current and carrying away shells of 2 to 3 phi in diameter. Sedimentational interpretations, taking the scouring effect into account, seem to be supported by the geographical distribution of the assemblage clusters and also by published data on the sediments. The results of R-mode (taxon-by-taxon) analysis provide additional data for these interpretations. 
10.2307/1485727|Lower Pliocene diatoms were studied from the Sisquoc Formation and lowermost Foxen Mudstone, exposed along Harris Grade north of Lompoc, California, to refine the diatom biostratigraphy of post-Monterey Formation sediments in California. Sixty-seven diatom taxa were identified in the 25 samples examined from the 790-m thick (2950-ft) section. The diatoms are assignable to the uppermost Nitzschia reinholdii Zone and Thalassiosira oestrupii Zone of Barron (1981), and five tentative subzones for local correlation are proposed. Regional correlations and taxon occurrence are discussed, and the base of the Nitzschia reinholdii Zone is redefined as at the last occurrence of Thalassionema schraderi.
10.2307/1484244|A comprehensive set of palynological techniques usable for extracting representative fossil assemblages from different lithologies is presented.
1486093|A Haplotaeniatum-dominated radiolarian fauna has been discovered in Llandoverian (Early Silurian) strata of the Scandinavian platform, Dalarna, Sweden. As one of six occurrences of this fauna world-wide, it supports the premise that many elements in the Haplotaeniatum Assemblage have a wide geographic distribution and will be of significance in building an Early Silurian radiolarian biostratigraphic scheme with global application. In addition to Haplotaeniatum, this fauna contains palaeoscenidiid and secuicollactine taxa that are known only from one other locality, the Cape Phillips Formation, Canadian Arctic. These taxa may prove to be fairly cosmopolitan and biostratigraphically useful as more data from other localities are collected. Two new genera, Labyrinthosphaera and Gyrosphaera, and three new species, Labyrinthosphaera macdonaldi, Gyrosphaera siljanensis, and Gyrosphaera raneatela, are described herein. Labyrinthosphaera has a multi-layered labyrinthine meshwork and with six or more tri-bladed spines. Gyrosphaera has a labyrinthine meshwork and displays spiraliform layering, similar to that described in Haplotaeniatum, indicating a close phylogenetic link between these two Llandoverian taxa. Further data from additional localities is needed to determine the potential diachroneity of a global Haplotaeniatum acme zone, and to identify additional taxa whose first and last occurrences may be used as biostratigraphic datums for the Llandoverian.
10.2307/1484811|The problematic microfossil "Lagena"-x has been found in the Middle Oligocene near Mainz and in the Upper Oligocene of Kassel, West Germany. The specimens are described, figured and compared with those previously described.
4097100|A total of 27 coccolithophorid species were identified in water samples from the Southeast Greenland Margin taken during the late summer 1997. This is the first report of coccolithophorids present in this region, so close to the extreme environment of Greenland's shoreline. Surprisingly, a consistent standing crop of temperate coccolithophorid species occurs, despite environmental conditions with sea surface water covered by ice for most of the year. Cell concentrations range between
4097015|Core-samples from wells and an outcrop located on the Voronesh Anticline in the southeastern part of the Russian Platform contain Late Cretaceous radiolaria. 83 species are described and illustrated (SEM and transmitted light images) from Santonian-early Campanian deposits, and two assemblages are distinguished. The older assemblage with Alievium gallowayi, Archaeospongoprunum bipartitum, Archaeospongoprunum. cf. A. salumi as well as other less age-diagnostic taxa, is interpreted as Santonian correlative with the Euchitonia santonica-Alievium gallowayi Assemblage Zone of the Moscow Basin (Vishnevskaya 1993). The younger assemblage, of Santonian - early Campanian age, contains Patulibracchium cf. P. davisi, Crucella irwini, Cryptamphorella sphaerica, Praeconocaryomma californiensis, Dictyomitra lamellicostata among other species and is correlative with the Orbiculiforma quadrata-Lithostrobus rostovtsevi Assemblage Zone of the Moscow Basin. In terms of inter-regional faunal comparisons, both of the Voronesh Anticline radiolarian assemblages demonstrate relatively close affinities to coeval rocks from the Volga River region, but less similarity to the assemblages from the Moscow Basin. Only a few of the common endemic species of Siberian assemblages occur in our samples. On an inter-regional level, the radiolarian assemblages described herein have similarities with assemblages reported from Japan and California. Index-species characteristic for the Santonian-Campanian radiolarian biozonations of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans are not found in our collection. However, the presence of many cosmopolitan species known from the European Platform, Japan and California suggests a marine connection between the Voronesh Anticline region, the western Atlantic and eastern Tethys during Santonian-Early Campanian time.
10.2307/1485592|The Umm er Radhuma Formation of Saudi Arabia has customarily been assigned to the Paleocene, with uninterrupted, continuous sedimentation above its basal contact with the Maastrichtian Aruma Formation (e.g. Powers et al. 1966). However, my study of its planktonic foraminifera now indicates that the greater part of the formation lies above the Lower Eocene zone of Globorotalia formosa. In the Rub' al Khali Basin, the focus of this investigation, less than 50 m of sediment represents the (approx.) 13.5 m.y. interval between the Cretaceous boundary and the G. formosa Zone, suggesting a diastem for part of the Paleocene. Above the pelagic interval are shelf limestones containing larger benthic foraminifera used by Middle East workers as Paleocene guide fossils. Because the larger foraminifera overlie the G. formosa Zone, these beds cannot be older than Lower Eocene. A revision of the possible range of these species thus becomes necessary.
10.2307/1486041|Upper Maastrichtian planktic foraminiferal faunas from 22 mainly Atlantic sections were analysed quantitatively, to document biogeographic patterns. Contour maps illustrate distribution patterns of 29 species. Quantitative results confirm the presence of an Austral Realm around Antarctica, a Transitional Realm in the northern North Atlantic and a Tethyan Realm. Variation in faunal composition between sections allows for subdivision of a wide Tethyan Realm into provinces that are at the scale of paleowatermasses. Central North Atlantic sections are found to have distinct faunas, as are equatorial sections. Two DSDP sites along the west African coast may represent high paleoproductivity. Remaining Tethyan sections cannot be related to specific regions or oceanographic conditions.
10.2307/1485233|The removal of gypsum from gypsum-rich, microfossil-bearing residues can significantly reduce acquisition time. It can be accomplished by a modification of the shale disaggregation techniques described by Collinson (1963) and Sohn et al. (1965), namely re-drying the gypsum rich residues and soaking them in organic solvent followed by immersion in water. Washing must occur within 30 minutes after the water has been placed on the sample.
10.2307/1485703|The presence of the following post-mid-Miocene indicator diatom species is documented in sediment samples from RISP (Ross Ice Shelf Project) Site J9: Actinocyclus actinochilus, Asteromphalus parvulus, Coscinodiscus stellaris var. symbolophorus, Nitzschia curta, N. interfrigidaria, Rouxia antarctica, Schimperiella oliverana, Thalassionema bacillaris, Thalassiosira gracilis, and T. lentiginosa. These species co-occur with mid-Miocene species such as Denticulopsis hustedtii, D. lauta, D. maccollumii, Nitzschia maleinterpretaria, Trinacria excavata and T. pileolus. The combined diatom flora in RISP samples is unequivocal evidence of sediment and floral reworking. We suspect that multiple episodes of reworking are involved, but if only one such episode occurred, it must have been during the Quaternary, possibly as recently as 18,000 to 20,000 yr B.P. The stratigraphic validity and taxonomic status of each species is discussed. McCollum's (1975) diatom biostratigraphy is found imperfect but of more use for the Quaternary in the Ross Sea region than biostratigraphic zonations proposed by other authors.
10.2307/1484629|An account is given of the distribution of megaspores in the Productive Coal Measures and in the Limestone Coal Group of the West Ayrshire coalfield of Scotland. The two coal groups between them comprise 25 coal seams and contain at least 24 types of megaspores. There are perceptible megaspore zones within the Productive Coal Measures which may correspond roughly to Floras D and E of Dix. The megaspore flora of the Limestone Coal Group is more uniform. The megaspore assemblages of the two coal groups are characteristic of Westphalian A-B and Namurian A respectively. The taxonomic status of some types of megaspores has been considered. An attempt has been made to correlate the distribution of the different types and sizes of megaspores with their probable parent plant groups. The biological significance of morphological features in certain megaspores has been discussed.
10.2307/1484923| The planktonic foraminiferal fauna was studied in 206 samples gathered by the Royal Research Ship Discovery II at the 90E meridian of longitude between the equator and the coast of Antarctica. Samples were collected throughout the water column from 1500 to 0 m. Twenty-seven species were recognized, and their horizontal and vertical distributions were established. Five types of surface water masses were distinguished on the basis of differences in foraminiferal fauna, and the geographical positions of these water masses were determined and plotted. It was found that differences exist between the geographic positions of the hydrological fronts established by means of temperature and salinity data, and those determined by means of foraminiferological data. Explanations for these discrepancies are given. The percentage of empty shells with respect to the total number of foraminiferal shells at different depths was calculated. 
10.2307/1485785|The nuclear encoded large and small-subunit ribosomal RNA indicate that diatoms originated sometime between 400 and 330 million years ago. This time interval is clearly in disagreement with a Late Precambrian or Early Paleozoic origin (Round 1981 a,b; Round and Crawford 1981, 1984) and with Pyxidicula representing a diatom form associated with the first evolutionary appearance of the group. Considering the fact that the slowest possible nucleotide substitution rates within Pennales and the largest distance values between the pennate diatoms and the outgroup/basal diatom taxa were used to infer the origination time interval, there is a possibility that the obtained values are overestimated.
10.2307/1484503|Spores belonging to the Mesozoic form genus Aequitriradites Delcourt and Sprumont, emend. Cookson and Dettmann, are recorded from lower Upper Cretaceous sediments of northwestern Wyoming. Two new species, A. ornatus and A. fimbriatus, are described.
10.2307/1485202|A problematic spore genus from the Canadian Arctic, which had previously been considered an angiosperm pollen, is instituted as Ceuthospora, a new palynomorph genus.
4097110|A quantitative scanning electron microscope study of coccolithophores was sampled during the summer and winter from the surface waters over the continental shelf of the East China Sea (ECS) was conducted. In all, only ten coccolithophorid taxa were observed during the investigation periods. Emiliania huxleyi (Lohmann) Hay et Mohler and Gephyrocapsa oceanica Kamptner were predominant among the coccolithophorid flora during both seasons. E. huxleyi increased its relative abundance seaward, while G. oceanica concentrated in inner shelf area. These two species accounted for over half of the coccolithophores in the middle shelf of the ECS. These dominant taxa are eurythermal, occurring in patchy and "bulls-eyes" distributions in both the summer and winter, respectively. Special emphasis has been paid to the overall distribution and intra-species frequency of malformed cells of the two dominant species, as well as other minor species. Malformed cells occurred so frequently in both seasons that the frequency amounted to as much as 80% in both dominant species. The malformation was manifested largely by corroded defects. A comparison of the malformed distribution with the hydrological and nutrient parameters suggests that the malformation was caused mainly by a deficiency of nitrate in the ambient waters.
10.2307/1484326|Six rotaliid foraminifera from Upper Cretaceous reef deposits of the Caribbean region are discussed. One species, Sulcoperculina angulata Brown and Bronnimann, is new. Siderolites vanbelleni (van den Bold) and Kathina jamaicensis (Cushman and Jarvis), originally described from strata thought to be of Eocene age, are regarded as Upper Cretaceous fossils. Siderolites skourensis (Pfender), Stomatorbina binkhorsti (Reuss), and Eponides hemisphaericus (Reuss), which are known from the type Maestrichtian in Holland, are recorded from Cuba.
10.2307/1485304| Chamber formation in Globorotalia hirsuta and G. truncatulinoides begins at ST (start time) with the retraction of the normal, long rhizopodia and the emergence of a growing cytoplasmic bulge from the aperture. Short, thick rhizopodia fan out from the bulge about 30 min. after ST. When the distal tips of the RR (radiating rhizopodia) are maximally extended, they stretch about 20 to 30 m beyond the periphery of the chamber-to-be (1 hr. after ST). The translucent bulge expands gradually to form the shape of the new chamber (1 hr. 10 min. after ST). Retraction of the RR and the simultaneous transformation of the coarsely undulating periphery of the translucent bulge to a smooth border signals the development of the "anlage," an organic structure which is the nucleation site for calcification of the chamber wall (1 hr. 20 min. after ST). An OPE (outer, organic protective envelope) shields the anlage, where calcification starts with the secretion of minute calcareous plaques on both sides of the POM (primary organic membrane) (2 to 3 hrs. after ST). As the jigsaw-puzzle-shaped calcareous plaques increase in size and number, they eventually coalesce to form a bilamellar wall several micrometers in thickness. Formation of such a new thin-walled chamber takes about 5 to 6 hours. The wall can be further thickened by lamellar accretion, mainly when the foraminifer adds successive chambers to its shell. 
10.2307/1485642|Duquepsammiidae, n. fam., includes only one genus, Duquepsammia, n. gen., of which Spiroplectoides cubensis is the type species. Duquepsammia is characterized by an inner structure in the biserial chambers and in the microspheric form by a relatively large number of chambers and whorls in the spiral stage. The megalospheric form is a homeomorph of Spiroplectammina Cushman.
10.2307/1484639|A unique hystrichosphere-dinoflagellate assemblage from the basal Kiowa Shale of the Kansas Cretaceous (Albian) is described. Twenty-five new hystrichosphere species are assigned to Membranilarnax and Hystrichosphaeridium. Four new dinoflagellate species are assigned to Pareodinia and Peridinium, and nine undetermined species of Peridinium, Glenodinium and Gonyaulax are described and figured. Dinoflagellates are further represented by six new forms of uncertain position and five cysts. Two species of Tasmanites (Chlorophyceae) are also described. Biostratigraphic evidence permits the identification of a phytoplankton bloom in the rock record. The geologic significance of blooms is discussed.
10.2307/1484267|The principles of classification of the Miogypsinidae are discussed. Two new species, Miogypsina (Miogypsina) bhogatensis Mohan and Miogypsina (Lepidosemicyclina) droogeri Mohan and Tiwari, are described, and the subgenus Lepidosemicyclina Rutten, 1911, is reinstated.
10.2307/1484102|The successions of Oligo-Miocene zones of planktonic foraminifera are the same on both sides of the Atlantic, but are not synchronous. The same phenomenon has been observed with regard to the Miogypsina sequences. In spite of special difficulties in correlation that are inherent in these groups of organisms, it is fairly certain that a large part of the Central American so-called "Oligocene" is synchronous with the European early and middle Miocene.
3648439|Distortion of diatom assemblages by differential dissolution has long hindered their utilization for paleoceanographic research. We propose a quantitative index defined as the ratio of number of complete valves/number of complete copulae (V/C ratio) to evaluate dissolution levels of Neodenticula seminae. We observe that an almost equal number of valves and copulae of this species occur in nearly undissolved assemblages from the water column. In spite of this, copulae are dominant in surface sediments, indicating differential dissolution between these frustule components. To confirm this, we carried out an experiment and found the copulae to be more dissolution tolerant than the valves. Based on these results, valve number in any assemblage prior to the start of dissolution is predicted with an expression using; 1) the number of both components after dissolution and their ratio; 2) the ratio of both components before dissolution starts (1.0) and 3) the ratio of dissolution tolerance between both components (shown experimentally). In short, we can obtain the quantified N. seminae dissolution level by a comparison of dissolution tolerance between both frustule components in experiment, and by counting both components in a sample. Neodenticua seminae is among the most important primary producers in the mid to high latitude North Pacific during the Quaternary. Thus, we strongly stress that the application of this index will allow us not only to revise opaline dissolution history, but to take the more quantitative step in reconstructing paleoproductivity and/or mass balance of opal during the Quaternary.
10.2307/1485332|Examination of microscopic fish skeletal debris in some DSDP cores from the Pacific and the Caribbean regions permits the following approximate age assignments: In Hole 27A, cores 1-5 are probably Early to Middle Miocene. In Hole 29A, cores 2-5 are Middle to Late Miocene. At Site 38, core 2 is probably Middle Miocene, core 4 Late Oligocene or Early Miocene, and core 5 Middle Eocene to Late Oligocene. At Site 39, core 1 and the top of core 2 may be Late Oligocene or Early Miocene, with Eocene admixture. In Hole 50.1, the lower part of core 2 to the upper part of core 4 is approximately Middle Miocene. In Hole 51.1, ichthyoliths in core 2 are predominantly Eocene with some younger forms. At Site 52, cores 5 and 6 are Middle Miocene, and core 7 between Paleocene and Middle Eocene. In Hole 66.0, ichthyoliths in cores 6-9 are Campanian or Maestrichtian.
10.2307/1484126|In the region of the classic locality of Rosignano, the highly developed Lepidocyclina (Nephrolepidina) tournoueri is accompanied by Miogypsina (Miogypsina) globulina. The associated planktonics mainly consist of Globoquadrina dehiscens and Globigerina globularis, with scarcer Globigerinoides triloba. The Burdigalian age of this fauna shows the persistence of the Lepidocyclinidae in the Miocene of the Mediterranean area.
10.2307/1485890|Ninetten species of dinoflagellate cysts and four species of acritarchs have been recognized in surface sediments from estuaries on the N.S.W. central coast. Prominent species include Operculodinium centrocarpum (Deflandre & Cookson) Wall 1967, Lingulodinium hemicystum n. sp., Spiniferites bulloideus (Deflandre and Cookson) Sarjeant 1970, Spiniferites mirabilis (Rossignol) Sarjeant 1970, Spiniferites ramosus (Ehrenberg) Loeblich & Loeblich 1966 and Protoperidinium spp. Cyst assemblages within an estuary are more similar to each other than to assemblages from comparable environments but from different estuaries. Environmental changes within an estuary cause the cyst abundance to decrease without significantly altering the relative abundances. Lingulodinium hemicystum and Cobricosphaeridium giganteum are described as new species.
10.2307/1485807|Biozones of calcareous nannofossils in Santonian-Maastrichtian organic-rich carbonate sequences that were deposited in a strong upwelling system along the southeastern Tethys can be correlated with the standard zonation of foraminifera and organic-walled dinoflagellate cysts in the same sequences. The following zones are recognized: Lucianorhabdus cayeuxii Zone of Sissingh (1977); Upper Santonian. -- Aspidolithus parcus Zone of Verbeek (1976); Lower Campanian. -- Ceratolithoides aculeus Zone of Cepek and Hay (1969), em. Martini (1976); upper Lower Campanian. -- Quadrum sissinghii Zone of Sissingh (1977), corr. Perch-Nielsen (1985); lower Upper Campanian. -- Quadrum trifidum Zone of Bukry and Bramlette (1970); Upper Campanian-Lower Maastrichtian. -- Arkhangelskiella cymbiformis Zone of Perch-Nielsen (1972), em. Martini (1976); Lower-Middle Maastrichtian. -- subzone B -- subzone A -- Lithraphidites quadratus Zone of Cepek and Hay (1969), em. Bukry and Bramlette (1970); Middle Maastrichtian-lower Upper Maastrichtian. In this study we suggest that the NC21 Zone of Monechi and Thierstein (1985) is subdivided into two subzones, NC21a and NC21b. We also note that some taxa that are commonly used as markers elswhere have a different range in the studied area. The proposed zonal scheme indicates the occurrence of unconformities at the Santonian-Campanian boundary and within the upper part of the Middle Maastrichtian.
10.2307/1485861|A Valanginian to Barremian bathyal foraminiferal assemblage (118 taxa belonging to 51 genera) is documented from ODP Site 766, drilled near the foot of the Exmouth Plateau off northwest Australia. The majority of taxa are cosmopolitan species previously described from the boreal assemblages of northern Europe and the northern margins of the Tethys, but 32 taxa could not be assigned to previously described species and are left in open nomenclature. The chronostratigraphy of this section is based upon nannofossils, palynomorphs, and radiolarians. The foraminiferal succession is divided into four assemblages based on the first and last occurrences of characteristic benthic foraminifera: 1) An upper Valanginian Lenticulina ouachensis - Textularia bettenstaedti assemblage with Ammodiscus tenuissimus, Bulbobaculites sp., and Aaptotoichus clavellatus. The last occurrences of these taxa are observed near the transition between the Valanginian and Hauterivian. 2) A lower Hauterivian assemblage is characterized by Lenticulina heiermanni and Saracenaria forticosta. 3) An upper Hauterivian assemblage contains Planularia crepidularis, Patellina subcretacea, and Reinholdella hofkeri. A major faunal discontinuity is observed at the top of this assemblage between Cores 766A-32R and 766A-30R, probably associated with a depositional gap between the late Hauterivian and the Barremian. 4) The overlying Barremian assemblage is characterized by Gavelinella barremiana, Glomospira spp., and Pseudogaudryinella sp. This record enables long-distance comparisons of the stratigraphic ranges of benthic foraminiferal species in the austral bioprovince with their reported ranges in the North Atlantic region and the northern Tethys. Although the assemblages at Site 766 consist of ca. 74% cosmopolitan species, they differ from Tethyan assemblages in the rarity or absence of index taxa such as Praedorothia spp., Lenticulina nodosa and L. eichenbergi, as well as ornamented, palmate morphotypes such as Citharina spp., Flabellina spp., and Frondicularia spp. They differ from the typical boreal assemblages by the lack of diverse agglutinated taxa. As a result, benthic foraminiferal zonations established for the Lower Cretaceous of the northern Tethys and Tethyan DSDP sites could not be applied at Site 766. Taxonomic and biostratigraphic differences at Site 766 support the existence of a taxonomically distinct Early Cretaceous austral bioprovince.
10.2307/1485876|Very well-preserved Pliocene diatoms from a diatomite unit interbedded within glacial sediments at Ocean Drilling Program Site 742 in Prydz Bay, Antarctica are documented and illustrated. The presence of Thalassiosira kolbei, T. torokina, Actinocyclus actinochilus, A. karstenii and the absence of Nitzschia interfrigidaria. T. insigna and T. vulnifica in Sample 119-742A-15R-4, 44-46cm constrain its age to ca. 2.2-1.8 Ma (late Pliocene). Diatoms associated with sea ice constitute 35% of the Pliocene diatom assemblage, compared with 71% of the modern sediment assemblage at the site, suggesting that sea ice was present during the late Pliocene period of deposition of the sample, although it probably was not the significant feature it is today. Thalassiosira ellitipora (Donahue) Fenner is described and illustrated in detail and is validly published. An expanded description and numerous illustrations are also presented for T. torokina Brady.
30130908|Idiognathodus simulator (Ellison 1941) and Idiognathodus eudoraensis n. sp. constitute two members of a distinct group of Late Pennsylvanian species that are characterized by an eccentric groove on the $P_{1}$ element and Type IIIb symmetry, where dextral and sinistral $P_{1}$ elements show different morphological features. The oldest species, Idiognathodus eudoraensis n. sp., probably developed from a species of Idiognathodus during the late middle Kasimovian. The simulator group is not closely related to Streptognathodus, which is characterized by a deep medial trough. The distinctive morphology of I. simulator [s.s.], redescribed here, in conjunction with its widespread distribution in North America and Eurasia, has led its first appearance to be selected as the event marker for the base of the global Gzhelian Stage. The simulator group includes other species that have been named in Eurasia, and will require additional work to adequately resolve species ranges and interpret its evolutionary history.
41410983|Foraminifers from the Upper Permian Bellerophon Formation, Permian-Triassic "transitional beds" and lowermost Triassic "streaky limestone member" of the Luka Formation in the Luka section, western Slovenia are described and illustrated. Four new species of foraminifers are described: Multidiscus zhiriensis, M. dinaridicus and Globivalvulina lukachiensis from the Upper Permian, and Lingulonodosaria slovenica from the lowermost Triassic. The assemblage of Late Permian foraminifers consists of species characteristic of the Changhsingian of many regions in the Tethys: northwestern Caucasus, Transcaucasia, Iran, Turkey, northern Italy, northwestern Serbia, northeastern Hungary, and South China. Unfortunately, the uppermost part of the Bellerophon Formation in the Luka section is represented by dolomite and does not contain foraminifers. The Permian-Triassic boundary interval is represented by carbonate "transitional beds" deposited in a shallow restricted marine environment that contains foraminifers and conodonts. The species "Cornuspira" mahajeri, "Earlandia" gracilis, and "E" tintinniformis, marking the lower boundary of the Triassic worldwide based on foraminifers, are found both below and above the first appearance of the conodont species Hindeodus parvus in the Luka section. These species appear to be ecological species and their appearance coincides with a stressful shallow water environment. The first interval with nodosariid foraminifers appears 2m above the P/T boundary and a second one is approximately 5m above the boundary. Both of these intervals with nodosariids are within the range of the conodont species H. parvus and within the I. staescheiI. isarcica conodont Range Zone.
10.2307/1485691|The style of archeopyle in the dinoflagellate cyst genus Dingodinium is reviewed on the basis of new observations of Dingodinium cerviculum. The peripyle in this species is formed by dorsal separation of the apex; the endopyle involves not only the loss of intercalary paraplates but also the opening or loss of a precingular paraplate. Revised diagnoses for this species and for the genus incorporate these new details of archeopyle and paratabulation. It is shown that these emendations may necessitate some revision of current approaches in dinoflagellate cyst taxonomy. The species ?D. albertii is rejected as a subjective junior synonym of D. cerviculum.
10.2307/1485754|Abundant Eocene siliceous deposits in California are located in the San Joaquin and Sacramento valleys. The white shales to buff mudstones are characterized by radiolarians, diatoms, and silicoflagellates. Taxonomic descriptions and abundance data of key radiolarian species in existing monographs have limited biostratigraphic and paleoenvironmental interpretation. The California fauna is similar to faunas from the Norwegian Sea, Russian Platform, and southern oceans of Antarctica. Eocene faunas from the equatorial Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea differ considerably in diversity. In this study, the taxonomy and biostratigraphic information of species comprising more than 2% of the population are evaluated. Two radiolarian zones are erected for the middle Eocene of California, the Podocyrtis fasciata and Calocyclas semipolita Zones. Paleoenvironmental information suggests that some differences in the fauna may be environmentally controlled due to deposition in submarine canyons.
10.2307/1484330|Grayson (1956) believes that the artificial conversion of calcite to fluorite explains the presence of "microforaminifera" in standard acid preparations. In reality, the natural resistance of many minute structures in samples of various sediments is very great. "Microforaminifera" are recognizable even after natural decalcification, when they possess membranous linings or when their chamber walls have been replaced with resistant mineral matter at an early stage of sedimentation. In addition, the microfossils commonly associated with them are not "polospores" (Grayson, 1956), but various flagellate Protista, preserved because of the characteristic organic material of which their tests are composed.
10.2307/1484348|New records of calcareous algae are given for the Permian, Jurassic, Cretaceous, Paleocene, and Eocene of the Middle East. New genera described are Lithocodium (Codiaceae) and Pagodaporella (Dasycladaceae); new species of Epimastopora and Terquemella are also described.
3648445|Radiolarians and planktonic foraminifera are documented in the chert and limestone alternations in the Yigitler section from the Circum Troodos Massif Sedimentary Succession in northern Cyprus. Based on the stratigraphic ranges of radiolarians, the examined samples from the Middle Lefkara Formation can be assigned to six biozones: Bekoma bidartensis (RP7), Buryella clinata (RP8), Phormocyrtis striata striata (RP9), Theocotyle cryptocephala (RP10), Dictyoprora mongolfieri (RP11) and Thyrsocyrtis (Pentalacorys) triacantha (RP12) zones. The planktonic foraminifera recovered from the examined samples are assigned to Morozovella velascoensis IZ (P5), Morozovella subbotinae PRZ (P6), Morozovella aragonensis/Morozovella formosa formosa CRZ (P7), Morozovella aragonensis PRZ (P8) and Acarinina pentacamerata PRZ (P9) zones. These zonal assignments indicate a Late Paleocene to early Middle Eocene age for the Middle Lefkara Formation.
10.2307/1484781|Problems of the taxonomic classification of Nigerian Paleocene Cytherellidae (Ostracoda) are considered. Results obtained by numerical taxonomic and biometric methods suggest the occurrence of three species (two new). The mathematical procedures used are vectorial analysis, the multivariate biometric methods of principal component analysis and the study of homogeneity of covariance matrices. Principal component analysis is employed as a numerical taxonomic device for identifying consistent and significant differences in cytherellids.
10.2307/1485556|Downcore distribution of the most common benthic tiny foraminifers identified in the 0.063-0.032mm sized fraction, correlates with the climatic changes in the Western North Atlantic during the past 15,000 years. Stetsonia horvathi dominates during the glacial period (15,000-12,000 year BP), while Bolivina spp. are most common in the Holocene (9,000 years before present). Two new species, Rotaliella atlantica and Rotaliella keigwini, are described.
10.2307/1484724|The relationship between distribution of living planktonic foraminiferal species and selected elements of the Equatorial Atlantic Current System has been investigated through the use of depth-controlled, opening-closing net, quasi-synoptic plankton samples, as well as hydro-casts, S-T-D probe lowerings, and direct current measurements. Physico-chemical data collected with the biologic samples have been used to define major biotopes within the current system. It is shown that relatively small variations in the measured environment exert major control in the population dynamics of this group, with temperature variations of as little as two degrees C, and salinity variations of as little as 0.2-0.5 ppm. exerting primary control of absolute and relative abundances of a number of species. Selected elements of the Equatorial Atlantic Current System may be defined by population variations in indigenous planktonic foraminiferal species. The use of planktonic foraminifera as indicator organisms for specific oceanic water masses and currents is established, and it is suggested that similar utilization of these forms in the geologic past, to define paleo-oceanographic conditions, is feasible.
10.2307/1484615|Calcareous nannoplankton may be extracted and concentrated by "short centrifuging". A method of mounting the specimens on slides is described.
10.2307/1485377|Living benthic foraminifers representing 73 genera and 104 species were collected from sediments and hard substrates sampled on the submerged coral reef and biostrome at West Flower Garden Bank, on the outer Texas-Louisiana Continental Shelf. Three habitat associations can be recognized: (1) association of abundant sediment-dwelling species: (2) association of abundant species dwelling on hard substrates: and (3) association dwelling in abundance both in the sediments and on hard substrates. Only 16 (15%) of the West Flower Garden Bank species are endemic to the Gulf of Mexico: 85 (82%) occur elsewhere in the Caribbean, and 54 (52%) also occur in the tropical Indo-Pacific. Thirty-one species (29%) are reported herein for the first time from the Gulf of Mexico, and 12 additional species (12%) are reported for the first time from the northwestern Gulf. Fifteen other species (14%) appear to be undescribed in previous literature. Many of the newly reported species are abundant at West Flower Garden Bank, and several other species known only sparsely from other Gulf and Caribbean reefs are important constituents of the West Flower Garden Bank foraminiferal community. These results emphasize the value of direct sampling techniques that recover hard reef substrates.
10.2307/1485993|Eight major types of umbilical structures can be identified in trochospirally-coiled, latest Cretaceous planktonic foraminifera. These structures and their variants fall into the broad categories of tegilla and portici. Tegilla have distal secondary apertures formed by the attachment of tegilla to each other or to the perforate wall around the umbilicus. These distal, secondary apertures are absent in portici. The various types of tegilla and portici develop from simple lips in early ontogeny and are fundamentally similar in ultrastructure. Both structures appear to be outgrowths of the chamber wall and are not added secondarilly. Therefore, both types of umbilical plates are simply elaborate apertural lips. Umbilical covers may function as attachment surfaces for rhizopodia over the umbilicus while simultaneously permitting free communication between chambers in a whorl. Umbilical structures identify suprageneric groups although convergence is also common. Distinctive portici unite the genera, Praeglobotruncana, Dicarinella, Marginotruncana and Contusotruncana into a monophyletic group. Globotuncanita and Gansserina possess derived forms of portici which show that these are valid taxa and may be closely related. Rugoglobigerina, Rugotruncana and Archaeoglobigerina all carry simple sheet-like tegilla which suggests relationship between these groups. Distinctive elongate tegilla occur in Archaeoglobigerina cretacea and early globotruncanids, although it cannot be determined whether this reflects convergence or genetic affinity. Indeed, tegilla with multiple intralaminal apertures have evolved several times as have sheet-like tegilla and those without intralaminal apertures.
10.2307/1485302|The genus Micula appeared in the Turonian and disappeared at the end of the Maestrichtian. In early specimens of Micula staurophora, from which all other species evolved, the morphology is cubical and compact, commonly with secondary overgrowth (morphotype of Tetralithus pyramidus). In the Coniacian and Santonian the elements of Micula staurophora formed extensions leading to Micula concava. Micula staurophora coexisted with the generally less abundant M. concava. In the upper Maestrichtian Micula murus evolved from M. staurophora by reduction of the upper cycle of elements and extension of the elements of the lower cycle. All 3 species of Micula seem to have disappeared simultaneously at the end of the Cretaceous. Quadrum gartneri is considered a synonym of Micula staurophora ("Tetralithus pyramidus" morphotype) and thus the genus Quadrum is synonymous with and not ancestral to Micula. Micula praemura is just an isolated cycle of Micula staurophora.
10.2307/1485071|Ten sediment samples, collected from the intertidal zone of the shores of the Lagos Lagoon and neighboring creeks in western Nigeria, yielded specimens representing twelve species, all new, of lagoonal and brackish-water podocopid ostracodes. One new genus, Reymentia, and a new subgenus, Loculiconcha, have been erected. The Ostracoda described in this study are of euryhaline character. Most of the species are not easily classifiable within the established North American and European categories, and the assignments made are to a certain extent preliminary. The morphology and taxonomic importance of normal pores is discussed.
10.2307/1484830|The planispiral genus Pseudohastigerina Banner and Blow, 1959, is considered to be the earliest member of the subfamily Hantkenininae. Pseudohastigerina wilcoxensis (Cushman and Ponton) evolved in the earliest Eocene from Globorotalia chapmani Parr by the gradual migration of the aperture to an equatorial position and the concomitant development of planispiral coiling. The Pseudohastigerina datum is proposed and based on this evolutionary event, and it has been found useful in biostratigraphic studies in recognizing the Paleocene-Eocene boundary. A new species, Pseudohastigerina sharkriverensis, is described from the lowest Middle Eocene of New Jersey. A biometric analysis of populations of P. wilcoxensis, P. sharkriverensis, and Globigerinelloides messinae (Bronnimann), an upper Maestrichtian species, reveals a marked degree of homeomorphy.
10.2307/1484818|Approximately 700 identifiable conodonts referable to 32 species and 17 genera are described from the Trentonian Jacksonburg Limestone outcrop belts in northwestern New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania. The conodont fauna is characteristic of the North American mid-continent conodont province and can best be correlated with faunas of the Trentonian Decorah Shale of Minnesota and the Kimmswick Formation of Missouri. By contrast, Jacksonburg Limestone in an isolated outlier near Clinton, New Jersey, nine miles southeast of the Jacksonburg outcrop belts, yielded a conodont fauna distinctly northern European in aspect. This fauna, consisting of 250 identifiable specimens referable to 28 species and 16 genera, indicates a close correlation with the Crug, Pen-y-garnedd, and Gelli-grin Limestones of Wales. The precise position of these European formations in the North American standard column has not been determined, but they appear to be equivalent to either the Trentonian or Edenian. One species, Coelocerodontus jerseyensis, is described for the first time.
10.2307/1484789|Thirty-five species and subspecies of disjunct conodonts are described and figured from the Devonian Buchan Group in eastern Victoria. Seven new species and subspecies are proposed. The fauna, in comparison with known European Lower Devonian conodont faunas, suggests a Lower Emsian age for the Murrindal Limestone at the top of the Buchan Group.
30135276|Since the description of Tetracyclus lacustris Ralfs (=Tetracyclus glans (Ehrenb.) F.W. Mills), many new varieties and forms of it have been described. Examination of specimens, using scanning electron microscopy, has demonstrated that some should be recognised as species; many have restricted (palaeo-) distributions. This paper describes three species from the T. glans complex, two of which are new: Tetracyclus parvula (Forti) D. M. Williams stat. nov. and Tetracyclus quadriformis D. M. Williams sp. nov. As relationships within Tetracyclus are still under investigation, a 'cruciform' sub-group (within the group Tetracyclus) is discussed, which includes the three species described herein. It has not yet been demonstrated to be monophyletic. The significance of the species described herein is not just their stratigraphic position but the fact that they have distinct geographical distributions, primarily (but not exclusively) from Circum-Pacific areas (China, Russia, Central America, Africa and, possibly, specimens supposedly still living and in the tropics (New Caledonia).
10.2307/1486069|In well MJI-20, western Niger Delta of Nigeria, Globigerinoides ruber is found in samples ranging from Middle Miocene to lower Pliocene levels, and is the predominant taxon among the planktonic foraminifera recovered from upper Middle Miocene onwards. Within the sampled interval, the species exhibits some morphological variations, especially in the shape and size of the apertures. Its occurrence can be divided into four zones. In the first zone, between 7,353 and 7,133 feet below seafloor, the species occurs frequently but not abundantly, with form variant c, succeeded by form d, in the latest part of Zone N. 13 (Globigerinoides ruber Zone). In the second zone (7,133 - 5,007 feet), specimens of Gds. ruber form d were recovered in only three samples and in very low numbers, representing the "pseudoextinction interval" of the species as described in the Caribbean, Atlantic, and Mediterranean in the lower part of Zone N.14. A transition between the second and third zone is characterised by the reappearance of Gds. ruber form c in the uppermost part of Zone N.14, at the top of a subzone characterized by abundant Globigerinoides obliquus obliquus. The third zone (4,787 - 4,504 feet) is the acme of Gds. ruber in this core, in association with Globigerinoides obliquus extremus and Globigerinoides ruber seigliei, suggesting Zones N.16-N.18. In this interval, forms c and b are both common. The fourth zone (4,476-4,034 feet), dominated by Gds. ruber form a, is above the last appearance of Gds. o. extremus and Gds. r. seigliei, and is interpreted as Pliocene (=N18-21), consistent with the occurrence of Pliocene palynomorphs in these samples.
10.2307/1486119|Well-preserved Middle Cambrian radiolarian were recovered from the Beetle Creek Formation, Inca Formation, and Devoncourt Limestone, Georgina Basin, Australia. Unlike previously reported Early Paleozoic radiolarians, these Middle Cambrian Radiolaria have two diagnostic characteristics in common with siliceous sponge spicules that occur in the same faunas: their skeletal elements consist of hollow tubes, and when a spicule is present, all spicular skeletons, including the internal spicule, are point-centered. The faunas contain 6 new genera and 18 new species; most of them have one or more spicular skeletons. Two new families are established. One family has a spherical shell wall with one or more point-centered internal spicule(s); it is named here Archeoentactiniidae n. fam. and consists of three new genera, Archeoentactinia, Fungomacula, and Spongomassa. The other new family, Palaeospiculumidae n. fam., consists of a point-centered spicular skeleton without a spherical shell capsule; the family is composed of the single genus Palaeospiculum n. gen. The taxa belonging to this family might perhaps be considered to be sponge spicule, but they differ from sponge spicule because their skeleton has the same basic structure as in Palaeoscenidiidae, that is, the spicule consists of apical and basal rays. In addition to these genera belonging to the two families, two other genera are present. They are uncommon and are of uncertain taxonomic position at the family level. One of the two, Aitchisonellum n. gen., has a spherical shell without internal spicule, but it belongs to neither Inaniguttidae Nazarov and Ormiston 1984 nor Palaeoactinosphaeridae Noble 1994; it seems to fit best in the informal group of Palaeoactinomiids Holdsworth (1977). The other genus, Protobiramus n. gen., has no typical internal spicule, but consists of a biaxially arranged four-rayed spicule and repeatedly bifurcated branches of those rays; the branch tips are not merged. The difference in faunal compositions among the three Middle Cambrian formations examined is not great: the Beetle Creek Formation, Inca Formation, and Devoncourt Limestone faunas consist of 7, 23, and 8 species, respectively.
10.2307/1484332|Pollen may be recovered from many types of inorganic sediments by the use of oil as a floating agent. Any size sample may be used. The pollen is highly concentrated in the final residue.
10.2307/1485915| The study of small calcareous shells and tests (less than 150m) is hindered by their size and the inability to resolve their internal structure without destroying the outer wall. This note outlines a method that makes their opaque walls almost transparent allowing the study of the internal morphology including organic linings in relation to the exterior. The process is especially applicable to the study of microforaminiferal linings. 
10.2307/1485725|A study has been carried out on the distribution of dinoflagellates and planktonic foraminifera in three Upper Maastrichtian borehole cores from Sweden and two uppermost Maastrichtian outcrop sections from Denmark. Several dinoflagellate variables display time-related changes in the Swedish cores. Likewise, the assemblage of planktonic foraminifers changes upsection. These trends may reflect the lowering of sea level that has been documented in the Upper Maastrichtian; the data suggest a change from a lower shelf to an upper shelf environment. Comparisons of these variables between the Swedish and Danish localities point to deeper depositional conditions in Denmark than in southern Sweden. The results indicate that the abundance of Spiniferites (both absolute and relative), the dinoflagellate diversity, and the G. multispina/H. striata ratio, are useful paleobathymetrical indices in the uppermost Cretaceous of boreal areas.
1486056|To clarify foraminiferal biogeographic affinities and the degree of differentiation of the inner shelf fauna from deeper water assemblages in the juvenile Indian Ocean, an assemblage of siliceous organic-cemented agglutinated foraminifera characteristic of the Ammobaculites Association is described from the Southern Carnarvon Basin. The typical Muderong Shale assemblage is associated with the dinoflagellate Muderongia australis Zone, and is distinct from coeval foraminiferal assemblages known from Exmouth Plateau and the Argo Abyssal Plain. Lithofacies and biofacies suggest that the Muderong fauna inhabited dysaerobic sea-floor muds in the upper offshore zone (10-50m water depth) in a sea with a very gentle sea-floor gradient deepening slightly toward the north. Faunal comparisons suggest that the Barremian ocean was well stratified on the mid-western Australian margin.
10.2307/1484652|Pseudedomia drorimensis, n. sp., is described from Late Cenomanian-? Early Turonian strata of Israel. The internal structure of Pseudedomia and Edomia is discussed and illustrated by schematic block-diagrams. The "open" type of internal structure in Pseudedomia drorimensis, as well as its stratigraphic position, points to a possible derivation of the alveolinid Pseudedomia from the Peneroplidae.
1486221| The genus Praesphaerammina Kaminski and Filipescu is newly described based on a revision of the type species Cystammina subgaleata Vaek 1947. The genus differs from the Holocene genus Sphaerammina Cushman 1910 emend. Loeblich and Tappan 1964, in possessing a less embracing final chamber and in its interio-areal to areal aperture that lacks any tooth. The definition of the subfamily Sphaeramminae is accordingly emended as well. The genus is common in the Eocene of the Carpathian flysch deposits, but the type species Praesphaerammina subgaleata (Vaek 1947) is also observed in the Caribbean region and West Africa, where it ranges into the Miocene. 
10.2307/1485777|Radiolaria from the Lower Miocene Puriri Formation at Te Kopua Point in the Kaipara area, Northland, New Zealand are documented. Six new species are described - Spongotrochus antoniae (Spongodiscidae), Botryostrobus hollisi, Siphocampe grantmackiei, (Artostrobiidae), Carpocanium rubyae (Carpocaniidae), Anthocyrtidium marieae (Pterocorythidae) and Phormocyrtis alexandrae (Theoperidae). Carpocanium is established as the senior synonym of Carpocanistrum.
4097109|Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) analysis is a powerful means for evaluating gene expression and discovering novel genes. The method is relatively simple and particularly important for species where knowledge of the genome is unavailable or limited. In this study, we compare EST profiles of Emiliania huxleyi cultures grown under conditions that promote biomineralization and coccolithogenesis (F/50 media) and conditions that reduce these processes (F/2 media). A total of 3,527 clones from the F/50 and 4,116 clones from F/2 library were randomly selected and sequenced, resulting in a unigene set of 4,057 unique sequences comprised of 540 contigs and 3517 singletons. More than 40% of the expressed genes showed similarity to known genes from other organisms deposited in GenBank
10.2307/1485008|The Mantelliceras mantelli Zone (early Cenomanian) of the Isle of Wight, southern England, provides the most northerly documented occurrence of Pithonella ovalis (Kaufmann). Stereoscan electron micrographs are presented of this abundant but enigmatic planktonic microorganism, and its nature and occurrence are briefly discussed.
10.2307/1484470|A quick and simple method of preparing permanent slides of plant microfossils on cover-glasses for immediate examination is described.
4097083|A new, morphologically distinctive, murornate prasinophyte phycoma, Dictyotidium senticogremium sp. nov., is described from Upper Devonian strata of the Geirud Formation, Alborz Mountains, northern Iran. It is characterized by a small, near-circular vesicle, the surface of which is regularly divided by low membranous muri into few relatively large polygonal lacunae; central parts of the latter bear prominent granulate sculpture. Dictyotidium senticogremium sp. nov. occurs in a relatively diverse acritarch, prasinophyte, and miospore assemblage collectively indicating an early Late Devonian (Frasnian) age. The species is persistent, relatively common and has a presumably short stratigraphic range; therefore it is a potentially useful biostratigraphic index fossil for inter-basinal correlation across Iran.
10.2307/1485826|Good preservation of the impoverished Kinderhookian (Lower Carboniferous) conodont fauna from the McCraney Limestone and beds transitional with the underlying Chouteau Limestone in Missouri and west-central Illinois allowed apparatus reconstruction for the species Polygnathus communis, Arisemotaxis barbatus, A. brevialata, Hindeodus crassidentatus, Idioprioniodus? sp., Metaprioniodus biangulatus, the Siphonodella? cooperi-isosticha-obsoleta complex and several possible partial apparatuses. The Missouri fauna suggests that these strata are near the top of the Lower Siphonodella crenulata Zone and may be stratigraphically higher than the McCraney Limestone from southeastern Iowa. Only Polygnathus communis was recovered from Illinois sections.
20627969|The morphological similarities of the outer and inner test structure of primitive and advanced Fusulinoida (Tournayellida, Endothyrida, Fusulinida) and primitive and advanced Miliolata (Baisalinidae, Ophthalmidiidae, Miliolidae, Alveolinina, Soritinida) have been traditionally viewed as a result of convergent evolution. A detailed comparison of the test and apertural shape, of the inner supplementary deposits of the test material (mounds, nodes, spine like projections, nodosities and teeth and flaps in the thin sections) of the both taxonomic groups studied, as well as the comparison of the fusulinacean wall with newly discovered unique ultrastructural features of the porcelaneous wall of large Antarctic miliolids (along with the high magnesium level in the both calcareous groups) lead us to an understanding of their close relationship. Both groups represent two smaller branches of one phylogenetic lineage and hence the similarity of the outer and inner structures of their shells could be considered as parallelism in the closely related groups.
10.2307/1485619|The Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary interval in east-central Texas contains a nannofossil succession that indicates continuous deposition from the late Maastrichtian to the Paleocene. Along the Brazos River the Kemp Clay contains nannofossils characteristic of the uppermost Maastrichtian Micula murus Zone. The overlying Kincaid Formation contains a rapid succession of basal Paleocene assemblages initially dominated by Thoracosphaera, then followed by Braarudosphaera bigelowii. Both are probably disaster forms. Next follows a serial introduction and dominance of the Paleocene species--Biscutum romeinii, Cruciplacolithus primus, Biscutum parvulum and Toweius petalosus. This succession is virtually identical with that found in Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary intervals judged to be continuous. In the nearby Littig Quarry section continuous deposition cannot be demonstrated, however. The Brazos River section speaks against a major sea level change at the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary; the floral turnover occurs in uniformly marly sediments which lack evidence for any change in sedimentary regime such as would be associated with a significant sea level drop. The zonal succession in east-central Texas correlates well with the hemipelagic successions in Spain and in Tunisia, but less perfectly with holopelagic or the high latitude sections. A potential marker, Prediscosphaera quadripunctata, is particularly well developed in Texas and in the corresponding interval of the El Kef section of Tunisia.
1486168|The status of the two subgenera Eulepidina and Nephrolepidina of the genus Lepidocyclina is debated by many. The nature and arrangement of periembryonic chambers are considered to be features of primary importance in classification. These, however, are not often visible for several reasons. In view of this, in the present study the nucleoconch shapes of the two subgenera are analyzed for comparison. Well-prepared, oriented sections with periembryonic chambers clearly visible in the two subgenera are used for shape analysis of nucleoconchs. The examined species include L.(E.) ephipoides, L.(N.) isolepidinoides and L.(N.) sumatrensis from the Oligocene-Miocene succession of Kutch. Results from closed form Fourier analysis revealed that the nucleoconchs of the two subgenera distinctly differ in shape. The 3rd, 4th and 5th harmonics are found to be significantly different in the power spectrum of the two subgenera. It is therefore concluded that Eulepidina and Nephrolepidina are taxonomically valid subgenera. The Fourier shape analysis is also carried out for the nucleoconchs of phylogenetically related species Lepidocyclina (Nephrolepidina) isolepidinoides, and Lepidocyclina (Nephrolepidina) sumatrensis. The results show that this method is also effective at species level differentiation.
10.2307/1484640|A flora of calcareous red algae is described. It contains six species of Archaeolithothamnium, one of Mesophyllum, two of Amphiroa, one of Jania, one of Arthrocardia, two of Parachaetetes, one of Pycnoporidium, and one of Peyssonelia. Described as new are Archaeolithothamnium perplexum, Amphiroa elliotti, Amphiroa iraquense, Pycnoporidium levantinum, and Peyssonelia antiqua.
30135109|Analysis of a 630m section of an exploration well penetrating the distal part of the Congo Fan (~2000m water depth) yielded high abundance and diversity assemblages of agglutinated and calcareous benthic foraminifera. Planktonic foraminifera constrain the age to Early - Middle Miocene, and $\delta^{18}O$ records reveal the Mil (~16.3 Ma) isotopic shift. Relatively few taxonomic studies of deep-water calcareous and agglutinated benthic foraminifera exist from this time period in this locality. All species encountered are therefore taxonomically described and documented using SEM photography (over 170 species), along with 27 species of planktonic foraminifera. Faunas show close affinities to those of the eastern Venezuela Basin, Gulf of Mexico and Central Paratethys. Seven assemblages are defined and analysed using morphogroup analysis and Correspondence Analysis, documenting the response of benthic foraminifera to three primary environmental-forcing factors; energy levels in the benthic boundary layer, oxygen levels relating to changing surface water productivity, and fluctuations in the level of the CCD. Near the top and bottom of the studied section both foraminiferal abundance and diversity decrease, corresponding with increased sand content implying greater energy levels and environmental disturbance. The majority of the section consists of shales with very low percentage sand, high foraminiferal abundance and diversity, and high sedimentation rates of ~10cm/kyr. Morphogroup analysis reveals a major switch in the fauna at around oxygen isotope event Mil, with the transition from an epifaunal-dominated Cibicidoides assemblage to shallow infaunal-dominated Bulimina assemblage. We regard this as likely due to expansion of the oxygen minimum zone (paleobathymetric estimates are ~1000m) related to increased surface-water productivity and global cooling. Shifts in calcareous foraminiferal percentage over the studied interval overprint these signals and are believed to be related to a shoaling CCD, linked to reduced oceanic acidity and global atmospheric $CO_{2}$ levels during the early Middle Miocene Monterey Carbon Isotope Excursion.
10.2307/1484539|Triticites secalicus (Say), the type species of the genus Triticites Girty, is described fully from the type area, and data are presented which can be used for more valid comparisons with other species than has hitherto been possible.
10.2307/1484542|A new apparatus to disintegrate hard rocks for the separation of microfossils is described. This apparatus is especially useful for the rapid preparation of samples; just five minutes treatment gets enough material for washing. Therefore, its use is particularly suitable to the needs of industrial laboratories.
23250634|The late Pliocene  early Pleistocene sediment record in the AND-1B core from the McMurdo Sound, Ross Sea, Antarctica, displays a rich diversity and high abundance of diatoms, including several new morphologies within the genus Fragilariopsis. These new morphologies exhibit similarities to the extinct late Miocene/early Pliocene species Fragilariopsis aurica Gersonde and Fragilariopsis praecurta Gersonde, as well as to the modern sea ice-associated species Fragilariopsis ritscheri Hustedt and Fragilariopsis obliquecostata van Heurck. From the diverse morphologies present, we use light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to identify and describe the characteristics of three new taxa, Fragilariopsis laqueata Riesselman, Fragilariopsis bohatyi Sjunneskog et Riesselman, and Fragilariopsis robusta Sjunneskog, which are common in the diatom-bearing intervals from 3.2 to 1.95 Ma. Comparisons with extant and extinct species are made to assess possible environmental affinities, evolutionary relationships, and potential for future biostratigraphic utility. This complex of new morphologies diversified as conditions cooled during the Pliocene, then went into decline as heavy sea ice conditions of the Pleistocene were established. Only the lineage of F. robusta appears to continue into the late Pleistocene, where it is interpreted to have evolved into F. obliquecostata.
10.2307/1485331|A proteinaceous organic matrix has been found in all Recent deep-sea microfossils analyzed. In addition to previously reported planktonic foraminifera and Radiolaria data, amino acid analyses for representative species of four additional calcareous groups (benthonic foraminifera, pteropods, ostracodes, coccoliths) and three additional siliceous groups (diatoms, sponge spicules, opal phytoliths) are reported and statistically compared for degree of relatedness. Calcareous microfossils generally exhibit significantly higher aspartic acid/glycine ratios than the siliceous forms. This compositional difference may be a significant factor in determining the skeletal mineral. Although the calcareous microfossils of unicellular structure show a high degree of relatedness, the amino acid composition of the siliceous groups correlates strongly with kingdom (plant versus animal) rather than with structural plan. These data broaden the applicability of the amino acid technique to include most biogenic components of deep-sea sediments for evolutionary, geochronological, biomineralization, and diagenetic studies.
10.2307/1485485|Examination of middle Eocene through Oligocene samples from the Gay's Cove, Bath Cliffs, and Codrington College sections (Oceanic Formation, Barbados) demonstrates the presence of two major benthic foraminiferal assemblages: Nuttallides truempyi (middle Eocene to earliest late Eocene) and Globocassidulina subglobosa-Cibicidoides ungerianus-Gyroidinoides (late Eocene through Oligocene). The latter may be subdivided into a C. ungerianus-G. subglobosa assemblage (late Eocene), a G. subglobosa assemblage (early Oligocene), and a C. ungerianus assemblage (late Oligocene). A dramatic decrease in abundance of Nuttallides truempyi marks the most important faunal abundance change in the studied interval. This change occurred in Barbados just above the middle/late Eocene boundary, correlating with a similar event that occurred throughout lower bathyal to abyssal locations in the Atlantic Ocean. Nuttallides truempyi and Abyssamina spp. disappeared at the end of the Eocene in Barbados. Otherwise, no major benthic foraminiferal changes (abundance, appearances or disappearances) occurred across the Eocene/Oligocene boundary here. Comparisons of benthic foraminifera from Barbados with distribution data obtained from "backtracked" Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) sites suggest that the Oceanic Formation was deposited in the upper abyssal zone (2000-3000 m), probably in the lower portion of this zone (ca 2500-3000 m).
10.2307/1484548| The primary types of the foraminiferal species Globorotalia barisanensis LeRoy, 1939, Globorotalia fohsi Cushman and Ellisor, 1939, and Globorotalia lobata Bermdez, 1949, are refigured and redescribed; their morphology and taxonomy are discussed and reapplied to biostratigraphy. The new species Globorotalia (Turborotalia) peripheroronda, G. (T.) peripheroacuta and Globorotalia (G.) praefohsi are proposed and discussed in order to define taxonomically forms which have previously been incorrectly assigned to G. barisanensis and/or G. fohsi. All the taxa discussed have been biostratigraphically related, and their phylogeny is briefly outlined. The evidence from the Kassikan section of Sumatra (LeRoy, 1952) has been reviewed, compared and contrasted with the biostratigraphy proposed by Bolli (1950, 1957) and Blow (1959) for the relevant parts of the Neogene successions of planktonic foraminifera. 
10.2307/1484525|Palynological treatment of a sample from the Orgueil meteorite, a black carbonaceous chondrite, yielded new acid-resistant microfossils. The assemblage does not compare with any of Cambrian to Recent age. Most of the fossils have some similarity to unicellular algae with acid-resistant pellicles. Caelestites sexangulatus n. gen., n. sp. and Clausisphaera fissa n. gen., n. sp. are described. Recent contaminants, and a very few Cretaceous ones, were noted in the residue.
10.2307/1485224|The taxonomic position of some specimens of Globotruncana Cushman with peripheral tubulospines is discussed. These specimens are restricted to the Campanian Globotruncanita elevata Zone of Mexico. It is postulated that they may belong to Globotruncana spinea Kikoine.
10.2307/1485372|Very delicate epithecal coatings and lateral tubules have been observed in specimens of Callimitra carolotae Haeckel from the plankton of the western North Atlantic. These structures have not been previously described for Callimitra carolotae and are clearly visible only by scanning electron microscopy. Their structural similarity to other Cretaceous and Cenozoic Polycystina is described and the possible taxonomic implications of these observations are discussed.
10.2307/1484963|Light and electron microscopic examinations of known species of Helicopontosphaera from topotype and other material indicate three distinct trends in the evolution of coccoliths of this genus: 1) changes in the outline of the coccolith from ovoid to broad-elliptical and subrectangular in the Lower Tertiary, then to long-elliptical in the Upper Tertiary; 2) changes in the shape and size of the terminal flange of the distal shield from smooth and merged in the Eocene to sharply terminated in the Oligocene and concurrently to broad, extended and rounded in the Oligocene and subsequently in the Miocene, with a return to small, compressed flanges in two of the three modern species; and 3) changes in the construction of the central area from generally more complex types in the Eocene to less complex ones in later periods.
10.2307/1485475|Six genera and 13 species of holothurian sclerites were found in the Middle Jurassic of Wadi Huni, northwest Jordan. Of these, 4 genera and 9 species are new. Like the Middle and Late Triassic holothurian sclerites, the Jurassic ones are also stratigraphically important. In spite of the fact that most of the species described here are new, the fauna clearly indicates Middle Jurassic, most probably Bathonian age.
24413315|Over 200 core samples from 2 wells in the Gialo High of the Sirt Basin, Libya, have been selected for micropaleontological study. A number of silicified marine microfossils have been discovered for the first time in the Nubian Sandstone that have been long considered as of terrestrial origin prior to Neocomian time. Silicified fossils show that in the Gialo area the Nubian Sandstone is moderately to severely cemented by silica were deposited in subtidal to supratidal environments with low amplitudes of sea-level fluctuation. The main body of the Nubian Sandstone is dated as Albian using silicified microfossils and nannofossils, although a few Aptian deposits might exist in the lowermost part of Well I. Four types of silicified microfossils have been recognized. Type I bears calcareous cortex, and is partially replaced by amorphous silica with distinct original features of the microfossils. Type II is characterized by replacement by amorphous silica and by moderately preserved interior and exterior features on smooth surface. Type III is characterized by complete replacement by microcrystalline quartz and by poorly preserved features on surfaces. Type IV is characterized by complete replacement by megacrystalline quartz and by the total loss of interior and exterior features. These silicified microfossils are considered to have formed during different stages of diagenesis. Type III and IV (particularly Type IV) are associated with severe cementation of silica in the coarse sandstones. Well developed primary interstitial conduits between the coarse sand grains may have allowed the movement of large volumes of silica-bearing fluid resulting in more severe precipitation, cementation and recrystallization of silica than in fine grained sandstones. Fossil silicification in the Gialo High appears to be linked to the regional and local tectonic and hydrothermal activities related to frequent phases of faulting and volcanism. Quartz cementation and overgrowths in the Nubian Sandstone during the post-Cretaceous indicated by silicified microfossils have caused great reduction or demise of porosity and permeability, which negatively affect reservoir quality. The discovery of the silicified microfossils in the Gialo opens a new window for biostrati-graphic study, paleoenvironmental reconstruction, prediction of porosity and permeability, and basin modeling for oil and gas exploration success in the Sirt Basin, and possibly the other rifting basins elsewhere in the world.
10.2307/1485902| Cretaceous samples from Cameroon and Gabon yielded trochospiral, hyaline foraminifers which are referred to the new genus Parkiella (type species Buliminella gabonica de Klasz and Rrat 1962). The genus is characterized by a low trochospiral test with a distinctive "L" shaped aperture. Preservational characteristics preclude definitive assignment of this genus in a higher systematic category, but it is provisionally placed in the Turrilinidae Cushman 1927, based on presumed affinities to other genera. 
10.2307/1484397| An early Cretaceous marine algal floral consisting of Boueina pygmaea Pia, Neomeris pfenderae, n. sp., Acicularia americana, n. sp., and Archaeolithothamnium? sp. is described from the Mural limestone of Cochise County, Arizona. A study of known occurrences of Neomeris suggests that Recent species of this genus are, and Cretaceous species were, restricted to tropical marine environments (isocrymes above 20C) within the lower littoral and upper infralittoral zones (0 to 10 m). 
10.2307/1484178|The problems attendant upon a revision of the Upper Palaeozoic textulariid foraminifera are outlined, and new methods of approach are suggested. The morphology of the group is described in a detailed review of each biocharacter, and the several bioseries are contrasted with the known ontogenic patterns of the genera. The systematic revision recognises the new family Palaeotextulariidae, which includes Palaeotextularia, Cribrostomum, Climacammina, Cribrogenerina, Deckerellina, Deckerella, Palaeobigenerina, and Monogenerina; assesses the status of Textularia and Bigenerina, of the family Textulariidae, as Upper Palaeozoic genera; and contains descriptions of several new British palaeotextulariid species. Finally, the stratigraphic distribution and the phylogeny of the forms are reviewed.
4499752|A global extinction event of deep-sea benthic foraminifera occurred at the Paleocene/Eocene (P/E) boundary, coeval with a period of rapid global warming (Initial Eocene Thermal Maximum; IETM) and a negative excursion in marine and terrestrial 
10.2307/1485352|The Paleocene and Eocene deposits of the Soviet Tethys are described biostratigraphically on the basis of a zonation utilizing species of the Anomalinidae and Cibicididae that fall into well-defined assemblages at the level of the stage. This zonation is linked to the system of local stages used for correlation of the Paleogene in the southern Soviet Union and defined stratotypically in the Bakhchisaray section of the Crimea. The assemblages of anomalinid and cibicidid species are geographically widespread, and many species occur in conditions of both platform and "geosynclinal" (tectonically active) deposition, as represented by Crimean and Turkmenian sections in the former case, and by North Caucasian sections in the latter. Assemblages are generally of the Midway type, but mixed assemblages of Midway and Velasco elements occur. Some species present in the Paleogene of the southern Soviet Union have also been recorded in Gulf Coast deposits of similar age. The more important species are treated systematically, and 3 new species belonging to the Anomalinidae are described.
10.2307/1484132|Globotruncana ventricosa ventricosa is recorded from core samples of Maestrichtian age in the Sechura Desert of northwestern Peru. Location map and illustrations are included.
10.2307/1484119|Charophytes in chert from New England stream beds help to identify the chert as fragments of old millstones made from the Oligocene Montmorency millstone of France.
3648457|We document the bathymetric and geographic distributions of benthic foraminiferal biofacies in 267 upper Eocene to lowermost Miocene samples from 32 Atlantic sites ranging from ~450m to ~4700m paleowater depth, focusing on the Oligocene. We use samples from Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) and Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) sites, Gulf of Mexico Eureka boreholes, and Barbados land sections to: 1) evaluate species and biofacies changes through depth and time; 2) calibrate bathymetric distributions using independent means of calculating paleodepth so that benthic foraminifera may be used elsewhere to estimate paleobathymetry; and 3) evaluate changes in species and biofacies as potential indicators of paleoceanographic changes. Bathyal to abyssal depths in the Atlantic were characterized by Cibicidoides praemundulus, Globocassidulina subglobosa, Gyroidinoides spp., and Oridorsalis spp. in the Oligocene, with C. praemundulus more common at bathyal depths (200-2000m). A Lenticulina spp. - dominated biofacies characterized the upper to upper lower bathyal depths (200-1200m), particularly in the late Oligocene. A biofacies dominated by N. umbonifera characterized the lower abyssal zone throughout the Oligocene, and expanded to lower bathyal depths in the South Atlantic during two time periods, ~32-29 Ma and ~24-22 Ma. These expansions correspond to marine isotope zones Oi2 and Mi1, indicating that there was a faunal response to increased Southern Ocean bottom water currents and cooling associated with ice sheet expansion and sea level fall. In addition, many individual taxa show distinct and consistent paleobathymetric distributions. Others migrate or expand/contract their preferred water depth habitats through time.
10.2307/1485183|Bizarre spumellarian-like nassellarians assignable to Perispyridium Dumitrica and Turanta, n. gen. are common and often abundant in North American Middle and Upper Jurrassic strata. Both genera, so far as can be determined with the data at hand, make their first appearance in the early Bajocian (Middle Jurassic) and their final appearance in the latest Kimmeridgian/early Tithonian (top of Zone 2 of Pessagno; emended herein). Ten new species of Perispyridium and eight of Turanta are described from the Jurassic of Mexico, California, Oregon and Alaska. Many are short-ranging and should prove useful in developing a detailed zonation for Middle and Upper Jurassic radiolarian-bearing strata.
10.2307/1485972|An exceptionally well-preserved early Oligocene diatom assemblage is documented and illustrated from the internal sediment of a gastropod shell, which was collected from glacial sediments recovered at Ocean Drilling Program Site 739 on the continental shelf in Prydz Bay, Antarctica. The diatoms were deposited between 35.9 and 34.8 Ma according to diatom and calcareous nannofossil stratigraphy, apparently soon after a period of major ice sheet advance across the Prydz Bay continental shelf. The diatom assemblage is neritic in character, but it can readily be correlated with open ocean assemblages from the Southern Ocean as well as with similar material recovered from the CIROS-1 drillhole in the Ross Sea.
41410976|Shanita thawtinti n. sp. is proposed for a pillared milioloid foraminifer found from Middle Permian strata of the Nwabangyi Formation of the Plateau Limestone Group, exposed in the western Shan Plateau of Myanmar. The new species is characterized by its extraordinary large size of mature test and large numbers of volutions. In contrast to the previously assigned ages for other species of Shanita, the age of the new species is considered to be Murgabian (=Wordian) based on the occurrence between beds of the index fusulinacean species, Neoschwagerina craticulifera below and Neoschwagerina margaritae above.
40607070|Anaticinella Eicher, 1973, which was originally described to accommodate the upper Cenomanian-lowermost Turonian Anaticinella multiloculata (Morrow 1934) is redefined in the context of evolutionary classification. It represents a lineage consisting of A. portsdownensis (Williams-Mitchell 1948), A. aprica (Loeblich and Tappan 1961) and A. multiloculata, which originated from Hedbergella delrioensis (Carsey 1926). Vermicular ornamentation is described for the first time in trochospiral planktic foraminifera, namely in A. multiloculata. Hedbergellid ancestry of the Anaticinella lineage indicates that this genus belongs to Subfamily Hedbergellidae Loeblich and Tappan 1961 rather than Subfamily Rotaliporinae Sigal 1958 as previously believed and from which it is herein removed.
10.2307/1485211|One limestone sample from Greece, and several picked assemblages from Sicily and Turkey, yielded well-preserved radiolarians assigned to 54 species of which 20 are new. The new spumellarian family, Capnuchosphaeridae (including the genera Capnuchosphaera, Capnodoce and Icrioma), and the new genera, Xiphotheca (a cyrtoid), and Poulpus (incertae sedis) are described. In total, these late Triassic assemblages show greater affinities with other Mesozoic radiolarians than with Paleozoic ones.
10.2307/1485200|A specimen of Orbitoides sp. found in the Maastrichtian outctops in Antalya Province, southern Turkey contains two additional megalospheric embryos beside the main megalospheric embryo of the organism. This observation gives supporting evidence for true asexual reproduction among the foraminiferal family Orbitoididae. It is observed that, during asexual reproduction, the later-developed embryos occupy the field of some lateral chambers as well as the field of some equatorial chambers. Absence of the lateral and equatorial chamber walls around the additional megalospheric embryos indicates that these embryos moved through the parent test by means of dissolution.
10.2307/1484744|Spores, pollen grains, and other plant microfossils from the Burrard Formation underlying the City of Vancouver are described and illustrated. The microflora contains a predominance of ferns and angiosperms, with minor gymnosperm and fungal components. The paleoecology of the sediments is assessed in terms of probable climate, topography, and mode of deposition. Comparisons with other micro- and macrofloras suggest that Upper Cretaceous and middle Eocene ages are both represented within the rock formation.
10.2307/1485007| The fossiliferous Chickasawhay Formation of southeastern Mississippi and southwestern Alabama contains a rich microfaunal assemblage, among which are 14 species of planktonic foraminifers. The foraminiferal faunule permits correlation of the Chickasawhay Formation with beds of Late Oligocene (Chattian) age in Europe. In terms of world-wide planktonic foraminiferal zonation, the Chickasawhay Stage, comprising the Chickasawhay and Paynes Hammock Formations, is placed in the Globigerina angulisuturalis and Globigerina angulisuturalis/Globorotalia opima opima Zones, as defined by Blow (1969, zones N.2 and N.3). Elsewhere in the Gulf Coast and Caribbean region, the Chickasawhay Stage may be correlated with the lower part of the Chattahoochee and upper part of the Suwannee Formations of northern Florida; the subsurface Frio Formation of Texas and Louisiana; the Alazn and portions of the Mesn, Palma Real and Huasteca Formations of Mexico; the upper part of the San Sebastin, the lower part of the Lares and the Juana Daz Formations of Puerto Rico; the Walderston and Brown's Town Formations of Jamaica; the Codrington College Member of the Oceanic Formation of Barbados; the lower Cipero Formation of Trinidad; the lower Guacharaca Formation of Venezuela; the Carratas Formation of Colombia; the Antigua Formation of Antigua; and the Tinguaro Formation of Cuba. 
10.2307/1486135|Palynomorphs and conodonts are reported from the Ordovician Los Azules Formation, Argentine Precordillera. The formation is mainly made up of argillites, shales and mudstones, and is divided into three informal members. Fourteen species of acritarchs including Gorgonisphaeridiumm granulobrachium Ottone, Lophosphaeridium ruidum Ottone, and Polygonium echinatus Ottone that are proposed as new; two species of prasinophytes, one of cryptospores and three different morphotypes of phytodebris are identified throughout the middle and upper members of the formation. Two distinct palynomorph assemblages are recognized: the Lower Los Azules Palynological Assemblage (middle member) and the Upper Los Azules Palynological Assemblage (upper member). Eight species of conodonts are preserved as casts on bedding planes of the lower shales of the middle member. This conodont association is correlated with the upper division of the Eoplacognathus suecicus Zone from the late early Llanvirn. The upper part of the middle member contains the eponymous species of the Pygodus serra Zone of Llanvirn age. A calcirudite sample from the upper member yielded a rich and diverse microfauna that includes ten conodont species representing the lower part of the Amorphognathus tvaerensis Zone (early Caradoc). Conodonts and palynomorphs confirm previous graptolite-based dating of the Los Azules Formation (early Llanvirn-early Caradoc). The palynological assemblage exhibits similarities with coeval assemblages from the Northern Hemisphere and Gondwanaland.
10.2307/1486111|Permian ostracodes of the Arabian Peninsula are recorded for the first time. Thirty five species from the marine Khuff Formation (Middle Permian) in Oman are presented here. Eleven species are new: Bairdia omanensis Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Cavellina huafensis Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Cavellina gerryi Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Cavellina boomeri Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Sulcella arabica Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Langaia hornei Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Sargentina woutersi Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Carinaknightina braccinii Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Jordanites lordi Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Hollinella (Hollinella) benzartiae Crasquin-Soleau n. sp., Hollinella (Hollinella) martensi Crasquin-Soleau n. sp. Nine species are attributed to described species, and the age given is Middle Permian. Brachiopods and accompanying conodonts and foraminifera give a lower Wordian (Middle Permian) age (Angiolini et al. 1996, 1998). The paleoecological analysis shows that the Khuff Formation was deposited in a very shallow marine, sublittoral environment under action of waves. The analysis of the relationships between the storm levels and the composition of the ostracode assemblage is in progress, even if in first approximation, the strong variations of compositions don't seemed to be linked with this phenomenon. The paleobiogeographic relationships are strong with the Russian Platform, the North American platform and the South China. This could be explained by the importance of the surface current from East to West in the Paleo-Tethys realm.
24413452|This paper describes twenty-five new species and three new genera of marine ostracodes from the Late Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) deposits of Jamaica. The new species include Amphicytherura grandicribra, Amphicytherura occulta, Asciocythere cabbagehillensis, Aysegulina chapeltonensis, Aysegulina riominhoensis, Aysegulina sagitta, Aysegulina ventrocurva, Brachycythere jamaicaensis, Buntonia nana, Buntonia vulgaris, Cytherelloidea guineacornensis, Eocytheropteron hazeli, Eocytheropteron jamaicaensis, Eucytherura mitchelli, Floricythereis exquisita (new genus and species), Hemiparacytheridea exquisita, Leiocythereis polita (new genus and species), Loxoconcha pindarsensis, Ovocytheridea rotunda, Phrixocythere unionensis (new genus and species), Pterygocythereis babinoti, Schizoptocythere pinna, Schizoptocythere nana, Schuleridea exiguus, and Spinicytheridea compta (new genus and species). One of the new genera, Floricythereis, together with Schizoptocythere, is considered to include previously-described species from North America, indicating a faunal link during the Late Cretaceous. The description of the Late Cretaceous faunas of Jamaica is a step in understanding the relationship between biological evolution and plate tectonics in the Caribbean region during the Late Cretaceous.
10.2307/1485595|The composition of agglutinated foraminiferal tests vary remarkably in response to local substrate characteristics, physiochemical properties of the water column and species-dependant selectivity of test components. We have employed a technique that combines a scanning electron microscope with an energy dispersive X-ray spectrometer system to identify major and minor elemental constituents of agglutinated foraminiferal walls. As a sample is bombarded with a beam of high energy electrons, X-rays are generated that are characteristic of the elements present. As a result, X-ray density maps can be produced for each of several elements present in the tests of agglutinated foraminifers.
40983740|Larger foraminifera of the Tertiary al (Thanetian) to Tertiary b (Priabonian) of the Far Eastern Letter Stages are recognized in the upper Paleocene to upper Eocene limestones of Jaintia Hills, Meghalaya. The occurrence of Pellatispira preceded both occurrences of Lepidocyclina spp. and Nummulites fabianii. Three new genera and species, Meghalayana indica, n. gen., n. sp., Raoia indica, n. gen., n. sp., and Protogypsina indica, n. gen., n. sp. are described after Orbitosiphon tibetica, Paleocene orbitoidal foraminifera as a group with Orbitosiphon.
10.2307/1485468|A mysid statolith is described from the Aquitanian in the Aquitanian Basin (Early Miocene of southwestern France). It is the first fossil mysid statolith from western Europe, and also the earliest on record from Eurasia.
1486024|Planktic foraminiferal biostratigraphy and assemblage turnover across the Cretaceous/Paleogene (K/P) boundary at El Kef revealed the largest and most abrupt extinction event in the history of planktic foraminifera. Cretaceous assemblages were very abundant and diverse and included 67 stable identified species within the terminal Maastrichtian. The mass extinction was characterized by the disappearance of 6 (8.9%) species in the last 12 meters of the upper Maastrichtian and the extinction of 46 (68.7%) species at the K/P boundary as well as 15 (22.4%) possible survivors ranging into the lowermost Danian. The range of planktic foraminifera only based on six samples (equivalent to the previous El Kef blind sample test) showed an even more catastrophic extinction pattern, with only 1 species disappearing before the K/P boundary. The K/P debate is the result of several problems which include the "Signor-Lipps" effect, the possibility of reworking and the existence of hiatuses. However, irrespective of the different interpretations we conclude that there were no significant extinction nor quantitative changes before the K/P boundary and that most Cretaceous species suddenly became extinct at the K/P boundary. The El Kef section is one of the most continuous marine K/P boundary sections known and hiatuses have not been identified. Furthermore, possible Cretaceous survivors had a smaller size and lower absolute abundance in the lower Danian than in the upper Maastrichtian and the planktic foraminiferal evolutionary radiation began above the K/P boundary and not below. The same results have been found in other subtropical-temperate sections and may be sufficient proof for the existence of a catastrophic mass extinction at the K/P boundary. The planktic foraminiferal K/P extinction pattern is also very compatible with the catastrophic effects caused by the impact of a large extraterrestrial asteroid.
10.2307/1485368| The correlation of the 40 to 50 tropical Cenozoic planktonic foraminiferal zones to radiometrically calibrated magnetostratigraphy and to the radiometric time-scale itself provides a geochronologic framework in which Cenozoic historical geology can be quantified. Temperate (mid-latitude) zones have also been developed in the northern hemisphere (North Atlantic, North Pacific) but with significantly less biostratigraphical resolution than in the tropical zones. In the high latitudes (>50), zones have been established only for the Pliocene and Pleistocene. The zones in low latitudes that have the highest resolution are lineage-zones, whereas most zones in the higher latitudes are acrozones or cenozones and are thus essentially biostratigraphic in nature in contrast to the chronostratigraphic significance of the tropical zones. Faunal diversity and provincialization in planktonic foraminifera during the Cenozoic exhibit fluctuations that indicate global changes in paleogeography, paleo-oceanography and paleoclimatology. Because the distribution patterns of zooplankton are a function of water-mass movements, strict application of the classical biogeographic concepts, such as faunal provinces, may be misleading. On the other hand, analysis of planktonic foraminiferal biostratigraphy, biochronology and biogeography in the Atlantic Ocean gives a picture of the circulation in this basin as it changed during the Cenozoic. 
10.2307/1484535|A succession based principally on planktonic foraminifera has been established for the Solomon Islands. It contains ten units ranging in age from Upper Eocene to Upper Miocene-Pliocene. The Malaita Group, exposed on Malaita, Maramasike and Ulawa, contains the entire succession. Correlation of its faunas with others from the Indo-Pacific region has confirmed the time-stratigraphic succession of the Solomons.
1486161|A review of discoidal to spherical pellatispirine taxa reveals the presence of three different cavity systems in their architecture: chamber cavities connected by intercameral foramina, interlocular spaces transformed into the canal system, and interlamellar spaces. The latter may be inflated to lateral chamberlets, are fed by canal orifices and covered by primary, bilamellar, perforate walls, which may or may not support secondary lamellation added during subsequent growth of the shell. Whereas the inflated interlamellar cavities are interpreted as greenhouses for endosymbiontic algae, an interpretation of narrow and low interlamellar cavities in spherical to lenticular forms as brood chambers is not fully convincing.
10.2307/1485011|The Middle Eocene Lisbon Formation of Alabama contains a rich and varied assemblage of pentaliths, members of the coccolith family Braarudosphaeraceae. Similar pentalith assemblages are known from hemipelagic marine deposits in numerous areas, but are notably lacking in oceanic pelagic sediments. Pentaliths are rare in contemporary nannofloras, but several other Recent coccolithophores have a provincial distribution which is attributed to a benthonic phase in the life cycle of the organism. Eocene Braarudosphaeraceae may have had similar limitations; nevertheless, they must have possessed a phase which was capable of traversing the open ocean because the same species occur in hemipelagic sediments on all continents. These organisms either were a non-calcifying phase, such as is known among modern coccolithophores, or their remains were not suitable for preservation in oceanic sediments. Alternatively, the open ocean representatives of the various pentalith species are entirely dissimilar and have remained unrecognized. This apparent provincialism does not diminish the usefulness of pentaliths because the occurrence of a particular species is synchronous throughout the geographic range of that form. Pentaliths are useful, therefore, both as stratigraphic indicators in Paleogene sediments and as environmental indicators of the hemipelagic realm.
10.2307/1485911|Foraminifera and arcellaceans ("thecamoebians") were examined from 73 surface samples collected to represent four vegetation zones (I-IV) that have been defined in the Mississippi Delta Plain. Previous studies of benthonic foraminifera had not differentiated these environments. Saline marshes (I) are characterized by a vertical zonation typical of most marshes, with a variety of estuarine species in the low marsh and trochamminids in the upper marsh. Brackish marshes (II) are dominated by a completely different set of species, all agglutinated, but the vertical zonation is weak, probably because of the low vertical gradient. Emergent freshwater or intermediate marshes (III) are dominated by arcellaceans but there are significant numbers of foraminifera, indicating episodic marine incursions. The freshwater floating marsh zone (IV) has only arcellaceans. A previous study of arcellaceans living in the lacustrine environment below the floating marsh reveals a different arcellacean fauna than that observed above it. These data suggest that marsh foraminifera have potential application as sea-level indicators in the delta region and that fossil remains of these protozoans can be used to differentiate coastal vegetation zones in the fossil record.
24413299|A new species within the genus Fragilariopsis, F. tigris, is described and illustrated using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. This species is restricted to a single 8-meter-thick diatom unit within the 585-meter-long section of alternating diatomites and diamictites recovered in the upper portion of the ANtarctic geological DRILLing (ANDRILL) McMurdo Ice Shelf Project (MIS) AND-1B marine sediment core. This new taxon from a diverse, well-preserved diatom assemblage is inferred to be the youngest member of the well-documented, biostratigraphically useful F. praeinterfrigidaria  F. interfrigidaria  F. weaveri lineage and may represent a near-shore corollary to the open-ocean species F. weaveri. Based on available chronostratigraphic data from AND-1B, F. tigris appears to be restricted to the earliest late Pliocene (first occurrence datum 3.2 Ma) and is extinct before 3.0 Ma.
10.2307/1484759|An inexpensive method of standardization of sampling for the collection of materials for pollen and spore studies is described.
4097050|A phylogenetic sequence in the radiolarian genus Albaillella, from Changhsingian chert sequences of Upper Permian, Upper Ubara, Gochi-Hachawa, and Tenjinmaru, Southwest Japan, is divided into six lineage-zones. The youngest two of these zones are new, and are based on newly recognized dwarfed taxa in depauperate faunas. Conodont correlations between the Japanese sections and the Permo-Triassic GSSP at Meishan, southern China, is strengthened by new end-Permian pelagic conodont biozonation from Huangshi, Hubei, China. The correlations show that the decline and extinction of the albaillellinid lineage coincides with the period of mass extinction at the end of the Permian. The two depauperate Albaillella lineage-zones alternate with three barren interzones with anomalous isotope ratios, supporting the theory that the end-Permian event may actually have consisted of three closely-spaced biotic crises; a fourth crisis is suggested in basal Triassic strata at Huangshi. Because the deep-water radiolarian lineage can be closely correlated with the Permo-Triassic GSSP utilizing conodonts, most notably by the boundary-index conodont Hindeodus parvus (Kozur and Pjatakova), we suggest that the Ubara section may be a good candidate for a boundary hypostratotype section in a pelagic cherty facies in which planktonic fossils are abundantly preserved, and in which the Permo-Triassic boundary may be confidently correlated.
10.2307/1485114|Thirty-seven species and subspecies of planktonic foraminifera, including one new species, have been identified from the Middle Eocene succession around Lakhpat, Cutch, western India. They occur associated with abundant larger foraminifera in all of the samples. On the basis of the stratigraphic distribution of the significant planktonic foraminiferal species, two distinct assemblage zones are recognized which correlate with Bolli's Orbulinoides beckmanni (="Porticulasphaera mexicana") and Truncorotaloides rohri Zones respectively.
10.2307/1485874|The radiolarian assemblages recovered from Upper Miocene and Pliocene sequences at DSDP Sites 192, 302 and 438A and from an onshore section in northern Japan lack many of the species used as zonal markers in low and middle latitudes. A new high-latitude radiolarian zonation based on nine easily recognized events is proposed. Forty-five radiolarian events are identified and the sediment accumulation rate curve of Site 438A allows most of these events to be correlated with the geochronologic time scale. Five new species, Lithelius barbatus, Cycladophora nakasekoi, Cycladophora sakaii, Dictyophimus robustus and Lychnocanoma parallelipes, are described.
10.2307/1484493|A method has been discovered whereby calcareous objects can be changed, by what is believed to be a molecule-by-molecule replacement, from a carbonate to a fluoride composition without any change in gross structure. Evidence supporting this conclusion, and details of the method, are presented in this paper, as well as some suggestions for practical application.
1486015|A moderately well-preserved radiolarian fauna consisting of 20 Devonian (upper Emsian-lower Givetian) taxa was recovered from siliceous strata in the Wuxiangling section. Nanning, Guangxi, southwest China. This fauna is dominated by spumellarians, but also includes some distinctive ceratoikiscid forms that have potential for biostratigraphic studies and regional correlation. Six new species, Ceratoikiscum coroniferum n. sp., Stigmosphaerostylus cubicus n. sp., Trilonche nanningensis n. sp., Trilonche remosa n. sp., Trilonche tanheensis n. sp. and Trilonche xinpoensis n. sp., are described.
10.2307/1485228|This report deals with multicyrtid Nassellariina from Lower and Middle Jurassic strata in California, east-central Oregon and the Queen Charlotte Islands, B.C. Three new families, nine new genera, and 47 new species are described. Preliminary range zone data are presented for all species. Test structure rather than test shape is emphasized in the definition of families and genera; we hope this will lead to a more phylogenetic classification of the taxa under consideration. It is postulated that multicyrtid Nassellariina and probably all Nassellariina display a lamellar mode of test construction analogous to that displayed by the hyaline Foraminiferida. The distinction is made between layered test walls, a common feature of many Mesozoic genera (e.g., Xitus Pessagno, Mirifusus Pessagno, Canoptum Pessagno), and lamellar structure. We suggest that layered tests may consist of bundles of lamellae; that is, a number of lamellae may occur in a given layer. Indirect evidence supporting a lamellar mode of test construction includes test thickening and an increase in the strength of development of ornamental features in an apical direction. Direct evidence supporting such a model awaits phase optics studies of tests unaffected by diagenetic change.
10.2307/1484681|Four new genera and 36 species, 22 new, of microplankton are described or recorded from Australian Cretaceous (Aptian to Cenomanian) sediments. The new forms include dinoflagellates, hystrichospheres, and others of uncertain affinity.
30130918|Foraminifera from the Crdenas Formation (San Luis Potos) represent the upper part of the Gansserina gansseri Zone and are thus of early Maastrichtian age, revising the late Campanian or broadly Maastrichtian dates for these strata in the literature. The stratigraphical relationship of eight microfacies, based on lithology and faunal composition, suggests open marine sedimentation on a shallow platform, temporarily interrupted by a transient increase in terrigenous clastics indicating a regional tectonic event. The foraminiferal fauna was changed as a result, with planktic foraminifera becoming more abundant, and with significant replacements in the large benthic forams indicative of deeper water or stronger currents and eventually with the disappearance of the larger forams altogether. The sequence ends with major influx of poorly fossiliferous terrigenous clastics in the upper member of the formation. The assemblage of larger benthic foraminifera that inhabited the platform environment consisted of cosmopolitan species and others endemic to the Caribbean Province, whose range does not extend past the K/T boundary. In the region of this study, we show that the demise of this end-Cretaceous assemblage, together with associated rudists, came in the mid-Maastrichtian as the result of increased terrigenous clastic input and local subsidence associated with the development of the Sierra Madre Oriental fold belt to the west.
10.2307/1486086| Previous diatom biostratigraphic results for the southern high-latitude late Pliocene and Pleistocene are revised. Considering new biostratigraphic results and the ranges of acme intervals, an improved diatom zonation for the last ca. 2.6 Ma is proposed. Guided by magnetostratigraphic events, the diatom zonation provides a time resolution of ca. 200 - 300 kyrs. Considering the latitudinal control on diatom distribution during the last 2.6 Ma in the Southern Ocean, the zonation should only be used in sediments deposited north of the present Polar Frontal Zone. The paper also includes the taxonomic transfer of stratigraphically useful Southern Ocean diatom taxa from the genus Nitzschia Hassal to Fragilariopsis Hustedt, and the description of Fragilariopsis matuyamae Gersonde et Brcena sp. nov. and F. matuyamae var. heteropola Gersonde et Brcena var. nov. 
10.2307/1484421|Twenty-one species of Radiolaria, ten of them new, are investigated in seventeen Oligocene and Lower Miocene samples from the Caribbean and tropical Pacific regions. It is possible to correlate sediments from the two regions approximately, on the basis of their radiolarian assemblages. Two series of species believed to show evolutionary sequences are discussed.
30135297|The timing of the origin of the Southern Ocean is important for studies of Antarctic biologic evolution and for understanding past climate change. The long standing theory that separation of Australia from Antarctica at the end of the Eocene allowed the development of a circumpolar ocean circulation, isolating the Antarctic continent and causing ice-sheet growth at the Eocene-Oligocene boundary, has recently been challenged by ODP Leg 189 drilling south of Australia. Based on these new cores it has been proposed that separation and Southern Ocean formation had already occurred within the late Eocene, approximately 2 my before the Antarctic became glaciated. This proposal however extrapolates data from a limited area to the history of a large circumpolar ocean region. To better determine Southern Ocean history we have compiled data from a large number of locations around Antarctica on opal accumulation and have analyzed circum-polar radiolarian faunas for development of endemism and evolutionary turnover. Our results show that opal deposition was widespread in the late Eocene Antarctic oceans with concentrations similar to that of the early Oligocene; substantial endemism was already present in late Eocene radiolarian faunas, and that most evolutionary turnover, in particular the origin of taxa characteristic of the early Oligocene, had already taken place within the late Eocene (ca 35 Ma). We conclude that there is a significant (ca 2 my) gap between a late Eocene Southern Ocean origin and later, Eocene-Oligocene boundary Antarctic glaciation.
10.2307/1484129| In the present study foraminifera are used for the first time to determine the limits of ocean currents. Argentine ocean waters are divided into three masses; the planktonic and benthonic foraminifera that are biological indicators of these masses have been determined, and on this basis the western limit of the Malvin current waters on the northern part of the Argentine shelf has been defined. It is believed that the Malvin waters extend up to latitude 22 S., near Cabo Frio, but do not reach the shores of Brazil, and that they sink, become mixed with waters of other origins, and are distributed only on the sea bottom, being covered by the Brazilian waters. 
10.2307/1484998|A method of multispecimen mounting that has been developed for the preparation of fossil dinoflagellates is described. This method requires little technical investment and presupposes no great manual skill. When required, single specimens can be mounted with exact orientation. The procedure described in the present paper is most suitable for samples containing abundant individuals. Any specimen among tens of thousands can be found quickly, without the use of a mechanical stage.
10.2307/1484501|One hundred and seven species of Ostracoda are described or listed from upper Miocene and Pliocene shallow marine deposits of Trinidad. Of these, 27 species are new and one has been renamed. Two new genera, Gangamocytheridea and Pumilocytheridea, are described, both belonging to the new subfamily Perissocytherideinae.
10.2307/1485514|The spatial and temporal distributions of organisms reflect the gradients and dynamics of that system we call climate. To describe such relationships for the Paleocene, quantitative analyses of planktonic foraminiferal distributions in the Atlantic have been combined with stable isotope studies of foraminifera from the same localities. Planktonic foraminiferal bioprovinces and bioprovincial indicators are described. The positioning of bioprovinces through time reflects meridional and zonal near surface estimated paleotemperature gradients. Vertical depth habitats and temperature preferences are estimated for many planktonic foraminiferal species. Permanent changes in some species distributions vertically in the water column can be correlated with permanent changes in their geographic ranges. Unusual poleward extensions of thermophilic foraminifera occurred during climatic maxima at 62 and 60 Ma in warm boundary currents that flowed as far south as the Falkland Plateau and as far north as western Greenland and the North Sea. The coolest water faunas of the Atlantic are found throughout the Paleocene on the Agulhas Plateau. Not all paleobiogeographic data correlate with the paleotemperature record of climate. While diversity at a site corresponds with the surface temperature and the surface-to-bottom temperature gradient, oceanwide planktonic foraminiferal diversity and the increasing diversity of tropical index species correlate with the carbon isotope, not the oxygen isotope, record. We suggest that primary production and nutrient availability were a primary influence on the evolution and distributions of Paleocene planktonic foraminifera.
10.2307/1484997|Differential solution of Mesozoic radiolarian cherts with hydrofluoric acid has yielded well-preserved, matrix-free Radiolaria. This technique allows the full utilization of Radiolaria in interpreting the stratigraphy of ophiolite sequences and of other successions where cherts are prevalent.
4097024|Recent studies on the biostratigraphy and fauna of the Lower Ordovician successions of the Russian part of Baltoscandia have shown for the first time that agglutinated foraminifers are very numerous in the deposits of the lower part of the Latorp Russian Regional Stage in the vicinity of St. Petersburg, northwestern Russia. These forms were discovered in a classic section exposed on the left side of the Lava River canyon in the northern outskirts of the village of Vassilkovo. The lower part of the Latorp Regional Stage is represented in this section by unlithified sands and clays of the Lakity Member of the basal part of the Leetse Formation and corresponds to the upper part of the Hunneberg Regional Stage of Baltoscandia. The clay beds of the Lakity Member encompass the upper part of the Paroistodus proteus and lower part of the Prioniodus elegans conodont zones and correspond to the Tetragraptus phyllograptoides graptolite zone. Foraminifers from the Lakity Member were collected from strata belonging to both of the above mentioned conodont zones and are represented by monothalamous agglutinated foraminiferal tests of a new species of a new genus Lakites ordovicus n. gen., n. sp., new species of the genus Amphitremoida: A. asperella n. sp., A. laevis n. sp., A. longa n. sp., A. orbicularis n. sp., and A. rugosa n. sp. (family Hippocrepinellidae), a new genus and species Lavella cucumeriformis n. gen., n. sp. of the family Saccamminidae, and one specimen assigned to the genus Arenosiphon? of the family Hippocrepinidae. The finding of representatives of the genus Amphitremoida (emended herein), previously known only from the Middle Ordovician to the Lower Carboniferous (Tournaisian) permits the extension of the range of this genus down into the Lower Ordovician.
10.2307/1484350|Miocene beds are described and their stratigraphic position discussed on the basis of the foraminifera contained. Taberina malabarica (Carter) (Orbiculina malabarica (Carter) of authors) is considered to be Burdigalian in age. Beds younger than Burdigalian are not present. The fauna shows Indo-Pacific affinities.
10.2307/1484851|Microfaunas in three piston cores from Tanner Basin, an outer basin in the continental borderland of southern California, were investigated to define climatic and oceanographic variations that occurred during late Pleistocene to Recent times. Two distinct planktonic foraminiferal faunas alternate throughout the cores, a cold-water or subarctic fauna dominated by left-coiling G. pachyderma and a warmer-water or transitional fauna characterized by dominantly right-coiling G. pachyderma associated with additional planktonic species. During the deposition of the sediments in the cores, subarctic water masses expanded into southern California at least twice, alternating with two periods of warmer water, including the present. Variations in absolute numbers of planktonic foraminifera and radiolarians in the sediments reflect changes in rates of sedimentation. Benthonic foraminifera occur in greater abundance in association with the cooler-water planktonic foraminiferal faunas probably due to the lowering of sea level.
10.2307/1486121| A new marine genus and a new species of Ostracoda, Frenguellicythere argentinensis are proposed, described and illustrated. The taxon is found in the Holocene sediments of the estuary of Baha Blanca, Buenos Aires province, Argentina. 
10.2307/1484166|Two species of the foraminiferal genus Schackoina, one of which is new, are described from a marl outcropping near Serramazzoni in the northern Apennines. The age of the beds is believed to be Upper Cretaceous, probably upper Senonian. Stratigraphic variability in the genus Schackoina is discussed, and a stratigraphically arranged table showing variation in the diagnostic characters of all known species of Schackoina is presented.
24413296|The taxonomy of Paratethyan Middle Miocene calcareous nannofossils is reviewed and revised. Two new species, Syracosphaera croatica and Syracosphaera horvati, are proposed. Comparative study of coeval Neogene nannofossils from NHM and ODP (Ocean Drilling Project) reference collections give differences and similarities between the investigated areas (first occurrence, their morphology and dimensions). Other studies data on taxonomy are reviewed including palaeoecological and biostratigraphic applications.
10.2307/1486085| Employing special preparation techniques, a rich and moderately preserved assemblage of planktonic foraminifera and coccoliths is documented from pelagic limestones of Mlange Zone of Manipur ophiolite belt around Ukhrul area in northeastern India. Integrated biostratigraphy of five exotic limestone blocks encompassing a Late Santonian / Early Campanian to Late Maastrichtian time slice is established; the low-latitude calcareous plankton zones of deep-sea facies identified in such a convergent plate margin terrain, are correlated with published new biostratigraphic, geomagnetic and absolute time scale data. Initial rifting and birth of the Indo-Myanmar ocean took place prior to Latest Santonian / Earliest Campanian and suturing was initiated by Latest Maastrichtian, as suggested by our study. 
3648476|Calcareous nannofossil and planktonic foramininferal assemblages demonstrate that the succession at Qreiya provides a virtually complete stratigraphic reference section through the Esna Shale Formation. A detailed study of the Dababiya Quarry Beds has revealed distinct stratigraphic trends in both mineralogy and geochemistry, similar to those reported from Dababiya Quarry itself. In particular, the organic carbon isotope analysis has revealed a pronounced negative carbon isotope excursion of comparable magnitude to that recorded from Dababiya. Calcareous nannoplankton (Rhomboaster spp.-Discoaster araneus association) and planktonic foraminiferal occurrences (the so-called excursion taxa) allow unambiguous determination of this isotopic excursion as the Carbon Isotope Excursion (CIE) identified globally at the base of Eocene successions. Preliminary petrological analysis of mudstones within the Dababiya Quarry Beds has revealed a finely granular texture, possibly representing fecal pellets. This texture indicates that the sea-bed sediment may have been mobile, and subject to redistribution by gentle, wave-induced currents.
10.2307/1485277|Stage coordinates can more easily be converted from one microscope to another, when scales increase in opposite directions on the 2 microscope stages, by treating the scales as coordinate axes with conventional positive and negative directions.
10.2307/1484655|Sections through some species of Globotruncanidae, through Globorotalia tumida and through Gavelinella tumida clearly show that only in the latter species are the chamber septa double and that planktonic foraminifera mostly have simple septa. The reason for these results, contradictory to those of other authors, seems to be the recrystallisation of the thin septal walls in rock-filled specimens. In the present study only air-filled specimens were used. The double septa of the Gavelinellidae are interpreted as a primary wall, covered by the hyaline toothplate; in Globotruncanidae, on the other hand, the toothplate does not cover the primary wall but forms the flap over the umbilical hollow.
10.2307/1485842|The small benthic and planktic foraminiferal fauna of the northern Hafit area in the United Arab Emirates is illustrated and the vertical variations in its constitution in two sections are discussed. Four bathymetrically significant groups of foraminiferal assemblages are recognized. A comparison of the vertical variations in bathymetry in the various planktic foraminiferal chronozones established in the studied sections with the global eustatic curve of Haq et al. (1987) suggests that the area was tectonically disturbed during the late Lutetian (Globorotalia (Morozovella) lehneri Zone) and the Priabonian. In Priabonian times also, the area was actively subsiding causing the deposition of frequent intervals of middle neritic marine sediments. Most of the gaps in sedimentation and sea level fluctuations recognized in the Hafit area are due to global eustatic changes (as the gaps between the middle and late Lutetian, the Priabonian and the early Oligocene, and the middle Oligocene and the Miocene). Some of these fluctuations, however, are also periods of marked tectonic activity (mainly the fluctuations observed in the area in the late Lutetian and the gap between the Eocene and the early Oligocene, as well as the hiatus corresponding to the late Oligocene.
10.2307/1484301|As an introduction to a study of the taxonomic status of dispersed spores of the Paleozoic, the author has compared spores from four Carboniferous lycopodiaceous cones with those described under Sporae dispersae by previous authors. The spores from the following cone species have been studied: Lepidostrobus goldenbergi Schimper, Lepidostrobus variabilis Lindley and Hutton, Sigillariostrobus goldenbergi Feistmantel, and Selaginellites elongatus Goldenberg, and it has been found that more than one cone species may produce microspores that are morphologically alike. The association of particular megaspore species with Lepidostrobus goldenbergi and Lepidostrobus variabilis is not considered conclusive proof of their having been produced in these cones.
10.2307/1484327|This paper describes and illustrates thirty-three species of foraminifera from Aptian rocks that outcrop in Khashm el Mistan, on the flanks of the great Maghara Dome in northern Sinai. Ten species are described as new. The Orbitolina population is very similar to that described by Henson from Lebanon.
10.2307/1485901| Seasonal and spatial differences in coiling in Recent neogloboquadrinids seem to be controlled mainly by differences in food requirements and associated timing of reproduction between the left- and right-coiled types. The observation that the change in coiling from dominantly left to right takes place at surface water temperatures ranging from 7- 9C in high Northern Hemisphere latitudes to 14.5C in the Walvis Bay region suggests that the significance of temperature in coiling in neogloboquadrinids is overestimated in the literature. 
10.2307/1485811| We present a new method for settling radiolaria onto slides for quantitative analysis of plankton, sediment trap and deep-sea sediment samples. Samples are distributed over the surface of a standing column of water and settle directly onto glass slide coverslips. The settling aparatus is a 44 mm diameter polycarbonate tube which is fused to a 90  95  28 mm plexi-glass base. The settling tube base is bolted to an aluminum baseplate bearing the coverslips and filled with water before the sample is dispensed. This method allows 87.3% of the specimens to be available for microscopic analysis and permits quantitative analysis of samples as small as 15 mg dry bulk weight of sample. 
10.2307/1484319|A preliminary survey of the stratigraphy, paleoecology, and micropaleontology of the Cretaceous and lower Tertiary rocks of southwestern Puerto Rico is presented. A local system of zonation based on planktonic foraminifera is proposed for the Campanian and Maestrichtian. The stratigraphy and paleoecology of the major formational units are briefly discussed. Six new species and one new subspecies are described.
10.2307/1485492|Diatoms from the water column and sea-ice were analyzed in a data set collected from the Soviet icebreaker MIKHAIL SOMOV in late austral winter (October-November) 1981 in the Weddell Gyre region. Two major diatom assemblages are apparent in the water column and have distribution patterns that are influenced by surface and near-surface water hydrography (0-100 m). An assemblage dominated by Nitzschia kerguelensis is associated with typical Weddell Deep Water (WDW), while most warm-water cells within the WDW are associated with an assemblage dominated by Thalassiothrix antarctica. Sea-ice cores usually contain a surface assemblage dominated by Cylindrotheca closterium, a neritic form, underlain by N. kerguelensis- and T. antarctica-dominated assemblages. The diatom stratigraphy in these cores and the nature of the assemblages suggests that the surface form, C. closterium, has grown in place while the N. kerguelensis- and T. antarctica-dominated assemblages were frozen into the ice. It is hypothesized that, as the winter progressed, these latter two assemblages were sequentially frozen into sea-ice, thus leaving a record of gross oceanographic changes that occurred in surface waters beneath the ice during the austral winter.
