42791645|The application of the name Haworthia herbcea (Mill.) Stearn to field populations is discussed. It is concluded that this name applies best to the predominant complex occurring in the western and south-western Robertson Karoo. The species H. aegrota von Poelln., H. submaculata von Poelln., H. luteorosa Uitew. and the variety H. pallida var. paynei are shown to have their origin in the same complex, and are therefore reduced to synonymy.
42791531|The name Haworthia reticulata (Haw.) Haw. is upheld for a species occurring in close association with H. herbacea (Mill.) Stearn in the Robertson Karoo. Evidence is presented to show that H. haageana v. Poelln., H. hurlingii v. Poelln, and H. intermedia v. Poelln., together with published varieties of these, have their origin in the same species complex. These species are reduced to synonymy in the single species H. reticulata. It is suggested that H. subregularis Baker may also be synonymous.
42789945|The retention of the name H. emelyae v. Poelln. over H. pietav. Poelln. and H. correda v. Poelln. is discussed. There is also a discussion of the relationship of H. emelyae to H. comptoniana Smith, to H. springbokvlakensis Scott and to H. magnifica var. major (Smith) Bayer. A new variety, H. emelyae var. multifolia is described.
42791047|A brief account is given of the habitat, habit and morphological variation encountered in H. reinwardtii Haw. Attention is drawn to the prevalence of natural phenotypic modification, possibly the result of subspecific hybridisation and its obvious effect upon morphological variation.
42789042|Description of two new species of Echidnopsis (Asclepiadaceae, Stapelieae) from Tanzania and Kenya.
42790032|This article deals with the restoration and retention of the specific epithets H.aristata Haw. and H. helmae von Poelln., which are presently included in synonomy with "H. unicolor".
42790946|A new species of Caralluma (Asclepiadaceae) from Peninsular India is described and its relationship discussed.
42789818|The splitting of Linnaeus's genus Mesembryanthemum, begun in the 1920' s, has been carried to excess, and the time has come to take stock. For a start, 24 of the smallest segregates are reviewed and united with larger genera, with appropriata nomenclatural adjustments.
42791257|Herbarium material and living plants from natural habitats were studied for the revision of H. viscosa (L). Haw. Anatomical investigations of the leaves indicate that the variability observed in the species relates chiefly to physical environmental factors, and that the presently recognized species and varieties in this group of Haworthia can no longer be accorded separate status; these are now included under H. viscosa.
42789971|This work deals with the identification of H. altilinea Haw. From the evidence presented it is concluded that the epithet H. altilinea must be applied to a group of Haworthia which grow in the wild in small populations in the Border area.
42789952|A dry rot disease of Echinocactus grusonii was encountered in Sussex nurseries. The disease is characterised by pale brown, buff or sometimes yellow-orange sunken lesions at the base of the plants. Microscopical examination of diseased tissue revealed abundant fungal mycelium. This fungus was isolated, cultured, proved pathogenic, re-isolated and identified as Fusarium oxysporum Schlect. A review of published literature concerning Fusarium diseases of cacti is also presented.
