43310757|Wildflower plantings have become increasingly more apparent and important on a federal, state, and local level. Numerous research papers and theses have detailed results of various parts of this extensive subject. This review article highlights some of this previous research in an effort to consolidate and elucidate an integrated pattern of recommendations to establish modest-sized (for example, roadsides, meadows, parks, golf courses, gardens) wildflower plantings. Components include: 1) preplanting concerns; 2) planting and maintenance (for example, seed germination and density, seeding method, planting date, fertilization, cover crops, weed control, irrigation, reseeding, and suspending natural succession); 3) wildflower dividends; and 4) wildflower establishment recommendations.
43309982|The move-along experiment is a double germination phenology study that is easy to use, does not require large numbers of seeds, and allows one to determine if summer only, winter only, or a summer-winter sequence of temperatures is required for dormancy break in seeds with water-permeable seed (or fruit) coats. Two temperature profiles (simulating 1-y cycles proceeding from winter to winter or summer to summer) and control treatments (seeds kept continuously at each temperature regime) are run concurrently. For most species, the combination of dormancy-breaking temperatures required for germination can be determined in 1 y with this technique.
43310301|A Kitchen blender with a slow-speed pulse button has been used to clean small volumes of a variety of seeds.
43309801|Fowler Germplasm is a new pre-variety germplasm release of green needlegrass (Nassella viridula (Trin.) Barkworth [Poaceae]) developed by artificial selection from 5 local populations collected in southern Alberta. Selection emphasis was placed on seed yield and germinability. This plant material is expected to be used for restoration and wildlife habitat enhancement projects in Alberta and Saskatchewan.
43310437|Invasive exotic plants are displacing native plants and rapidly degrading native ecosystems. In this paper, we chronicle the sometimes erratic invasion biology of woody plants and review control strategies for some of the most serious woody invaders of eastern forests. Design features of a well-integrated control strategy include early detection, rapid response with the most effective control techniques possible, persistence and continued monitoring, and outreach/education to reduce the number of source populations on neighboring lands. Invasive plants are probably here to stay, but through concerted and diligent effort their spread and impact can be greatly reduced.
43309988|Soaking Fabaceae seeds in alcohol and then passing them through a flame for 2 to 3 s is a quick and easy way of promoting germination of at least 8 species of Hawaiian legumes. In addition to stimulating germination, the technique effectively sterilizes seeds for in vitro germination for mircropropagation or for germination in the greenhouse.
43310755|The federally endangered Tennessee purple coneflower (Echinacea tennesseensis (Beadle) Small [Asteraceae]) is endemic to cedar glades of middle Tennessee, and limited to 5 population sites in an approximately 170 km (66 mi) area. Rarity is thought to be due to prehistoric factors and to ecological characteristics that limit the ability of the plant to colonize nearby glades. Protection of natural populations combined with the establishment of new populations and seed storage will greatly reduce the possibility of extinction. Several populations are now incorporated into natural areas. Moreover, since the plant is easily propagated, new populations have been established in middle Tennessee. Progress toward full recovery of the species has been successful.
43309600|We review briefly our 14 y of research results collected on the ecology and conservation biology of the narrowly-endemic, federally-endangered plant species, Shorts goldenrod (Solidago shortii T. & G. [Asteraceae]). Of the many aspects of the ecology of S. shortii we investigated, low competitive ability appears to be the one that contributes most to its narrow endemism. In the long-term, S. shortii can survive only in early successioni habitats, and this ecological characteristic, in large part, defines its management needs. We discuss methods for propagation of this rare taxon, which can be propagated easily from seeds.
43310299|Planting propagules for restoration projects requires specialized tools. Several hand and power tools are discussed, as well as appropriate applications and installation rates. Equipment costs and sources are detailed.
43309803|Native plant restoration policy calls for use of "genetically appropriate" native plant material on USDI Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and USDA Forest Service (USFS) lands. In this article, we summarize experimental evidence showing that local adaptation is widespread in all kingdoms of life, and how this "home-field advantage" has been exploited in forest restoration activities to develop and promote regionally adapted, genetically diverse restoration materials. The importance of such materials is highlighted in the context of changing environmental conditions, such as those predicted in future climate change scenarios. Although the adaptive properties of most restoration species remains unexamined, numerous tools exist for identifying similar environments and ecosystems, and these can be used to develop first-generation seed zones. Finally, general recommendations for establishing foundation populations are outlined so that pre-adapted populations retain sufficient genetic diversity to acclimate to new evolutionary challenges, while minimizing the likelihood of deleterious genetic outcomes (for example, inadvertent selection of undesirable traits; inbreeding depression).
43309845|The Aberdeen Plant Materials Center has developed a harvesting machine designed to make multiple, nondestructive harvests of forb and shrub seeds. The Jet Harvester operates using a PTO-driven fan that creates suction to displace and collect seeds from plants without damaging the plants. When operated correctly, the resulting harvested material contains only ripe seeds and relatively little inert matter.
43309958|Since 1993, mountain lady's slipper (Cypripedium montanum Douglas ex Lindley [Orchidaceae]) has been successfully established in the forest of the Grande Ronde Overlook Wildflower Institute Serving Ecological Restoration (GROWISER). Emergence in the field generally requires 2 to 3 y and seems to be associated with the level of tree canopy and decomposing forest litter. More plants appear to be established when seeds are mixed with a carrier such as forest soil, sugar, or cracked corn prior to scattering. Plots have been established annually since late autumn 1998 to investigate seeding techniques and the orchid's life cycle, particularly time until flowering.
43309935|Blue oak (Quercus douglasii Hook & Arn. [Fagaceae]) is a widely distributed California oak that is regenerating poorly in portions of its range. Recent concern over habitat loss in blue oak woodlands has prompted efforts to regenerate this species artificially. Our study examined whether a relatively new stock type called mini-plug transplants would perform better in the field than conventional bareroot and container plants. Our results suggest that thought it is possible to produce blue oak miniplug seedlings with large fibrous root systems, field performance was similar to other stock types that can currently be produced more economically.
43309629|Illinois bundleflower (Desmanthus illinoensis (Michaux) MacMillan ex Robinson & Fern.) appears to have the greatest potential as a forage species among 15 species of native legumes (Fabaceae) evaluated for forage yield, quality, and seed production. It ranked among the top five for all agronomic characteristics measured. Hoary tick clover (Desmodium ccmescens [L.] DC.), panicled tick clover (Desmodium paniculatum [L.] DC.), and roundhead lespedeza (Lespedeza capitata Michaux), ranked among the top five for grams per plant of forage and seed. All of the native legumes contained greater concentrations of crude protein and lower concentrations of neutral detergent fiber than typically found in the native warm-season grasses commonly sown for pasture, suggesting that these native legumes should improve forage quality in mixed pastures. Only white prairie clover (Dalea candida Michaux ex Willd.), purple prairie clover (Dalea purpurea Vent), and Illinois bundleflower had lower concentrations of acid detergent fiber than that typically found in native warm-season grasses.
43310809|'Discovery' Snake River wheatgrass (Elymus wawawaiensis J. Carlson & Barkworth [Poaceae]) has been released as a cultivar for use in rangeland seedings. The natural distribution of Snake River wheatgrass is limited to eastern Oregon, eastern Washington, and central and northern Idaho, but it is widely used as a surrogate for bluebunch wheatgrass (Pseudoroegneria spicata (Pursh) A. Lve [Poaceae]) in temperate portions of the Intermountain Region.
43310752|As producers of native plant seeds, we contacted similar businesses, asked them questions about expanding their cultivated production of native plant seeds, and incorporated their responses with our observations to provide a "seed producers' opinion" on what is limiting native plant seed production in the western US and Canada. Here, we report the results of this survey and discuss common problems associated with wildland seed production from public lands and subsequent sale to the federal government.
43309715|Crimsoneyed rosemallow (Hibiscus moscheutos L. [Malvaceae]) is a striking marsh plant found throughout the eastern and southcentral US. This species is relatively easy to propagate with seeds and cuttings. Here we describe propagation methods used successfully by the native plant nursery at Environmental Concern Inc, a nonprofit wetland restoration organization on the eastern shore of Maryland.
43309676|Testing native seed quality before planting cannot be overemphasized. Planting high quality seeds is the cornerstone for successful field emergence. The increasing use of seed certification for native species further emphasizes the need for accurate seed testing. Our objective in this article is to provide a summary of principles and procedures for some useful seed quality tests for natives and other species. Testing for physical purity and viability of seeds are the two most important tests needed to avoid weed problems and poor stand establishment. Other seed quality tests such as vigor tests, x-ray, and seed moisture content provide useful information about the quality of the seeds.
43310811|Mycorrhizal inoculum is marketed as a means of increasing seedling survival, growth, and drought resistance, among other benefits. The production of plant materials colonized by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, however, has proved to be problematic due to the lack of integration between biotechnical firms that produce mycorrhizal inoculum and cultural procedures at commercial nurseries. Our research demonstrates that inoculum-compatible fertilization regimes can have significant effects on mycorrhizal colonization rates and plant performance following outplanting. Mycorrhizal inoculum was applied to 5 species (Ribes aureum Pursh [Grossulariaceae], Prunus pumila L var. besseyi (L.H. Bailey) Gleason [Rosaceae], Dasiphora fruticosa (L) Rydb. [Rosaceae], Amorpha canescens Pursh [Fabaceae], Juniperus scopulorum Sarg. [Cupressaceae]) grown under a traditional fertigation regime and under an alternative regime consisting of a mix of low phosphorus, slow-release fertilizer. The percentage of seedlings exhibiting mycorrhizal structures ranged from 0 to 20% for the traditional fertigation regime compared with a range of 16 to 92% for the alternative slow-release regime. Following outplanting, seedling survival ranged from 20 to 60% for traditional fertigation regime compared with 65 to 95% for the alternative slow-release regime. This study emphasizes the need to consider greenhouse fertilization strategies in order to effectively produce colonized plant material and to achieve the potential benefits of mycorrhiza under field conditions.
43309730|We grow a variety of 2+0 bareroot conifer species with controlled release fertilizer (CRF), supplemented with conventional fertilizers, because the seedlings grow well, the process is cost effective, and less nitrogen needs to be applied, which reduces the potential for environmental contamination because of leaching. Incorporating CRF in autumn before autumn sowing helps retain the fertilizer prills in the seedbeds during the first growing season and makes a steady supply of fertilizer available even when wet spring soils prevent conventional fertilizer applications.
43309851|The Los Lunas Silvery Minnow Refugium is a conservation fish hatchery that produces the endangered Rio Grande silvery minnow (Hybognathus amarus Girard [Cyprinidae]). The major management goal of a conservation fish hatchery is to raise fish in a naturalized environment that is similar to their native ecosystem, including native vegetation. This is diametrically opposed to management at traditional fish hatcheries, where rooted plants in fish culture units are considered to be weeds because they can cause management problems; most notably, these plants interfere with fish harvest. Fifteen native wetland and 8 native upland species of plants were installed in the naturalized outdoor conservation fish-rearing facility. The plants were used to produce shade, shelter from predators, places for food to colonize, areas of low-velocity water, and to create riparian overbank areas that could be inundated in order to simulate floodplains along the Rio Grande. The plants have thrived at the facility. Continuous manual weeding is required from March to October to remove weeds and to keep sedges and rushes from filling the ponds. Observations indicate that the plants are achieving the intended purposes.
43309633|We found that the most effective and economical method for establishing native shrubs on extensive areas of retired cropland in southern Arizona makes use of drip irrigation and 3.8-1 (1-gal) transplants (outplants). In March 2001, we established a small (8 ha [20 ac]) field trial to test the effectiveness of different combinations of transplanting, seeding, drip irrigation, and furrow irrigation. Treatments utilizing transplants and drip irrigation had higher survival and lower densities of weed species than other treatments tested. Based on these results, we planted again in November 2001 using drip-irrigated transplants to examine the effectiveness of this method over a larger scale (85 ha [210 ac]). As a further refinement of this method, we tested various sizes of container stock and determined that transplants of 3.8-1 (1-gal) size had superior growth and survival when compared to smaller-sized transplants. The total cost of this method is approximately US$ 4430/ha ($ 1790/ac), but it is more likely to succeed as compared with direct seedings, which is a commonly used approach to revegetation in southwestern ecosystems. Although a drastic effort, our technique holds promise for revegetating environments in the hottest and driest parts of the Sonoran Desert in southern Arizona.
43309820|High-resolution aerial surveys are a highly effective means for monitoring new and dispersed invasive-species infestations across extensive areas of wildland. Invasive species constitute a leading threat to native vegetation in wildland settings. Monitoring and controlling these species are essential actions to preserving nativeplant community integrity and historic wildland character. Infestations continue to increase. Monitoring with conventional ground or lower-resolution aerial data may be problematic as these tools are of questionable value for detecting small or dispersed weed populations. In July 2006, we conducted a dual-camera aerial survey acquiring 1- and 10-mm ground sample distance (GSD) imagery in the Medicine Lodge watershed in eastern Idaho. The survey included most of the 2003 Deep Fire Burn. Survey data were used to determine leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula L. [Euphorbiaceae]) distribution on burned and unburned lands and to relate spurge distribution to ecosystem structure, associated vegetation, and control efforts. Leafy spurge was detected in 10% of 10-mm GSD samples versus 8% of 1-mm GSD samples. We conclude that 10-mm GSD is best for detecting leafy spurge because it optimizes the balance between resolution and field-of-view. Litter was about 4% greater where spurge was present than where it was not, and spurge occurrence was associated with significant decreases in cover of native grasses, forbs, and sagebrush (Artemisia spp. L. [Asteraceae]). Leafy spurge proximity to water was higher than a random distribution would predict.
43309774|In the Midwest US, native legume species adapted to savanna environments may grow well under varying shade conditions. These species may be ideal for use within tree rows in alley-cropping practices and on tree plantations by providing biologically fixed nitrogen, ground cover, and wildlife food and habitat. A greenhouse experiment was conducted to evaluate the effect of 3 different light levels (100%, 45%, 20%) on the growth and nodulation of 3 Desmodium (Fabaceae) species: Hoary ticktrefoil (D. canescens (L.) DC), Showy ticktrefoil (D. canadiense (L.) DC.), and Illinois ticktrefoil (D. illinoense A. Gray). All species produced equal amounts of dry matter at 45% and 100% light, but significantly less dry matter at 20% light. All species had greater or equal concentrations of nitrogen (N) at 20% light compared with 45% or 100% light. The number of nodules per gram of plant dry weight and nodule dry weight was similar at all light levels within each species. A significant species  light interaction was found for the number of nodules per plant because nodule number decreased in both D. canescens and D. canadense but not in D. illinoense for plants grown at 20% in comparison with 45% light. The number of nodules per plant and the number of nodules per gram of plant dry weight were lower under all light conditions for D. illinoense compared with the other species. Results indicate that these native legumes grow as well at 45% light as they do at 100% light, and shade does not reduce N concentration.
43309710|Home region failed to provide any clear short-term improvement in plant growth, vigor, flowering, quality, or survival of Gaillardia pulchella Foug. (Asteraceae; firewheel) when plants derived from natural populations in east Texas, northeast Florida, central west Florida, central east Florida, and southeast Florida were grown under low-input landscape conditions in northwestern, northern central, or southeastern Florida. During the 22-wk study, adaptability of east Texas plants was similar to that of northeast Florida and southeast Florida plants within the different sites. At the 2 northern sites, plant growth, vigor, and flowering were greater than for plants grown in southeastern Florida. The patterns of biweekly changes in plant vigor, flowering, and quality ratings were similar among plants of all seed sources within a site. Averaged over the entire study, these ratings were equally high for plants of all seed sources except central east Florida plants. Within a site, survival of northeast Florida, southeast Florida, and east Texas plants was equally high (83 to 100%). Also, 100% of central west Florida plants survived at the 2 northern sites, yet no central west Florida plants survived past week 16 in southeastern Florida. Differences in growth, vigor, flowering, quality, and survival were likely related to the loamier soils at the 2 northern sites and (or) flooding June rains in southeastern Florida.
43309684|Although acorns of the white oaks (Quercus spp. [Fagaceae]) deteriorate rapidly during storage, necessitating prompt planting of acorns in the nursery, we successfully stored swamp white oak (Q. bicolor Willd.) acorns for 1 y. After storage, stored acorns produced seedlings comparable to freshly sown acorns. In Missouri, swamp white oak acorns are difficult to obtain in sufficient quantities, so these results offer some promise for more efficient use of large acorn crops.
43320803|We sampled Acacia koa A. Gray (Fabaceae) seeds and seedpods from 4 of the Hawaiian Islands (Big Island, Kaua'i, O'ahu, and Maui) for colonization by and contamination with Fusarium spp. (Hyphomycetes). The vast majority of healthy-appearing seeds from storage were not colonized by Fusarium. Stored seeds with superficial fungal mycelium, however, were extensively contaminated by Fusarium. Nearly 80% of the sampled seeds from forest trees with koa wilt disease symptoms had evidence of insect predation. More than 70% of the insect-predated seeds were contaminated by Fusarium, about 60% of healthy-appearing seeds from diseased forest trees were also contaminated. Seedpods were commonly colonized by the same Fusarium species that contaminated seeds. Thirteen different Fusarium spp. were isolated from koa seeds and seedpods. Most species were found at low levels, although F. semitectum, F. subglutinans, and F. solani were frequently isolated. Fusarium oxysporum, the putative cause of koa wilt/dieback disease, was isolated very rarely from either seeds or seed coats. Ecological significance and potential disease roles of Fusarium contaminating koa seeds need to be determined.
43310763|Container production of hardwood seedlings has not been extensively practiced. Efficient nursery production of hardwood seedlings in containers can be limited by formation of a broad foliar canopy, which limits irrigation uniformity. This study was established to investigate suitability of subirrigation, a method of irrigating seedlings from the container base that relies on rise of water through capillary action, for production of broad-leaved hardwood seedlings. Northern red oak (Quercus rubra L. [Fagaceae]) seeds were sown into 4 container types, and seedlings were grown in a controlled greenhouse environment under either traditional overhead irrigation or subirrigation. Media electrical conductivity (EC) was measured at container depths of 1, 5, and 10 cm (0.4, 2, and 4 in) after 57 d. Subirrigated seedlings had significantly higher EC at each depth compared with overhead irrigated seedlings, with a trend of decreasing EC with increasing measurement depth. A significant container type x irrigation method interaction suggested potential for toxic EC levels in some subirrigated containers, which can be alleviated by periodic leaching using clear water to dissipate salts from the top 1 cm (0.4 in). At the end of the growing period, seedling height and root-collar diameter were not influenced by irrigation method or container type, indicating that subirrigation is suitable for hardwood seedling production.
43309842|Tracking historic bushel weights of seedlots can be a useful tool to estimate seed quality during the seed-cleaning process. Seedlots not meeting expected bushel weights can be re-cleaned with higher air flow rates to remove lighter, unfilled seed, which will increase the percentage of viable seed in the lot. Here we present average bushel weights for more than 60 releases and sources of 38 species of native grasses, forbs, and shrubs from western North America.
43309682|The USDA Forest Service, USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), and the Hopi Tribe Office of Range Management have been working together on native plant restoration projects in northeastern Arizona. The aggressive exotic plants, Russian-olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia L. [Elaeagnaceae]) and salt-cedar (Tamarix ramosissima Ledeb. [Tamaicaceae]), have invaded many wetland and riparian areas on the Hopi Reservation, excluding willows (Salix L.), cottonwoods (Populus L.), and other native plants. The tribe has been mechanically removing the invasives and has asked for help in propagating native species to plant in these project areas. Although much information is available on how to collect willows and cottonwoods and propagate them, some unique challenges exist on Hopi lands. Some species are common, while others are very rare and in some cases only a few individual plants exist. The scattered locations of streams, wetlands, and seeps must be considered during plant material collections to ensure that both genetic and sexual diversity are adequately represented. Another challenge is the determination of target plant stock types that are appropriate on the diverse hydrologic conditions on the various project sites. Collected plant materials were taken to the NRCS Plant Materials Center in Los Lunas, New Mexico, for both seed and vegetative propagation.
43310317|Using high-pressure water forced through specially designed stainless steel nozzles, you can quickly, easily, and efficiently bore holes for planting dormant, nonrooted cuttings in riparian zones. We provide technical information for constructing and using the Waterjet Stinger. Building the unit takes less than a day and parts cost around US $1200.
43309632|Sowing rye seeds along with crop seeds in a bareroot nursery in fall protects the beds from erosion and prdation. For large-seeded species, an additional covering of straw further discourages prdation from deer and squirrels. The rye is killed in early spring and the straw mulch can easily be removed in early spring with controlled burning.
43309689|The original Waterjet Stinger creates holes, using high-pressure water, to plant nondormant hardwood cuttings, usually for riparian restoration. By using a new head that has a different tip and wider, thicker vanes, the Waterjet Stinger can create holes for container stock as well. The head is relatively inexpensive and to date our results have been favorable, but further testing is being done.
43309605|Of 7 herbicide mixtures applied pre-and post-emergence, a pre-emergence application of 0.07 kg active ingredient (ai) per ha (1 oz ai/ac) (Plateau) yielded the best establishment of 3 native warm-season grasses and 3 native forbs seeded on conventionally-tilled sites in Kentucky. Following this application, weed cover was reduced to < 5% during the first growing season, compared to > 95% in the control. After 2 growing seasons, plant density and percentage cover of little bluestem, big bluestem, and indiangrass both averaged 4.5X more than in the control. Illinois bundleflower, purple prairieclover, and lance-leaf coreposis were unaffected by the treatment, but purple coneflower density was reduced.
43309989|Like the American Indians of the continental US and Canada, the indigenous Hawaiians feel a very spiritual connectedness to the land and plants and the ola (life) within them. A traditional Hawaiian blessing was performed before beginning restoration activities in the dry forest habitats of Haleakal Volcano on Maui.
43310434|Broadleaf arrowhead (Sagittaria latifolia Willd. [Alismataceae]), an obligate wetland species found from southern Canada and to northern and western South America, the West Indies, and Hawaii (Hitchcock and others 2001), may be propagated reliably using seeds or tubers. This species provides both food and cover for many species of birds, mammals, fish, and aquatic insects (Thunhorst 1993). I describe both methods of propagation as they are used by the nursery staff of Environmental Concern, a nonprofit organization on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, to grow this species for use in wetland restoration and construction projects.
43309669|We use a rechargeable hedge trimmer to collect seeds of native plants. With an easy modification and an inverter that plugs into a vehicle cigarette lighter, the trimmer is ready to harvest seeds as we travel about.
43309789|American chestnut (Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh. [Fagaceae]) was an important species for timber and wildlife in the eastern US, but it was decimated by chestnut blight (Cryphonectria parasitica (Murr.) Barr [Valsaceae]). Recent advances in breeding for resistance to chestnut blight have increased interest in the silviculture and management of this species for deployment in afforestation programs. Three-mo-old American chestnut seedlings grown in containers were allocated to 4 treatments (0, 24, 48, or 72 h without irrigation) and subsequently evaluated for chlorophyll fluorescence, measured as maximum quantum yield (Fv/Fm). Maximum quantum yield was constant until seedlings had irrigation withheld for 48 h, after which Fv/Fm plummeted and leaves became permanently wilted. Our results showed that dehydration affected chlorophyll fluorescence in American chestnut seedlings. Unfortunately, the abruptness at which Fv/Fm transitions from turgor to permanent wilting point suggests a lack of resolution and that chlorophyll fluorescence is not presently a viable method for assessing seedling dehydration stress.
43309698|In Missouri, we find that fall-sowing freshly collected spicebush (Lindera benzoin (L.) Blume [Lauraceae]) seeds removed from their fruits is the most efficient way to produce 1+0 seedlings suitable for conservation plantings. Although seeds are delicate, macerating fresh fruit appears to be an acceptable way to clean seeds and yields more seedlings than sowing air-dried fruits.
43309680|After a dense stand of conifers encroaching on an oak savanna/meadow was removed, exotic forbs and grasses quickly populated the newly disturbed area. Establishing desirable native grasses and forbs that contribute to native plant diversity and compete with exotic species could aid in restoring this oak savanna plant community. Two experiments were conducted over time to test different native plant establishment approaches for increasing native plant diversity and abundance. The first evaluated effect of sown native grass species establishment on graminoid cover and composition. The second evaluated 3 outplanted native perennial forb species to determine their survival. Concurrent with the experimental work, we compared change in the plant community, including species richness and forb and graminoid cover. Graminoid cover changed over time, was significantly higher in sown than unsown plots, and significantly decreased cover of outplanted native forbs but not their survival. Species survival was high the first year after outplanting but declined in subsequent years; nevertheless, outplanted forbs produced flowers and fruits by the third year. Species richness and abundance increased, and composition of native and exotic forbs and grasses changed over the years, influencing establishment of native species. Efforts to improve native plant diversity and abundance within a dense population of native and exotic species may require varied and repeated treatments, as well as more time to assess plant interactions.
43320508|Although native grasses are often desired and used for revegetation of disturbed areas, genetic differences may exist within and among natural and cultivated germplasm sources. This phylogeographic study compares geographic origin and genealogical linkages of 25 natural and cultivated germplasm sources of mountain brome (Bromus carinatus Hook. & Arn. [Poaceae]) from western North America. Significant variation among accessions (FST = 0.70) was detected by analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA), based on the number of amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) between individual plants. Likewise, significant differences among 4 hierarchical genotypic groups, encompassing all but 5 unique accessions, were also detected (FCT = 0.47). This study identified at least one well-defined genealogical lineage, comprising 8 accessions, distributed over a broad geographic region and different ecosystems of western North America. Two other hierarchical groups, comprising 6 accessions and 3 accessions, were located within or near specific ecoregions. Results of this study indicate that natural genealogical lineages of cultivars, such as Garnet mountain brome, have dispersed and succeeded ovet broad geographical regions. However, more research and plant material work are needed before specific recommendations can be made over the entire species distribution.
43309685|Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis L. [Ranunculaceae]) could be considered a worthy ornamental plant for a forest-like garden setting, however, its primary use is medicinal. Research described in this paper demonstrates that AFLP analysis can be used to determine the genetic relationships between accessions of a plant species collected from different regions. The genetic relationships of 9 goldenseai accessions collected in 3 neighboring states, Tennessee, Georgia, and Florida, were determined. A cluster analysis from AFLP data showed that the 2 Tennessee accessions were very closely related to each other with a high bootstrap value of 93%. The 4 Georgia accessions were more diversified with a bootstrap value ranging from 38% to 63%. Among the 3 Florida accessions, genetic relatedness was very low. One Florida accession was closely related to the 2 Tennessee accessions (96%), one with the Georgia accessions (88%), and the other was distant to all accessions. The molecular marker technique developed for determining the genetic relationship and the genetic diversity between accessions could be used by plant breeders for the selection of parental material.
43320516|Two stock types of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L. [Pinaceae]) were outplanted at 3 spacings: 749, 1122, and 1497 trees/ha (303, 454, and 605 trees/ac). Morphologically improved seedlings were grown at a density of 177/m (16/ft) while standard seedlings were grown at a density of 277/m (25/ft). Morphologically improved seedlings had an average root-collar diameter of 6.3 mm at time of outplanting and, after 3 y in the field, were taller and had more volume/ha than standard seedlings (4.5-mm root-collar at outplanting). An economic analysis was conducted based on 20-y volume estimates from a growth and yield program. If seedling cost is increased by 0.7 cent (due to growing at a low seedbed density) then outplanting cost per ha can be reduced by outplanting 750 morphologically improved seedlings instead of 1500 standard seedlings. Overall establishment costs might be reduced by US$ 108/ha ($44/ac) and the net present value of the stand might be increased by 10% or more (due to increasing the production of sawlogs). From this and other analyses, we determined that an important economic relationship exists between outplanting density and seedling quality.
43310456|Native plants have a potential role to play in making our cities sustainable and in reducing carbon emissions. I present, based on my experience as a landscape designer, 15 possible applications of native plants in sustainable urban systems. These range from passive solar retrofits to greywater systems and are loosely arranged into the general headings of the urban forest, water conservation, and "grow your own." Within each entry, I delineate existing unsustainable practices, offer sustainable alternatives, discuss the role of native plants, and make a few design and species suggestions.
43309782|As originally published (Erickson 2008), Table 1 on pages 260 and 261 inadvertently had erroneous numbers in the "average seeds per kg" column.
43309855|Two natural-track selected germplasms of western prairie clover (Dalea ornata (Douglas ex Hook.) Eaton & J. Wright [Fabaceae]) have been released for use in revegetation of semiarid rangelands in the western US. Western prairie clover is a perennial leguminous forb that occurs naturally in Idaho, Washington, Oregon, California, and Nevada. Majestic Germplasm western prairie clover originates from seed collected from indigenous plants near Sherar's Bridge in Sherman County, Oregon, whereas Spectrum Germplasm western prairie clover originates from seed collected from indigenous plants near Succor Creek Natural Area in far eastern Oregon in Malheur County, Oregon. Common-garden and DNA data for 22 collections of western prairie clover were used to develop these releases on a genetic basis. Majestic Germplasm was selected to represent the genetic diversity structure of western prairie clover from the western Columbia Plateau and western Blue Mountains Ecoregions. Spectrum Germplasm was selected to represent the genetic diversity structure from the central and eastern Columbia Plateau, central and eastern Blue Mountains, Northern Basin and Range, and Snake River Plain Ecoregions. This is a new species in the commercial seed trade, and these are the first releases of this species.
43309943|Describing what types of native plants to include in restoration and mitigation projects requires knowledge about plant species, genetics, form and size, health, and possible substitutions available from local nurseries. A thorough understanding of project goals and plant characteristics will ensure success.
43309832|Pygmy fringetree (Chionanthus pygmaeus Small [Oleaceae]) is an endemic and rare Florida species with great potential for use in managed landscapes. Conservation as well as cultivation of the species is dependent on a better understanding of its complex seed dormancy and inherent difficulties with vegetative propagation. This article synthesizes work that has been done with the genus Chionanthus, including our recent work with pygmy fringetree, and affirms the importance of identifying improved propagation and seed storage techniques for the species. Given that pygmy fringetree is native to a fire-dependent ecosystem, the influence of varying levels of smoke and heat, plus the manipulation of other factors such as temperature and plant growth regulators, should be investigated to improve the likelihood of satisfying seed dormancy requirements. Also, based on work done on congeneric species, low temperature conditions combined with low seed moisture content in addition to pericarp removal may result in improved long-term storage conditions of pygmy fringetree seed. In addition, adventitious rooting appears most likely to occur on early to midsummer pygmy fringetree softwood cuttings that have been treated with high levels of auxin.
43310438|At Purdue University we are investigating ways to control invasive woody species growing in oak (Quercus L. [Fagaceae]) forests and other natural areas of Indiana. We have found several herbicides, and combinations of herbicides, that provide excellent control for a variety of woody invasive plant species when applied before, after, or in combination with mechanical removal. These control techniques offer a range of control options that are designed to be included in land managers' integrated vegetation management (IVM) plans. Vegetation management that integrates the control and replacement of invasive plants with the establishment of favorable vegetation can help managers to efficiently achieve habitat management objectives and avoid future invasive plant problems. Natural resource managers may find these suggestions and experiences useful when developing their own IVM plans.
43310318|Systematic experimental designs provide splendid demonstration areas for scientists and land managers to observe the effects of a gradient of species composition. Systematic designs are based on large plots where species composition varies gradually. Systematic designs save considerable space and require many fewer seedlings than conventional mixture designs. One basic design incorporates a large triangular plot; in concept this plot is identical to the well-known soil textural triangle. The intent of the designs is to produce a response surface over species composition, rather than test for significant differences between 2 specific species compositions. Another design superimposes a species composition gradient on a Neider s design, which systematically varies planting density. It is possible to study mixtures in multiple strata, such as overstory trees and herbaceous understory. The systematic mixture designs are most effective when considering 2 to 4 species.
43309624|Genetic considerations pertaining to planting projects usually emphasize locally adapted source material. However, the amount of genetic diversity in the plant materials is important as well. Genetic erosion is the loss of genetic diversityoften magnified or accelerated by human activities. In native plant populations, genetic erosion results from habitat loss and fragmentation, but it also can result from a narrow genetic base in the original collections or by practices that reduce genetic diversity. Although speciesspecifc guidelines are not available, managers can minimize the risk of genetic erosion by being familiar with the biology of the affected species (including breeding system, mode of reproduction, and pattern of genetic diversity). Narrowly based genetic collections should be avoided, providers of plant materials for revegetation projects should offer information on their collection methods, and nursery managers should endeavor to minimize diversity losses at all stages of nursery culture.
43309793|Atriplex species (Chenopodiaceae) include a diverse genera of saltbushes found worldwide and valued for forage, arid land restoration, remediation, and halotolerance. Within the genus, the species A. canescens (Pursh) Nutt. (fourwing saltbush) is distributed throughout arid western regions of North America where it is a popular restoration and forage species. Atriplex torreyi (S. Watson) S. Watson var. griffithsii (Standl.) CD. Br. (Griffiths' saltbush) is a threatened subspecies found only in southern regions of New Mexico and Arizona. Micropropagation of either species may result in formation of hyperhydricity, or vitrification, which is an induced physiological disorder and a common problem of in vitro cultured plants. Leaves and stems of hyperhydric plants are thick, distorted, and brittle with a glassy (vitrified) appearance. This physiological disorder may be induced by culture conditions that provide excess inorganic nitrogen or high humidity. The protocol described herein uses commercially available, low nitrogen nutrient medium and uses vented lids to reduce humidity within culture vessels. Shoot multiplication can be initiated from either apical shoots or seeds. This protocol has been successfully applied to micropropagation of both species, offering an improved alternative for Atriplex propagation.
43309666|I collect native seeds for my nursery. I've found that I need to be flexible, innovative, and fair when reaching agreements with private landowners concerning access to their property for seed scouting and collecting. Fostering these relationships is good business.
43309681|We have grown Anaphalis margaritacea L. (Benth.) (Asteraceae), Eriophyllum lanatum (Pursh) Forbes (Asteraceae), and Eriogonum umbellatum Torr. (Polygonaceae) for seed production at ) Herbert Stone Nursery in Oregon. Propagation methodology for seed production is discussed, including sowing, culturing, and harvesting. These 3 species can be grown successfully in an agricultural setting.
43309847|Soaking common elderberry seeds (Sambucus nigra L. ssp. canadensis (L.) R. Bolli [Caprifoliaceae]) in sulfuric acid followed by a 60-d stratification, or subjecting common elderberry seeds to a 60-d warm, moist treatment followed by a 90-d stratification, significantly increased seed germination of accession 9084126 common elderberry seeds. Stratification alone was less effective in promoting germination than was acid scarification followed by stratification or warm, moist treatment followed by stratification. Germination of common elderberry seeds soaked in hot water was not significantly different from the control treatment.
43309956|The efficiency of a precision seeder was improved by adding a mirror so employees could monitor seed levels and by marking seeds with brightly colored talc to quickly verify the accuracy of the machine.
43309687|Crenulate lead plant (Amorpha herbacea Walter var. crenulata (Rydberg) Isely [Fabaceae]) is a South Florida endemic that can be propagated sexually and asexually with success. We found that clean seeds (removed from pods) germinate best and can be frozen for storage. Softwood cuttings, treated with rooting hormone and stuck in perlite under periodic misting, rooted well but sometimes transplanted poorly. Mature plants can be salvaged with success, but because the plants grow on rocky soils the process can be very labor intensive. Establishing new populations of this plant, using these propagation techniques, is another tool for protecting this species.
43310287|In recent decades, 90% of San Francisco Bay's wetlands were destroyed for shoreline expansion and development. A unique opportunity arose to unearth and restore salt marsh wetland habitat buried for nearly a century in the heart of San Francisco with restoration of Crissy Field. The goal of restoration was to promote species diversity and advance establishment of a viable seed bank while maintaining an opportunity for natural vegetative recruitment. Over 14,000 salt marsh plants representing 18 species were propagated and planted as part of the restoration effort. Four months after outplanting, 68% of the plants were alive. Restoration practices associated with species palette selection, propagule collection, nursery propagation, and outplanting design and methods are in large part responsible for the revegetation project's degree of success.
43309941|In response to environmental concerns and the need for peatland conservation, alternative growing media for conifer seedling production must be investigated. We grew Douglas-fir seedlings in 6 media; components included peat moss, peat moss amended with sawdust, and 2 sources of coir (coconut fiber) mixed with and without peat moss. Coir had higher pH, P, K, and Na and lower Ca and  than peat moss and a peat moss-sawdust mixture. Bulk densities of coir and coir-based media were lower than those in peat moss and a peat moss-sawdust mixture. After 21 wk, seedlings grown in coir-based media were significantly smaller and had lower foliar N and Ca than those grown in peat moss. Because of coirs many favorable qualities, we suggest further research using culturing regimes specific to the substrate s nutrient properties.
43320796|Grass and wildflower mixtures can be aesthetically appealing, water-conserving, low-maintenance alternatives to conventional turfgrass. One problem with these mixtures is loss of species diversity over time. We examined the effects of irrigation and mowing on the species diversity of 3 grass and wildflower mixtures. The nonirrigated and non-mowed treatment combination maintained diversity most effectively whereas the irrigated and mowed treatment combination was least effective. Generally, when the irrigation treatment was significant (P < 0.05), irrigated plots contained more wildflowers. When the mowing treatment was significant (P < 0.05), mowed plots contained more common yarrow (Achillea millefolium L. [Asteraceae]) and strawberry clover (Trifolium fragiferum L. [Fabaceae]) and fewer Pacific aster (Symphyotrichum chilense (Nees) Nesom [Asteraceae]). Height measurements on nonmowed plots showed that irrigated plots had taller canopies than nonirrigated plots. Common yarrow was the most competitive wildflower, followed by strawberry clover and Pacific aster. Mixture 3 containing crested wheatgrass (Agropyron crstatum (L.) Gaertn. [Poaceae]) and thickspike wheatgrass (Elymus lanceolatus (Scribn. & J. G. Sm.) Gould ssp. lanceolatus [Poaceae]) maintained species diversity for the longest duration under nonirrigated and non-mowed conditions.
43309699|Scions of Acacia koa Gray (Fabaceae) were grafted onto rootstocks of A. koa, A. mangiumWilld., and A. confusabMerr. using cleft or splice grafts applied to very young seedlings. This is the first report of grafting success between A. koa and any Acacia species. Acacia koa scion plants at the second true leaf stage of development were joined with the Acacia rootstocks of similar phenology just below the cotyledons. The initial grafting trials resulted in success rates from 20% to 70%. Graft unions were completely healed within 8 wk, and plants were ready for transplanting at about 3 mo. These methods allow for the production of grafted A. koa seedlings with potentially increased disease resistance, improved horticultural performance, and potentially wider adaptation to Hawaiian ecosystems and landscapes.
43310450|Revegetation needs on national forests and grasslands in the Pacific Northwest are extensive and are expected to increase in the future as a result of growing challenges such as climate change, severe wildfires, invasive plants, and at-risk species. In response to these needs, Region 6 of the USDA Forest Service has implemented a new program to develop native plant materials for restoration activities that will be economical, effective, and consistent with Forest Service policy to protect biological diversity and plant genetic resources. The program has required strategic investments and commitments to research, infrastructure, equipment, and technology transfer. This article summarizes methods for species selection, plant material needs projections, propagule collection, nursery culture, and agricultural seed production. Although many challenges and constraints remain, considerable success has been achieved due to a dedicated workforce and the strong nursery system and agricultural infrastructure in the Pacific Northwest. Plant materials are becoming increasingly available and affordable as nurseries and seed producers gain experience and knowledge in their culture and management. In addition, this program is benefiting rural economies and contributing to the development of secondary, non-federal markets for native plant material services and products.
43309946|Redhead grass (Potamogetn perfoliatus L. [Potamogetonaceae]) is a perennial submerged aquatic plant targeted for restoration plantings in Chesapeake Bay. We have not been successful using seed to generate transplant material for restoration projects, but stem cuttings are easily started in the greenhouse. Cuttings root in a 1: 1 soihsand mix in about 2 wk, and transplants from stem cuttings can be field planted about 12 wk after rooting. Our simple protocol for rooting and growing cuttings can be used for mass production of plants.
43320511|The scientific names of plants continue to change, seemingly at a faster rate than ever, which challenges the broad and diverse group of users of those names. Why do names change? Some changes are nomenclatural, while the majority result from new research and judgments about the taxonomy of plants. A variety of factors contribute to the level of changes. Traditional plant taxonomists continue to discover plants and reclassify those already known. New molecular phylogenetic techniques provide new data that clarifies taxonomy, especially at the level of the genus and above, resulting in changes in the circumscription of genera. A more worldwide community of plant taxonomy has emerged, fostered by the Internet, and taxonomic studies have broader geographic perspectives, resulting in changed opinions about relationships and more rapid communication of those changes. In the art of plant taxonomy, the "splitters" have largely regained influence, after a period of several decades in which "lumpers" were generally in the ascendancy, at least in North America. The result is a large number of name changes in plants, challenging many users, particularly those who are not professional taxonomistsland managers, ecologists, gardeners, and conservationists. A greater effort by authors of floras and other products designed for use by the broad botanical community should make the effort to communicate the changes and reasons behind them.
43320793|Hand-pollinating milkmaids (Cardamine californica (Nutt.) Greene var. integrifolia (Nutt.) Rollins [Brassicaceae]) increased seed set from 8% to 85%. In the Presidio of San Francisco, a district of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area in California, our restoration efforts using milkmaids were hampered by low seed set of our locally adapted plants. Plants in 2 populations were successfully cross-pollinated by hand and seeds ripened about 53 d later and were harvested. Although exact seed germination rates are not available, we noted that germination of hand-pollinated seeds was at least 40% in the nursery. This technique may be appropriate for other species in which natural reproduction is insufficient. We also discuss the role of natural pollinators and the physical changes that occur in the flowers during pollen maturation.
43310436|Imazapic applied at 105 g active ingredient (ai)/ha (1.5 oz ai/ac) eliminated nonnative annual forbs for a single growing season and significantly reduced the production of a nonnative annual grass, cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum L. [Poaceae]), for 2 growing seasons following treatment, without negatively affecting native plant species in a northern Nevada fuelbreak. Imazapic may prove useful in maintaining fuelbreaks created in Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. wyomingensis Beetle & Young [Asteraceae]) plant communities by controlling flammable nonnative annual weeds, not harming desirable native plants, and possibly assisting in the establishment of seeded fireresistant plant materials.
43309955|In this research, the best planting dates for warmseason grasses, little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium [Michx.] Nash [Poaceae]) and sideoats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula [Michx.] Torr. [Poaceae]), were 1 May through 20 July. For cool-season grasses, Canada wildrye (Elymus canadensis L. [Poaceae]) and Kalm's brome (Bromus kalmii A. Gray [Poaceae]), 1 May through 1 August were the best planting dates. Dormant seeding was successful only 1 y for the cool-season grasses. Elymus canadensis had significantly better second-season establishment than other species or mixes and may be useful as a cover crop in prairie restorations.
43309729|Lightweight, permeable cloths can protect germinating seeds in container and bareroot nurseries by moderating temperatures and moisture and improving germination and seedling establishment. These fabrics are easy to apply and remove, and with care, can be reused for several crops.
43310807|The success of all restoration effortsand indeed, of life as we know itdepends on a healthy and diverse population of native pollinators. Pollinators are critical for seed production and the perpetuation of native plants (and our food crops). Bees are our most important pollinators in North America. Nursery managers, seed producers, and field restorationists can protect and enhance habitat for native bees. Native bees have 3 basic habitat needs. 1) Bees need a constant supply of fooda diversity of plants with overlapping blooming times so flowers are available throughout the growing season. 2) Bees need places to nest. Most native bees are solitary, and none build wax or paper structures like we associate with honey bees or wasps. Most bees nest in small warrens they construct underground, or in narrow tunnels often left behind by beetle larvae in dead trees. Bumble bees require small cavities, either in tree boles, underground (often in old rodent burrows), or under clumps of fallen grass, in which to raise their young, as well as undisturbed duff in which queens burrow and hibernate through the winter. 3) Bees need protection from most pesticides. Insecticides are primarily broad spectrum and are therefore deadly to bees. Indiscriminate herbicide use can remove many of the flowers that bees need for food. Foster bees by observing, protecting, and enhancing nesting sites and year-round sources of pollen and nectar.
43310289|We discuss our use of a common laundry spin dry to remove excessive moisture from the surface of seed coats. Spun-dry seeds are flowable and easy to handle in various seed testing and sowing applications.
43309726|Fusarium isolates obtained from diseased Acacia koa Gray (Fabaceae) plants, adjacent soil, and seeds and seedpods may or may not be pathogenic on young seedlings under greenhouse conditions. This includes isolates of Fusarium oxysporum, the putative cause of koa wilt and dieback disease ("koa wilt") in Hawai'i. We tested 10 Fusarium isolates, made up of 4 different species (F. solani, F. subglutinans, F. oxysporum, F. semitectum), for their pathogenic potential on koa seedlings under greenhouse conditions. All tested Fusarium isolates completely colonized seedling root systems and became systemic, spreading to aboveground plant tissues (stems, branches, and leaves). Virulence was quantified on the basis of disease symptoms (mortality, wilting, foliar chlorosis, or necrosis) and effects on seedling height, stem diameter, and root volume. Results varied, ranging from nonpathogenic to high levels of virulence. Pathogenic screening of many more isolates will be necessary to identify pathogens that can be effectively used to screen families of koa for potential resistance to the koa wilt and dieback disease that is seriously affecting this important Hawaiian tree species.
43309635|Four hammock species native to Florida were larger with more flowers 8 wk after transplanting into containers filled with compost or media amended with compost when compared with a Florida peat-based control. Our study indicated that compost can serve as a viable alternative substrate to peat for container production of Florida butterfly sage (Cordici globosa (Jacq.) Kunth [Boraginaceae]), firebush (Hamelia patens Jacq. [Rubiaceae]), scorpions tail (Heliotropium angiospermum (Murray) Britton. [Boraginaceae]), and tropical sage (Salvia coccnea Buc'hoz ex Etl. [Lamiaceae]). Plants transplanted to containers filled with a biosolid: yard waste compost or a formulated compost-based mix (4:5:1, compost: pine bark: sand, v:v:v) grew better than plants transplanted to a commercial peat-based mix, although initial analyses of the medium indicated that compost alone had higher pH; electrical conductivity (EC); N, P, K, Ca, Zn, Cu, Mn, Al, Fe, and contents; and similar air-filled porosity and contents when compared with the peat-or compost-based media.
43310325|Successful propagation of Ceratiola ericoides was achieved using field collected softwood stem cuttings. Our results, using cuttings collected 2 different years, 2 rooting substrates, and 10 levels of auxin treatment, indicate successful rooting (82% to 100%) occurred both with and without auxin treatment. The most consistent rooting of C. ericoides was achieved using a perliteivermiculite rooting substrate with little or no difference among rooting percentages, root number, root length, or estimated total root length for cuttings of both male and female plants. An improvement of root quality (increased root number and root length) occurred with the application of a synthetic auxin (-naphthaleneacetic acid and indole-3-butyric acid) but we recommend concentrations below 5000 ppm. Using standard nursery methods, 73% of the rooted cuttings produced acceptable plants.
43309980|Seeds of 10 species of legumes native to Missouri germinated poorly when the temperature was lower than 15C (59 F). The fastest time to first germinated seed occurred at 20 C (68 F) for all species except purple and white prairie clover, which germinated first at 25 C (77 F). The fastest germination rate was first reached at 20 C (68 F) for hoary tick clover, sessile tick clover, and slender lespedeza, at 25 C (77 F) for white prairie clover, purple prairie clover, panided tick clover, hairy lespedeza, and tall lespedeza, and at 30 C (86 F) for Illinois bundleflower and roundhead lespedeza. Maximum total germination percentage also varied among species. For both the prairie clovers and roundhead lespedeza, hairy lespedeza, and slender lespedeza, the lowest temperature at which maximum total germination percentage occurred was 15 C (59 F). For Illinois bundleflower and the 3 tick clovers, the lowest temperature at which maximum total germination percentage occurred was 20 C (68 F). For most species, the fastest germination rate occurred at a higher temperature than the maximum germination percentage. Many species attained maximum germination percentage and fastest germination rate across a range of temperatures rather than at a single optimal temperature.Species that rapidly and completely germinate across a wide range of temperatures should germinate more reliably under variable soil conditions than species that exhibit a narrow range.
43309859|The Willamette Valley has lost almost 99% of its native prairie habitat. The most vulnerable populations of native plants are on roadsides and unprotected private lands. Collection of seed from these populations is therefore imperative, not only to ensure these genetics are not lost but to develop a supply of genetically diverse native plant material for restoration of prairie ecosystems in the Willamette Valley. Although debate continues among restoration professionals as to the appropriateness of mixing seed sources, acceptance is growing in the Valley that this is desirable within an ecoregion. The hope is that diverse, established populations for restoration will have a better chance of survival over the long term.
43309809|South Texas Natives (STN) is an initiative started in 2001 to develop and promote native plants for the restoration and reclamation of public and private lands in south Texas. At the urging of concerned conservationists and private landowners, STN has developed commercially viable sources of native seed and conducted research to discover effective restoration strategies that can be used by private landowners and government agencies to restore native plant communities. STN grew out of a strong partnership among the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service E "Kika" de la Garza Plant Materials Center, Texas AgriLife Research, Rio Farms Ine, Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Research Institute, and private landowners of south Texas. Plant development efforts center on the release of commercially viable, multiple origin germplasms selected with an awareness of the commercial requirements for production but grounded in genetic and ecosystem function parameters. In addition to plant development efforts, extensive restoration and revegetation research is conducted by STN to develop usable methodology and much-needed guidelines for restoration in south Texas. Current restoration research emphasis centers on providing techniques for the diversification of areas dominated by invasive exotic grasses.
43309724|'Iliahi or Hawaiian sandalwood (Santalum freycinetianum Gaudich. [Santalaceae]) is a hemiparasitic plant that can be readily grown in the nursery, provided some general guidelines are followed. Seeds germinate best if scarified and sown fresh. Plants can be grown to outplanting size (20 cm [8.0 in] tall with stems 8 mm [0.3 in] in diameter) in just 8 to 12 mo using controlled release fertilizer. The best survival and growth occurs when sandalwood is grown with a companion plant.
43320515|Techniques using little hand labor to plant, manage, harvest, and clean seeds of 5 native wildflower species in Mississippi are presented.
43309594|More than 250 native Illinois plant species have been grown either bareroot or in containers at Mason State Nursery. Seedling production is facilitated by collecting seeds from natural populations and by seed production areas at the nursery, and an extensive array of seed processing equipment. Some propagation techniques are included.
43310315|Propagating Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum Sarg. [Cupressaceae]) from seeds is difficult, but proper collection, cleaning, storage, and dormancy treatment can improve success. Our best results are achieved by: 1) avoiding collection of immature and insect damaged cones; 2) minimizing cone storage or storing surfacedried cones under well-ventilated conditions at 1 to 3 C (34 to 37 F) and 80% to 90% humidity; 3) macerating cones in hand-cleaner-amended water; 4) separating light or unfilled seeds from viable seeds with flotation; and 5) treating seeds with a 120-d warm moist stratification in peat moss mix followed by a 150-d cold moist chilling. Establishment and management of cultivated orchards improves seed yield and quality.
43309769|Nurseries that produce a variety of plant species often grow them in Styroblock container systems. A major problem with these systems, however, is finding a method of disposal for "retired blocks" once they are no longer useable. One solution can be to recycle old blocks as light fill for landscaping, particularly in green roof applications. They can provide an economic and environmentally sound alternative to traditional landscaping products.
43309697|After an intense stand-replacement fire in south-central Oregon, 1-y-old (1+0) bareroot seedlings of antelope bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata (Pursh) DC. [Rosaceae]) were outplanted over a 4-y period. Paired-plots were established to examine the benefits of protecting the plants from damage due to animal browsing with Vexar mesh tubing. In the first growing season, height growth in the protected plots was 18.4 cm (7.4 in) compared with 15.6 cm (6.3 in) in the unprotected plots. Survival was also higher in the protected plots (70% as compared with 62%). Larger plants had greater survival than smaller plants. Survival after the first growing season was well correlated with survival up to 3 y later (r = 0.59, P = 0.01 ). Use of browse protection will increase survival and growth, but one must weigh the added costs against the alternative of planting more shrubs initially.
43309667|Trailing wild bean (Strophostyles helvula (L.) Ell. [Fabaceae]) yielded up to 1793 g herbage/plant/y (3.9 Ib) and out-produced smooth-seeded wild bean (Strophostyles leiosperma (Torr. & Gray) Piper) by a factor of 1.8 to 3.4, depending on location and growing conditions. In contrast to trailing wild bean that appeared to be photoperiod sensitive and produced most of its seeds in autumn (63 g/plant/y [2.2 oz]) at the best site, smooth-seeded wild bean responded to light defoliation by increasing seed yields during the growing season (from 12 to 86 g/plant/y [0.4 to 3.0 oz]). Herbage fiber concentration decreased and crude protein increased when defoliation occurred throughout the growing season. Results suggest these Strophostyles species are suitable candidates for rangeland reseeding, wildlife feed, and prairie restoration in the southern Great Plains region.
43309949|A variety of marking systems including steel ribbons, dyes, and silicon chips are being used to deter illegal harvesting of medicinal plants.
43310291|Viability of seeds under short-term storage and subsequent seedling growth on moist or saturated growing medium varied among 5 Mississippi wetland species. Woolgrass (Scirpus cyperinus L. Kunth [Cyperaceae]) and softstem bulrush (Schoenoplectus tabernaemontani (K.C. Gmel.) Palla [Cyperaceae]) retained seed viability best under dry or moist storage conditions; seeds germinated best on saturated growing medium but seedlings grew better on nonsaturated medium. Powdery thalia (Thalia dealbata Fraser ex Roscoe [Marantaceae]) was similar to these species, but seeds germinated better on nonsaturated medium. Two Sagittaria species, longbeak arrowhead (Sagittaria australis (J.G. Sm.) Small [Alismataceae]) and bulltongue (Sagittaria lancifolia L.), retained seed viability better under moist conditions or immersed in water; seed germination and seedling growth was better on saturated growing medium.
43310435|Success in rooting cold-hardy Arctostaphylos Adans. [Ericaceae] cuttings in Colorado is measured by particular attention to harvest timing, cutting preparation, sanitation, and media characteristics. Propagation methods used in Colorado piggyback on those used elsewhere and serve to simplify sometimes complex, if not unsuccessful, procedures. The vegetative propagation techniques and materials presented here should enable propagators to successfully root cold-hardy Arctostaphylos in high numbers.
43310307|Based on our observations of a grass and wildflower meadow growing in 7 radiation zones on the roof of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Conference Center in Salt Lake City, Utah, we identified 21 species that should be considered for future grass/wildflower mixture studies. We also found a single wildflower species and 1 grass species that were too aggressive for mixtures, and 4 wildflower species and 3 species of grass that were not aggressive enough. Mixtures of grasses and wildflowers can be aesthetically appealing, waterconserving, low-maintenance alternatives to conventional turfgrass.
43310808|I observed that whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis Engelm. [Pinaceae]) germinants treated with biological controls, one commercially available (Trichoderma harzianum strain T-22), and the other being studied for potential efficacy (Fusarium oxysporum isolate Q12), experienced less seedling mortality caused by root disease than did a non-treated control. Seedlings treated with the biological controls and nonsymptomatic seedlings in the control treatment had similar morphology. The simple use of biological controls may be useful to nursery managers looking to reduce incidence of root disease in their container crops.
43310324|Fluffy seeds of native wildflowers are difficult to harvest using traditional equipment and methods. We modified intake and storage on a tractor-drawn leaf vacuum machine to better harvest fluffy seeded species such as aster (Aster L. [Asteraceae]) and narrowleaf silkgrass (Pityopsis graminifolia (Michx.) Nutt. [Asteraceae]). By inserting collection bags inside the vacuum and creating a vacuum hood to ride over the rows of plants, only 1 person is needed for the harvest process. The modified equipment allows us to make repeated harvests over the several-week ripening period and it removes only ripe seeds from the plants.
43309934|Trautvetteria caroliniensis (Walt.) Vail (Ranunculaceae) is a gorgeous plant seldom grown in nurseries. Carolina bugbane, or tasselrue, has glossy, dark green, deeply lobed leaves and white flowers that appear over a long period, peaking in late June and mid July. Easily propagated from seeds, it grows best in light to moderate shade moist, organic garden soils. Nursery managers should consider adding this enchanting native to their product line.
43309805|Culver's root (Veronicastrum virginicum (L.) Farw.), a member of the figwort family (Scrophulariaceae), is a summer-blooming native perennial propagated from seeds by Project Native nursery in Massachusetts. Seeds are collected in early to mid-fall and sown in December to mid-January. Sown seeds are given a natural stratification period outdoors under winter cover. Seed trays brought into a polyhouse in April germinate within a month, and seedlings are transplanted into plugs and 3.8-1 (1-gal) containers during the first growing season. Project Native staff prefers to overwinter first-year plants outdoors under protective cover before selling more fully developed plants during the second growing season.
43310306|A modified 35-mm film canister is a useful tool for controlled sowing of small-seeded native species, and a simple, metal, custom-made harvester makes for efficient collection of late-season fleshy fruits.
43320536|Road revegetation with native plants is both a challenge and an opportunity. A new partnership between the Western Federal Lands Highway Division of the Federal Highway Administration and the USDA Forest Service is focusing on the use of native plants for forest highway road revegetation and road obliteration projects. This emphasis is leading to new applications for many native plant species, as well as development of new stock types, innovative equipment, and monitoring techniques. The process of road planning and development has become more holistic and comprehensive, allowing engineers and biologists to work in partnerships to bring about desired results. Unique challenges of road revegetation projects include harsh conditions, high visibility, and a lack of available information and techniques. Road revegetation offers unique opportunities, including long lead times that facilitate advanced seed procurement and nursery development of native plants, as well as allowing time to evaluate different installation techniques. Two projects highlighting some innovative road revegetation strategies and native stock types are discussed: one along a scenic section of a river on steep mountainous terrain, another on a well-traveled, visually sensitive road near a ski area. Strategies included developing and testing hydroseeding mixes and application techniques with native shrub, forb, and grass species; developing seeded mats for establishing native grasses on severe sites such as gabion walls; and overcoming obstacles to obtaining and increasing high-quality local native plant seed. Because little information is available on revegetating roads with native plants, a new manual is being created to help meet the challenges ahead.
43309831|Provisional seed transfer zones were developed for 3 Poaceae grasses, Elymus glaucus Buckley ssp. glaucus, Bromus carinatus Hook. & Arn., and Bromus orcuttianus Vasey, from a 4-y study with 11 reciprocal-transplant gardens across the Plumas National Forest. To conserve existing adaptive patterns, 4 seed zones were proposed for B. carinatus and B. orcuttianus, and six for E. glaucus. Adaptive traits of source populations were correlated with their geographic, climatic, and ecologie origins. Findings based on seed source  environment interactions and the geographic-climatic patterns for local, distant, and proximal-paired populations suggest that natural selective pressures have produced weak to moderate broad-scale local adaptation. Three consistent "coarse-textured" adaptive patterns emerged: 1) sources from mesic west-side and east-side ecological zones formed two well-differentiated groups; 2) sources from the broad intermediate area (west-side central and transition) were less differentiated and often ntergraded with the mesic west-side (southwestern) and east-side (northeastern) groups; and 3) mesic west-side was divided into 2 elevation bands. Local adaptation was found less often on a finely tuned local scale.
43320797|We recently completed research that showed X-ray analysis was a better predictor of northern red oak (Quercus rubra L. [Fagaceae]) acorn viability and early growth than was moisture content. X-ray image analysis is a rapid and nondestructive test of acorn viabilitytissue desiccation can be readily quantified. This article describes how to bring this proposed seed test into practice, with the goal of improving nursery efficiency and quality of oak seedlings.
43309711|Rock evening primrose (Oenothera caespitosa Nutt. [Onagraceae]) is readily grown from seeds. Mature capsules are collected between late summer and early fall. Seeds are removed from capsules by drying them for 4 wk in paper bags. Any capsules that have not yet opened on their own after drying can be opened manually. Seeds must be stratified for about 120 d to ensure germination. Seedlings can be grown to sufficient size in 1 y for outplanting using a standard medium and fertilizer.
43309952|Softwood cutting of Florida coastal dune species gulf bluestem (Schizachyrium maritimum Chapman (Nash) [Poaceae]), seacoast marshelder (Iva imbricata Walter [Asteraceae ]), false rosemary (Conradina canescens Gray [Lamiaceae], and Atlantic St Johnswort (Hypericum reductum (Svens.) P. Adams [Clusiaceae]) were propagated with the aid of commerical rooting hormones containing indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). For all 4 species, an external application of an auxin was not esential for rooting. However, auxin application did improve root quality for seacoast marshelder, false rosemary, and Atlantic St Johnswort.
43310439|Colorado blue columbine (Aquilegia caerulea james [Ranunculaceae]), Palmer's penstemon (Penstemon palmeri Gray [Scrophulariaceae]), and Russian sage (Perovskia atriplicifolia Benth. [Lamiaceae]) were treated with 5 rates of a standard water-soluble fertilizer (0, 50, 100, 200, 400 mg/l [ppm] nitrogen [N]) to determine the optimum concentration for the production of plants in greenhouse containers. Plant quality and shoot dry matter increased while root: shoot dry matter decreased linearly with fertilizer concentration up to 200 ppm N for all species in a spring trial. Responses to fertilizer concentrations up to 400 ppm were less consistent in a fall trial. The response of gooseberryleaf globemallow (Sphaeralcea grossulariifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Rydb. [Malvaceae]) and Rocky Mountain penstemon (Penstemon strictus Benth. [Scrophulariaceae]) to 5 media pHs (average 4.5, 5.4, 6.0, 6.9, and 8.3) was also evaluated. During the summer and, for P. strictus, spring, plants growing in the lowest pH did not perform as well as in the intermediate pH treatments. Plant performance in the high pH treatment was consistently lower than in the intermediate pHs for both species at all times. Overall, results indicate these native species can be grown using fertilizer concentrations (200 ppm) and media pHs (5.1 to 7.2) similar to other common greenhouse plants.
43309852|The seed cleaning and certification process can be shortened by making relatively accurate in-house measurements of seed quality. The USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service Aberdeen Plant Materials Center (PMC) uses a simple procedure known as the Pop Test to estimate seed quality prior to sending seedlots to a laboratory for testing. Pop Tests are conducted simply by heating seeds on a hot plate until they pop. The accuracy of the Pop Test was evaluated by comparing test results with germination and tetrazolium results obtained from a certified laboratory on 14 native species. Results indicate that the Pop Test is a good predictor of seed fill in newer lots of seed. Combined pop and movement responses were well aligned with laboratory results indicating that seed with any movement should be counted as viable. Accuracy of the Pop Test decreases with seed age, because seed embryos die at a quicker rate than seeds lose moisture, retaining the ability to pop even after the seed becomes unviable.
43309787|Invasion by exotic woody species and disruption of natural hydrologic conditions require the restoration of native riparian plant communities along rivers and streams in the Southwest. Successful establishment of phreatophytic riparian plant species has been accomplished using deep-planting techniques that involve the immediate exploitation of capillary fringe moisture by the existing root system of nursery stock or the adventitious root system of a cutting. These techniques, which require minimal or no post-planting irrigation in arid and semiarid regions, include the planting of dormant pole cuttings, dormant whip cuttings, tallpots with long root systems, as well as long-stem nursery stock whose root crowns are deeply buried.
43310331|In the 1990s western native seed markets expanded beyond traditional mineland reclamation and wildlife habitat customers to fire rehabilitation and nonprofit organization conservation efforts. The USDA Conservation Reserve Program's emphasis on native plants for agricultural set-aside acreage was also a major contributor to industry growth during this period. In contrast to 13 y ago, government-based demand now dominates the market. Unpredictable government demand resulting from CRP and wildland fires has caused sharp price escalations when demand has exceeded supply. Conversely, overplanting and subsequent multi-year harvests of these perennial crops have resulted in price drops as seed stocks accumulated in the face of weakened demand. But overall, prices quadrupled between 1990 and 2000 before falling back in the 2000 to 2002 period. Furthermore, from 1996 to 2000 native grass seed acreage increased 118% to nearly 6070 ha (15 000 ac). Today, seed crops are much more likely to be produced by growers under contract to seed companies, rather than speculatively by producers/marketers as was typical in 1990.
43309826|Scalping is a mechanical process whereby the soil is peeled back in a shallow (5 to 10 cm [2 to 4 in]) furrow that is 75 to 90 cm (30 to 35 in) wide. Scalping is often recommended prior to planting longleaf pine (Pinus palustris Mill. [Pinaceae]) on pastures and land formally occupied with row crops; however, some reports suggest that growth of pines is reduced when seedlings are planted on scalped areas. A study was implemented in southern Alabama to determine the effect of scalping on early survival and growth of bareroot and container longleaf pine. In this study, scalping reduced seedling survival of bareroot stock by an average of 18 percentage points, which is contrary to findings from results on well-drained soils. On this relatively flat site (Greenville Fine, kaolinitic, thermic Rhodic Kandiudult), I speculate that scalped areas collected water and some seedlings died from waterlogging. This detrimental effect appeared to be greater on bareroot stock than on container stock. In contrast, early height growth at this site was excellent and scalping increased growth by an average of 0.9 m (3 ft). Stocktype affected both survival and growth with bareroot seedlings outperforming container stock.
43309791|An improved brush cleaning comb has been developed by the Missoula Technology and Development Center using an approach suggested by the USDA Forest Service's Bend Seed Extractory. Brushing machines remove the awns (stiff, slender, sometimes barbed stalks) when grass seeds are cleaned. Rotating brushes cut off the awns by scraping the seeds against the brushing machine's wire mesh mantle screen. The improved brush cleaning combs keep the awns from clogging the rotating brushes.
43309944|A plastic tub can easily be attached to a gas-powered hedge trimmer, resulting in an efficient, highly-maneuverable piece of equipment for collecting native plant seeds.
43309800|The planting of native woody plants is a cornerstone of many habitat restoration projects. Current techniques for revegetating disturbed or reclaimed plant communities often consist primarily of planting trees and shrubs from container stock, which can be costly to buy or produce, time-consuming to plant (an additional cost), and logistically difficult for large-scale restoration projects. We tested whether direct seeding woody species was more cost effective than planting container stock. During fall 2004, we planted 3 sites encompassing the ecotone of foothill riparian and woodland habitats in northern California with 10 native species of woody plants, both as container stock and direct seed. Data on survival were collected over a 2-y period. Across species, the planting success of direct-seeded plants, but not container plants, increased significantly with increasing mean seed size. Although seeds generally had lower individual planting success than did container stock, this was always offset by the higher costs of purchasing and planting container stock. Direct seeding was up to 29 times more cost effective than planting container stock when considering base costs (not including fixed costs of tubes, irrigation, and herbicide). Including these additional costs reduced the cost advantage, but direct seeding remained more cost effective per surviving plant across all species, and especially so for large-seeded species.
43309625|The results of our 2 long-term studies indicate that while it may be best to restore a site with wiregrass (Aristida beyrichinia Trin. & Rupr. [Poaceae]) obtained from a similar site, it does not seem to be essential. In the first study, after 12 y, plants grown on a flatwood site in south-central Florida from seeds collected at a sandhill site (2 locations) in north-central Florida had 83% survival and average aboveground dry mass was 39 g/plant (1.4 oz) with basal diameter of 11.6 cm (4.6 in). In a second study, wiregrass plants from seeds collected at 8 locations (8 entries) across Florida were grown on a flatwood site in central Florida. Four of these entries were also grown on a sandhill site in north Florida. After 4 y on the flatwood site, one entry originating from a nearby flatwood survived better (88%) than the 7 other entries. One entry from a sandhill was notably inferior in survival (3%), but for the remaining 6 entries survival was similar (average 32%). On the sandhill site, the same entry of flatwood origin that had 88% survival on a flatwood had 92% survival, while the other 3 entries averaged 7% survival. Plant dry mass and diameter were not strongly associated with plant origin. Mass averaged 14.8 and 3.1 g/plant (0.52 and 0.11 oz) and diameter averaged 63 and 30 mm/plant (2.5 and 1.8 in) on the flatwood and sandhill sites, respectively.
43309716|USDA NRCS Cape May Plant Materials Center has successfully utilized an agricultural combine for cleaning seeds of smooth cordgrass (Spartina altemiflora Loisel. [Poaceae]). Large-scale conservation and restoration efforts will benefit when this technique can be cost effectively implemented.
43309814|Chaparral Germplasm hairy grama (Bouteloua hirsuta Lag. var. hirsuta [Poaceae]) was released as a Texas Selected Native Plant Germplasm in 2007. This germplasm is a blend of 4 selections of hairy grama originating from native populations in the Edwards Plateau, Rio Grande Plain, Sandsheet Prairie, and Gulf Coast Prairies ecoregions of Texas. Chaparral Germplasm comprises plants representative of the considerable ecotypic variation of B. hirsuta found across the intended area of use and contains ecotypes originating from a variety of soils where the species occurs. This germplasm has high potential for use in rangeland seed mixtures and in highway rights-of-way plantings. Chaparral Germplasm represents the first release of selected plant material of this widespread native grass.
43309701|Replacing the standard brush on a Woodward Flail-Vac Seed Stripper with a cartridge-wafer configured brush appears to improve seed harvesting efficiency of a grass and forb. The new brush has convoluted openings and stiffer bristles, and costs much less than the standard brush. Information for obtaining mechanical drawings is provided.
43309678|Four species of moss (Hylocomium splendens Crum [Hylocomiacea], Rhytidiopsis robusta Lawton [Hylocomiacea], Dicranum scoparium Lawton [Dicranaceae], and Mnium lycopodiodes Crum [Mniaceae]) were grown from spores and fragmented gametophyte shoots in Glacier National Park's Native Plant Nursery. All 4 species were propagated using a blended slurry of moss spores, moss fragments, sterilized soil, and distilled water. The slurry was poured onto sterilized EcoCompost, and growth of protonema, an early stage of the gametophyte generation, occurred after 20 to 30 d. Moss shoots appeared approximately 60 d after propagation with leaves developing shortly after the shoots. All 4 species were successfully propagated, with the best results occurring in Hylocomium splendens and Rhytidiopsis robusta. After greenhouse growth and hardening in an outdoor shadehouse, mosses were outplanted.
43310278|Todays conservation concerns range from rare plant preservation to landscapes threatened by alien annuals. Effective action follows effective decision-making based on appropriately framed questions. We present the restoration gene pool (RGP) concept as a framework for choosing plant materials based on the priorities of the species, plant communities, systems, and landscapes threatened. We couch our discussion in an acknowledgment of 65 y of national plant materials progress that has evolved with society's priorities and has maintained a high degree of cooperation among participating entities. The plant materials program and its cooperators have contributed the bulk of the material and technology now used in ecosystem restoration and are our foundation for meeting conservation challenges of the future. Using a discussion of the genetics of native plant materials and 2 conservation challenges, we illustrate how the RGP concept can be used to select plant materials based on their ability to meet priority concerns.
43309786|A selected germplasm class of black chokecherry (Prunus virginiana L. var. melanocarpa (A. Nelson) Sarg. [Rosaceae]) has been released for urban landscaping enhancement plantings, range and mined land reclamation plantings, shelterbelts, windbreaks, and wildlife habitat enhancement plantings. Colorow Germplasm had the best performance out of 7 original chokecherry accessions. It had 100% survival, excellent vigor, heavy seed production, and very light wildlife use in regards to browsing. Colorow Germplasm has been evaluated extensively for more than 30 y in the Wyoming and Colorado western regions. The site of the seed source is near the proximity of the Roan Plateau and the Piceance Basin of western Colorado and eastern Utah. This area, along with southern Wyoming, is undergoing substantial disturbance from oil and gas development. Colorow Germplasm is the first commercially available release to the public of black chokecherry.
43320506|To make intelligent choices in the marketplace, native seed customers should have a working understanding of genetic principles and terminology as they apply to self-pollinated, cross-pollinated, and apomictic plant materials. Customers should understand the genetic implications of a species' breeding system, the various approaches used to decide what should be planted where, the risk of inbreeding or outbreeding depression, the meaning of commonly misunderstood terms such as "ecotype" and "cultivar," and the role of hybridization and artificial selection in plant materials development. Plant material selection involves consideration of geographic (such as ecoregion, precipitation, winter hardiness, soil type), genetic (molecular markers), and adaptation (field testing) data.
43309991|Bromus carinatus Hook. & Arn. and Elymus glaucus Buckley are 2 notoriously short-lived native grasses (Poaceae) of the western US. In my operational trials, refrigeration with indicator silica gel is the best energy-efficient method of storage, maintaining Elymus germination > 60% for at least 10 y and Bromus germination > 90% after 14 y.
43310447|Producing seeds of multiple Willamette Valley prairie forb species is challenging for a grower. Many species do not lend themselves to standard commercial seed production methods. This reality has driven us to find creative, efficient ways to produce seeds of some of the more challenging species. By sharing our results, Heritage Seedlings Inc hopes to provide restoration professionals and native seed buyers with information critical to planning projects and selecting materials.
43309830|From our experiences, awl-fruit sedge (Carex stipata Muhl. ex Willd. [Cyperaceae]) is an easily propagated wetland plant in Washington State. Because seeds can be collected from the same growth year, germinated without stratification, and grown into plants, stipata can be quickly propagated during summer for fall and winter outplanting. We believed, however, that perigynium removal could improve success. We compared germination rates of intact seeds with those having perigynia removed and found that seeds stripped of their perigynia germinated at a greater rate and sooner than did intact seeds (average of 58% versus 21 % of seeds at 6 wk). We conclude that removing seeds from their perigynia increases initial germination of C. stipata.
43309940|The IR-4 Program assists growers of native plants who need special pesticide labeling for their crops.
43309725|We conducted a reintroduction program for rare goatsfoot passionflower (Passiflora sexflora Juss. [Passifloraceae]) that was possible only through the cooperative efforts of 4 different agencies, one private homeowner, and several volunteers. The reintroduction program included surveying for and collecting wild plants, nursery propagation, and reintroduction to 2 locations within the historic range of goatsfoot passionflower. Reintroductions tripled the known population size of this species. Early results show that 90% of transplants have survived to date, with more than one-third of these reproducing.
43320525|One method of obtaining seeds of native plants may be to let seeds fall to the soil surface and collect them by vacuuming. We evaluated this method by comparing plants that germinated from material vacuumed after fire with plants that germinated from seeds found in cores taken from the top 25 mm (1 in) of soil in a Florida flatwoods plant community before and after fire. A total of 76 species were identified in cores, of which 66 species were found before, and 60 species after, fire. No differences attributable to fire were found for seed density (3261 seeds/m [2740/yd]) or concentration in cores (282 seeds/kg [128/lb]). Vacuumed material contained seeds of 58 species (54 in common with cores) with a density of 170 seeds/m [142/yd] and a concentration of 451 seeds/kg (204/lb). Species correlations between cores and vacuumed material were significant for 19 of 46 species whose density was > 1/m in cores. Seeds of 10 species in vacuumed material were common as plants in standing vegetation, but seeds of 13 species (mostly shrubs) growing on the site were not in cores or vacuumed material. Vacuuming the soil surface may be effective for obtaining a diverse supply of seeds for herbaceous plants common on flatwoods after fire. Some species in vacuumed material, however, may not be in proportion to seeds in soil and the vacuumed material will not include seeds of some shrubs that characterize Florida flatwoods communities.
43310281|Riparian corridors can often be classified into 4 distinct zones (toe, bank, overbank, and transitional) wherein specific plants are adapted and should be planted. Nursery managers can grow a variety of species in a multitude of different stock types for planting in those zones. Bioengineering treatments are often necessary to physically stabilize streambanks before plants can be established. Four common bioengineering treatments (brush mattress, wattle, vertical bundle, poles) require specialty plant materials not generally grown in nurseries. Stooling beds of source-identified plants can yield these cuttings for an expanding bioengineering market.
43309858|Using established protocols and thereby applying a systematic approach to monitoring roadside revegetation projects can increase the quality of monitoring information and reduce the amount of field and office time. We present a guide to developing a simple monitoring plan, selecting monitoring protocols, collecting and analyzing data, and presenting findings in a monitoring report. The approach is demonstrated in a case study. Also included is a brief description of a monitoring protocol we developed that uses a digital camera and a computer program called the Cover Monitoring Assistant (CMA) to facilitate a quick assessment of soil and vegetative cover information from digital photographs.
43310768|In a simple evaluation we found that a portable refrigerator/freezer unit, powered by the 12v DC connection in a vehicle, maintained a constant and colder temperature than a similarly sized recreation-style cooler filled with ice. Such a device may have utility for preserving the quality of seeds and cuttings collected in the field.
43310277|Use of the term "native" when referring to plants is common in many settings. However, what "native" means to different individuals and groups is often poorly understood. Inconsistent definition of native status ("nativity") may complicate implementation or endorsement of conservation activities, particularly those involving revegetation. Professionals in plant-related fields are typically responsible for developing revegetation projects as well as regulations that apply to these projects. To assess how definition criteria may differ between groups we developed a questionnaire that asked respondents to asscss native status in 13 hypothetical revegetation scenarios. A total of 303 questionnaires were evaluated with respondents from 33 states. Different respondent groups responded differently in certain scenarios. Where differences existed, professionals in plant-related fields were more likely to regard plants native than non-professionals. Respondents associated with Native Plant Societies (NPS) were less likely to designate plants as native than non-NPS respondents. Successful conservation activities with native plants should involve open and precise definition of nativity.
43310810|A selected germplasm of Nevada bluegrass (Poa secunda J. Presi [Poaceae]) has been released for use on severely impacted sites with moderately acidic to slightly alkaline soil pH and moderate to high soil concentrations of certain heavy metals. This germplasm has utility for reseeding burned forest lands to suppress weed growth, spring grazing, wildlife habitat enhancement practices, logging road revegetation, and general reclamation of mined lands.
43310304|Wooden frames with hardware cloth provide an easy way to effectively pre-clean small lots of grass seeds in the field. We describe frames with 2 sizes of cloth used for western grass species.
43310814|A selected-class pre-variety germplasm of basalt milkvetch (Astragalus filipes Torr, ex A. Gray [Fabaceae]) has been released for reclamation, rehabilitation, and restoration of semiarid rangelands in the northern Great Basin Region of the western US.
43309810|A selected germplasm of Rio Grande clammyweed (Polanisia dodecandra (L.) DC. ssp. riograndensis Iltis [Capparaceae]) has been released for rangeland restoration and wildlife habitat enhancement plantings in south Texas. Zapata Germplasm Rio Grande clammyweed is a warm-season annual forb originating from seed collected from native plants in Dimmitt and Zapata counties of south Texas. Collections were selected based on high proportion of full seed, low levels of seed dormancy, and high seed production potential. Zapata Germplasm is a fastestablishing native plant in rangeland plantings, provides excellent habitat to butterflies and other pollinators, and produces seed eaten by a variety of game birds. This release will provide a competitive annual forb useful for providing quick cover in rangeland plantings and will contribute to quality habitat for many wildlife species and pollinators. Zapata germplasm represents the first release of this species.
43320531|In this study, we outplanted frozen-stored container stock in operational settings and found minimal effects of thawing regime on seedling performance over 2 y. We monitored the performance of 1+0 container stock of 3 coniferous species (lodgepole pine [Pinus contorta var. latifolia (Pinaceae)], western larch [Larix occidental (Pinaceae)], and interior spruce [Picea glauca and P. engelmannii hybrid complex (Pinaceae)]) planted with frozen or thawed root plugs at 2 sites. Differences in chlorophyll fluorescence between frozen and thawed seedlings disappeared within 3 d of outplanting, and differences in budburst phenology disappeared within 6 wk of outplanting. Frozen seedlings had slightly lower diameter and biomass than thawed seedlings but did not differ in condition, height, or sturdiness ratio over 2 growing seasons. Interspecific and environmental differences accounted for much more of the variation in measured attributes than did plug temperature treatment. Eliminating the thaw stage from the seedling production process can yield significant operational advantages.
43310296|Nursery managers can improve germination of longleaf pine (Pinus palustris P. Mill. [Pinaceae]) seeds and seedling establishment by reducing seedborne pathogenic fungi with appropriate sterilants and fungicides. We have tested many chemicals, but hydrogen peroxide, thiophanate methyl, and thiram seem to provide the best results in reducing the large populations of microorganisms carried on the large, thin, and fibrous seed coats. Our evaluations of longleaf seeds indicate that Fusarium spp. are major seedborne pathogens that cause mortality to seeds and newly germinated seedlings. Seeds of other southern pines have denser coats and are less adversely affected by the presence of seedborne pathogens. The increased demand for longleaf pine seeds in the last few years makes reducing this contamination an important consideration by seed dealers and nursery managers.
43309933|Our study was designed to determine how topsoil and fertilizer supplements affect the establishment of native warm season grasses on a northwestern Indiana slag refuse site. We seeded a mix of 5 locally collected warm season grass species (big bluestem, Andropogon gerardii Vitman; little bluestem, Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash; indiangrass, Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash; prairie sandreed, Calamovilfa longifilia (Hook.) Scribn.; switchgrass, Panicum virgatum L.) to plots with and without topsoil additions; split plots were either treated with a balanced fertilizer at 1120 kg/ha (1000 lb/ac) or left unfertilized. Adding topsoil to slag significantly (P < 0.05) increased the percent foliar cover, number of warm season grass plants, percentage of warm season grasses, and relative effectiveness rating for improving wildlife habitat and aesthetic value compared to non-amended slag. No significant differences (P > 0.05) were found between fertilized and non-fertilized plots. Based on comparisons between individual seeded warm season grasses, little bluestem had the highest plant counts relative to its proportion in the mix and exceeded expectation (P = 0.1) across all seeded treatments.
43310290|For 2 populations of Nebraska sedge (Carex nebrascensis Dewey [Cyperaceae]), removal of the perigynium, the saclike structure around mature achenes, either with forceps or sandpaper, provided sufficient scarification to significantly increase total germination about 50% compared with that of nonscarified achenes. We also found that a combination of scarification and 32 d of cold, moist stratification resulted in 25% higher total germination than stratification alone. Stratification of scarified achenes with sphagnum peat moss resulted in 17% more germination than when scarified achenes were stratified in distilled water only. Our results indicate Nebraska sedge can be efficiently germinated in nurseries if perigynia are removed by scarification and achenes stratified 32 d at 3 C (37 F) with a sphagnum peat moss substrate.
43309937|Seven nations of Native Americans in the US and Canada are using native plant species for restoration and to reintroduce populations of species of cultural significance due to habitat loss. The scope of their projects as well as the important environmental, cultural, and economic benefits resulting from their efforts are briefly described.
43309596|Ten Utah species of perennial wild buckwheat (Eriogonum spp.) produced seeds (achenes) that were either nondormant or that lost dormancy during moist chilling. While there were species-specific patterns, seeds collected from low elevations generally had shorter chilling requirements (0 to 8 wk) and faster germination rates in chilling (<11 wk to 50%) than those from high elevations (12 to 24 wk and >15 wk to 50%). The absence of a fraction not responsive to chilling suggests that these species may not form persistent seed banks. Wild buckwheats establish readily from late fall seedings and are also easily greenhouse-propagated from seeds. They deserve wider use as drought-tolerant ornamentals.
43309829|Shrub yellowroot (Xanthorhiza simplicissima Marsh.), a member of the buttercup family (Ranunculaceae), is a native perennial ground cover propagated from seed at New England Wild Flower Society's Nasami Farm Nursery in Whately, Massachusetts. Seeds are collected in September and October and are sown in mid-December. Sown seed trays are covered and stratified for 3 mo in an unheated polyhouse. Seed trays are uncovered in early March and seeds germinate in 10 to 20 d. Shrub yellowroot seedlings are transplanted into plugs during the first growing season and are overwintered in an unheated polyhouse before being transplanted into 2-1 (2.1-q) containers the following spring. It takes approximately 16 mo to go from germinated seeds to salable plants.
43309754|Revegetating burns is a major challenge facing resource managers in the low-and unpredictable-precipitation deserts of the southwestern US. We monitored the effectiveness of using a diverse, 28-species seed mix for establishing native plants on a 1.5-ha (3.7-ac) burn in the northern Sonoran Desert. Our objective was to compare species performances, which we assessed by measuring species frequencies and cover on 5 sampling dates to capture variation during a 32-mo period following seeding. By 15 mo after seeding, desert senna (Senna covesii (Gray) Irwin & Barneby [Fabaceae]) established best, with a frequency of 9 1% (based on 22, 10-m 2 plots) and a relative cover of 19%. Four other seeded species also became established in  50% of plots by 32 mo after seeding. Several seeded species, including desert senna (which flowered only 7 wk after seeding) and purple threeawn (Aristida purpurea Nutt. [Poaceae]), were observed with seed heads during one or more sampling periods. Although precipitation was only 67% of normal for 21 mo following seeding and 7 1% of species established in < 10% of plots, we consider the seeding to have met short-term management objectives because of the subset of highly successful species. Our results also illustrate the caution that should be used when evaluating seeding success: conclusions would have differed if the diversity of the seed mix had not included the successful species, and longer term monitoring was needed to detect some species in the seed mix that did not establish until 32 mo after seeding.
43309679|Gardening with native plants is becoming more popular as evidenced by the number of new Internet sites, books, publications, and native plant societies. Restoration efforts are also increasing. The increase in both native plant gardening and restoration can be tied to a real or perceived decrease in wild areas and the biological and cultural functions that nature provides. Historical literature suggests that both gardening and restoration efforts are increasing because of strongly held cultural beliefs. Many of these beliefs reflect strong European cultural history, which is embedded in garden history in North America. These cultural traditions remain strong in the US and lead to an increase in efforts to restore and cherish nature, especially to save disappearing wild places and species. Gardening with a restoration focus, such as for sustaining wildlife, will most likely continue as wilder areas continue to be converted to homes and managed landscapes.
43309839|Subirrigation, a method whereby water is allowed to move upward into the growing medium by capillary action, has been the focus of recent research in forest and conservation nurseries growing a wide variety of native plants. Subirrigation reduces the amount of water needed for producing high-quality plants, discharged wastewater, and leaching of nutrients compared with traditional overhead irrigation systems. Recent research has shown additional benefits of subirrigation, such as enhanced crop uniformity and improved outplanting performance. With these advantages and successful operational use in some locales, it seems likely that subirrigation would be of use to a greater number of native plant nurseries. In this article, we provide an overview of ebb-and-flow subirrigation technologies including potential benefits, summarize the current state of research knowledge for native plant production, present special considerations for these systems, and offer a basic framework on how growers can implement such a system.
43309601|Longleaf pine (Pinus palustris P. Mill. [Pinaceae]) was once the most prevalent pine type in the southern US. Stands of longleaf were also habitat for a vast array of plant species. Decades of timber harvest followed by conversion to agriculture, urban development, or to other pine species, have reduced longleaf dominated areas to less than 5% of its original range. My paper discusses the habitat and history of this once vast resource, outlining its key role as an integral part of native plant communities. I also focus on the more recent recognition of the ecological importance of longleaf pine ecosystems. This appreciation, along with advances in technology and additional information, are combining to reverse the long-term trend and should help ensure that longleaf communities remain as a viable and valuable part of the Souths heritage.
43310440|We grow Zamia pumila L. (Zamiaceae), the only cycad occurring north of Mexico, using a low-tech but effective system. After collecting seeds from cones during winter, we simply scatter seeds onto outdoor germination beds composed of growing medium recycled from our container operation. After the first and second year of field bed germination, emergents are transplanted into containers. Finished container stock takes 3 to 5 y depending on desired size.
43310454|Results of a recent common-garden study provide evidence needed to delineate appropriate seed transfer zones for the native grass Festuca roemeri (Pavlick) E. B. Alexeev (Poaceae). That information has been used to develop pre-variety germplasm releases to provide ecologically and genetically appropriate seeds for habitat restoration, erosion control, and other revegetation projects in 5 regions of the Pacific Northwest, US. Seed sources for these composite populations were chosen to represent a broad base of genetic diversity found within each region, while using plants that overlap in flowering time, have average to high seed yield, and originate at similar elevations. The process of selecting appropriate seed sources and developing the germplasm releases is described here. Ongoing and future investigations are likely to include seed production technology, establishment methods, stand management, and adaptation to diverse sites and specific uses.
43309959|Acid scarification, warm stratification, cold stratification, and soaks in gibberellic acid (GA) were effective in promoting germination in mountain snowberry (Symphoricarpos oreophilus Gray [Caprifoliaceae]) from New Mexico, but treatment levels and interactions were important. The combination of a 30-min acid soak, 21-d warm stratification treatment, and 84-d cold stratification treatment (the shortest duration evaluated) was highly effective in promoting germination. Increasing cold stratification from 84 to 168 d increased germination, as did incubation in all concentrations (250 to 1000 ppm) of GA, but the benefit of longer cold stratification and GA incubation was reduced for acid-scarified seeds. Acid scarification breaks physiological dormancy of the embryo and may allow maturation of the embryo during cold stratification to begin sooner. Timing of GA application was also important. For seeds undergoing acid scarification followed by warm stratification followed by cold stratification, application of GA prior to warm stratification resulted in less germination compared to application following warm stratification. In snowberry, early GA application may result in GA catabolism during warm stratification, reducing the concentration available during cold stratification.
43309688|Four methods of seeding Nebraska sedge (Carex nebrascensis Dewey [Cyperaceae]) and Baltic rush (Juncus balticus Willd. [Juncaceae]) were compared in a controlled greenhouse environment. Methods evaluated were: 1) tackifier; 2) Submerseed pellets; 3) surface pressed; and 4) drilled. Greenhouse trays were flooded following seeding, and seeds were allowed to germinate in saturated soil conditions. Treatments were then evaluated for percentage of seeds that germinated within the row in which they were sown, and for number of seedlings per section of row. Results show Submerseed pellets have a high capacity for holding seeds in place and provide good germination.
43309712|It is possible to obtatain clean seeds of chokecherry (Prunus virginiana L. [Rosaceae]) and other similar species, as well as to capture the nutritional component of the fruits. Here we describe an easy way to make chokecherry honey.
43310455|Reintroduction of endangered plants faces many challenges, but the survival of some species may depend on its success. What measures should practitioners take to ensure a successful project, and how should success be measured? Steps in the reintroduction process include planning and identification of objectives, finding source material, propagation, site selection, site preparation, outplanting, monitoring, evaluation and interpretation, feedback to improve protocols, communication with others, habitat maintenance, and repeated actions if necessary to meet objectives. Conducting reintroductions as designed experiments and applying the results through adaptive management will maximize the effectiveness of reintroductions.
43309662|The Intermountain Native Plant Growers Association (INPGA) was founded in 2003 to facilitate producing and marketing plants native to the Intermountain western US for landscape use. The association currently has 90 members, including 65 member nurseries. The Utah's Choice plant tagging and education program is the flagship program of INPGA. It features plant tags, signage, and other marketing materials for 40 key species. Membership in INPGA is open to all interested parties and has many benefits for member nurseries, such as reduced prices on Utah's Choice marketing materials and access to the INPGA Seed Bank.
43310302|In order to collect seeds from a wide range of southeastern US woodland species with diverse dispersal strategies, specially made collection bags are placed over plants. After collection, seeds are separated from debris with a strainer and further cleaned with a fanning mill. This method can be used for efficient collection of large numbers of seeds at ideal ripeness, in a nursery or in the wild.
43309856|Prairie Harvest Germplasm common hackberry (Ceitis occidentalis L. [Ulmaceae]) is a selected class of natural germplasm released for use in conservation plantings in the Northern Great Plains and Upper Midwest of the US. Originating from native trees located in Polk County, northwestern Minnesota, this northern selection is winter hardy with improved form and growth rates. This germplasm release is recommended for conservation use as a tall tree in windbreaks, wildlife areas, and riparian plantings. Prairie Harvest Germplasm represents the first northern source release of common hackberry for conservation use in the northern regions of Minnesota and North Dakota.
43320518|To determine germination rate and final germination percentage of the endangered Florida endemic Caribbean applecactus (Harrisia fragrans Small [Cactaceae]), we treated seeds with sulfuric and gibberellic (GA) acids and germinated them under constant temperature regimes. Temperature effect was marginal at best, with only 2% of seed germinating in 50 d in 25C. AIthough there was improved germination with sulfuric acid (HSO) alone, significant increases in both germination rate and germination percentage were realized when seeds were scarified with 18 M HSO for 15,30, and 45 s, followed by soaking in 1000 ppm GA for 24 h, with 68% germination in 120 d for the 45 s HSO treatment Emergence first occurred on day 18 for seed treated with 1000 ppm GA but not until day 70 for the 500 ppm treatment Control seeds failed to emerge during the observation period. These treatments represent a quick method of meeting Species Level Recovery Actions for Harrisia fragrans in the Multi-Species Recovery Plans for South Florida.
43309780|A selected germplasm of slender grama (Bouteloua repens (Kunth) Scribn. & Merr. [Poaceae]) was released for rangeland reseeding, highway rights-of-way plantings, and wildlife habitat enhancement plantings in southern Texas. Dilley Germplasm slender grama is a blend of 5 accessions selected from evaluation at multiple sites in southern Texas. Accessions comprising the release are increased from the original collection of a native population to maintain the genetic integrity of each accession. Dilley Germplasm slender grama has shown consistent early emergence and establishment in rangeland plantings and is highly competitive with several problematic exotic grass species.
43309804|White River Germplasm Indian ricegrass (Achnatherum hymenoides (Roem. & Schult.) Barkworth [Poaceae]) has been released for use in rangeland seedings. This plant material traces from a seed morph collected in northwestern Colorado in Rio Blanco County, near the White River. White River Germplasm displays good germinability in a species characterized by high levels of seed dormancy. We anticipate this material will be used in the Upper Colorado Plateau of eastern Utah and western Colorado and the Basin Province of southern Wyoming.
43320794|With about half the amount of water, subirrigated Metrosideros polymorpha Gaud. (Myrtaceae) grown 9 mo in a greenhouse were similar to those irrigated with an existing fixed overhead irrigation system; moss growth was about 3X greater in the fixed overhead system after 3 mo. Moss growth was affected by the rate of preplant controlled release fertilizer added (more fertilizer, less moss) and moss maturity, quantified as presence or absence of sporangia, was slowed with subirrigation. About 5 g nitrogen (N) leached per m (0.02 oz/ft) of greenhouse bench under the fixed irrigation system, whereas none was lost from subirrigation. Besides Metrosideros macropus, the USDA Forest Service and Purdue University are evaluating subirrigation for nursery production of other species. To date, the results indicate subirrigation may be a useful technique for growing native plants with large canopies where conventional irrigation systems are less effective, or where water use or other environmental concerns are paramount.
43310303|In Utah, racquets and hoppers are used to collect small lots of long-leaf hawksbeard (Crepis acuminata Nutt. [Asteraceae]) and pale mountain dandelion (Agoseris glauca (Pursh) Raf. [Asteraceae]). These seedlots are often contaminated with squirreltail (Elymus elymoides (Raf.) Swezey [Poaceae]) and cheatgrass (Broumus tectorum L. [Poaceae]). We toss the mixed seeds at a large piece of plush feltthe composite seeds fall to a collection container but the appendages on the grasses stick to the felt.
43309599|We grow blue wild-rye (Elymus glaucus Buckley [Poaceae]) for seed production on former bareroot conifer nursery beds. When fall sown at 11 to 17 kg/ha (10 to 15 lb/ac), first and subsequent seed yields are 560 kg/ha (500 lb/ac), although this varies by seed source. After seed harvest, stems can be baled and marketed for use in erosion control or as mulch. Container crops of Elymus glaucus for planting on restoration sites can be easily grown in about 3 mo. Production protocols are provided.
43309634|At a Mexican nursery, we compost pine bark, inoculate it with beneficial microorganisms, and use it to grow conifer seedlings in containers for reforestation. In this article, I describe how we make composted pine bark a technically and economically viable alternative to expensive, imported growth substrates. is easy to produce and can be made on a small scale, generating permanent nursery and reforestation jobs and promoting the stability of Mexican forest plantation companies. We have found that using minimizes use of fungicides in the nursery. I discuss how to inoculate composted bark with bacteria (Bacillus spp.) and fungi (Trichoderma spp.) to enhance suppression of root disease organisms.
43320505|A recent survey of forest tree nurseries in the eastern US indicated that hardwood tree improvement is not extensively practiced at an operational level, with only 6.8% of hardwood seedlings produced from improved materials (compared to 36% for conifer seedlings at those nurseries that produce both). Fine hardwoods represent less than 20% of improved hardwood seedling production. Most respondents indicated that the use of genetically improved materials would benefit forestry in their region; however, less than 40% have germplasm of hardwood species in improvement programs. Because most respondents stated their intention to use more genetically improved hardwood material in seedling production over the next 10 y, availability of improved materials will likely limit future use. More integration of research involving genetic improvement into operational nursery production will help sustain the future value and supply of our hardwood forest resource.
43310298|Anecdotal evidence suggested that germination and seedling growth of the federally endangered beach clustervine (Jacquemontia recl'mata [Convolvulaceae]) were best in the shade, but mature plants usually occur in coastal strand areas that are open or have low vegetation. We conducted an experiment using potted seedlings grown without shade, or under low, moderate, or heavy shade enclosures. Shade did not affect shoot growth, or leaf or stem dry mass. Plants subjected to all levels of shade, however, had 40% to 70% less root dry mass and about 50% lower root-to-shoot ratios than nonshaded plants. Moreover, the roots of non-shaded plants had 2 to 4 times more soluble sugars and starch than plants grown in shade. These findings suggest that when water and nutrition are not limiting, J. reclinata seedlings are best grown without shade.
43309954|Nine species of palms native to northeastern Mexico are successfully grown at Yucca Do Nursery. These palms are easy to propogate, surprisingly cold hardy, and occupy biologically and geologically intriguing sites. Brief descriptions of each species and general propagation tecniques are provided.
43310283|Over 8000 seedlings, representing 10 wetland plant species, were grown from locally collected seeds and planted in a constructed wetland system. Seeds were, for the most part, easily collected and cleaned, but Scirpus and Carex seeds required tumbling treatment to remove the perigynia. Germination was high when seeds were kept moist, hot (32 to 35 C [90 to 95 F) and in light following a 30 d stratification at 1 to 2 C (34 to 36 F) in moistened sphagnum peat moss. Seedlings were grown in water tanks for 3 mo and planted in early fall. Initial establishment was 100% but when the constructed wetlands were filled in late spring, submerged seedlings died. Our constructed wetland system was a cooperative effort of several public and private agencies and is providing many educational opportunities to our community.
43309853|We investigated the seed biology of the beach clustervine (Jacquemontia reclinata House [Convolvulaceae]), a federally endangered Florida endemic, through the study of soil seedbanks, including sampling of seed densities at varying locations and times of the year, and through several seed survival experiments in 2001, 2003, 2006, and 2007. Based on soil core and vacuum samples, seeds are present in the soil seedbank, with peak abundance occurring in late spring and early summer at the beginning of the rainy season, and lowest levels occurring by the following dry season (December). Field experiments with seeds at the soil surface and buried in seed bags found evidence of seed survival ranging from a low of 3% to a high of 59%. In 2007 to 2008, percentage survival did not vary significantly across 3 sites that span the existing range of the species, nor did it correlate with total precipitation at a site in this year. Surviving seeds are capable of subsequent germination, with 11% germinating within 6 mo. A tetrazolium test of a subsample of non-germinating 1-y-old seeds found 100% were alive. The long-term persistence of seeds in the soil may decrease the extinction risk for this species, because its recruitment niche is not common under current environmental conditions.
43309841|Eastern gamagrass (Tripsacum dactyloides (L.) L. [Poaceae]), evaluated for forage yield, quality, and seed production in the southern plains region of the US, produced between 13,417 and 18,015 kg/ha (11,979 and 16,084 Ib/ac) dry matter when harvested 3 times per year without supplemental irrigation in 2008 and 2009. In this study, 4 cultivars and 3 experimental populations were evaluated. Seed yield collected in 2010 ranged from 181 to 436 kg/ha (162 to 389 Ib/ac) with significant differences among entries. Crude protein did not differ significantly between entries and ranged from 1720 to 2002 kg/ha (1536 to 1788 Ib/ac). Digestibility ranged from 7543 to 9670 kg/ha (6735 to 8634 Ib/ac) with only one entry significantly less digestible. The knowledge provided herein about improved cultivars along with local knowledge from other growers in your region who have established and maintained eastern gamagrass stands will be useful when selecting a cultivar.
43309664|Using a Mississippi source of orange (Rhododendron austrinum (Small) Rehd. [Ericaceae]) and mountain (Rhododendron canescens (Michx.) Sweet) azalea, we found that treating terminal softwood cuttings with 10 000 ppm K-IBA yielded the best rooting performance in terms of root number, length, and quality when misted 4 s every 6 min (4 s:6 min). Rooting percentage of orange and mountain azalea was similar from 0 to 10 000 ppm K-IBA. For orange azalea, cuttings treated with 7500 ppm K-IBA had more roots compared with plants treated with 0 ppm K-IBA. Cuttings treated with 7500 or 10 000 ppm K-IBA had greater average root length and higher root quality compared with the control. Cuttings placed under mist for 4 s:6 min had more roots compared with cuttings placed under mist for 4 s:12 min. For mountain azalea, cuttings treated with 10 000 K-IBA had more roots, greater average root length, and higher root quality compared with cuttings treated with 0 ppm K-IBA. Cutting growth was greater under 4 s:6 min than 4 s:12 min. Although information on vegetative propagation of native azaleas is limited, and other cultural practices may affect misting interval and K-IBA concentrations, these results should help growers produce more plants for market until additional discoveries are made.
43320528|Reclaimed mined lands often have restricted public access, a situation that could encourage sagebrush seed growers to invest in methods for increasing seed production and improving seed purity and quality. I tested the agronomic benefit of 2 seeding methods and fabric mulch and a cross-linked polyacrylamide polymer soil amendment by using these practices to establish 3 Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. wyomingensis Beetle & Young [Asteraceae]) seed orchards on reclaimed uranium mine in Wyoming's Shirley Basin. Seed yield was monitored for 5 y. Cased-hole punch seeding (CHPS) produced more and faster growing plants than broadcasting. Seeds from plants established through mulch averaged 20 to 36 g (0.7 to 1.3 oz) per plant compared with less than 10 g (0.4 oz) per plant without mulch. Polyacrylamide-amended soil produced fewer seeds than untreated plots in every year of the study. Fabric mulch clearly enhanced sagebrush growth and seed yield; polyacrylamide did not.
43309984|Two species of trees, koa (Acacia koa Gray [Fabaceae]) and 'hi'a lehua (Metrosideros polymorpha Gaud. [Myrtaceae]), are important for reforestation degraded lands within Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge on the Big Island of Hawai'i. These species require quite different growing containers and subsequently different planting tools. While dibbles are used for koa planting, a gasoline-powered auger, described briefly herein, is preferred for 'hi'a and other understory species. Auger planting is more than 2.5 times faster than planting by hand.
43309815|A blend of selected germplasms of Texas grama (Bouteloua rigidiseta (Steud.) Hitchc. [Poaceae]) has been released for roadside revegetation and wildlife habitat restoration in south Texas. This release will be referred to as Atascosa Germplasm Texas grama. The 6 accessions constituting the release were selected from an evaluation of plants grown from seed obtained at 21 locations in the Rio Grande Plain of south Texas. Texas grama is a low-growing, early successional native bunchgrass that grows well on shallow, rocky soils, making it an ideal plant for roadside revegetation. Accessions making up the blend have been increased in isolation, and seed is blended following harvest to ensure genetic diversity in seed distributed to commercial producers. Selections were made based on perennial habit, seed germination, and good performance at multiple evaluation locations. A critical need for ecotypic native seed for restoration and revegetation exists in south Texas, especially for roadsides and degraded rangelands. Texas grama should meet these needs because of its natural adaptation to disturbed sites, and prolific seed production and colonization ability.
43320517|Direct seeding of valley oak (Quercus lobata Nee [Fagaceae]), commonly used in restoration in the Central Valley of California, may be preferable to using container stock, at least in nonirrigated sites and where acorn predation can be controlled. In a stratified random experiment we tested initial growth and survival of oaks either: 1) outplanted as acorns; 2) outplanted as 3-mo-old container seedlings; 3) outplanted as 3-mo-old container seedlings that had been transplanted into larger containers 6 wk before outpianting; and 4) outplanted as 1-y-old container seedlings (commercial stock). We subjected each of these to 3 different irrigation regimes: 1) none; 2) drip; or 3) overhead. Half of the irrigated oaks were watered for 1 y, and half for 2 y. In nonirrigated plots, oaks grown from acorns that survived initial seed predation survived significantly better than oaks planted from containers. Across stock type (acorns, plants of different ages, and different sizes of containers), initial differences in plant height remained after 18 mo of growth, but growth rates were similar. Oaks grown in containers usually had more branched and more distorted root systems but all stock types successfully produced deep roots. Irrigated plants grew faster than nonirrigated plants. Plants weaned from irrigation during their second year grew as well thereafter as those that were never irrigated.
43310453|A common-garden study of Festuca roemeri (Pavlick) E. B. Alexeev (Poaceae) revealed substantial genetic variation within and among 47 populations from throughout its range in the Pacific Northwest, US, for growth, fitness, phenological, and morphological traits. Using climatic and physiographic variables, genetic patterns over the landscape were examined through principal component and regression analysis. Elevation and latitude of the seed source, and to a lesser extent temperature and precipitation, explained a significant proportion of the genetic variation, suggesting that observed variation was associated with adaptation to local environments. Most plants from the Willamette Valley exhibited poor growth and survival, perhaps due to inbreeding. Festuca roemeri variation clustered into seed transfer zones corresponding to Level III ecoregions, and one zone was further subdivided. High-elevation populations separated from lower-elevation populations but did not cluster into a single seed zone. Seed transfer zones reported here provide a guide for plant community restoration efforts using this species.
43309942|The demand for native plants continues to increase but published information on how to propagate natives is extremely limited. A wealth of propagation knowledge and experience exists in native plant nurseries but there is not an easy way to share it. The Native Plant Network on the Internet offers basic propagation information as well as a searchable database of plant production protocols. An easy-to-use data form allows growers to submit propagation information as well as update it as new information becomes available.
43310764|Giant trumpets (Macromeria viridiflora DC. [Boraginaceae]) is a plant well suited for xeric native landscapes. At the Arboretum at Flagstaff in Arizona, we collect seeds in fall. Optimum germination is accomplished with stratification. Seedlings grow well in the greenhouse and can be outplanted about 4 mo after sowing.
43310758|Successful completion of a seeding project requires good planning and attention to detail. With this paper, I hope to educate consumers about seed-related issues that are critical to project success. Good communication between vendors and customers will help the latter develop reasonable expectations and will greatly contribute to satisfactory project completion. A thorough knowledge of weeds, plant materials, seed certification, seed testing, planting guidelines, and common industry practices will greatly assist in writing bid specifications that can prevent disappointment.
43309945|We grow grasses direcdy on erosion control mats in the nursery and then transport the sod to sites where establishing permanent vegetation is difficult due to adverse human or environmental factors. The vegetated erosion control mats system is a simple, viable method that can be effectively used to provide immediate erosion control and visual appeal.
43309983|Restoration projects and nurseries from 7 Hawaiian islands are working jointly to propagate and reestablish rare and endangered plant species and to rehabilitate island habitats. Long-range goals of these projects may benefit rare and endangered fauna. Conservation of habitat and augmentation of rare plant populations are crucial for preserving genetic diversity and recovery. Such efforts have resulted in successful propagation of many at-risk species. The propagation and outplanting efforts of these unique species are described.
43309696|A series of interacting steps resulted in the use of the wrong species in a prairie restoration. Contributing factors included misidentifying species of fescue, combining seeds from nearby sites, favoring the collection of seeds from one species over another in the wild as well as in the nursery, and compounding the preferential selection of a species when increasing limited seed supplies for commercial production. Avoiding shortcuts and exercising caution not to compromise protocols designed to ensure the integrity of materials used in native plant restoration are important but may not be entirely sufficient to prevent costly mistakes.
43310458|A number of challenges affect the conservation of rare native species, including habitat availability and quality, the number and genetic diversity of existing populations, and the ease at reintroduction and augmentation of populations. Three threatened or endangered species in Oregon, Kincaid's lupine (Lupinus sulphureus Douglas ex Hook, ssp. kincaidii (C. P. Sm.) L. Phillips [Fabaceae]), Willamette daisy (Erigeron decumbens Nutt. var. decumbens [Asteraceae]), and pink sand verbena (Abronia umbellata Lam. ssp. breviflora (Standl.) Munz [Nyctaginaceae]) provide examples of how, when considering these challenges, conservation prospects for a species can fall on a continuum from good to ugly. Lessons learned from working with these species may provide valuable tools that can be used to guide future conservation efforts.
43309677|Invasive knotweed (Polygonum L. [Polygonaceae]) species are a significant threat to native ecological communities that occur in riparian areas and other vulnerable habitats. This project applied practical methods to control Bohemian knotweed (Polygonum  bohemicum). This species was controlled for 2 y prior to restoring appropriate native species for the Chehalis River Surge Plain Natural Area Preserve in Washington State (US). The invasive species Himalayan blackberry (Rubus discolor Weihe & Nees [Rosaceae]), scotsbroom (Cytisus scoparius (L.) Link [Fabaceae]), and reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinacea L. Raeush [Poaceae]) were also controlled.
43309981|The USDA Bridger, Montana, Plant Materials Center has just released Open Range Tested Class germplasm of win terfat (Krascheninnikovia lanata [Pursh] Guldenstaedt [Chenopodiaceae]). We produce seeds of this native shrub using standard commercial seed production equipment. Processed naked utricles are seeded at a rate of 50 seeds per linear meter (15 seeds/linear ft) of row at a depth of 6 to 10 mm (0.25 to 0.5 in) with a double disk drill equipped with depth bands. Seed production fields are maintained under cultivated and irrigated conditions. Seeds are harvested by swathing mature plants and combining out of cured windrows. Seeds are processed using a series of seed cleaning equipment including 3-and 2-screen fanning mills, a hammermill, an indent separator, and a gravity table. Seeds of winterfat are very short lived, maintaining acceptable viability for only 2 y when stored under ambient conditions.
43309818|A selected germplasm of shortspike windmillgrass (Chloris  subdolichostachya Mll. Berol. (pro sp.) [Poaceae]) has been released for roadside plantings, Critical site revegetation, and rangeland plantings in the Rio Grande Plain of Texas. Welder Germplasm shortspike windmillgrass is a selected accession collected from San Patricio County, Texas, and evaluated at multiple sites across south Texas. This germplasm represents the first commercially available release of shortspike windmillgrass.
43309840|Koa (Acacia koa A. Gray [Fabaceae]) seedlings were grown with subirrigation and overhead irrigation systems in an effort to characterize post-nursery field performance. One year following outplanting, we found no differences in seedling height or survival, but root-collar diameter was significantly larger for subirrigated seedlings. This indicates that koa seedlings, with equal or better morphological quality compared with overhead irrigated seedlings, can be effectively produced using subirrigation systems, thus allowing for potential reductions in water use and wastewater during nursery culture.
43310459|Lupinus oreganus A. Heller var. kincaidii C.P. Sm. (Fabaceae) is a federally listed Threatened, endemic, perennial species of western Oregon grasslands and is the primary host plant for the Endangered Fender's blue butterfly (Plebejus icarbides fenderi Macy [Lepidoptera: Lycaenidae]). For effective conservation and restoration, determining the habitat characteristics that are related to natural seed germination is necessary, yet unknown, for Kincaid's lupine. In 6 populations of Kincaid's lupine, generally < 1% of the estimated seed cohort became seedlings the following year, and pre-dispersal seed predation by weevil (Tychius lineellus Le Conte [Coleoptera: Curculionidae]) larvae can substantially reduce the estimated seedling population size. The likelihood of seedling presence increased with a decreasing amount of thatch but no relationship between lupine plant density and seedling likelihood was detected. Kincaid's lupine seedlings were found in habitats with ample exposure to light, such as beds of moss and in areas of grass < 10 cm (4 in) tall. Land managers may encourage larger germinant populations of Kincaid's lupine by decreasing the amount of thatch; controlling the abundance of exotic, rhizomatous grasses; and targeting habitats with short-stature bunch grasses for restoration (seed sowing).
43309755|Use of forbs in revegetation projects in the Great Basin is limited due to high seed cost and insufficient understanding of their germination and establishment requirements. We tested the effects of seeding depth from 0 to 25.4 mm (1 in) on emergence and survival in clay and sandy loam soils of 5 ecologically important forbs. Significantly less emergence occurred of gooseberry-leaf globemallow (Sphaeralcea grossulariifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Rydb. [Malvaceae]) without a 3.2 mm covering of soil in both soil textures (14% and 19% reductions, respectively). Mountain dandelion (Agoseris glauca (Pursh) Raf. [Asteraceae]), Utah milkvetch (Astragalus utahensis (Torr.) Torr. & A. Gray [Fabaceae]), and tapertip hawksbeard (Crpis acuminata Nutt. [Asteraceae]) had greatest emergence on the soil surface and decreased at greater depths. Scarlet globemallow (Sphaeralcea coccinea (Nutt.) Rydb. [Malvaceae]) and S. grossulariifolia had significantly greater survival in the sand loam (71% and 87%) than in the clay soil (32% and 52%). Survival of A. utahensis and acuminata decreased significantly with surface seeding in the sandy loam soil. Seeding depth did not significantly impact survival of A. glauca. Seeding at 25.4 mm (1 in) reduced emergence or survival for all species. Maximum emergence and survival occurred at shallower seeding depths in the clay loam for most species. Based on our results for these forbs, we recommend a seeding depth of 3.2 mm (0.13 in) in clay soil and 6.4 mm (0.26 in) for sandy loam soil.
43309788|A selected germplasm of Dillenius' tick-trefoil (Desmodium glabellum (Michx.) DC. [Fabaceae]) has been released for improvement of wildlife habitat in the Great Lakes region.
43309790|A selected germplasm of desert zinnia (Zinnia acerosa (DC.) A. Gray) [Asteraceae]) has been released for restoration and rehabilitation of disturbed areas, for wildlife habitat improvement, and for increasing plant diversity in southeastern Arizona (Major Land Resource Area 41, EPA Level 3 Ecoregion 79).
43320801|Beach jacquemontia (Jacquemontia reclinata House [Convolvulaceae]) is an endangered endemic plant from southeast Florida that can be propagated by seeds or cuttings. Freshly harvested seeds from cultivated and wild plants can germinate easily in a greenhouse under South Florida ambient conditions. A higher germination success after short-term seed storage suggests an after-ripening effect; however, orthodox methods are acceptable for long-term storage. Soaking treatments do not affect overall germination. Cuttings can produce new plants when treated with rooting hormone and planted in perlite. Arbuscular mycorrhizae fungi inoculation of cultivated plants is recommended for outplanting into habitats lacking natural fungal inoculum. These propagation techniques have yielded plants used for reintroduction and recovery activities of the species.
43310279|Biodiversity maintenance and ecosystem stabilization are primary considerations when selecting species for restoration of disturbed wildland communities. Selections based solely on ambiguous labels regarding point of origin (for example, native, introduced) often ignore realities of change caused by migration (both natural and human-facilitated) and long-term climatic shifts. Subsequendy, natives are often, but not always, well adapted to the altered environments and uses of today's wildland communities. The utilization of broad-based releases and multi-germplasm blends increase genetic diversity and offer improved opportunity for success on variable environments. Evaluations of past plantings can provide valuable insight on the suitability of various species, both introduced and native, for wildland stabilization. An adaptive strategy enlightened by unbiased hindsight, while at the same time possessing a clear forward vision, will be increasingly important for managing wildlands in a changing world.
43309683|In Minnesota, perennial native legumes (Fabaceae) differed in population and yield response to seeding rates of 14, 67, 135, 275, and 538 pure live seeds (PLS)/m (1.3, 6.3, 12.5, 25, and 50 PLS/ft) when seeded in cultivated seedbeds with little bluestem (Schizachryium scoparium (Michx.) Nash [Poaceae]). Average seeding-year populations were greatest for Illinois bundleflower (Desmanthus illinoensis (Michx.) MacM. ex B.L. Robins. & Fern.) (131 plants/m); intermediate and similar for false indigo (Amorpha fruticosa L.), wild blue indigo (Baptisia australis (L.) R. Br), and wild senna (Senna hebecarpa (Fern.) H.S. Irwin & Barneby) (average of 72 plants/m ); and least for purple prairie clover (Dalea purpurea Vent) (27 plants/m). Seeding-year populations of all legumes increased linearly as seeding rate increased. Second-year biomass yield of legumes in mixture with little bluestem ranged from 1.1 Mg/ha (0.5 tons/ac) for purple prairie clover to 5.6 Mg/ha (2.5 tons/ac) for Illinois bundleflower.
43309948|American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius L. [Araliaceae]), a native plant species of North American eastern woodlands, is highly sought for its medicinal value. The long-lived perennial herb reaches a maximum height of about 50 cm (20 in) and annually grows a determinate shoot from a short underground rhizome atop a fleshy taproot. Ginseng harvesters remove the root, which kills the plant. Commercial harvesting of wild ginseng plants has occurred since the 1700s. Continued pressure for wild harvested roots potentially threatens to diminish the size and number of populations in many states in the US, and the species faces possible extirpation in others. The Nature Conservancy's Natural Heritage ranking of the species globally changed in 2000 from "common" to "rare/common." Fewer than half the US states and Canadian provinces rank the species "apparently secure." Seeds are the sole means of reproduction and relatively few seeds are produced before plants are vulnerable to harvest. The trend may be to harvest younger plants as ginseng populations are depleted of larger plants by harvesting and as number and size of populations decline. Balancing commercial demands with actions necessary to preserve the species should dictate our behavior. Fortunately, we know more about the biology of ginseng than most species that are in peril in portions of their historic ranges. Effective management and monitoring programs must incorporate this knowledge to ensure that ginseng will be maintained as a viable species and continue to be a product of our native forests.
43309767|I provide details on a customized auger attached to a skid steer, which I use in one automated action to dig holes and to create a scalp and water basin for large-container plants. For less than US$ 1000, I modified a John Deere auger bit and have since used it to dig more than 12 000 holes in a variety of sites, with only minor maintenance needed.
43309775|Field evaluations of perennial native legumes (Fabaceae) from Louisiana pineland ecosystems revealed differing colonization abilities among species under natural recolonization of disturbed sites. Initial establishment and growth of transplanted seedlings of 5 different species were good in an early field evaluation. In a subsequent evaluation initiated with scarified seeds, poor establishment of herbaceous mimosa (Mimosa strigillosa Torr. & A. Gray) indicated that populations of this species may be limited by lack of competitiveness of emerging seedlings. Virginia tephrosia (Tephrosia virginiana (L.) Pers.) produced vigorous upright seedling growth with population expansion in only one year of these evaluations. Initial establishment of prairie snoutbean (Rhynchosia latifolia Nutt. ex Torr. & A. Gray) was limited by inadequate rainfall in some instances, but under favorable conditions this species was superior in seed production and population expansion. Individual plants of these species were rather short-lived with long-term population survival dependent on seed production and seedling recruitment. Seed germination of these legumes was limited by hard seedcoats. Physical scarification readily overcame this limitation for all species evaluated. Rhynchosia latifolia appears to have potential value for use in reclamation and revegetation plantings because of potential for seed production and establishment of persistent populations under favorable conditions. Mimosa strigillosa has potential to provide superior ground cover and sustainable populations, but limited establishment from seeds indicates that selection from expanded germplasm collections for seedling vigor may be particularly important for successful use of this species.
43309950|Hsu's Ginseng Enterprises in Wausau, Wisconsin, provide properly stratified seeds to other commercial growers and roots to the herbal market 4 after initial field-grown plantings. Woods-grown ginseng requires up to 8 y for production. Seeds of northern sources exhibit deep simple morphophysiological dormancy and must be carefully handled during harvest and immediately stratified for up to 18 mo. Successful germination, establishment, growth, and production require adequate shade, leaf litter, nutrition, and disease and pest prevention. Over 75% of all American ginseng production in the US occurs in Wisconsin. Currently, Hsu's Ginseng Enterprises include 405 ha (1000 ac) of land in production as cultivated fields and "woods-grown" beneath hardwood forests.
43309844|The federally listed Michaux's sumac (Rhus michauxii Sarg. [Anacardiaceae]) is one of the most endangered shrubs in the southeastern US. The endangered status of this fire-adapted species may be primarily attributed to fire suppression. Many hard-seeded plants in fire-adapted ecosystems can survive high temperatures and germinate in response to scarification caused by high fire temperatures. Unfortunately, little is known about the germination strategy of Michaux's sumac. Using seeds collected from Virginia Army National Guard, Maneuver Training Center, Fort Picket, that were subsequently manually scarified, we discovered that imbibition of intact seeds was prevented by endocarp impermeability. We then examined if dry heat, as an analogue for wildfire, could be used to break this physical dormancy. Replicated (n = 3) dry heat treatments applied at 60, 80, 100,120, and 140 C (140, 176, 212, 248, and 284 F) for 5 and 10 min durations, as well as a nontreated control, yielded no germination after 4 wk. All seeds were subsequently manually scarified. During the next 4 wk, a range of 47.8  4.8 to 56.7  12% germination was observed for scarified seeds of the 60 and 80C (at 5 and 10 min) treatment groups, not significantly different than the 61.6  6.2% germination observed with scarified control seeds. Very low germination was observed when seeds were exposed to 100C for 5 min; all longer duration and higher treatment temperatures were lethal.
43310280|On a Sonoran Desert site, transplanted honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa Torrey var. torreyana (L. Benson) M.C. Johnston [Fabaceae]) seedlings watered through deep-pipes had significantly higher survival (71%) than those irrigated through buried clay pots (52%), and 3X better survival than surface irrigated (control) plants (23%). Mesquite watered with deep-pipes were much taller than surface-watered plants. When combined with irrigation, neither bark mulch or vertical mulch of plant stems improved survival and growth. If protected from herbivores, honey mesquite can be successfully established on dry desert sites without mulch using deep-pipe irrigation and minimal water (< 20 1 (5.3 gal) over 3.5 y).
43309992|The germination response of 6 New Mexico sources of wax currant (Ribes cereum Dougl. [Grossulariaceae]) to combinations of 0 to 120 d cold stratification and 0 to 8 min of acid scarification varied widely among seedlots. For most seedlots, cold stratification was more effective than scarification in improving germination, and scarification improved germination only at low, ineffective levels of cold stratification. For 3 of 6 seedlots, maximal germination was achieved without scarification. For the remaining 3 seedlots, optimal scarification duration varied. Variability in sensitivity to acid scarification is discussed in terms of environmentally induced effects on seed coat structure and physiology.
43309854|Reliable propagation of Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum Sarg. [Cupressaceae]) for use as an evergreen shelterbelt species in the southern Great Plains is hindered by inconsistent seedling emergence and establishment. We evaluated a series of pre-planting treatments as well as 2 planting depths for both fall and spring planting dates using a single seed source. We then tested 6 seed sources using the 3 best treatments. The best treatment was 13 wk at 22 C (72 F) followed by 13 wk at 4 C (39 F; 23% emergence for fall and spring planting combined). Fall planting resulted in greater success for differing pre-planting treatments. Planting depth did not affect emergence. Only one of 6 seed sources produced seedlings in response to coldonly treatment while combining warm and cold treatments was generally successful for all seed sources.
43309833|A selected germplasm of plains lovegrass (Eragrostis intermedia A.S. Hitchc. [Poaceae]) has been released for use in southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico. Bonita Germplasm plains lovegrass is a native, warm-season perennial bunchgrass. It is an important early spring forage grass and responds quickly after fire. Therefore, it has high potential for use for restoration of disturbed areas, wildlife habitat improvement, and increasing plant diversity.
43309812|A selected germplasm of pink pappusgrass (Pappophorum bicolor Fourn. [Poaceae]) has been released for rangeland seeding, highway rights-of-way revegetation, and wildlife habitat restoration plantings in south Texas. Maverick Germplasm pink pappusgrass is a blend of 7 accessions selected from an evaluation at multiple sites in the intended area of use. Selections were made based on multi-year evaluation of plant characteristics and germination tests of seed collected from each location. Following selection, components of the germplasm were increased in isolation and blended following harvest to ensure seed was included from each of the selected accessions. Accessions included in the blend originate from 7 different counties and distinct soil types. This germplasm represents the first commercial release of pink pappusgrass, an important component of native rangeland plant communities in south Texas.
43309817|A selected germplasm of hooded windmillgrass (Chloris cuculiata Bisch. [Poaceae]) has been released for roadside plantings, critical site revegetation, and rangeland plantings in the Rio Grande Plain of Texas. Mariah Germplasm hooded windmillgrass is a selected accession collected from Kenedy County, Texas, and evaluated at multiple sites across south Texas. This germplasm represents the first commercially available release of hooded windmillgrass.
43309825|Mechanical scarification plus stratification was most effective in improving germination of Sphaeralcea ambigua A. Gray and Sphaeralcea coccnea (Nutt.) Rydb. (Malvaceae) in my experiment that compared 4 seed treatments. The pattern of species response to treatments was similar. The control treatment (seeds left at room temperature in original packing envelopes) and the 30-d stratification at 4 C (39 F) treatment both yielded low germination (average 12%). Mechanical scarification alone improved germination (average 44%); while the combination of mechanical scarification plus 30-d stratification resulted in an average 65% germination (45% and 85% germination for S. ambigua and S. coccinea, respectively). Although impermeability of the seedcoat is the main factor preventing germination, embryos also appear to be partially or conditionally dormant. These treatments may have potential for other Sphaeralcea species.
43309695|Native plants, modern art, and environmental stewardship were integrated to design a trolley station for the San Diego Light Rail Transit System. In this paper I describe the process used to develop the station and the plant management plan, as well as provide insight on the lessons learned during the process. I include a checklist that may be helpful for similar projects.
43320510|Three new types of conservation plant releases are now available from USDA Plant Materials Centers as less thoroughly tested but still useful alternatives to traditional cultivars. These "pre-varietal" releases include "tested," "selected," and "source-identified" plant material and have distinct labeling. They help meet a strong customer demand for native plant material that is available more quickly than it takes to develop and test a cultivar for a particular conservation use.
43310766|Vegetative propagation can be used for coastal redwood (Sequoia sempervirens (Lamb, ex D. Don) Endl. [Cupressaceae]). Techniques may vary among propagators, but overall, rooting percentages improve when young seedlings are the source of donor wood. As the age of the donor plant increases, concentrations of rooting hormone should also increase to maximize success. At the outplanting stage, relatively cool air and soil temperatures are important factors for survival of the rooted cuttings.
43309824|A system for staging sweetvetch (Hedysarum boreale Nutt. [Fabaceae]) through vegetative and reproductive plant development was established that corresponds with a heat unit or growing degree day (GDD) model. This framework designates 14 finite stages, V1 through V6 (pre-flowering or vegetative), and R1 through R8 (reproductive stages). The arrangement provides meaningful designations for management of the plant for seed production. Of 5 base temperatures tested in the development of the GDD model, 40 F (4.4 C) most accurately predicted the growth of sweetvetch through the 6 vegetative and 8 reproductive developmental stages. The GDD model showed that on average, each growth stage above V2 (pre-bud, 2 visible nodes) requires 118 GDD. Critical stages in the development of sweetvetch for seed production are late bud, flowering, pod formation, and seed maturity, which require 605, 841,1076, and 1547 GDD, respectively. The proper application of this staging system and model can be useful for seed producers and collectors by providing an estimate of when the plant will reach critical growth stages, particularly for management of irrigation, insect pest control, and harvest. Historical temperature data could be used to predict the average calendar date when sweetvetch will reach a given growth stage, or where real-time data are available, dates of stages may be accurately predicted.
43310336|Most restoration projects strive to create a sustainable plant community but exclusive use of vegetatively propagated material may be preventing this goal. The dioecious willows and cotto n wood s of the Salicaceae are widely used in riparian restoration projects. Hardwood cuttings have traditionally been used to propagate these species in nurseries, and live stakes, branched cuttings, and poles are also used in bioengineering structures for bank stabilization. Woody cuttings are collected either from the project site or from stooling beds in nurseries during the winter dormant period. Unfortunately, little attention has been given to the sex of the donor plants. The potential problem is that a proper mixture of male and female plants may not be present in the hardwood cuttings or rooted cuttings destined for the restoration sitein the worst case they may be entirely 1 sex or the other. Fortunately, it is relatively easy to distinguish male and female plants. Collecting cuttings from many different plants and from a known ratio of males and females will ensure that the resultant plants will be able to produce viable seeds and achieve the ultimate goal of a sustainable plant community.
43309627|Seed and plant transfer guidelines are offered for 11 species of sagebrush (Artemisia arbusculo, A. bigelovii, A. cana, A. rothrockii, A. longiloba, A. argillosa, A. rigida, A. nova, A. tripartita, A. pygmaea, and A tridentata). These species constitute the true sagebrushes of the subgenus Tridentatae of Artemisia. The geographic distribution of each species serves as the geographic boundary for the 11 seed zones, with the additional restriction that seeds should not be moved farther than 483 km (300 mi) to their target planting site, and if less than 483 km, not outside of their native distribution. For A tridentata, seed transfer should ensure that subspecies are planted with respect to moisture and elevational gradients. For all other species, no additional transfer guidelines are proposed based on changes in elevation, but when local data suggest moisture gradients and ranges of elevation in excess of 458 m (1500 ft), conservative guidelines could further restrict seed transfer up 153 m (500 ft) in elevation, or down 305 m (1000 ft) in elevation, from the origin collection area. Correctly applied, seed and plant transfer guidelines minimize the risk of planting maladapted stock, increasing the survival and reproductive success to achieve restoration, rehabilitation, reclamation, and wildlife habitat improvement objectives.
43310342|Producing stock from seeds requires much less labor than using cuttings. Willow seeds can be easily cleaned using a 1-horsepower shop vacuum and some window screen.
43320799|Stacked propagation is a novel method of growing quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx. [Salicaceae]) and other plants that reproduce from underground stems or root cuttings. Because the mother plant is not damaged, it is particularly well suited for rare plants or those that can't be propagated by normal methods. Our initial trials indicate that hundreds of vigorous plants can be produced by this method in each propagation cycle.
43309828|Postemergence herbicides may facilitate weed control in native wildflower seed production fields. In a greenhouse study, we assessed the impact of 4 postemergence herbicides (linuron, halosulfuron, mazapic, and pendimethalin) on 4 wildflower species: white prairie clover (Dalea candida Michx. ex Willd. [Fabaceae]), blanketflower (Gaillardia aristata Pursh [Asteraceae]), silverleaf phacelia (Phacelia bastata Douglas ex Lehm. [Hydrophyllaceae], and prairie coneflower (Ratibida columnifera (Nutt.) Woot. & Standl. [Asteraceae]). Pendimethalin applied at 1.9 kg ai/ha (1.69 Ib ai/ac) caused the least seedling injury across all species and therefore may help weed management in wildflower production systems. Although linuron applied at 0.56 kg ai/ha (0.5 Ib ai/ac) appeared to be a promising alternative for weed control, oven-dry biomass for G. aristata was reduced by this herbicide. Imazapic and halosulfuron applied at 0.14 kg ai/ha (0.125 Ib ai/ac) and 0.048 kg ai/ha (0.042 Ib ai/ac) respectively, caused severe damage on wildflower seedlings.
43309993|Kitchen blenders are often used to separate fruits and seeds. Coating sharp impeller blades with rubberized plastic coating, the same material used to coat tool handles, is a longlasting, effective, and neat way to prevent damage to seeds.
43310448|In this article, I highlight several recent efforts in Oregon that promote gardening with native plant species. Streamside Gardening provides information to landowners and landscapers on landscape practices near streams. Oregon WaterWise Gardening helps people understand the plants (including native plants) that conserve water in landscapes. GardenSmart Oregon, a new collaborative effort, informs the public about invasive landscape plants and offers noninvasive alternatives, including native plants. I have been, and continue to be, personally involved in each of these efforts, working with the Oregon State University Extension Service to educate and inform the public on these topics. Native plant gardening is an important trend throughout the US and worldwide. Interest in using native plants is increasing, reflecting emphasis on restoration of natural areas; concern for resource use, especially water; and a desire to plant noninvasive species in home landscapes.
43310767|Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi can generally be collected from undisturbed sites and propagated in the nursery following a 7-step process. These fungi form symbiotic associations with most native plants and this relationship provides many benefits to plant health and function. Although specific techniques vary depending on the fungus, the plant, and the nursery, this introduction should help growers begin their own AM program.
43310326|More than 95% of container-grown longleaf pine (Pinus palustris P. Mill.) seedlings had roots growing downward vertically (geotropically) when examined 7 to 8 mo after transplanting into sand. Geotropic roots were rarely the original taproot (< 0.5%) but were usually adventitious lateral roots that had formed about the callus tissue. Air-pruning in the nursery results in callus formation at the end of the taproot and typically, 1 or more adventitious roots emerge just above the callus tip. Although many first-order lateral roots were deflected downward by container walls, few exhibited positive geotropic growth after transplanting. Most grew in directions other than straight down. In this study, about 4% of the seedlings lacked geotropic roots. Longleaf pines with a long taproot or sinker roots are less susceptible to toppling at a young age than are trees without vertical roots.
43310309|Lewisia cotyledon (S. Wats.) B.L. Robins. (Portulacaceae), a perennial native to the mountainous areas of the western US, was micropropagated using the lower axillary buds from flower peduncles. Successful establishment in tissue culture was genotype dependent. Driver Kuniyuki Walnut medium (DKW) supplemented with 3.5 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) appeared to be a better basal medium for increasing and maintaining in vitro rosettes than either Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) or Woody Plant medium (WPM) supplemented with the same BA concentration, but this response was genotype dependent. Placing rosettes on MS medium supplemented with 9.8 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) for 12 wk resulted in 100% rooting with an average of 16 roots per rosette. Rooted rosettes were successfully transferred to ex vitro culture and were phenotypically normal. Micropropagation of lewisia will enable growers to produce large numbers of plants rapidly for the home landscape.
43309728|We examined the feasibility of producing container Alnus crispa (Ait.) Pursh (Betulaceae) seedlings (green alder) inoculated with a pure culture of Frankia sp., Brunchorst strain Avcll and an ectomycorrhizal fungus, Hebeloma crustuliniforme (Bull, ex st. Amans) Qul, in a commercial nursery setting. Alders are actinorhizal plants that fix atmospheric nitrogen in a symbiotic association with Frankia species and can also form mycorrhizal associations. Frankia inoculation significantly increased seedling biomass, number of nodule lobes, nodule weight, and plant nitrogen content of green alder at the end of nursery culture compared with control or "Hebeloma only" treatments. Improved seedling growth, root nodulation, and nitrogen nutrition achieved in this study was attributable to Frankia inoculation, suggesting Frankia inoculation in nursery may be beneficial for the production of superior alder seedlings to use in reclamation work. Actinorhizal plants have the potential to enhance plant establishment on disturbed sites and to improve soil fertility and stability. Seedlings inoculated with Hebeloma only or in combination with Frankia did not show any visible ectomycorrhizal colonization, suggesting H. crustuliniforme may not be compatible with green alder under these experimental conditions. This study demonstrated the suitability of producing large-scale inoculated alder seedlings in commercial nurseries without altering regular nursery operations.
43310754|North American pitcher plants (Sarracenia L.) can be easily propagated by seeds or rhizome divisions. Flowering maturity is reached in 5 to 7 y from seeds and 1 to 2 y from divisions. Plants can be grown as containerized specimens outdoors in the southeastern US or in bog gardens. Successful propagation includes stratification of seeds and providing similar environmental conditions to their native habitat with appropriate nutrient-poor growing medium, live sphagnum moss, acidic irrigation water, high relative humidity, and light.
43309623|We present a basic introduction to genetic terminology that has implications for growers and users of native plants. An understanding of underlying genetic concepts is essential for ensuring that plant material of an appropriate source is planted on restoration sites.
43309727|A simple, inexpensive subirrigation system can be made using children's plastic swimming pools. This system supplies irrigation water more evenly to large deciduous plants in containers than do overhead methods, and it can be combined with a typical injector so that plants can be fertigated.
43309675|Catalina Island's diverse flora and fauna, as well as its protected status, provide many opportunities and challenges for integrating nursery operations with the restoration efforts of the Catalina Island Conservancy. This paper reviews strategies for dealing with nonnative flora and fauna and the importance of coordinating research and monitoring efforts with nursery operations. Three case studies involving a grass production field, oak ecosystem research, and trials to improve restoration techniques are presented. Lessons learned from research trials cover a variety of topics including herbivory, water availability, weed competition, and the impact of container size on survivorship. These lessons stress the importance of sitespecific solutions to achieve best management practices in nursery operations.
43309761|The initial survival of basin wildrye (Leymus cinereus (Scribn. & Merr.) A. Lve [Poaceae]) plugs used in restoration of riparian habitats in the Crooked River National Grassland in northeastern Oregon was strongly associated with habitat type and planting depth. Five plots in each of 4 study areas were assessed. Survival was strongly dependent on habitat ranging from 18.8% at the lowest elevation to 70.5% at the highest elevation. Northern pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides (Richardson) [Geomyidae]) were considered a major cause of mortality, while mortality by cattle (Bos taurus Bojanus [Bovidae]) grazing was significant at only one habitat. The lowest elevation habitat had a sandy loam soil with few rocks and strong evidence of gopher activity, whereas the highest elevation habitat had a rocky sandy loam soil with weak evidence of gophers. The highest elevation habitat had burned, which likely reduced competition. Survival of plants that were buried (69%) or with the top of the plug surface flush with the soil surface (53%) was significantly greater than for plants with some of the plug root mass above the soil surface (about 14%). Improved survival of L. cinereus plugs will likely be realized with control of gophers and cattle; additionally survival can be improved by ensuring plug surfaces are flush with the soil surface or buried by a few centimeters of soil.
43320535|Many factors influence the prices and availabilities of native seeds. Communicating effectively with vendors ensures that you receive the product you want when you need it.
43320529|Castillejo Mutis ex Lf. (Scrophulariaceae), or paintbrush, is seldom used in gardens or landscapes because of confusion about hosts and growing conditions. Pairing annual and perennial Castillejo with various Penstemon Schmidel (Scrophulariaceae) species, however, was shown to be successful over a 2-y period. The most effective host was P. strictus Benth., particularly with C. integra Gray and C. indivisa Engelm. Such pairings now allow horticulturalists a way to incorporate paintbrush into a variety of growing areas. For best results, the microenvironment may need to be balanced to satisfy the growth requirements of both plants.
43309990|Logging disturbance on 5 study areas (forest plantations) in northern California favored development of bracken fern (Pteridium aquilinum [L.] Kuhn van pubescens L. Underw.), which can be an impediment to successful reforestation. Velpar herbicide (hexazinone) offered short-term control of vegetation, including bracken fern, sufficient to establish ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa Dougl. ex Laws. var. ponderosa) seedlings and ensure vigorous growth. Our examination of site preparation techniques, including burning residual logging debris followed by chemical and mechanical control of vegetation, indicated that bracken fern density, foliar cover, and height were highly variable both within and among study areas. After 5 growing seasons, bracken density in the control (site preparation only) ranged from 5800 to 40850 fronds/ha (2345 to 16 530 fronds/ac), foliar cover from 1% to 24%, and height from 0.5 to 0.6 m (1.8 to 1.9 ft). Among conifer release treatments (control of unwanted vegetation), Velpar effectively controlled bracken, but Carlon herbicide aided bracken by killing competing shrubs. After 10 growing seasons, more than 22000 bracken fronds/ha (8910/ac) were present in all treatments. Bracken fern demonstrated remarkable ecological amplitude, was virtually independent of other species, and was only moderately influenced by a wide range of environments. Growers and planters should be aware of these findings and use herbicides that show demonstrated effectiveness.
43309598|Meehania cordata (Nutt.) Britton (Lamiaceae) is an easily propagated member of the mint family. With its growth habit, heart shaped leaves, and spring flowers, Meehans mint has potential as a ground cover, particularly in deep shade locations within the landscape.
43309861|Our research suggests that habitat fragmentation and reduced population size in Willamette daisy has led to loss of fitness in some populations and to population differentiation. In outcrossing species, habitat fragmentation and reduced population size can lead to increased genetic drift, local adaptation, and (or) inbreeding. We explored some of these issues for the endangered forb Willamette daisy (Erigeron decumbens Nutt. [Asteraceae]). This species is currently restricted to approximately 40 sites in the Willamette Valley, Oregon; more than half of the known populations have fewer than 100 individuals. We found a positive relationship between seed viability (as measured by the percentage of filled seeds) and population size. In populations with 20 or fewer individuals, seed viability dropped to less than 2.5%. In modified reciprocal transplant and common-garden experiments, we found that although there were some differences in survival, growth, and reproduction in transplants from 2 source populations, the effect of source varied depending on response variable, year of planting, year of monitoring, and habitat. Conservation of Willamette daisy will benefit from increasing the size and genetic diversity of existing populations and from reintroducing genetically diverse populations within the historic range of the species. Knowledge of genetic diversity of populations can be critical for making appropriate management decisions for rare species, including determining if population augmentation is necessary and, if so, from which source populations.
43309785|Seed scarification requirements to improve initial germination in perennial herbaceous native legumes may vary among species. Mechanical abrasion (0, 5, 10, and 20 s) and hot water (0, 5, 10, and 15 min) treatments were tested as means for improving seed germination in the Fabaceae species prairie acacia (Acacia angustissima (Mill.) Kuntze var. hirta (Nutt.) B.L. Rob.), panicled tick-clover (Desmodium paniculatum (L.) DC.), and tall bush-clover (Lespedeza stuevei Nutt.), which have potential for commercial native seed mixes in the southern Great Plains. All durations of abrasion and one minute in hot water increased germination rates of mechanically harvested prairie acacia. Hand-harvested tall bush-clover germination responded positively to one second of abrasion but was sensitive to seed damage at longer durations. Nonscarified (control) hand-harvested panicled tick-clover seed germination was 94% and did not respond positively to scarification. Results indicate that the need and best method for seed scarification vary among native perennial herbaceous legume species.
43309827|We needed consistent quantities of cellulose-based smoke for testing the effects of smoke exposure on forest tree seed germination. We determined that burning pine straw would produce sufficient quantities of such smoke. Longleaf pine (Pinus palustris Mill. [Pinaceae]) straw is readily available in bale sizes and is a practical fuel source for repeated trials. A steel trash can was selected and converted into a pine straw bale burner to hold a safe, controlled smoldering fire producing adequate smoke. A few alterations to the trash can were required as noted. Total cost for the smoker and other supplies was less than US$ 150.
43309756|A selected germplasm of Arizona cottontop (Digitarla californica (Benth.) Henr. [Poaceae]) has been released for rangeland reseeding and wildlife habitat enhancement plantings in the Rio Grande Plain of Texas. La Salle Germplasm Arizona cottontop is a blend of 12 selected accessions from an extensive evaluation at multiple sites in southern Texas. The release comprises accessions that are increased from the original seed collections of native populations to maintain the genetic integrity of each accession. This germplasm represents the first commercially available release of Arizona cottontop that originates from the intended area of use.
43320519|The PLANTS database now enables professionals to quickly see the comprehensive legal status for native and invasive plants across taxonomic levels. This may be the first of its kind, either in print or online, and should prove to be a useful tool for restorationists.
43309860|Nearly 20% of the 1.8 million ha (4.5 million ac) around San Francisco Bay in California are protected. Many small-scale, site-specific nurseries produce plants used to restore sites in this area. To improve regional efficacy, the California Native Nursery Network has been established to provide a conversation conduit among growers and scientists to share information about native plant propagation, eliminate redundant work, and promote economic viability of the native plant nursery industry. This article details some of the initial steps taken to form the network.
43309821|The choice of container is one of the most important considerations when growing or ordering native plants for a restoration project. Container characteristics affect not only growth and production efficiencies in the nursery, they can also have important consequences after outplanting. The challenging conditions on restoration sites require containers with characteristics that are significantly different from standard containers used for horticultural crops. Unfortunately, plant specifications for many restoration projects are written using traditional horticultural pot dimensions, and we feel that this oversight is adversely affecting survival and growth after outplanting.
43309760|Seeds of Salix bebbiana Sarg., 5. discolor Muhl., and S. eriocephala Michx. (Salicaceae) were stored at 2 moisture contents (low, 5.1 to 7.3% and high, 8.5 to 9.8%) and 4 temperatures (4, -20, -80, and -145 C [39, -4 , -112, -229 F]) for 60 mo. Seeds stored at 4 C lost most or all viability by 24 mo. We observed no significant difference in germination between the 2 seed moisture contents for each species. After 60 mo of subzero storage, germination of 5. bebbiana seeds declined from 89 to 83%, 5. discolor from 60 to 54%, and S. eriocephala from 71 to 54%.
43310311|Robbins' cinquefoil (Potentilla robbinsiana Oakes ex Rydb. [Rosaceae]) is best propagated for outplanting on high elevation restoration sites in New Hampshire by treating seeds to increase germination and by outplanting nondormant plants in mid-July. Best seed germination occurred by: 1) treating seeds with gibberelic acid (GA) before sowing in spring; or 2) sowing seeds outside in late fall thereby subjecting them to natural freezing and thawing during winter. Both methods produced seedlings, but pretreatment with GA increased germination more than 2X to 86%. First-year survival on the alpine sites was 90% when actively growing transplants were moved from the sea-level nursery and ouplanted in mid-July, rather than 11% when shipped directly in early June from freezer storage. These successful techniques contributed to this plant, placed on the list of endangered and threatened species in 1980 and found only at 2 locations in the alpine zones of Mount Washington and Franconia Ridge, New Hampshire, being removed from the list in 2002. This outplanting technique may be useful for other high-elevation species.
43309722|Silver buffaloberry (Shepherdia argentea (Pursh) Nutt. [Elaeagnaceae]) can be successfully produced as a 2+0 bareroot nursery stocktype from seeds. In Colorado, we sow seeds in late fall, typically the first to second week of October. Plants will emerge by the second week of May. We apply granular ammonium sulfate (21 N:0PO:0KO:24SO) during both growing seasons to meet our target specifications. At our nursery, buffaloberry is one of the first crops to be harvested; we usually start around the first of November. Once harvested, plants are graded (minimum stem diameter at the root collar of 5 mm [3/16 in] and minimum height of 46 cm [18 in]), packed into wax-coated cardboard boxes, and stored in a cooler until shipment the following spring. Silver buffaloberry is a species suitable for windbreaks and wildlife habitat, with opportunities for ornamental and landscape uses as well.
43309626|Seed movement guidelines for restoration activities are lacking for most native grasses, forbs, and shrubs. The forestry community has decades of experience in establishing seed zones and seed movement guidelines that may be of value to restoration managers. We review the history of seed zone development in forest trees, with emphasis on the Pacific Northwest, and make some suggestions concerning seed transfer guidelines for other native plants.
43309708|The time required for growth and flowering of western red lily (Lilium philadelphicum L. [Liliaceae]) can be decreased by using accelerated growth cycles. Using 1 cycle, 1 y of growth can be achieved in 26 wk. Using 2 cycles, growth, survial, and blooming can be improved. Each cycle consists of 4 separate phases that represent the natural cycling of Saskatchewan's climate.
43309777|Germination, growth, and flowering traits varied widely in a common-garden nursery environment and expressed coarse-textured geographic patterns among Plumas National Forest seed sources of 3 native grasses (Poaceae): blue wildrye (Elymus glaucus Buckley ssp. glaucus, California brome (Bromus carinatus Hook. & Arn. var. carinatus), and Orcutt's brome orcuttianus Vasey). Seed zones are justified to partition the geographic variation in grasses on the Plumas National Forest because: 1) adaptive traits varied significantly with geographic surrogates for climate and photoperiod; 2) a coarse-textured geographic and topographic pattern overshadowed microsite variation; and 3) paired (proximal) sources were more similar to one another than more distal sources, all of which indicated selection may have contributed to population differentiation. Each species displayed a different geographic pattern, but Bromus species were most similar. Low-elevation southwestern sources of B. carinatus had earlier and higher germination and slightly higher shoot dry weight, while high-elevation northern lots had later and lower germination and dry weight. Southern sources of B. orcuttianus produced more flowers and germinated earlier than northern sources. Elymus glaucus from lower-elevation and more eastern sources, where summer drought is most pronounced, had higher dry weight and flowers.
43309713|Coreopsis leavenworthii Torr. & Gray (Asteraceae), one of the Florida state wildflowers, is nearly endemic to and very ubiquitous in Florida. Interest in commercial seed or plant production of this species as well as use for highway beautification, native plant community restoration, and mine reclamation has been increasing in recent years. This study aimed to understand the level and geographic distribution of phenotypic diversity of this species, a critical step before engaging in large-scale commercial production of native plants. Plants derived from natural and commercial seed production populations exhibited a substantial amount of phenotypic diversity when grown in a commongarden study. North Florida natural populations typically had bipinnately compound leaves with dark-yellow ray flowers, while natural populations originating in central or south Florida had simpler, needle-like leaves, and light-yellow and dark-yellow ray flowers. Populations were grouped into 3 clusters in principal component analysis. Two natural populations from central Florida were dissimilar and grouped into separate clusters, indicating possible existence of genetic isolation in the species' distribution. Three production populations originating from the same native population in central Florida were phenotypically similar even though they had been grown under different climatic zones in Florida and represented different generations (G1, G2, or G4). This suggests that the genetic identity of the seed-source origin may be maintained under production practices even when plants are grown in locations distant from the seeds' origin. Despite the clustering of these populations, there seems to be no evidence that precludes the statewide use of most populations in this study.
43320795|In the central hardwoods region of the US, several small trees have potential for landscaping as either understory plants or in full sun where their fall color, wide adaptability, and apparent resistance to pests make them attractive. I outline 6 species of deciduous trees, representing the genus Sassafras, Oxydendron, Nyssa, Cladrastis, Cephalanthus, and Viburnum, that I find particularly interesting and deserving of more widespread use.
43309707|Seeds of the rare annuals Lesquerella perforata Rollins and L. stonensis Rollins (Brassicaceae) germinated to higher percentages on topsoil and filter paper than on masonry sand and play sand. In addition, mucilage production was consistently less on topsoil than on the 2 types of sands. An increase in mucilage thickness was correlated with a reduction in germination. Although mucilage production has been observed under laboratory conditions, it has not been observed in nature. We recommend germinating seeds of both Lesquerella species on topsoil or filter paper for best results.
43309819|A selected germplasm of orange zexmenia (Wedelia texana (A. Gray) B.L. Turner [Asteraceae]) has been released for rangeland plantings and wildlife habitat enhancement plantings in the central and southern regions of Texas. Goliad Germplasm orange zexmenia is a blend of 7 selected accessions from an extensive evaluation at multiple sites in south Texas. Accessions constituting the release are increased from the original seed collections of native populations to maintain the genetic integrity of each accession. This germplasm represents the first commercially available release of orange zexmenia that has been tested and adapted to its intended area of use.
43310452|Engaging students in environmental restoration through service-learning partnerships is an effective tool for restoring native ecosystems while simultaneously rebuilding relationships between children and nature and inspiring future stewards of the land. Placebased education provides a framework for connecting students to the land. Stewardship-based service-learning provides a productive means by which to accomplish both education and restoration goals. The Restoration and Reintroducion Education Partnership at the Institute for Applied Ecology is a stewardship-based service-learning program that pairs local schools with natural areas. Students grow threatened and endangered plant species for reintroduction. By including students in the restoration process, we can create a landscape network of highly functioning native ecosystems and give students the skills and relationships necessary to continue to protect ecosystems in the future. Each of us in the field of native plants has a role in cultivating stewardship, a sense of place, a connection with nature, and hope.
43309714|Adaptation of tissue culture methods yields vigorous ram's head lady's slipper (Cypripedium arietinum Ait. f. [Orchidaceae]) seedlings ready for removal from flasks after 11 to 12 mo. Following vernalization, these seedlings grow into robust green plants that typically bloom 2 to 3 y after outplanting.
43309758|The USDA Forest Service recently patented an equipment design to deliver herbicides more efficiently and cost-effectively. Towed by a standard all-terrain vehicle, the Crush and Spray can access out-of-the-way or wet locations. An adjustable roller first knocks down the unwanted plants. A low-set spray boom with wide angle sprayer nozzles then provides precise, close-to-the-ground application of herbicide along the length of each plant. The operator can easily control the flow of chemicals using a pressurized pumping system with a simple on-off switch. This Crush and Spray system treats targeted plants without wasting herbicides or creating overspray and chemical drift. In field trials over the course of 2 y, the Crush and Spray was used successfully to treat quackgrass (Elymus repens (L.) Gould [Poaceae]) and Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop. [Asteraceae]). On average, more than 96% of the plants treated in the Crush and Spray plots were successfully eliminated with just one application of herbicides. In comparison plots, the same chemicals delivered without the Crush and Spray effectively treated an average of 87% of the grasses and 77% of the broadleaf plants. An unexpected finding from the field trials was that plots treated with the Crush and Spray in year one had very low regrowth of weeds in year two even though no additional chemicals were applied.
43309593|Six species of native ferns have been propagated by spores and rhizome division in Glacier National Parks Native Plant Nursery. Beginning with spores, plants are ready for the field in 14 to 16 mo. Rhizome division is used for further increase of nursery stock. The life cycle of ferns is also discussed.
43320509|Analysis of a common-garden study of broadleaf lupine (Lupinus latifolius Lindl, ex J.G. Agardh ssp. latifolius [Fabaceae]) indicates that use of watershed delineations is better than use of plant association series for determining seed zones on the Mt Hood National Forest. Risk analysis further confirmed that only 4 seed zones are required, providing a reasonable compromise between managing costs and maintaining local adaptation. Overall, moderate amounts of genetic variation were found in 84 seed sources. Two principal components (PCs) summarized 58% of the variation in 24 measured traits, and variation in PC scores was significantly correlated with topographic, geographic, and climatic variables. Regression analyses showed that these variables accounted for 47% of the variation in the first PC and 34% of the variation in the second PC.
43309857|Germination tests of Wyoming big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata Nutt. ssp. wyomingensis Beetle & Young [Asteraceae]) seeds often exhibit fungal contamination, but the use of fungicides should be avoided because fungicides may artificially inhibit germination. We tested the effect of seed-applied fungicides on germination of Wyoming big sagebrush at 2 different water potentials (-0.033 and -0.7 MPa) and found that treating test seedlots with fungicide reduced the germination percentage by up to half in some treatments. This effect was greatest at the lower water potential. We found that the fungicides were successful at delaying infection of the seeds or test media with fungi, but that the costs of reduced germination related to fungicide application make this practice undesirable. Because Wyoming big sagebrush is becoming a common species for revegetation and restoration activities, germination tests of this species are needed to increase understanding of proper seed storage and seeding methods. We recommend that those conducting germination trials with Wyoming big sagebrush either test untreated seed and accept some level of fungal contamination, or explore other methods of seedcoat sterilization that may have less impact on total germination. Any treatment for reducing fungal infection, however, should first be evaluated for potential effects on germination percentage.
43310457|The goal of the Institute for Applied Ecology's Willamette Valley Seed Increase Program is to develop a supply of ecologically appropriate, genetically diverse native plant material for restoration of prairie ecosystems in the Willamette Valley. In creating restoration germplasm we seek to maximize genetic diversity while simultaneously protecting genetic integrity of extant native populations. In the absence of genetic data to guide appropriate movement of native seeds, we are testing the use of an ecoregion approach using a variety of research techniques. We collected seeds, defined preliminary seed transfer zones, and planted seed increase fields for each of 21 historically widespread, common species. We captured spatial and temporal genetic diversity by sampling from many populations per species over a 3-y period. Seed zone boundaries for each species were drawn at the scale of the ecoregion or smaller, depending on life history characteristics and potential for adverse genetic effects of translocation. To minimize loss of diversity through domestication selection, we planted increase fields using a novel design, the Diversity Enhancement Block. Seedlots from populations with different phenology or from different areas within the ecoregion were planted in separate adjacent blocks. This design allows harvest of each block separately as seeds mature, while still permitting plants from different regions of the valley to cross-pollinate and to produce crop seeds with maximum genetic diversity. All of our production fields have been entered into the Oregon Seed Certification Service Pre-Variety Germplasm program. We are looking for partners to participate in a buyer's cooperative.
43310334|Unique wet prairie/prairie fen remnants contain an assemblage of species seldom seen in Virginia and neighboring states, making it of great importance to the biodiversity of the Mid-Atlantic region of the US. These habitats contain species found in mesic prairies of the Midwest and include several rare species. These habitats were historically burned and periodically grazed by bison, now long absent in Virginia. An example of a wet prairie/prairie fen is described. Such habitats are now rare and in need of protection and restoration by periodic burning and short duration grazing.
43310300|The common food processor is an effective tool for cleaning elderberry (Sambucus spp. L. [Caprifoliaceae]) seeds. Seeds cleaned with this device can be stored in the refrigerator for years without developing mold.
43309776|Very few perennial herbaceous legumes have been developed for native seed mixes in the southern Great Plains, and none are specifically sold for forest understory reseeding. This study looked at shade tolerance of tropical puff (Neptunia pubescens Benth. var. microcarpa (Rose) Windier [Fabaceae]) and dollar snout-bean (Rhynchosia americana (Houst. ex Mill.) M.C. Metz [Fabaceae]) over 3 growing seasons. Pod production declined (P= 0.001) only at 80% shade and dollar snout-bean branch length and herbage production increased (P < 0.08) at moderate shade levels compared with open sunlight and in contrast to tropical puff that showed no positive responses to shade. Neutral detergent fiber and acid detergent fiber increased (P = 0.001) at 80% shade while acid detergent lignin decreased (P = 0.02) under shade except for dollar snout-bean at high levels of shade. Nitrogen and carbon concentrations increased (P= 0.10) under shade for both species but carbon decreased (P= 0.10) at 80% shade in the snout-bean. Both species should be useful for inclusion in seed mixes under tree and brush canopies because they tolerate and even thrive under moderate shade. Tropical puff shows greater potential for nutritive value for ruminant nutrition due to lower fiber and greater nitrogen concentrations compared with the snout-bean.
43310332|Seeds of great burnet (Sanguisorba offcinals L. [Rosaceae]), Menzies' burnet (S. menziesii Rydb.), and Canadian burnet (S. canadensis L.) germinated most rapidly and completely at 24 to 25 C (75 to 77 F) constant temperatures following 6 mo dry storage at 4 C (39 F). Presence or absence of light (150 mol/(ms) 18-h photoperiod), removal of the calyx hull or dry storage at 4 C (39 F) for 1 y did not affect germination percentages of great and Canadian burnet. Canadian burnet and Menzies' burnet showed little or no germination at 5 C (41 F), and poor germination (<50%) at 30 C (86 F). In contrast, great burnet germinated at all temperatures from 5 to 30 C (39 to 86 F). All 3 species have potential in roadside revegetation, wildflower meadows and home landscapes. Germination under controlled conditions is rapid and requires no special pretreatments for optimal results.
43309987|Fencing creates safety barriers for restoration projects in Hawai'i. Without fencing and intensive management of feral mammals and nonnative plants, restoration efforts would not be possible. Hawai'i's long evolutionary isolation created unique species having few defense mechanisms. Today, its modern position as the commercial hub of the Pacific makes native species especially susceptible to destruction by alien species. Many nonnative plant species occupy modified forests after feral mammals have eliminated native species. Establishment of nonnative plants is rapid in exposed mineral soils and feral mammals and birds aid their dispersal. The construction of ungulate-proof fences and the elimination of feral mammals create recovery areas for both native habitats and rare and endangered species.
43309951|Germination of American ginseng was 80% after treating moist seeds 3.5 mo at 15C (59 F) followed by 9 mo at 1 to 2 C (34 to 36 F) in the laboratory. The warm treatment promoted the embryo to grow to a mature size while the cold treatment broke endogenous dormancy. Controlled stratification of seeds in the laboratory avoids many of the problems associated with the traditional method of stratifying seeds outdoors in sand beds.
43309753|Through a greenhouse experiment, we found that smokewater can be an effective restoration tool in germinating beargrass (Xerophyllum tenax (Pursh) Nutt. [Liliaceae]) seeds. We studied the effects of smoke-water on germination rates of beargrass seeds collected from low-elevation dry forests of the southeastern Olympic Peninsula of Washington State and from a wetland of the western Peninsula. Seeds received a treatment of either smoke-water or tap water (the control), which was followed by a cold stratification treatment for 0, 8, 10, 12, 14, or 16 wk. The highest success of beargrass seed germination resulted from seeds collected from the wetland habitat being exposed to smoke-water prior to undergoing 14 wk of cold stratification. This study supports the use of smoke technology in restoration when the reintroduction of burning is not feasible.
43320798|Our earlier publication indicated 3 accessions of goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis L. [Ranunculaceae]) originated in Florida, although our results indicated they were more closely related to Tennessee and Georgia genotypes. After further investigation with our plant supplier, it appears that 2 of the 3 accessions purportedly from Florida were indeed from Tennessee and GeorgiciAFLP is a robust method for correctly identifying the source of goldenseal genotypes.
43310449|Invasive plants, especially nonnative perennial grasses, pose one of the most critical threats to protected prairies and oak woodlands in the Pacific Northwest. Our current knowledge regarding the effectiveness of weed control methods, especially in sites that retain a significant component of native vegetation, is largely anecdotal or based on results from a few site-specific studies. The Nature Conservancy jointly with the Institute for Applied Ecology and its partners have initiated a large-scale, long-term, interdisciplinary, and collaborative project to: 1) evaluate and improve strategies for controlling the abundance of invasive nonnative herbaceous weeds while maintaining or enhancing the abundance and diversity of native plant species; and 2) develop an approach to generalize results so they can be applied by land managers engaged in prairie stewardship throughout the region. This project combines simultaneous small-scale replicated experiments with large-scale unreplicated experiments at 11 sites in Washington, Oregon, and British Columbia. Experimental treatments, begun in 2005, include combinations of spring and fall mowing, burning, a grassspecific herbicide (sethoxydim), a broad-spectrum herbicide (glyphosate), and seeding of native species. Our preliminary observations show sethoxydim applications effectively reduce exotic perennial grasses. Combining sethoxydim with other treatments had added benefits: fall burning reduced thatch and moss cover, glyphosate application 1 to 2 wk after burning reduced broadleaf weeds, and seed addition increased native diversity.
43310343|Different types of mycorrhizal associations occur on native plants. The 2 common types are arbuscular mycorrhizae and ectomycorrhizae. We briefly describe both types and how they can be identified by growers and planters of native plants.
43310813|A selected germplasm of scratchgrass (Muhlenbergia asperifolia (Nees & Meyen ex Trin.) [Poaceae]) has been released for restoration and rehabilitation of riparian systems, wildlife habitat improvement, restoration of disturbed areas, and for increasing plant diversity along the Virgin River and other lands in southern Nevada.
43310769|The prairie turnip (Pediomelum esculentum (Pursh) Rydb. [Fabaceae]) is a legume that was traditionally used by American Indians indigenous to the Great Plains. Roots of these perennial legumes provided a valuable source of proteins, minerals, and carbohydrates to native tribes of the region. Although prairie turnips are, and were, primarily gathered from the wild, they have potential to provide a new and valuable crop for gardeners and commercial producers. They are still used to a limited extent in the diets of many of the indigenous peoples of the Great Plains. We examined methods of seed collection, germination, and cultivation. These hardy legumes performed best when directly seeded into the garden during the early spring. Prairie turnips can be readily cultivated in a manner similar to other root crops; however, they require a 3-to 4-y rotation to reach peak production. Irrigation is not required after seed germination and establishment, but it can be used to increase yields in drier climates.
43310319|Water oak (Quercus nigra L.[Fagaceae]), Nuttall oak (Q. nuttallii Palmer), and green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica Marsh. [Oleaceae]) were planted in mixtures at 2 spacings, 1.8 and 2.7m (6 and 9 ft) triangular spacing, on 2 contrasting soil types: Sharkey and Dundee. Survival was high for green ash and Nuttall oak, but was poor for water oak. Green ash grew the fastest initially, but the oaks have caught up or exceeded the ash by age seven on the Dundee soil. On the Sharkey soil, Nuttall oak is nearly as tall as the ash, but the water oak is still shorter. Although green ash has been able to maintain height supremacy on each soil type, the oaks have exceeded them in crown diameter and stem diameter, and trends suggest that the oaks will soon surpass the ash. Both oak species appear to represent a viable mixture on the Dundee soil, but if growth trends continue, ash will eventually fall into inferior crown positions. Nuttall oak and green ash appear to mix well on the Sharkey soil, but most water oak will not attain codominance.
43310812|Soil compaction is one of the most serious site limitations to establishing native plants on disturbed lands such as closed roads. Subsoiling or ripping is the recommended treatment for compacted soils, and this article describes the development and utilization of 3 new, multifunctional subsoiling implements for use with an excavator. The subsoiling grapple rake was designed specifically for resolving the severe soil compaction that develops with the repeated heavy equipment use on timber sales. The subsoiling excavator bucket has been used for road decommissioning and watershed restoration projects. The subsoiling brush cutter has proven useful in a variety of projects including pre-commercial thinning, forest health, fuel reduction, forage enhancement, and brush removal. Nitrogen-fixing shrubs and small trees are ideal for road decommissioning projects because they are aggressive pioneer plants that also improve site fertility.
43309709|I have been involved with a project that has successfully salvaged an endangered ragweed (Ambrosia pumila (Nutt.) Gray [Asteraceae]). This perennial low-growing native plant with storage roots and largely donai reproduction was collected from a construction site, successfully maintained for 3 y, and then outplanted on a site with fairly similar soil textures. After 10 y from initial removal from the salvage site, survival has been good on sites where exotic grasses, salt in the soil, snails, and gophers were low or absent. Problems contributing to its Endangered status may include habitat destruction, weed invasions, increased herbivory, fire suppression, differences in flood recurrence, and other changes in land management.
43309796|A Selected Class pre-varietal release of bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa Michx. [Fagaceae]) designated as Ekalaka Germplasm bur oak has been released for use in the Northern Great Plains and Intermountain West for windbreaks, shelter-belts, riparian forest buffers, wildlife habitat plantings, Xeriscapes, and other conservation plantings. This selection is a bulk of 9 indigenous seed sources from Montana, North Dakota, and South Dakota selected for superior percentage survival, rate of height growth, and vigor rating compared with other seed sources tested at Bridger, Montana. Ekalaka Germplasm bur oak can be used in many conservation applications in place of Russian-olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia L. [Elaeagnaceae]) and green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica Marsh. [Oleaceae]) given adequate soil aeration and low salinity.
43320512|The International Botanical Congress governs plant nomenclature worldwide through the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature. In the current code are very specific procedures for naming plants with novel compound epithets, and correcting compound epithets, like rhexifolia, that were incorrectly combined. We discuss why rhexiifolia is now preferred.
43309811|A selected germplasm of whiplash pappusgrass (Pappophorum vaginatum Buckley [Poaceae]) has been released for rangeland seeding, saline soil revegetation, and wildlife habitat restoration plantings in south Texas. Webb Germplasm whiplash pappusgrass is a blend of 3 accessions selected from an evaluation at multiple sites in the intended area of use. Selections were made based on visual evaluations of plant characteristics and germination tests of seed collected from each location. Following selection, components of the germplasm were increased in isolation and blended following harvest to ensure inclusion of seed of each selected accession. Accessions included in the blend originate from 3 counties and distinct soil types. This germplasm represents the first commercial release of a whiplash pappusgrass ecotype originating from south Texas.
43309603|We provide basic guidelines for nursery production of longleaf pine (Pinus palustris P. Mill. [Pinaceae]) seedlings in containers. The best seedlings are spring sown, grown outdoors in full sun in cavities with a 100-ml (6 in) volume, 11-cm (4.5 in) depth, and a density around 535 seedlings per m (50/ft). A 1:1 peat mosslvermiculite medium adjusted to pH 4.5 to 5.5 and amended with control-release or soluble fertilizers works well. Planting of container stock generally improves reforestation success because survival is good, the planting season can be extended, and therefore, restoration of the longleaf pine ecosystem is enhanced.
43309843|Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash (Poaceae) (little bluestem) and Sporobolus heterolepis (A. Gray) A. Gray (Poaceae) (prairie dropseed) are ecologically important warm-season grass species for restoration of degraded Midwestern prairie habitats. Information about methods to establish these grass species is limited. Therefore, a combination of treatments were tested in a field setting over 2 y to enhance the success of these 2 species under field-production conditions and for prairie restorations. Treatments consisted of mowing, 3 herbicide rates, and 3 seeding rates. Imazapic (()- 2-[4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1 H-imidazol-2-yl]-5-methyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid]) herbicide was applied at rates of 0, 0.14, and 0.28 kg/ha. Seeding rates were 4.5, 9.0, and 13.5 kg/ha (4.0, 8.0, and 12.0 Ib/ac) for S. scoparium and 1.9, 4.8, and 7.6 kg/ha (1.7, 4.3, and 6.8 Ib/ac) for S. heterolepis. After 2 growing seasons, mowing did not affect S. scoparium density or percent cover. Herbicide-treated plots had greater density and percent cover of S. scoparium than did untreated plots. The 13.5 kg/ha seeding rate for S. scoparium was associated with greater grass density and percent cover than the 2 lower seeding rates. Sporobolus heterolepis was detected in only 4 out of 164 sampling quadrats after 2 growing seasons. Emergence was too poor for data collection or testing of the hypothesis. Although mowing did not appear to influence seedling establishment of S. scoparium, herbicide application and generous seeding rates increased grass density and percent cover.
43309723|Commercially produced, source identified, natural track seeds of Leavenworth's tickseed (Coreopsis leavenworthii Torr. & Gray [Asteraceae]) harvested in late June expressed a type of physiological dormancy in which seeds became nondormant first at cooler temperatures and then at warmer temperatures. In 2 studies, fresh seeds were buried about 7 cm (3 in) deep in sand in 3.8-I (1-gal) containers, irrigated once per week, and exposed to ambient temperatures. Seeds were excavated monthly during 10 mo in the 2001-2002 study and 9 mo in the 2002-2003 study. Seeds became nondormant in late fall to early winter, approximately 5 to 6 mo after they were buried. Coreopsis leavenworthii showed that it was well-adapted to Florida's climate because its seeds germinated under a wide variety of temperatures typical in Florida during late fall and early winter at shallow seeding depth (light enhanced germination) in sites typical of C. leavenworthii's moist habitat. While C. leavenworthii most closely resembled a facultative winter annual, it also showed the potential to germinate to some degree under temperatures typical of Florida's subtropical summer. No buried seeds germinated, indicating that C. leavenworthii has the potential to form at least a short-term seedbank.
43309778|An experiment was conducted to determine if sulfuric acid scarification improved seed germination of Callicarpa americana L. (Lamiaceae). Treatments included a control (0 min), 15-min, and 30-min soaks in concentrated (18N) sulfuric acid followed by a 15-min rinse in tap water. The 30-min treatment had the earliest germination with seedlings appearing 18 d after treatment (DAT). The 15-min treatment had seedlings emerge at 26 DAT while seedlings in the control did not begin to emerge until 60 DAT. After 60 d, seeds from the acid treatments had approximately 50% germination while the control had less than 10%. At the conclusion of the study, the control, 15-min, and 30-min acid treatments germinated at 8.9%, 57.8%, and 48.9%, respectively. The results of this study show the benefit of sulfuric acid scarification in the germination of Callicarpa americana. Recommendations should be amended to include a 15-to 30-min soak in concentrated sulfuric acid to promote rapid and more uniform germination for this species.
43309597|Seeds of many fire-adapted plants are very difficult to germinate, and some species have been impossible to propagate by seed. Recent research has shown that fumigating seeds with smoke or soaking them in smoke solutions improves germination of many species. The exact physiological mechanism for this response is unknown but using smoke as a pre-sowing seed treatment holds considerable promise for propagating plants for restoration of fireadapted communities. In particular, smoke treatments can be used to germinate seeds of recalcitrant species. This paper reviews the current literature on smoke treatment of seeds with the purpose of encouraging these treatments on other species.
43310747|In the laboratory, silver sagebrush (Artemisia cana Pursh ssp. cana [Asteraceae]) seeds germinated with increasing temperatures similar to those of spring and early summer or with cooling temperatures that occur in late summer or autumn. However, exposing seeds to similar temperatures under field environments reduced germination, with greater reductions occurring when seeds were put in the field in autumn (-36% to - 81%) compared to spring (- 18% to - 24%). Germination of seeds placed in the field in autumn declined abruptly as daily temperatures rose in early spring, however, a gradual decline in germination was noted for seeds put in the field in spring. Nearly all non-germinating seeds were infected with fungi and were non-viable, indicating that recruitment of seedlings may be limited by loss of viability of seeds in the soil. Despite the fact that viability of seeds declined with exposure to field environments, 19% to 82% of the seeds remained viable, with greater viability in spring- than autumn-placed seeds. Seeding silver sagebrush in spring is recommended to maintain viability and high germination of seeds.
43309757|In this article we discuss methods for obtaining quality seeds of Salicaceae species. Proper timing of collection and handling of the catkins are the critical first steps. We also describe a simple forced-air, rotating drum to open the capsules and separate seeds from tufts.
43310316|Although current literature suggests Illicium seeds germinate without pretreatment, we found that 2 native species, I. parviflorum and I. floridanum, responded well to a cold, moist stratification treatment. Illicium parviflorum germinated without stratification (30%), however, best germination occurred with a 90-d cold, moist stratification treatment (81%). Illicium floridanum had 10% germination without cold, moist stratification and 20% germination after 30-d of cold, moist stratification. Best germination of I. floridanum occurred with the 60-d cold, moist stratification treatment (75%). Days to 50% germination improved for both species as the stratification period increased. We suggest that nursery growers and propagators treat both I. parviflorum and I. floridanum seeds with cold, moist stratification before sowing.
43310451|The ecological effects of roads impact about 15% of the land area of the USan area equivalent in size to all the protected areas of the country combined. The ecological health of roadsides and road-impacted areas has not been adequately addressed. Most road projects today involve modifications to existing roads rather than new construction. As roads are modified section by section, a tremendous opportunity arises to remedy the oversights of the past, improving conditions for healthier ecosystems. The challenge is to move beyond regulation-driven mitigation approaches and into proactive environmental stewardship. Native plants are a foundation of ecological health and function. Revegetating with native plants is a key practice for managing environmental impacts. To be successful, native vegetation issues cannot be considered as an afterthought to larger road planning and construction processes. Instead, they must be an integral part of the process of designing and constructing roads. A partnership between the Federal Highway Administration and the USDA Forest Service has developed an approach to revegetation that is goal-oriented, context-sensitive, and collaborative. This is an interdisciplinary, interagency team approach with early (3-y minimum) collaboration, shared objectives, and clear guidelines. Cooperation allows time and funding for growers to produce the quality and quantity of native plant materials required. Two new publications, Roadside Revegetation: An Integrated Approach to Establishing Native Plants and A Manager's Guide to Roadside Revegetation Using Native Plants are available.
43320507|Choice among local, non-local, and cultivar seeds for restoring native ecosystems is not purely an academic questionit also has practical consequences. In this article we summarize a series of genetic and competition studies of big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii Vitman. [Poaceae]), Indian grass (Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash. [Poaceae]), and purple prairie clover (Dalea purpurea Vent. [Fabaceae]) from remnant and restored Illinois (local) prairies, non-local remnant prairies, and 6 grass cultivars. We found genetic differences between local and non-local seed sources, that large populations do not necessarily have higher genetic diversity relative to small populations, and differences in plant performance could be related to seed source. Although obtaining large quantities of non-local and cultivar grass seeds may be affordable, available, and desirable given the amount of seeds required for prairie restoration, our research indicates genetic and plant performance differences between local and non-local seed sources in all 3 species. Such differences can affect both the short- and long-term success of restoration activities.
43309846|A selected germplasm of common elderberry (Sambucus nigra L. ssp. canadensis (L.) R. Bolli [Caprifoliaceae]) has been released for intended use in streambank stabilization and improvement of wildlife habitat in the Great Lakes region.
43310286|Common camas (Camassia quamash (Pursh) Green [Liliaceae]) is one of the most culturally-significant food plants in the US Pacific Northwest. This perennial herb occurs in wet prairies and meadows and has been widely used for human food and trade, wildlife food, wetland plantings, and site restoration. We describe ethnobotanical uses for camas, methods for propagating it from bulbs and seeds, and management of existing stands.
43320534|To make intelligent choices in the marketplace, customers should have a working understanding of 1) the diversity of products that are available in the seed trade; 2) how they move in the market; 3) how they are regulated for purity and germination; 4) how they are certified to assure genetic identity; and 5) how they are legally protected as intellectual property. Options for seed certification have greatly increased over the last several years. Two complementary certification mechanisms are currently being used to deliver native plant materials, one facilitating the traditional cultivars and the other directed toward the novel pre-variety germplasms. Both accommodate natural and genetically manipulated plant materials.
43309957|For multiple seed collections of thinleaf alder (Alnus tenuifolia (Nutt.) Breitung [Betulacae]) and water birch (Betula occidentalis (Hook.) [Betulacae]), response to IDS (Incubation, Drying, and Separation), gravity separation, and stratification was highly variable among seed collections. In thinleaf alder, drying periods of 18 or 24 h following a 24-h incubation period were comparable to dry seed separation in petroleum ether for increasing percentage of filled seeds. In water birch, IDS treatments resulted in lower percentages of filled seeds than separation in 95% ethanol. Overall, cold (5 C [41 F]) wet stratification for 56 d improved water birch germination from 11% to 16%. In thinleaf alder, response to a 56-d stratification ranged from 0% to 16% germination improvement. Using separated seed in combination with appropriate stratification length achieved the largest improvements in germination. Treatment selection is discussed in relation to optimizing use of limited greenhouse space and seed supply.
43309802|Thickspike wheatgrass (Elymus lanceolatus (Scribn. & J.G. Sm.) Gould [Poaceae]) accessions evaluated for performance in the Intermountain/Great Basin region of the US differed significantly (P = 0.05) for several agronomic and seed quality traits. In this study, 50 accessions of thickspike wheatgrass, including all accessions in the USDA National Plant Germplasm System collection and 5 cultivars were characterized for rhizome spread and seed production at a site near Eureka, Utah, during 2007 and 2008. The resulting seeds from both production years were then further evaluated in laboratory and greenhouse experiments for germination percentage, seed weight, emergence rate, and total emergence after deep seeding. Significant interaction between the accessions and the year of production necessitated characterization of results within each year of production, rather than across years. The Utah Experimental population was among the highest performing accessions for 4 of the traits in at least one of the years of the study. None of the accessions, however, were among the high performers for all 6 evaluated traits. Based on summation of accession standard normalized mean variables for each trait, several accessions including 552794 from Colorado and 562039 from Wyoming showed promise for combining good performance for most of the traits for production in the Intermountain/Great Basin region. Accessions from outside this area were poorly adapted. Thus, untapped potential exists to cultivate thickspike wheatgrass seed sources with higher seed production and seed quality than are now commercially available.
43320802|USDA Forest Service's Missoula Technology and Development Center (MTDC) develops new equipment, produces training materials, conducts field evaluations, and initiates product searches for Forest Service employees and cooperators. Several recent projects of interest to nursery and reforestation employees include a shielded herbicide sprayer, an ATV-mounted native grass seeder, electric and plastic fences that exclude wildlife, a new seed scarifier, and an evaluation of reusable toweling for wrapping seedling roots. Here I provide details on these projects, including how to obtain additional information.
43310756|A pneumatic paint shaker was used to break seed dormancy in 2 reclamation species: New Mexico locust (Robinia neomexicana Gray [Fabaceae]) and black locust (Robinia pseudoacacia L. [Fabaceae]). This percussion treatment improves germination over hot water, sulfuric acid, or mechanical scarification methods because it acts directly on the strophiolethe natural site of water entry to the seed. Consequently, percussion scarification is more likely to produce undamaged seeds and healthy seedlings. This low-cost percussion system holds promise for successfully pretreating seeds from a range of species of the ecologically important Papilionoideae subfamily of the Fabaceae family.
43310310|Tissue-cultured creeping bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium var. stoloniferum (Nash) J. Wipff [Poaceae]), grown in pots containing sand tailings or overburden from a Florida phosphate mine, had shoot (4.6 g/plant [0.16 oz]), root and rhizome mass (5.2 g/plant [0.18 oz]), and vegetative tiller density (4.2 g /plant [0.15 oz]) similar to that obtained from plants started from rhizomes. Seeds of creeping bluestem germinated on mine soil but failed to grow. In the field, tissue-cultured bluestem survival averaged 88% over January, July, and October planting dates on sand tailings compared with 67% on overburden. One year after October planting, total tiller density and aboveground plant dry mass was 63.5 and 117 g/plant (2.24 and 4.13 oz), respectively, on sand tailings compared with 50 and 107 g/plant (1.76 and 3.77 oz), respectively, on overburden. Except in the October planting, soil did not affect bluestem plant diameter (mean 24.2 cm [9.5 in]). Because creeping bluestem produces few seeds, tissue culture can provide plants that establish and grow well on land after phosphate mining. Weed control will be essential to success.
43309700|As part of a biodiversity assessment and germplasm conservation project, we collected 55 populations of tapertip onion (Allium acuminatum Hook. [Alliaceae]) throughout the Great Basin region of the US (Idaho, Oregon, Nevada). Population data from field observations and herbarium specimens were entered into a geographic information system (GIS) to facilitate efficient sampling strategies and maximize the number and diversity of ecoregions represented. Although limited by the quality of source data, GIS-based population location information greatly aided in the organization and time management of the field collection. We collected, measured, and described bulbs. The bulbs will be used in common garden studies and genetic research to evaluate species diversity throughout the region, and develop in situ germplasm conservation sites for future native rangeland restoration efforts. Exsitu collections will also be entered into the National Plant Germplasm System and be available for research, ecological restoration efforts, and germplasm enhancement.
43309768|Osh roots (Ugusticum porten J.M. Coult. & Rose var. porteri [Apiaceae]) are prized by Native Americans as a medicinal for respiratory illnesses; roots from wild stands are most commonly used. Native to the western and southwestern US, osh is a slowgrowing plant that takes up to 10 y to reach harvestable mass in the wild. Demand for L. porteri has been increasing and over-harvest threatens native stands. Attempts to propagate osh for replenishing native stands and for developing alternatives to wild harvest have been inconsistent and variable by seed source. Simple seed stratification methods were tested to propagate plants for sustainable production of osh. Seed germination of 3 commercial seed sources (New Mexico, Utah, and Colorado) improved when the stratification period was adjusted for origin of seeds. An increased duration of stratification (>10 wk) was required for the more northern sources. These results indicate that common seed stratification can be used to develop nursery plants for reestablishment and production of harvestable roots.
43309794|Plasticulture techniques were used for establishment and seed production of native wetland species, primarily of the genus Carex (L. [Cyperaceae]). Although plasticulture is commonly used for vegetable, cut flower, melon, and berry production, it is not widely used for native seed production. This article summarizes initial experiences in setting up this system for seed increase of several native Carex species during the establishment year.
43309779|Coyote willow (Salix exigua Nutt. [Salicaceae]) cuttings harvested in a dormant state during the fall and soaked in cold water for 14 d prior to planting had significantly greater root production after 70 d than did spring-harvested cuttings soaked for 14 d or non-soaked cuttings harvested in fall or spring. Similarly; dormant peachleaf willow (S. amygdaloides Andersson [Salicaceae]) harvested and planted in the fall after soaking for 14 d had significantly greater root production after 42 d than did cuttings harvested in the spring and not soaked prior to planting. Survival rates were similar for all treatments. Soaking and planting dormant hardwood cuttings in the fall may cause cuttings to be in a better pre-rooting condition, which can translate to better root vigor the following spring.
43309686|When the landowner's objective is to maximize the net present value of a longleaf pine (Pinus palustris P. Mill. [Pinaceae]) plantation, most tree planting recommendations can be placed into 1 of 2 schools of thought. Those from the "plant-'em thick" school recommend planting more than 1483 longleaf pine trees/ha (600/ac). Some from this school say the extra costs associated with establishment will result in more profit when selling pulpwood, chip-n-saw, sawtimber, pine straw, and poles. When the landowner's objectives include producing chip-n-saw, sawtimber, wildlife, and maximizing profits, some from the "plant-'em thin" school recommend planting less than 1235 trees/ha (500/ac). For example, some might recommend planting 1100 container-grown seedlings/ha (445/ac). Most longleaf pine articles published prior to the turn of the century are from the "plant-'em thick" school. In contrast, this paper provides landowners with some of the logic for planting longleaf pine seedlings at wide spacings.
43309792|Rattlesnake Germplasm bottlebrush squirreltail (Elymus elymoides (Raf.) Swezey ssp. elymoides [Poaceae]) was released 29 October 2007 for use in rangeland seedings. This plant material was developed from T-1175, an accession collected in Elmore County, Idaho. Seeds of 8 T-1175 lines selected for dry matter yield, spike biomass, and height were combined to form Rattlesnake Germplasm. It is anticipated that this material will be used primarily in its area of origin, the Lower Snake River Plain of Idaho.
43310751|The cultivation of native grass cultivars developed for Montana and North Dakota has been proposed in the prairie region of western Canada. Cultivars of 6 warm-season and 4 cool-season grass species that had been selected for North Dakota or Montana were evaluated at a range of sites in western Canada for stand establishment, persistence, aboveground biomass, seed yield, and competitive ability. Warm-season grass cultivars were not adapted to sites above 51 N latitude. At locations below this latitude, cool-season grasses produced more biomass than warm-season grasses. The occurrence of these warm-season grasses in native rangeland of this region is frequent but often restricted by landscape position or soil texture. Thus, they will likely have a minor role in revegetation seedings. Mammoth wildrye exhibited the highest biomass production on the highest productivity sites. All native cool-season grass cultivars evaluated were adapted to the prairie region of western Canada.
43309721|Careful selection of pre-emergence herbicide for control of weeds may improve establishment of native wildfiowers grown for seed production. In a 28-d greenhouse herbicide injury experiment, 4 emerging wildflower species were established on soil treated with one of 6 pre-emergence herbicide treatments. No wildflower seedlings survived the atrazine treatment and few survived the sulfentrazone treatment. Of the 5 herbicides tested, DCPA applied at 1100 g active ingredient (ai) per ha (8 Ib ai/ac) and trifluralin applied at 184 g ai/ha (2 pt ai/ac) caused the least reduction in wildflower seedling density, height, and shoot dry mass of all species. The densities, however, of Dalea candida Michx. ex Willd. (Fabaceae), Gaillardia aristata Pursh (Asteraceae), and Ratibida columnifera (Nutt.) Woot. & Standl. (Asteraceae) were each reduced in 1 of the 2 experimental runs, whereas the height of D. candida and G. aristata and the shoot dry mass of R. coiumnifera seedlings were reduced by trifluralin. Liatris punctata Hook. (Asteraceae) densities were reduced only by atrazine and sulfentrazone.
43309630|We examined changes that occurred in acorns during storage at different temperatures and moisture contents over a period of 3 y. In general, we found that to achieve optimum viability, acorns must be stored fully hydrated. Acorns also survived longer and sprouted less while in storage if stored at -2 C (28 F) instead of the usual 4 C (39 F). However, we suspect damage to white oak embryonic axes at the lower temperature and at this time cannot recommend storage at -2 C for this species. While we were able to store fully hydrated red oaks for as long as 3 y, we have been less successful with the white oaks. If you are in doubt about the quality of your acorns, go back to the basicsclip open a sample and check them for color and freshness.
43310765|This article summarizes information on the taxonomy of 'Appar', a perennial blue flax cultivar (Linum perenne L. [Linaceae]), and characteristics that distinguish it from native Lewis flax (Linum lewisii Pursh [Linaceae]). 'Appar' apparently originated as a European flax that escaped from garden cultivation. Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis places 'Appar' with other collections of European Linum perenne and separates it from native North American collections of Lewis flax. Morphologically, 'Appar' differs from Lewis flax in having an intense blue petal color, shorter internodes, leaves that point upward along the stem, and multiple slender stems suffused with red near the base. The heterostylous reproductive system, which it shares with its European cousins, keeps 'Appar' reproductively isolated from native populations of Lewis flax. All available data indicate that 'Appar' is not invasive and does not pose a threat to native flax populations. Ease of establishment, seed production, and showiness of the abundant flowers recommend 'Appar' for use in xeriscape plantings. Alternatively, the recent germplasm release of Lewis flax, 'Maple Grove', also establishes readily from seed and can be effectively used when objectives dictate the exclusive use of native germplasms.
43320533|A combination of cover crops and straw mulch effectively protect fall-sown hardwood seeds from cold temperature damage and prdation at our nursery in central Indiana. Before using this treatment, we experienced 30% to 90% crop losses on a regular basis, but now our seedbed densities are consistently at target and the resulting seedlings are larger. Specialized equipment facilitates the task and paid for itself through increased crop revenues in just 1 y.
43309953|We interviewed 33 companies to understand the current status of Colorado's Green Industry's native plant sector. Most responses to the survey referred to problems with native plant work and the great need for more information, education, and research. The respondents' top concerns included: propagation, issues of genetic variability, availability of retail-quality native plant material, cultural and other information to aid in the marketing of native plants, lack of commercially available seeds, maintenance in landscapes and on restoration sites, and finally, public perceptions that often hinder acceptance of projects that incorporate native plants. Respondents agreed overwhelmingly that the native plant sector is growing slowly, and the growth is being driven primarily by water conservation concerns.
43310308|Cold moist stratification for 40 d resulted in excellent ( 87%) germination for 11 seed lots of Pacific madrone (Arbutus menziesii Pursh. [Ericaceae]) from California, Oregon, and Washington. Without stratification, germination was < 2%. Stratification periods longer than 40 d yielded little or no gain for most lots and resulted in premature germination and development of seed coat molds. Germination after 20 d of stratification varied markedly with seed lot (from 10% to 100% of the maximum); 20-d germination was negatively correlated with latitude but not with elevation or mean winter temperature. Growers would need to test individual seed lots to determine if stratification times < 40 d would be adequate; such testing is most likely to be warranted with lots from California or southern Oregon.
43310753|Interest in native grasses is increasing in the US, Australia, Canada, and worldwide. We propose a model that can be used as a step-by-step guide for plant breeders, ecologists, seed producers, and others interested in developing expanded uses for native grasses. The following steps, with relevant examples from North America and Australia, are described in detail: 1) determine the need; 2) choose an appropriate species; 3) determine breeding system; 4) assess geographic and ecological range; 5) make a collection; 6) assess genetic diversity; 7) determine limitations of species; 8) develop appropriate breeding methods; 9) determine proper release strategy; 10) develop seed conditioning and establishment techniques; 11) develop management techniques; and 12) market development.
43309773|Native perennial legumes have potential for use as components of grazing systems. Palatability affects forage utilization by grazing livestock, but relative palatability of native legumes is unknown. We determined the palatability of these native legumes of the Fabaceae family based on relative leaf consumption: false indigo (Amorpha fruticosa L.), Illinois bundleflower (Desmanthus illinoensis (Michx.) MacMill. ex B. L Rob. & Fernald), blue wild indigo (Baptisia australis (L.) R. Br.), wild senna (Senna hebecarpa (Fernald) Irwin & Barneby), and purple prairie clover (Dalea purpurea Vent.); compared with temperate forage legumes (Fabaceae): alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) and birdsfoot trefoil (Lotus corniculatus L). Purple prairie clover and Illinois bundleflower were among the most palatable native legumes each year and were readily consumed by grazing sheep (Ovis aries L. [Bovidae]). False indigo, a shrub, was the least palatable native legume. The leafiness, plant maturity, and nutritive value of leaves varied among legumes but were not associated with palatability.
43310305|Small rock tumblers can be used to clean and condition seeds both in an aqueous and a dry mode. During the process, grit and gravel remove fruit pulp and abrade seed coats. Wet tumbling of seed aids imbibition, leaches watersoluble germination inhibitors, and may partially substitute for cold stratification for some shrub seed lots.
43309604|An inexpensive dibble, easily assembled from commonly-used pipe and fittings and the directions we provide, can be used to make planting holes for willow and cottonwood cuttings, especially in shallow, rocky soils.
43310330|Seed propagation literature for russet buffaloberry (Shepherdia canadensis (L.) Nutt. [Elaeagnaceae]) is varied, recommending acid scarification, cold moist stratification, or both treatments. When combinations of sulfuric acid scarification (0 or 5 min) and stratification (0, 9, or 14 wk) treatments were tested on a Montana seedlot, the optimal treatment combination was a 5-min acid soak and 14-wk (98-d) stratification. Although stratification was more effective than scarification when treatments were applied alone, germination improved from 27% to 38% when seeds were scarified prior to the 14-wk stratification treatment, and, for seeds germinating after stratification, germination occurred almost 4 d earlier on average. A 1-wk imbibition test, where increase in seed weight is measured following scarification and 1-wk cold-stratification, is proposed as a convenient method to determine the most effective acid scarification duration for individual seedlots. The optimal stratification duration was achieved 4 wk after 10% of viable seeds had germinated during stratification.
43310294|Seedling emergence of 'Sabine' Illinois bundleflower (Desmanthus illinoensis [Michx.] MacM. [Fabaceae]), velvet bundleflower (D. velutinus Scheele), and 2 accessions of rayado bundleflower (D. virgatus [L.] Willd.; synonym = D. bicornutus S. Watson) planted into tilled or defoliated strips in bermudagrass (Cynodon dactylon [L.] Pers.) was generally low but greater in switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.). Differences in years and sites reflected precipitation differences. Although the rayado bundleflowers had greater initial establishment, Illinois bundleflower was more winterhardy and had greater second-year yields in both grass species following establishment seasons with adequate precipitation. Potential for interseeding Desmanthus at latitudes approaching or exceeding 31 N appears greater for Illinois bundleflower.
43309694|Preliminary research indicates that treating arrowleaved balsamroot (Balsamorhiza sagittata (Pursh) Nutt. [Asteraceae]) seeds with ethylene before stratification increases germination without affecting seedling morphology. Arrow-leaved balsamroot is one of the most dominant forbs in sagebrush and grassland ecosystems of the Interior Plateau of northwest North America. Widely used as a food and medicinal plant by indigenous peoples of this region, this plant has shown in recent research that it has potential as a medicinal herb, as a source of inulin, for ecological restoration purposes, and in horticulture. The significance of this species in native ecosystems and the difficulty inherent in wild harvesting of balsamroot identifies it as a candidate for crop development to meet future needs. Improving germination is the first step to meeting the objectives of economic development in First Nations communities and for environmental conservation.
43309985|On O'ahu, growing some plants together in the same container in the nursery or planting them in the same hole on the restoration site increases survival and growth. I present a few examples of species combinations where companion planting provides better results than planting either species separately. I also describe a simple deep-pipe irrigation system used on outplanting sites.
43310770|As publishers of journals and books increasingly require illustrations to be provided as digital images, scientists and others in turn need to add new technical skills to their repertoire. This article succinctly covers the basics of selecting a digital camera, making a proper exposure, and performing basic editing of images with Adobe Photoshop.
43309816|Four selected germplasms of bristlegrass (Setaria vulpiseta (Lam.) Roem. & Schult, and S. leucopila (Scribn. & Merr.) K. Schum. [Poaceae]) have been released for rangeland plantings and wildlife habitat enhancement plantings in the Rio Grande Plain of Texas. Catarina blend bristlegrass is a mix of 4 bristlegrass releases (Kika648 Germplasm, Kika819 Germplasm, Kika820 Germplasm, and Kika677 Germplasm) selected from an extensive evaluation at multiple sites in south Texas. Accessions included in the blend are increased in isolation and blended prior to sale in order to maintain the genetic integrity of each release. These germplasms represent the first commercially available release of bristlegrass that has been tested and is adapted to south Texas.
43309936|The saguaro cactus (Carnegia gigantea [Engelm.] Britt. & Rose [Cactaceae]) is a prominent indicator species of the Sonoran Desert. It is also a unique and highly valued plant of important cultural significance to the Tohono O'odham tribe that has its roots in the Sonoran Desert. Saguaro ribs are used as construction materials and the fruit is used to prepare food or beverages. Seed propagation techniques have been evaluated at the Tucson Plant Materials Center in order to determine and describe an efficient method to produce saguaro plants.
43309765|Seeds of native species of perennial phlox often germinate poorly for producers of native plants. To determine seed treatments that might improve germination, we conducted a study on the native longleaf phlox (Phlox longifolia L. [Polemoniaceae]). Seed treatments included a 7 C (45 F) cold treatment, a 21 C (70 F) warm treatment, 10 or 20 ml/l liquid smoke, 1000 or 2000 ppm KNO, 100 or 500 ppm GA, and a 21 C distilled water control. Seeds were placed on filter paper in Petri plates and germinated in the dark. All treatments except the 7 C stratification were incubated at 21 C for 4 wk. At least 90% of Phlox longifolia seeds germinated during the 7 C cold treatment within 7 to 10 d and had the highest germination percentages of all treatments. The 500 ppm GA treatment induced approximately 37% of P. longifolia seeds to germinate in 4 wk, but germination in GA treatments was characterized by cotyledons emerging first with few radicles emerging. The 21 C stratification, liquid smoke, or KNO seed treatments failed to induce germination. Germination percentages of P. longifolia seeds in all treatments increased sharply when seeds were moved from 21 C and into the 7 C refrigerator. Seeds of P. longifolia exposed to a 7 C cold treatment germinated quickly at high percentages (> 90%), making this treatment practical for nursery propagation of this native perennial.
43310344|Roots of California brome (Bromus carinatus Hook and Arn. [Poaceae]) and tufted hairgrass (Deschampsia caespitosa (L.) Beauv. [Poaceae]) were more rapidly colonized by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) when grown in plots containing commercial or naturally occurring AMF inoculum, but after 68 wk plants growing in non-inoculated plots had similar colonization and biomass production. Both species would serve as satisfactory carriers of AMF to restoration sites, but Deschampsia supported a higher concentration of spores. Indeed, both species of grass were effective in supplying AMF to Arroyo willow (Salix lasiolepis Benth. [Salicaceae]), but subsequent biomass accumulation of the willow was not associated with either inoculation or root colonization. We conclude that inoculation with AMF is unnecessary except in sites where early colonization is essential.
43320800|Seven ornamental species, coastal plain tickseed (Coreopsis gladiata Walt. [Asteraceae]), swamp sunflower (Helianthus angustifolius L. [Asteraceae]), climbing aster (Ampelaster carolinianus (Walt.) Nesom [Asteraceae] syn = Aster carolinianus Walt), pineland lantana (Lantana depressa Small [Verbenaceae]), spotted beebalm (Monarda punctata L. [Lamiaceae]), blackeyed Susan (Rudbeckia hirta L. [Asteraceae]), and Carolina wild petunia (Ruellia caroliniensis (J.F. Gmel.) Steud. [Acanthaceae]) were transplanted in containers filled with a biosolid:yard waste compost, a commercial peat-based mix, or a formulated compost-based mix (4:5:1, compost:pine bark:sand, v:v:v). At 8 wk, plants grown in compost or the medium amended with compost had similar (coastal plain tickseed and swamp sunflower) or greater (climbing aster, pineland lantana, spotted beebalm, blackeyed Susan, and Carolina wild petunia) biomass than plants grown in the peatbased medium. This study suggests that compost may serve as a viable alternative substrate for peat in the production of ornamental wetland and flatwood species native to Florida.
43309766|This article highlights a case study and visitors' perceptions of an ecologically designed arboretum in the southern US. Our results from a survey of visitors find that natural appearing designed landscapes 1) should blend into their surrounding landscape context; 2) should appear cared for; 3) do not need to be highly structured in appearance; 4) that contain art and human expression are of moderate interest; and 5) should convey meaning or importance of the facility. While noting the importance of landscape ecology to the design profession, landscape architects have criticized certain aspects of ecological design in public gardens. Regarded as the first arboretum to comprehensively embody a bioregional concept, Crosby Arboretum in Picayune, Mississippi, has been described as "the first fully realized ecological garden in the country." Project designers merged a symbiotic interplay between the vegetation patterns and physical processes of the arboretum site with the patterns and processes found in local plant communities. The survey determined the degree to which visitors understood and derived meaning from the original design intent by asking about their learning and perceptions from the experience of individual landscape exhibits and an overall site comprehension of regional understanding. Results were entered into a purpose-built database, which provided statistical analyses on collected information.
43309813|A blend of 2 selected germplasms of tallow weed or plantain (Plantago spp. [Plantaginaceae]) has been released for wildlife habitat restoration, rangeland seed mixes, and wildlife food plot plantings in south Texas. Divot Tallow Weed Blend comprises the releases STN-561 Germplasm Hookers plantain (Plantago hookeriana Fisch. & C.A. Mey.) and STN-496 Germplasm redseed plantain (Plantago rhodosperma Decne.). Tallow weeds are cool-season, annual native plants that provide winter forage to wildlife and livestock and produce seed eaten by game birds and other wildlife. These releases are being marketed as a blend to facilitate commercial production and ease of use for consumers. Selection of STN-496 and STN-561 Germplasms was based on seedling vigor, superior seed production in comparison with other collections from the target ecoregion, and growth characteristics facilitating commercial seed production and harvest. Commercial seed producers are required to grow the releases that make up Divot Tallow Blend separately and to blend seed in equal quantities following harvest. The releases can also be marketed independently as source-identified seed.
43309795|We assessed various combinations of storage factors: bag type, temperature, duration, and antifungal pre-storage treatments for white oak acorn storage, using Oregon white oak (Quercus garryana Douglas ex Hook. [Fagaceae]) acorns from 7 seed sources. Acorn viability remained high (84%), even after 2 y of refrigerated storage, but the majority of these acorns germinated between 6 and 12 mo after entering storage. Germination during storage differed significantly by seed source. The likelihood of successful storage of Oregon white oak acorns was increased by placing washed, healthy-appearing acorns in storage at a near-freezing temperature (1.6 C [35 F]) soon after collection. Sealed conventional freezer bags or specialized gas-permeable plastic bags were equally effective in maintaining viability. For 6-mo storage under the best treatment combination, 77% of acorns remained viable but ungerminated in storage, compared to 89% viability prior to storage.
43309759|'Continental' basin wildrye (Leymus cinereus (Scribn. & Merr.) A. Lve [Poaceae]) has been released as a cultivar for use in rangeland seedings. It was developed from a hybrid between an induced octoploid (2n = 56), generated from the natural tetraploid 'Trailhead' (2n = 28), and the natural octoploid 'Magnar' (2n = 56). Continental has shown similar or superior stand establishment to Trailhead and Magnar in evaluation trials in west-central Utah, northeastern Utah, southwestern Wyoming, and northwestern Colorado.
